0the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 37 We Inform. You Decide.-1Rencyc
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2009
HINI vaccine shipment arrives in county
0 2,400 VACCINATIONS WERE
DELIVERED TUESDAY.
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
For the past few months, the HINI vi-
rus has waged a ruthless campaign on the
human anatomy, laying siege to both thehealthy and the weak.
But Tuesday, the cavalry finally arrived
as 2,400 vaccinations were delivered to the
Alachua County Health Department.
According to Paul Myers, the health
department's assistant director, 2,250 vac-
cines have been distributed to pediatri-
cians across the county, and the depart-
ment kept 150.
The vaccine, which comes in the form ofa nasal spray, is what's known as a live at-
tenuated influenza virus- a watered-down
flu virus that helps the immune system.
The cost of the vaccine will
Local be a nominal administration
News fee determined by doctors,
Myers said.
However, he doesn't expect it to cost
more than seasonal influenza vaccines,
which typically range from $15 to $25.Vaccines given at the health department
will be free.
Although requests for the vaccine ex-
ceed the amount that is currently avail-
able, Myers said that another shipment of
2,900 will arrive sometime early next week
with allotments increasing weekly.
Myers expects Alachua County to re-
ceive 146,000 doses of the vaccine by mid-
January.
UF ADMINISTRATION
Grad assistants
may receive raise
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@a Iligator org
Many of UF's graduate as-
sistants will be getting a raise
this year and next.
After more than a year of ne-
gotiations, UF and the graduate
assistants union have agreed to
increase minimum stipends by
more than $3,000 for some as-
sistants.
Those with half-time, nine-
month appointments will see a
minimum pay of $9,500, an in-
crease of $1,250. The minimum
for them will be upped again
to $10,000 in the next academic
year.
As a point of comparison,
Florida State University's mini-
mum stipends for similar con-
tracts are $6,000.
At the University of SouthFlorida, they are between
$9,000 and $10,250.
UF's agreement still needs
to be ratified by the Board of
Trustees, which will likely
happen in
December,
UF spokes-
woman Janine
Sikes said.
Bret Sefer-
ian, chief ne-
gotiator forSikes UF's chapter
of Graduate Assistants United,
said while he's happy with the
raise, it will only affect about
600 of the more than 4,300
graduate assistants at UF.
The rest already make more
than the minimum.
Seferian said the union
sought a $400 bonus for all
SEE RAISE, PAGE 8
Police hold meeting to get community feedback
Nearly 100 attended the public forum
By JIMMIE PAUL
Alligator Writer
The Gainesville Police Depart-
ment held the first of two com-
munity meetings Tuesday as part
of a program designed to reviewdepartment practices after recent
scandal within the department.
In November, GPD came un-
der fire when three police officers
threw eggs at prostitutes in high-
crime areas.
GPD decided to seek helpfrom the National Organization
of Black Law Enforcement Execu-
tives, which addresses crime in
low-income areas, according to
GPD officer Jeff McAdams. Seven
representatives from NOBLE at-
tended the meeting and will re-main in Gainesville throughout
the process.
McAdams said during the
meeting that City Manager Russ
Blackburn paid NOBLE $50,000
to fix the error of giving the offi-
cers warnings instead of more se-
vere punishment, causing unrest
in the black community.
Many black locals, includinghigh school students, described
GPD police officers in the down-
town community meeting as un-
professional.
People demanded a communi-
ty review board to assess the con-
duct of officers but were denied,
according to the residents.
SEE MEETING, PAGE 8
Star gymnast arrested in connection with burglary, gun ring
A member of the UF gymnastics team was
arrested Tuesday after police say she was
storing items that were stolen during mul-
tiple burglaries.
Melanie Sinclair, 22, was charged with
grand larceny of firearms, unarmed burglary
and grand theft of more than $300, according
to a Gainesville Police Department report.
Police found nine shotguns and rifles, two
computers and a safe so large it took four of-
ficers to remove it from Sinclair's apartmentduring a search. After being read her rights,
Sinclair said she knew something was wrong
but didn't know what it was.
Bud Williams, 21, who was arrested for
his involvement in the gun ring last week,
called Sinclair from the Alachua County Jail
to tell her to say she did not know about the
guns, according to the report.
Sinclair is a redshirt senior and nine-time
All-American gymnast.
-EMILY FUGGETTATOday
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
9
12
14Creamy Campaign
Alan Jackson and Leoneisha Williams give free ice cream from a truck to students on Turlington
Plaza Tuesday to promote their bids for Black Student Union homecoming prince and princess.
0 The Gators'
offense has been
very run-heavy in
the first five games,
but UF offensive
coordinator Steve
Addazio (right) isn't
worried about the
the team's lack of
offensive balance.
See Story, Page 14.Thunder
storms
86/72
visit www.alligator.org
2, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
"After the Election in Germany:
The End of the Post-Ideological
Era?"
Today, 11:45 a.m.
Turlington Hall, Room 3312
A talk by German scholar
Dietmar Schirmer examines the
results of the recent election in
Germany. Sodas and snacks
will be served.
UF Relay For Life Kickoff Party
Today, 6:30 p.m.
Little Hall, Room 121
Join UF's Colleges Against
Cancer committee. Attendees
can register a team, get fundrais-
ing ideas, receive information
about Relay For Life events and
more. For more informationvisit
www.relayforlife.org/uffl or e-
mail UFcollegesagainstcancer@
yahoo.com.
Alpha Zeta fundraiser
Today, 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.
The Gelato Company
Come support the co-ed hon-
ors/service fraternity in the
College of Agriculture and get a
free gelato with the purchase of
an entree and drink.
UF MEISA Meeting
Wednesday, 7p.m.
Anderson Hall, Room 32
Come to the third meeting of
Music Entertainment Industry
Student Association. The group
will be planning a benefit show
and other fall semester events.
Gators for HIV Education
General Body Meeting
Today, 7p.m.
Turlington Hall, Room 2306FORECAST
TODAY
THUNDER
STORMS
86/72THURSDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
86/71
Lots of updates on events and
service opportunities.
Comedian Prescott Tolk
Orange & Brew
Today, 8 p.m.
Tolk has performed comedy
for the past 10 years and is a
Chicago-based stand-up co-
median. He made his national
television debut on Comedy
Central's Premium Blend.
"Spiritualities in Circulation:
Faith, Migration, and the Social
Construction of the Global
Islamic Ummah"
Thursday, 6 p.m.
Dauer Hall, Room 215
A talk by Kristen R. Ghodsee
from Bowdoin College ex-
plores how new religious
beliefs and practices can end
up reshaping ethnic identities
and national allegiances.
RUB Entertainment Presents
Local Brew
Thursday, 8p.m.
Orange & Brew
Why import? Check out the
Local Brew and keep up-
to-date with the Gainesville
music scene. See The World
(ambient pop) with friends
My Lady 4 (indie rock) and
the Matt Hobbs Band (indie
rock) will perform. Entry isFRIDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
81/56SATURDAY
SUNNY
76/53SUNDAY
SUNNY
74/53
free. Check out www.union.
ufl.edu/rub for more info.
Later Growl
Friday, 9:15 p.m. to 1 a.m.
Baptist Collegiate Ministries
1604 W University Ave.
Later Growl is an annual event
that takes place right after
Gator Growl. Stop by to enjoy
free food, games and music.
Tolbert Area's Mudfest
Sunday, 3:15 p.m.
Come celebrate 40 years of
Mudfest with Gainesville's
mayor. The pit will open at 5 for
anyone with a Gator 1 ID. For
pit reservations, contact Kate at
TACpresident@gmail.com.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this
space? Send an e-mail to bkel-
ley@alligator.org with "What's
Happening" in the subject line.
Please include a one- to two-
sentence synopsis of the event.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
Smile.
MWV
kickoff EDITIONS
Reach your Target Market before the game!
15% DISCOUNT 15% DISCOUNTFor any ON ADVERTISEMENTS RU Nadvertisement IN 5 OUT Or 7 EDI ONSthat runs prior to DEADLINE FOR SPECIAL
is picked up (no WED, NOV 4, 2009changes). NO OTHER DISCOUNT MAY
5% DISCOUNT
FOR CASH BY DEADLINE
color photos! opponent features!
team rosters! gator features!
and much more!
October 30 Georgia Deadline: October 28
November 6 Vanderbilt Deadline: November 4
November 13 Men's Basketball Tipoff Deadline: November 10
November 20 Florida International Deadline: November 18
November 25 Florida State Deadline: November 23
December 4 SEC Championship* Deadline: December 2
alligato. r to place your ad, call 352-376-4482
*To Be DeterminedSaving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.a the independent florida
Nilly
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 37 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligatororg
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill,
astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Brian Kelley,
Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligatororg
Assistant Photo Editor Matt Tripp mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry,
Emily Blake, Joe Holzer,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Ashley Cruel,
Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Corey McCall, Amanda Milligan,
George Pappas, Jennifer Smith,
Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Natasha Dykes,
Brittany Fayne, Jon Levine,
Joaquin Martinez, Samantha Owen,
Melany Valderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FI ND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Dyana Sanchez
Assistant Bookkeeper Amanda Miller
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , PO Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
a iotes[ Summer Semester $10
fromNatureforLife Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
1112 N. Main St. The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
Gainesville, FL 32601 that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
352-378-9431 be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 3
UF ACADEMICS
Nursing spots scarce
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Due to a shortage of nursing faculty
and available clinical facilities, nursing
programs throughout the state have been
rejecting eligible applicants.
More than 10,000 qualified applicants
for associate and bachelor's nursing de-
grees in the state of Florida were rejected
last year. UF's program accepted 187 of
the 303 qualified applicants.
Pre-nursing sophomore Madeline Zec-
man said she realizes how difficult it will
be for her to get accepted into the pro-
gram.
"Nursing is the only thing I want to
do, and if I don't get into the UF nursing
school then I'm going to have to transfer,"
she said.
Tracy Wright, spokeswoman of Alum-
ni Affairs for the UF College of Nursing,
said that the cutbacks are due primarily to
the lack of nurse educators.
"As faculty members retire, what we're
seeing is our existing faculty is taking on a
greater teaching load," Wright said.
According to Wright, fewer nurses are
willing to go into teaching because they
can earn larger salaries working in the
field, especially if they have the advanced
graduate degrees required to teach.
Wright said that the teaching shortage
has a cyclical effect upon the entire nurs-ing field.
"If you don't have the faculty to teach
the students who become the nurses, it's
going to add to the nursing shortage," she
said. "It's going to affect everyone."
The faculty shortage isn't the only
factor contributing to UF's acceptance of
hopeful nursing students.
"In some parts of the state the issue
is not so much a faculty one as it is clini-
cal capacity," said Mary Lou Brunell, ex-
ecutive director of the Florida Center for
Nursing.
Brunell said every
nursing class has a clini-
cal component where
students get hands-on
experience working in
hospitals and doctors'
B offices.
Brunell She said the Florida
Center for Nursing is working on replac-
ing part of the clinical components of the
courses with simulation. The federal gov-
ernment has been persuaded to put for-
ward some funds for scholarships, and
some nurses have lobbied state legisla-
tures for better salaries.
Zecman said she expects a difficult
road ahead of her.
"All of us realize how difficult it's
gonna be," she said, "and it's kind of
just looming over everyone's head right
now."Growl setup under way
0 THE SHOW COSTS ABOUT
$1.1 MILLION TO PRODUCE.
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
It takes more than 11 months of prepa-
ration, three days of setup and hundreds
of students to convert Ben Hill Griffin Sta-
dium's field into a stage for Gator Growl,
the largest student-run pep rally in the na-
tion.
O'Connell Center employeeshave been
at the stadium since Saturday, when they
began detaching bleachers in the north
end zone to accommodate the stage.
Although plans for the show started
last November, last-minute preparations
continue this week for the approximately
$1.1 million production.
Jeff Chenery, the director of production
for the O'Connell Center, said the stage is
put together over three days and comes
down in about eight hours.
Chenery said student crews use light-
ing, staging, audio and video equipment
from contractors to set the stage up in time
for their Wednesday night tech rehearsal.
As soon as fans start filing out of the
stadium Friday night, a crew of about 350
people will start to take the stage down."We do it the Egyptian way -more
people than sense," Chenery said.
By 6 a.m. Saturday, the football field
returns to normal, Chenery said.
But Producer Matt Sloan said Gator
Growl can't really be called a normal pep
rally.
Sloan said the show requires a staff of
about 465 students. It is financially inde-
pendent from the university and depends
on money from ticket sales and corporate
sponsorships.
This year, Sloan said the production
has spent more money on
On talent and saved money in
other areas.
Dana Carvey and O.A.R.
will be paid about $90,000 each, while the
Jabbawockeez will be paid $20,000, ac-
cording to Alligator archives.
Sloan said Gator Growl did not use a
talent agent to find its acts this year, sav-
ing about $15,000.
Sloan said he is still dealing with the
negative student response to the perfor-
mances at last year's Gator Growl.
He expects a higher turnout this year
as students come to honor the seniors on
UF's football team, as was done at past
Gator Growls.
"Back in the day, it was a senior pep
rally," Sloan said. "It was a celebration of
the senior class."
THIS TOWN, THIS CITY,
THIS UF BOOKSTORE
Before they shatter Ben Hill Griffin Stadium,
O.A.R. will meet & greet fans at the UF Bookstore.The
8ar & rm
HOUSE352-378-7033
1718 W. Univ. Ave.
FRIDAY
=Beat the Clock
Live
So kick off Gator Growl early with this exclusive appearance.
October 16th 2:00 PM-4:00 PM
Full event details will be posted on Facebook.
This paper was a
newspaper in a past life.
alligaitr YOUR NEWSPAPER.
printed on recycled newsprintlllwww _ I
4, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2009
Fla. pledge rule
comes under fire
* PARENTS MUST EXCUSE STUDENTS.
ALEXANDRA LAYOS
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Pledge of Allegiance, a required and generally unques-
tioned routine in Florida schools, went under scrutiny earlier
this month when the U.S. Supreme Court refused to consider a
case challenging the Florida law.
The law requires public school students to say the Pledge of
Allegiance unless their parents write a note excusing them.
The appeal was made by the American Civil Liberties Union
of Florida on behalf of a high school student who was removed
from his math class because he sat during the pledge.
"It's a frivolous lawsuit," said Daniel Boyd, Alachua County
superintendent of schools. "Why should they waste any time
overriding Florida's law, which requires that patriotism be
stressed in our schools and that children participate in pledging
allegiance to our country? I agree with the Supreme Court."
Boyd was principal of Gainesville High School for 24 years,
some of which were during the Vietnam War. He said that
even during that time of dissent, there were very few students
who ever refused to say the pledge.
"My experience has been that students appreciated the tra-
ditions of the country," Boyd said. "We start our graduations
and school board meetings and rotary and civic club meetings
everywhere with a pledge to the flag. It's common respect to
our heritage and an example of the pride we take in being
Americans."
Boyd said he thinks if a local student with a note refused to
say the pledge, the teacher would continue on with the rest of
the class. However, he does not believe this is commonplace.
"I can't think of anybody over my whole career bringing a
note from their parents asking them to be excused from this,"
he said.
Donna Kidwell, principal of Fort Clarke Middle School, has
one such student.
"The child just sits during the pledge; it takes 20 seconds,"
said Kidwell, who had to explain to confused students what
was going on.
"In their questioning, they were disrupting the whole pledge
process. It was taking away from the moment," she said.
While she can't imagine not standing for the pledge, Kidwell
thinks forcing it on students is counterproductive.
"Kids this age love to rebel and be different. Sometimes you
have to work through those things," Kidwell said.
She said holding discussions, explaining feelings and edu-
cating students about the reasons for the pledge are the most
important factors. She also said the rejection of the appeal won't
change the way she deals with her students.
Boyd is more adamant in his views about the pledge.
"We are citizens of the United States, the greatest country in
the world. It's a tradition that has been in place in our schools
for probably 100 years. We need to continue it," he said. "Go
America."AROUND GAINESVILLE
Students knit hats for charity
By GAIA BONINI
Alligator Contributing Writer
On three blankets spread over
the Plaza of the Americas, 13 knit-
ters, both beginners and experts,
wove orange and green yarn into
miniature pumpkin-shaped hats.
The Close-Knit Gators, a new
charity-based knitting club on
campus, held their second weekly
meeting Tuesday night.
When finished, about 40
pumpkin hats will be donated tothe Shands Children's Hospital at
the UF for Halloween.
"I'm really pretty proud of
what we're doing," said Kelly Ko-
rman, the club's president.
The club, which is in its first
semester, will have a new charity
knitting project each month.
November's project will ben-
efit Gainesville's Dreams of a
Lifetime, a foundation for young
adults diagnosed with cancer.
The foundation's sponsors will
buy the club's knitted beanies and
Gaia Bonini /Alligator
Casey Zych, a UF sophomore, knits a pumpkin hat at the Close-Knit
Gators meeting on the Plaza of the Americas Tuesday.give them to its patients.
Since the club doesn't want
to make a profit, they'll donate
the proceeds back to Dreams of a
Lifetime foundation.
Future plans for the club in-
clude knitting blankets for sol-
diers overseas and selling alliga-
tor-shaped scarves to fans. They'll
then donate the proceeds to char-
ity.
"And maybe send one to Tim
Tebow," Korman said, blushing.
"I think he'd like that."
"It's not a huge resume
booster, and it's not going
to score points with grad
schools. But you don't
feel forced to be here. It's
people coming together to
do what they like."
Kelly Korman
The Close-Knit Gators president
The club, which has nearly 40
active members, will meet once
a week for the rest of October to
finish the tiny pumpkin-shaped
hats.
Korman's concern of provid-
ing expensive knitting materi-
als for the club was put to rest
Monday when Deborah Ramey,
a Gainesville resident, gave the
club years of collected knitting
needles, yarn and other materials
that once belonged to her grand-
mother.
Ramey said her grandmother
used to knit things to beautify the
community and wanted to pass
that on to the new generation of
knitters.
Korman said she learned to knit
at the gym instead of working out
and has been working to promote
the club to fellow knitters.
"It's not a huge resume booster,
and it's not going to score points
with grad schools," she said. "But
you don't feel forced to be here.
It's people coming together to do
what they like."
Alabama residents look to P.K. Yonge for school model
Officials have worked for years to develop system
By MOLLY LARMIE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Rivals in football, teammates in educa-
tion.
A group of 27 residents from the town of
Pike Road, Ala., traveled to Gainesville last
week to visit the P.K. Yonge Developmen-
tal Research School, a public school gov-
erned by the UF's College of Education.
Pike Road officials have worked for
several years to develop a school system
within the town's limits. The group of resi-
dents visited P.K. Yonge because the school
serves as a model for the type of profes-
sional development program they hope to
build in their hometown, said Patty Payne,
a resident who made the trip.P.K. Yonge, which enrolls about 1,150
elementary, middle and high school stu-
dents, functions as a department in the
College of Education and collaborates with
the college to provide research opportuni-
ties and create effective teaching strategies,
P.K. Yonge Director Fran Vandiver said.
Pike Road hopes to establish this kind
of education system, said Payne, who has
worked for the town since 2006.
The nearest public high school is 20
miles away from Pike Road, she said. The
town, part of Montgomery County, wants
more local control of education.
Pike Road Mayor Gordon Stone led the
visit to P.K. Yonge, Payne said. He selected
residents from almost every neighborhood
to represent the town.Payne said that Stone, who serves as
executive director of the Higher Educa-
tion Partnership Foundation, an organiza-
tion formed to promote higher education
in Alabama, is interested in a partnership
between institutes of higher learning and
primary education, much like the partner-
ship between P.K. Yonge
National and UF.
News Pike Road is located
within 40 miles of Alabama
State University, Auburn Montgomery,
Auburn University and Troy University,
she said. All four universities have agreed
to partnership commitments.
"If I had to explain P.K. Yonge in one
phrase, I would say it was like one big
group hug," Payne said. "I was amazed atthe sense of appreciation and respect ev-
eryone had for one another."
Although the education project has been
in the works for more than three years, no
definitive time frame has been set for con-
struction in Pike Road.
Under Alabama law, towns must claim
5,000 residents to create a new school dis-
trict. Payne said she believes Pike Road has
satisfied that requirement, but the town
must wait for census verification.
Eventually, the town hopes to build
two elementary schools and one co-located
middle and high school.
"We don't want to open a school and
then 30 years later have it be the same,"
Payne said. "We want to grow and change
with technology and seek the best educa-
tion for our children. After visiting P.K.
Yonge, we are excited about the possibili-
ties."
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Chicken wing contest raises money for babies
0 THE EVENT STARTS AT
6:30 TONIGHT.
By ERICA JOHNSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
Chicken wings and babies don't
mix -unless it's for the Rattle Bat-
tle Wing Bowl, a chicken-wing-eat-
ing contest to raise money for theMarch of Dimes' March for Babies.
The Chain Reaction Youth Lead-
ership Council will host the second
annual contest at Gator's Dockside
tonight at 6:30.
Students and administrators
from five local high schools will
participate in the event.
"There is going to be a lot of ex-
citement and a lot of fun leading up
to the event as students are coming
in, said Betsy Trent, the execu-tive director of Northwest Florida
March of Dimes.
Contestants will be making a
grand entrance, stepping out of
a limo while
Around greeted by mu-Gainesville sic provided by
Kiss 105.3 and
the cheers of encouraging students,
Sussman said.
"The contestants will be wear-
ing bibs, war paint and last yearone of them even did a cartwheel
when they were announced," she
said. "Basically, we are just trying
to make it really fun for every-
one.",
The event will be raising mon-
ey both through ticket sales and
through sponsors.
Last year, between the contes-
tants and supporters, 25,000 wings
were eaten within an hour and
$7,000 was raised for the March ofDimes, Sussman said.
She said they hope to raise
$10,000 this year.
Tickets to the event will be sold
for $10 in advance at participating
high schools and at the March of
Dimes office. They will also be sold
at the door for $12.
"We hope everyone can come
out," Trent said. "There is going to
be a whole lot of barbecue on a lot
of people's faces."
SG bill could give UF $300K
for administrative fees
Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator Staff
UF Student Senate President Ashton Charles introduces State Sen. Mike Haridopo-
los during Tuesday night's meeting in the Reitz Union.By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
Senators discussed a bill Tuesday night
that would double the administrative fee
Student Government pays to UF.
The fee, which will jump from $150,000
to $300,000, funds student services like the
University Police Department, IT services,
the Human Resource Services and the UF
General Counsel.
Senate President Pro Tempore Naadira
Renfroe said SG is paying a higher admin-
istrative fee this year because its budget has
grown significantly.
The SG budget went from $13.7 million
to $14.4 million because students now pay
49 cents more for each credit hour they take,
she said.
Renfroe said the services that the fee
provides are also important because they
pay for the police officers who work at SG
events.
Progress Party Sen. Matt Vernon, who
represents graduate students, also favored
postponing the hearing and requested a
line-by-line breakdown of the fee.
Vernon said he felt uncomfortable spend-
ing the money of his constituents without
knowing the specifics of what it's going to-
ward.
Unite Party Sen. Joey Regalado spoke in
favor of the bill saying the fees are necessary
for UF and SG to run efficiently.
Regalado compared the fee to paying
taxes, adding people may not want to paythem, but they have to.
The bill was sent back to the Budget and
Allocations Committee for further consider-
ation.
Budget and Appropriations chairwoman
Virlany Taboada, a Unite Party senator who
represents District D, hopes to bring the bill
back to Senate next week.
"What I really want to make sure
today is that first and foremost you
will have a voice."
Mike Haridopolos
State Senator
Student Body Treasurer Maryam Laguna
will also offer a further breakdown of the
fee at next Tuesday's meeting.
State Sen. Mike Haridopolos, R-District
26, and UF Graham Center lecturer, stopped
by to speak to student senators about get-
ting involved with politics on the state level,
especially in light of the current debate on
health care.
Senators questioned Haridopolos about
Bright Futures and potential changes in the
scholarship's requirements.
He said changes to the requirements,
such as raising the qualifying GPA or mak-
ing the scholarship need-based, will not be
made any time soon, adding any changes
would require years of notice.
"What I really want to make sure today
is that first and foremost you will have a
voice," Haridopolos said.
LOCAL
Man arrested for slapping butt Trqn et on fire
By KATIE KLOSS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Police said a UF student was arrested Monday eve-
ning for slapping a sunbathing woman on the butt at the
University Commons pool.
Jason Zeid, 27, approached a female who was ly-
ing out by the pool at the apartment complex Sunday
around 3 p.m.
After making small talk, Zeid left but returned a few
minutes later, at which point she asked him to leave
again, according to a Gainesville Police Department re-
port.
He returned a third time and slapped her on the butt,
according to the report.
Zeid, a UF landscape architecture senior, was arrest-
ed with simple battery.
He is being held at the Alachua County Jail on $2,500
bond.
The University Police Department served Zeid with a
trespass warning on Friday.
Zeid disrupted classes around 1:30 p.m. in the Con-stans Theatre, according to the report. A professor al-
ready asked him to leave the building the previous day.
Zeid said he was in the building to "watch the beauti-
ful movements of the dancers and try to find inspiration
for [his] next architecture project."
Zeid told police that he is currently a UF student but
is in the process of withdrawing from
classes this semester, according to the
report.
Zeid also got in trouble for loiter-
C ing outside the Delta Gamma Soror-KU ity house on Friday, according to the
report.
-3 He tried to talk to several mem-
Zeid bers of the sorority and began to sing
to them.
The girls asked him to leave, which he did after they
called UPD.
Police stopped him around 6:30 p.m. on 13th Street
across from Sorority Row.
The trespass warning bans him from the Contans
Theatre and its exterior and all of Sorority Row.Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
6, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2009
Baby Bonus
UF could afford more for
graduate assistants
In the next academic year, graduate students may receive
a $500 stipend increase, thanks to a vote by the Graduate
Assistants Student Union.
The Board of Trustees is yet to approve the increase, but
if it does, it will only affect about 600 of the 4,000 graduate
assistants at UF.
While we applaud the university for giving out raises in
the midst of its own budget cuts, it could still give more.
For the majority of UF students, $500 barely covers the
cost of rent and utilities for one month.
Additionally, UF denied the union's request for $400 bo-
nuses for all graduate assistants. However, in late August the
university announced its plans to hire about 100 new faculty
with $10 million in stimulus money.
Giving each of the 4,000 graduate assistants a $400 bonus
would cost the university about $160,000.
That's less than 2 percent of the cost of the administra-
tion's proposed hiring plan.
Graduate assistants teach foreign language, math and sci-
ence classes, in addition to conducting their own research
and taking classes.
At the Alligator, we know what it's like to balance a shi-
teous wage with a shiteous course load and wanting a little
more appreciation for it.
Graduate assistants work like dogs, and UF should throw
them a bigger bone.
Cause for Change
Americans have be-come obsessed with
promoting breast
cancer awareness, and cor-
porations have noticed.
The constant barrage of me-
dia and events during Na-
tional Breast Cancer Month
makes the disease, which the
American Cancer Society ex-
pects to kill 40,000 Americans
this year, take on a image of
titanic proportions.
Cancers in the digestive
system are expected to claim
more than 135,000 lives alone
this year. Lung cancer may
kill up to 160,000, according
to the National Cancer Insti-
tute.
But diseases like colon
and rectal cancer, which are
expected to kill an estimated
50,000 this year, aren't as
marketable. The concentra-
tion on one type of cancer
so excessively has pushed
awareness of many equally
deadly diseases to the fringe.
It's gotten to the pointwhere marketers have taken
notice as well. Companies
are repackaging their prod-
ucts in pink with the promise
of a donation to a breast can-
cer charity.
For a pink Swiffer broom,
which promises to help fight
breast cancer on its box, only
2 cents from the purchase
makes it to charities if a
shopper uses a coupon from
a coupon book, according to
Newsweek.
For all the hoopla Major
League Baseball creates for
its breast cancer fight, in-
cluding pink bats, helmets,
wristbands and other acces-
sories on Mother's Day, only
$50,000 was donated by the
league to Susan G. Komen
for the Cure this year, ac-
cording to MLB.com.
Those rallying to cure
breast cancer should take
a step back and rethink the
marketing that has taken
over the cause, before the ac-
tual cause is forgotten.
a l l e independent floida
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITORBrian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names wiii be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University Aye , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions
t
C iS~jwc PK juN
IND INS ISLNCEkfM~u).3/1\\<
The Senate Finance Committee
passed the Baucus Bill!
We're on our way to health care reform!
Women should embrace feminism
t takes a TV show to make me appreciate being a wom-
an in the 21st century.
Watching "Mad Men" religiously every week
reminds me that in my grandmother's generation, I
wouldn't be writing this column. I probably wouldn't
even be at a coed school if I were lucky enough to at-
tend college.
In "Mad Men," three main characters represent the
choices women had in the '60s. Joan, the head secretary
of the show's ad agency, uses her sexuality to gain the
only power she has. Peggy, a rising copywriter, tries to
market her viewpoint as a woman in order to rise in the
ranks but is looking for a career rather than a good hus-
band. And Betty, the wife of the main character, feels
trapped in her role as a suburban housewife but isn't
sure what she would want as an alternative.
It's a highly stylized and symbolic show, and it obvi-
ously isn't a perfect representation of life 50 years ago.
But it does remind me that sexism wasn't considered a
problem because it was the norm.
Things are obviously much easier for women today
than they were then. But maybe because it's easier, it's
hard to call myself a feminist without being judged.
In high school, I remember making a comment that,
in retrospect, I assume was confrontational because the
guy in front of me turned around and snarled, "What,
are you some kind of feminist?"
Seven years later, I can definitively say: Yes, I am.
Feminism enabled me to pursue the education and ca-
reer that I have, and I won't turn my back on it because
it subjects me to a stereotype.
I don't hate men. I don't believe that every obstacle
I face is because of misogyny. I believe that making thechoice to be a stay-at-home mom is
as valid as choosing to be a CEO.
But remembering that the women
who came before me had to fight
much harder than I do to make the
same choices, the least I can do is
Hilary Lehman take a stand for those opportuni-
letters@alligator org ties and against the sexism that
still exists.
Recently, a fellow journalist -a man -told me
that he thought being a journalist would be easier as a
woman. People would tell me more, he said, because I
had nice legs.
I responded that while that might be true on some
level, I don't wear miniskirts to interviews.
He was completely oblivious that the idea he had
just expressed is exactly what makes it difficult to be a
woman in any profession. Fifty years after women's lib-
eration, there's still this notion that if you're successful
as a woman, it must be partly because you're pretty. If
you're not pretty, it must be because you're aggressive
in a way that some might term "bitchy."
I wish it were accepted that women still have the oc-
casional battle to fight, that being a feminist isn't a theo-
retical superiority complex.
I've worked hard to get to where I am in my life and
career, and I don't believe I've been overly hampered
(or helped) by sexism. But even though it's not a strug-
gle for me the way it is for the characters I watch every
week on TV, feminism is still relevant to my life, even if
it's only fighting for the right to call myself a feminist.
Hilary Lehman is a journalism senior. Her column ap-
pears on Wednesdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Are you going Monday's question: Do you like
to Gator Growl? ridingthe bus in Gainesville?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/opinions
So what's next? Let's see.
49% YES
51% NO
154 TOTAL VOTES
Letters to the Editor
Alligator shows socialist slant
By reading today's Alligator, it seems that the paper should
be renamed Granma UF or The Socialist Newsletter of Gator
Comrades. The International Socialist Organization was
prominently quoted in one article without a counter position
from a group that may not support their issue. Another ar-
ticle positively framed an event about a health clinic set up by
Venezuelan dictator Hugo Chavez without mentioning that
he has stolen land without payment, a la Cuba's Fidel Castro,
has nationalized private businesses and has shut down more
than 50 private radio stations, television stations and newspa-
pers critical of his totalitarian tactics. And the kicker was the
opinion column calling Che Guevara a "hero" with laughable
propaganda that failed to mention Guevara's death squads of
innocent Cubans. The Alligator's motto "We Inform. You De-
cide." should be changed to "We Indoctrinate. You Obey."
Rafael A. Yaniz
Gators for Israel president
Protest of Che Guevara misguided
On Tuesday, I was very pleased reading Paul Murty's
guest column, "Che is a hero, not a terrorist." This article, the
superb cover story on the National Equality March and the
report back on Hugo Chavez' health care campaigns in Ven-ezuela made for a very progressive issue that made my day
a happy one. In response to Friday's anti-Che Guevara rally,
my friends and I hastily organized a counter-demonstration,
using a flag with Guevara's portrait and the slogan "Hasta la
victoria siempre" scrolled at the bottom.
For the most part, we were received fairly by passersby.
There were a few surly characters, including one man who
screamed and even threatened us. The Young America's
Foundation can protest anyone they want, but they severely
misrepresented Che and everything he stood for. On their
fliers, they presented Guevara as a psychopathic murderer,
who killed indiscriminately.
There was no mention that he fought to free Cuba, with
popular support, from the grip of a tyrannical regime that had
the full support of the U.S. Similar conflicts, in which the U.S.
supports unpopular dictators to bolster its financial interests,
can be found all over the world and throughout history, re-
gardless of whether Republicans or Democrats are in charge.
I hope that the truth about figures such as Guevara and the
United States' role in foreign policy become more widely
known, and that last-ditch, reactionary backlashes such as the
one witnessed on Friday will occur less frequently.
John Story
4LS
U U UWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Flash mobs too loud, obtrusive for indoors
Last night at about 5:30 I was studying in the Reitz Union
for my two Wednesday exams. The room gradually got a bit
louder. People dressed in black hustled and bustled about
but were being generally unobtrusive.
However, they then formed into a large huddle and be-
gan to scream "To be enthusiastic is to act enthusiastic." The
flash mob went on like this for approximately two minutes.
Since trying to out-yell them would be futile, I wrote my un-
friendly letter on the back of the paper I was working on -
"Shut the fuck up, I'm studying." As the screaming ended, a
particularly audacious girl ran over and ripped up the paper
with all my work on it while fervently telling me to "Take
a break."
As if coming indoors and screaming loudly wasn't dis-
ruptive enough, she felt it was necessary to destroy my
work. The sheer self-righteousness of this left me completely
stunned as she skipped away, so proud of her destruction.
I think flash mobs are a great idea and a lot of fun, but
if you're going to be loud or obtrusive, do it outside. Also
don't be surprised if people don't take kindly to your antics
since they are usually intentionally disruptive.
There, I took a break. Are you happy?
Chad Kimes
4EG
Guest column
Protest challenged views of misinformed Guevara supporters
Have great reservation writing this re-
sponse to Paul Murty's Tuesday column
because I'm afraid it will give his igno-
rance an air of legitimacy. The letter was
the most fallacious, logically incoherent and
misleading piece the Alligator has published
in months.
Murty's letter, titled "Che is a hero, not a
terrorist," condemns the College Republicans
for their "No Che Day" protest on the argu-
ment that rather than being a terrorist, Che
Guevara was a great leader for the poor and
oppressed.
As he so curtly states, "Just because you
don't agree with someone doesn't make him
a terrorist."
This is true. I don't often agree with Barack
Obama, but he's certainly not a terrorist.
However, when the person is actually a ter-
rorist, things become quite different.
Guevara admitted to hundreds of mass
executions in the name of his "revolution."
He was a bloodthirsty revolutionary who gotoff to murdering anyone who disagreed with
him.
"To send men to the firing squad, judicial
proof is unnecessary," Guevara said. "This is a
revolution. And a revolutionary must become
a cold killing machine motivated by pure
hate."
Guevara's motives may have been self-
less and saintly, but I'm sure Guevara himself
would tell you that the road to hell is paved
with good intentions. His ends were the
slaughter of innocents who happened to be
associated with the people Guevara disagreed
with. And that doesn't include the thousands
who died in the "revolutionary" wars he tried
to start through Latin America.
Most high school juniors could tear through
the reasoning Murty presented in Guevara's
defense. Just because someone spouts off a
selfless quote at the end of his life does not
preclude him from being a terrorist. Likewise,
just because someone was a doctor does not
mean he was a saint.Jonathan Lott
Speaking OutMurty finished his
joke of a column by de-
fending this murderer
as a "fight[er] for the
oppressed" and calling
the College Republi-
cans' protest "ridicu-
lous."
No, protesting this
revolutionary is not
ridiculous. Not when thousands of hipsters,
"progressives," hippies and spoiled white kids
walk around with his face on their T-shirts ev-
ery day. Most of them don't have a clue who
Guevara was, what he stood for or his mur-
derous rampages.
To make things worse for the hippies, Gue-
vara was also a racist.
"The black is indolent and fanciful, he
spends his money on frivolity and drink; the
European comes from a tradition of working
and saving which follows him to this corner
of America and drives him to get ahead," hesaid once.
If anyone at UF said this, they would be
run out of town on a rail. When Guevara said
this, liberals put his face on a T-shirt.
People don't walk around with Hitler or
Osama bin Laden on their T-shirts, but these
are two people who, like Guevara, felt strongly
about their beliefs and dedicated their lives to
(in their view) making the world a better place
through whatever means necessary. Guevara
did the exact thing they did -murder and kill
-and yet people idolize him.
We protested on Friday to raise aware-
ness about Guevara and the false beliefs that
abound about him. He was a murderer, a rac-
ist and a savage killing machine who had no
tolerance or compassion for anyone who dis-
agreed with them.
People who are completely uninformed and
who defend this killer -people like Murty -
exist; and that is why we must protest.
Johnathan Lott is the vice chairman of the UF
College Republicans.
DUI Costs Are Sobering IGET YOUR BEAT T-SHIRT
FOR THE SWAMP!
jEATb
' Sponsored by
HERFFJONES®
* www.herffjones.com/ufGet yours tomorrow at
Emerson Alumni Hall
1OAM until gone!
FREE for the first 1500
SAA members with
membership card.
352-392-9533- www.ufalumni.ufl.edu
Check it out ataaaeg gpDC orAts alligatorSports.org
or subscribe onTune in for the latest Gators sports o Tunes.
news and analysis from our beat .
writers and columnists. alligatorIf you're over 40, check your breasts regularly
and have a mammogram and a clinical exam
every 1-2 years. For more information, visit
www.cdc.gov/RightToKnow or call
1-800-CDC-INFO (232-4636);
1-888-232-6348 (flY).
BREAST CANCER SCREENING
THE RIGHT TO KNOW
8, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2009
AROUND GAINESVILLE
Local artwork to raise awareness about child abuse
By CLARE LENNON
Alligator Contributing Writer
Miniature masters of genius and imagina-
tion, along with their parents, come together
Tuesdays and Thursdays at Do Art studio
with one goal -to end child abuse with the
Child Advocacy Center's Jay's Hands project.
The pieces of art will be turned into porce-
lain ornaments with information on abuse that
will be hung on local trees.
According to the organization's Web site,
the goal of CAC is to "provide a safe, support-
ive, child-friendly environment for child vic-
tims of abuse and neglect."
According to CAC spokeswoman Margot
Wilder, the organization works with the De-partment of Children and Families, lawyers
and victims of sexual, mental, physical and
emotional abuse, neglected children and wit-
nesses of substance abuse or violence.
"[Jay's Hands] was an idea that came up
to honor one of our founding board mem-
bers," said Wilder, who described it as both a
fundraiser and a way to raise awareness of the
CAC throughout the community. "It's sort of
a pay-it-forward kind of idea, just to brighten
people's days."
Anyone who wants to contribute can visit
Do Art at Thornebrook Village on Northwest
43rd Street on Tuesdays and Thursdays be-
tween noon and 7 p.m. to mold, paint or string
beads for the ornaments. Wilder said that Do
Art is offering two-for-one studio fees for those"It's sort of a pay-it-forward kind
of idea, just to brighten people's
days."
Margot Wilder
CAC spokeswoman
working on the project. While a donation is re-
quired, there is no minimum.
Do Art employee and UF senior Sarah
Knowles said while people give a small dona-
tion, their contribution to the project is more
about the time they spend on the ornaments,
which she described as a fun and low-cost
way to participate.
Fellow employee and UF senior JacobBonynge said participation has dwindled re-
cently. Now, he said, more people find out
about the project when they visit the studio.
Wilder said she is planning "stringing par-
ties" for October and a distribution party in
November to be held at Do Art. The studio
and its owners have donated the materials for
Jay's Hands project, which kicked off in May.
"Where we are right now is we've had
huge numbers of people making and painting
the beads, but it's a little more labor-intensive
to string the beads into ornaments," she said.
"My favorite part of the project is the end
product; 10 people at the end have touched
that one strand," she said.
For more information about Jay's Hands,
visit the Web site at www.jayshands.com.
Board of Trustees
must approve raise
RAISE, from page 1
graduate assistants, but UF countered that it did not
have enough money for that.
He pointed to UF's recent announcement that it
will hire up to 100 new professors with about $10
million of stimulus money as proof that UF has the
money but doesn't want to spend it on graduate as-
sistants.
"It's just a question of priorities," he said.
Sikes said UF offers graduate assistants tuition
waivers and health insurance in addition to stipends
and said the university's compensation package is
competitive with its peers.
UF She also noted the union
Administration approved the conditions of
the agreement.
Another important change in the contract, Sefer-
ian said, is a clause that gives assistants more time
to file grievances.
Previously grievances had to be filed within 10
days. The new limit is 25 days.
Seferian said UF will also be required to tell assis-
tants why they've been fired, which will help make
the grievance process smoother.
While the graduate assistants union has reached
an agreement on its contract, last month the faculty
union declared an impasse in negotiations over is-
sues such as salaries and the availability of sabbati-
cals.
The second meeting will be held
today at GPD headquarters
MEETING,from page 1
"What started this process is a gross
error in management policy," McAdams
said. "Management tried to spin this
thing with the egg-throwing incident, co-
incidentally in a black neighborhood."
McAdams said NOBLE would not
have been involved if some form of pun-
ishment were placed on the three officers,
like suspension or termination.
Eastside High School student Brandon
Jones, 16, said he is tired of being harassed
by police.
Jones said he was once followed half a
mile by "bored cops." The officers pulled
him over and gave him a ticket for a tail-
light that wasn't working.
"This is poor judgment in the officers'character," he said.
Victoria L. Robertson, another resi-
dent, said she was harassed by GPD of-
ficers for a second-degree misdemeanor,
which landed her in jail.
Robertson cried throughout the meet-
ing while explaining her
encounters with the po-
lice. She was arrested for
a moving traffic violation
and for violating restric-
tions placed on her driv-
er's license, according to
police records.Blackburn The second meeting
will be held tonight at the Gainesville Po-
lice Department multipurpose room, 721
NW Sixth St., at 11:30 a.m.
To hear locals talk about their experiences
with Gainesville police, see alligator.org.iviatz iripp/ Aingazor biarr
Sharon Hale-Ferguson speaks to the NOBLE committee and other citizens about her
concerns with the community and the Gainesville Police Department at a meeting
Tuesday night at the GRU building, 403 SE Fourth Ave.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
Live for $339!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
12-9-75-1
Save Some Green
2 and 3 bedrooms only $799
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1
&The
atSnaFe
Walk to Santa Fe College!!!
Limited Time Only
Rates starting at $399 or
Receive a $1000 rebate check on us!
4/4's or Brand New 3/3's!
Fully Furnished, Free Ethernet
Free Cable and Utilities
Roommate Matching, Free Tanning!
352-379-9300 www.thecrossingatsantafe.com
12-9-75-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-12 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Cinc + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
**LAMANCHACONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $299/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 10-23-30-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Apartment in Windsor
Park. $450/ea. room. FREE Internet and
cable! New W/D. On bus route to UF. 305-
788-5681/windsor5l5@gmail.com. 11-23-
09-45-1
DUCKPOND -BIKE TO UF.
Fully furnished room upstairs. Share all
downstairs Only $80/week + 1/3 utils. Two
rooms avail. 872-8388 10-15-09-10-1
ROOM FOR RENT
Lg master suite in new home; 15 min to VA,
Shands & UF. NS, professional only. Util,
cable TV & wireless internet incl. $425/mo.
219-3410 10-20-09-10-1
2 bdrm/ 2 bth, fully furnished townhome
in Haile Plantation, SW Gainesville, front
garden, back porch. $950-$1050 for short or
long term. Ideal for visiting scholars, sabbati-
cals. 352-331-3183 11-19-09-30-1
Furnished in WINDSOR PARK. ROOM $420
and APT 1BR/1BA $ 600 .close UF.FREE
Internet and cable 305-408-4330 -305-962-
2525- c2000_1@msn.com 10-21-09-7-1
SMALL GARAGE APT
Millhopper area. Pet allowed. $200/mo. Call
373-0489 10-15-3-1Casablanca West
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping;
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA, great for student/
family, only $850/mo. 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Ready to move in! Ed 305-972-6432
10-19-09-5-1
All Inclusive Canopy Apts-Only $465 mth.
Relet room in 4/4, Brand new, amazing ame-
nities, 1 mi from UF, www.canopyuf.com.
Call Marisa 352-359-1456 for more info. 11-
2-09-14-1
For RentF unurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1 BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
1, 2, 3's *SUPER RENT DISCOUNTS!
1BR $509 * 2BR $579* 3BR $775
HUGE FLOORPLANS! * Pets Loved!
Bus Stop * Pools * Green Courtyards!
Park Free Across From UF! 335-7275
12-9-09-75-2
Tired of Roommates?
Hate Living Far From Everything?
Downtown One Bedrooms Now Leasing!
Move-in TODAY for only $699!
Pool*Free Parking*Blocks to Campus
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UIF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Best Location & Great Price
Large 2/1's available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now!!! 3/3 for $336/person.
Cable w/HBO and Showtime included!
Private Dog Park-Tanning-Fitness Center
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2BIVENS COVE
1/1 -From $649 2/2 -From $699
3/2 -From $824 4/3 -From $1099
Close to UF/Shands * Pet Friendly
(352) 376-2507 * 3301 SW 13th Street
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
Madison Pointe NW 23rd Blvd
1/1 $659, 2/2 $699, 3/2 $799
W/D*Screened Patio*Tanning
Fitness Center*Full size bball court
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
12-9-75-2
*POLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's -$659 * 3/2's -$799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next
www.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, imitation, or discrimination because of color, region, sex, handicap, family status, or national origin, or intention to make imitation, or discrimination." We wll
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising thatis know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
10, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2009
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
75-212-9-
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2We have REAL 1/1s
Dump your roommate & save on gas!
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450
1600 NW 4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $450
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
10-30-09-88-2
3BR 2BA 1019 NW 36th Dr. Quiet neigh-
borhood. Beautiful, sanded hardwood
floors, fenced yard, LR, DR, study, $1000/
mo. $30/mo ontime discount. 773-407-
1774. 10-20-09-41-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
ARBOR
Ask about our move-in specials!
Close to UF & Shands
2411 SW 35th PL
866-604-7097
M-F 9-6
www.arborgainesville.com
12-9-09-74-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $800/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
10-16-09-56-2
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $495 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Pine Rush Villas 4117 SW 20th Ave
375-1519 1br/1lbth -$399 2br/1lbth $499
$100 AMEX Card On bus Route
*Reduced rates include 2 months free*
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com**
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Homestead Apts 3611 SW 34th St.
376-0828 *Archer Rd. Area"
2BR/1 Bth only $499 & 2BR/2Bth only $624
Reduced rates include 2 months free
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Gator Village Villlas 321 NW 21st Lane
372-3826 1 br/1 bth $472
NW Gainesville large floor plan * patio*
Limited Availability *
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Reduced rates includes 1 month free!
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today
Sunrise Villas 3010 SW 23rd Terr.
372-4835 1br/1lbth from $408
Close to Campus/Shands and VA
*2 Month's Free included in special.
$100 AMEX Card
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Summer Place Villas 3316 SW 41st Pl.
373-2818 1br/1lbth $425 (*off SW 34th St.*)
Reduced rates include 2 months free
Near Main Postal Facility and Shopping!
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com**
10-30-09-67-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
2BR/1BA The Oaks Condo by Oaks Mall.
$650, screened-in porch, W/D, community
pool & gym, water & trash included. 321-
948-6327 or americana@cfl.rr.com 10-26-
09-40-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172
12-9-09-50-2
3/2 home in northwest gainesville with fire-
place, large yard, garage. 850 a month. first
and security required. 6431 nw 26th terrace.
Call 352-871-2379. 10-27-30-2
1bedr, 2bedrms, 3bedrms, & 4bedrms close
to Campus. Call to see your new home today
Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-20-09-
30-2
I MOTNTEDE
Kenneth Hacker
White Male
(DOB 08/10/69); 5'10",
185 lbs, Brown Hair,
Green Eyes
Wanted for:
Burglary on an Occupied
Structure,2 Counts of Grand
Theft, 2 Counts of Dealing in
Stolen Property and
Pawnbroker Transaction
FraudALACNUA C OUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOPWe Love Pets &
Ready to Move in Today
Regency Oaks
1,2,3, Bedrooms
3230 SW Archer Rd
352-378-5766
Rocky Point
1,2,3 Bedrooms
3100 SW 35tth Place
352-376-1619
Archer Woods
1,2, Bedrooms
3020 SW Archer Rd
352-373-8727
Country Gardens
1 & 2 Bedrooms
2001 SW 16th St.
352-373-4500
12-9-09-65-2
000$550 2BR Washer/Dryer provided;
upstairs; ceiling fans, CHA, quiet, prefer
grad student or professional; greenspace,
parking, close to UF/downtown NW 10th St
352 376 0080 10-29-09-30-2
Large 2BR/2BA gated golf community condo
end unit with garage. Enclosed porch/alarm
system/appl/washer/dryer. Lg.TV, queen
beds avail. at no cost. The Greens $800, call
352-262-3746 10-19-09-21-2
AVAILABLE NOW 2BR/1BA CTL heat/Air
W/D Hookups, Fridge, Stove, Dishwasher
and Icemaker $600/mo first and last $300
sec. 1523 NW 7th St. Gainesville, FL Phone
352-376-0071 or 352-494-4598 10-19-09-
20-2ONE BLOCK TO UF (WALK TO CLASS)
3 bed 1 1/2 bath House- $1725
3 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utilities)- $1575
1 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utlities)- $645
Near SW 1st & 2nd Ave and SW 12th St.
No dogs (available now or spring semester)
Negotiable lease terms
call 352.337.9600 for more info 10-30-37-2
Treehouse Village 2/2, new crpt/vinyl, many
amenities, close to UF, 1 mo free! $650/mo.
109-Q301 SE 16th Ave
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
Tiffany 2/2, Irg mstr bdrm, w/d, w/in clsts,
scrnd prch, near bus stop on Glen Spgs Rd
3059 NW 28 Circle. $700/mo
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
Whispering Pines 2/2, on UF bus routes, wd,
ask about special, 3443 SW 24th St. $800/
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
Monticello 3/3.5, fresh paint, community
amenities, 3 parking spaces, 1700+ sq ft,
522 NW 50th Blvd, $1100/mo
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
LARGE 2BR/1BA
Tile floors, except BRs. Covered patio. Close
to Shands. Only $550/mo. 1 yr lease. Call
352-372-3131 12-9-09-41-2
Copyrighted Material
brSyndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 11
For Rent For Rent For Rent R Frsn O F nfurnishe~d j unfurnished ]a l unfurnished _
Villages @ Santa Fe- 2/1- Across from Santa The Retreat at Madison P(
Fe College $575/mo. 1 MNTH 2/2 $1007, 3/3 Townhome
FREE! Vaulted Ceilings-Screened
Edbaurmanagement.com Garage-W/D-Microwave
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2 2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpoin
Cricket Club 11-2/2- upgrd kitchen, w/d. many 12-9-48-2
amenities. 7180 SW 4 rd.
$900/mo 1 mnth free!
Edbaurmanagement.com HOUSE avail now. 4BR/2
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2 UF, near the Landings Apt
Bike to UF. Fenced backya
H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $1Greenleaf- 2/2.5- new paint/carpeting.w/d 2931 or 376-6183 10-30-hkps. 4303 SW 69 terr.
$750/mo.
Edbaurmanagement.com Studio Condo Utilitie
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2 $575 month $600 secu
Condominiums 2490 Sw 14
3/2.5 near off NW 13 St. Walk to UF/midtown. 527-6923 10-26-09-12-2
3 off strt parking. New stove. 626 NW 13th
terr. Reduced rent $850/mo.
Edbaurmanagement.com2
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2 2 BLOCKS TO
1 BR/1 BA available now. $4
Call 335-4790 or 352-214
3 ROOMS FOR RENT 5-2
$525-$650/mo All utils incl. Near SFC, Oaks
Mall & UF 786-325-7941 10-15-09-10-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, $499/m
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO reet. bh uthas a p
Clos toUF, ute& cean BD/BA, yard. On bus routes & wClose to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA' Shands, VA & College of V1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D 2550 or e-mail paloverde3hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/ 10-28-09-15-2
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 11-2-09-20-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS Homes available for immed
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560; Lowpayments!
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335- $49 Deposit!
0420 11-30-09-37-2 Call today! 352-378-4411
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS Creekside Villas! Off NW 1
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560; laminate floors, new paint,1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335- kitchen, remodeled bathro
0420 11-30-09-37-2 water, sewer, trash, $350 d
10-16-09-6-2
3/1 HOUSE FOR RENT GARAGE MADE
TO LARGE ROOM.FENCED YARD,PET
FRIENDLY.WAHSIER/DRYER HOOK HISTORIC APTS Pleasar
UP.OFF ARCHER ROAD $900.00 MONTH District. 2BR $850, two 1B
2555 SW 31ST ST CALL 352-377-8777 10- one efficiency $475. Hardw
27-15-2 fans, high ceiling & porche
rity. No dogs. 378-3704 sa
Custom 2BDRM 1Bath Tiled floor in liv area 11-5-09-20-2
Carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans All new
bath New Kit w/stainless appl W/D Cent H/A
Internet/cable avail Manager pays water pest 1 BR/1 BA apt off Tc
contrl lawn main security lites Near bus rte $385. Best price around. C
Sorry no pets $685/mo Call 727-423-9463 or email snapjacksboss@
10-16-09-8-2 15-09-5-2
Copyrightedbaa
Coyihted MIt r9 eril
Syndicated C
Available from Commerci~0ntent
al News Pr
- =)inte
$1092
Patio
te.org
BA, 1.5 miles to
s. On UF bus rte.
rd, fireplace cent
0O/mo. Call 327-
'9-18-2
s INCLUDED!
irity Prairiewood
th Drive #20 386-
STADIUM
95/mo.
-3369 10-14-09-
o. 3320 SW 23rd
private gated court
ithin 2 miles of
et Med. 352 377-
320@yahoo.com
iate occupancy!!
10-30-09-17-2
3th by Lowes 1/1
new vinyl floor in
om $580/mo incl
ep 352-318-9403
nt Street Historic
Rs $625 & $575.
ood floors, ceiling
s. 1st, last, secu-
llygville@aol.com
wer Rd.
all32-5 -53Campus View
Almost Brand New
Mple cab, all appl incld,
w/d, 9' clngs, cr. Molding
int corridor, alrm, dcl pkg sp
$800 mo
Edbaurmanagement.com-1731 NW 6th ST-
375-7104
10-19-09-5-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 10-26-
09-10-2
2 BR, Great location near UF, Cent AC/Ht,
W/D conn, private storage, pool, $620/mo,
no pets, 870-5815/333-7721 10-20-09-5-2
*@@WALK TO CLASS***
3 blocks to UF, near the Swamp. 3BR/1BA
house. $900/mo Andree Realty 375-2900
10-30-09-14-2
2/2 downtown townhouse(Arlington Square)
sublease for spring. Within easy walking dis-
tance to downtown bars/clubs. Comes with
washer/dryer for $1095. 352-870-5004 10-
27-7-2
HISTORIC DUCKPOND
2BR/1.5BA, 1200 sq ft twnhse in heart of
Duckpond. W/D, great location, very quiet,
great for grad student or prof. 508 NE 4th
Ave. Avail. now. $750/mo. 352-379-4952
11-3-09-15-2
OFRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Countryside Share 4BR/4BA upgraded furnyahocom 10- condo 1.5 miles to UF on bus rte, pool, W/D,
cable & utils incl. $425/mo. Call 386-672-
6969 or 386-295-7929. 10-16-09-55-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo ind
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 10-30-09-47-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-4
$425 Share a Cool Vintage House!
Two females need a third; huge older house,
great NW area, nice porch, laundry, CH/AC,
nice wood floors. We are cool & easy-going.
anita@cozygator.com or (352) 338-7670
10-14-09-25-4
Female roommate needed for 4/2.5 town-
house, all utilities included, no pets/no smok-4 i ing, nice environment, Newberry & 1-75,0Viders baezwpa@bellsouth.net 954-557-4769 10-
27-09-15-4
1BR/1BA or2BR/2BA avail Jan 1st.
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 10-
20-09-9-4
$500/mo ind rent,utilities,cable,internet
for 1BR in 3/1 house to live w/one female.
Some pets ok. New floors, huge yard, garage
for storage. By Newnan's Lake, 10 mins to
downtown. Call 352.870.8320, lv msg. 10-
23-09-10-4
Enjoy A Romatic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
10-23-09-10-4www.AndreeRealty.com
We specialize in rentals, sales & property
management. Try us. 352-375-2900 11-30-
09-30-2
F Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Bank Owned Properties -Must SellI
See ALL bank owned homes and condos @
www.allisonables.com/foreclosures
Allison Ables -Keller Williams Gainesville
11-2-38-5
Still time to get $8,000 for buying this 2br/2ba
tnhs Woodside Villas. Scrn porch,wd flrs,new
stove,d/w, ktchn flooring. Owner occupied,in
beautiful cond. $89,000 &worth a look. Hurry!
Irene Larsson RE Svcs 352-373-2605. 10-
19-09-10-5
Spacious 2br/2.5b condo close to UF/
Shands for only $95,000. Unit is clean and
ready for immediate occupancy. Call Jennifer
McIntosh, agent ERA Trend Realty 352-262-
1808. 10-15-09-5-5
Great 2br/1 b home close to UF for $114,900.
Well-maintained with updated kitchen and
gorgeous wood floors, call Jennifer McIntosh,
agent ERA Trend Realty at 352-262-1808.
10-15-09-5-5
*@@WHY PAY RENT?@@
Creekside Villas. 1BR/1BA condo. Only
$69,900. New kitchen, new paint, new floor,
new appliances. Fireplace, near Sam's Club.
Andree Realty 375-2900 10-30-09-14-5
l Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
*BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
*Full $100 Queen $125 King $200*
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
-computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
Cy Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
2009 I-ZIP ELECTRIC BICYCLE
36v, range about 30 miles. 15-20 mph.
Perfect condition. Includes 2 chargers + ex-
tra motor. $450. (Paid $1250) 352-226-8449
10-19-09-5-9
12, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2009
L For Sale Autos l Wanted F Hep Wanted Help Wanted
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
RALLY TOWEL:
JUST HOW BIG OF A FAN ARE YOU?
$9.99 TheRallyTowel.com
10-19-09-10-10
Motorcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
WL EAutosD
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!0
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
10-30-09-32-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 12-9-49-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 12-9-49-12
Students Guaranteed Financing!
Do you have a valid drivers license?
Do you have a part time job?
Ride today for $750 down!
Call Angie @ 352-672-5048 10-14-10-12
92 Nissan Stanza $999 cash
98 Grand Am $999 cash
96 Kia Sephia $1299 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $1999 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $1999 cash
96 Plymouth Minivan $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
95 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
94 Honda Accord $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
IVE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 10-23-09-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 10-
23-09-74-13
www.tradeyacity.com
$500 contest search
youtube(TM)for www.tradeyacity.com
contest for all the details 10-15-09-20-13
WHelpWanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
0 the independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
e-mail to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
1 2-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14Graduate debt-free. Earn cash while attend-
ing college. For a confidential interview call
1-800-577-2021 & please leave your name &
number TWICE 12-9-68-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
We need people to post ads
online. Social networking
knowledge a plus. Get paid
every Friday. For details see
paycheckonfriday.com 11-12-45-14
Earn Extra Money. Students needed ASAP.
Earn up to $150 per day being a Mystery
Shopper. No Experience Required. Call
1-800-722-4791 11-20-41-14
Finish the crossword over one
of our great daily lunch specials!
t 
4 THE SWIMP RESTAURANT1642W. University Ave. | 352.377.9267
www.swamprestaurant.com
0 * re a- 0 e 040- 0 a
ria
Copyrighted MateiaI.e
Syndicated Content e~
Available from Commercial News Providers
'I I
a--up
I P
p
Iw
Ia
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
U FHelpWanted HelpWanted 7 services Services Evntotices
Gainesville based travel agency now hiring
Sales Agents. Qualified candidates
are hard working, fast learners, and must
have excellent communication skills.
Great Student Job! Great Pay! Please
email your resume and availability to
BestonTravelNet@gmail.com.
10-16-9-14
Bartender Openings.
Earn $250/day. No Exp req! Will train
PT/FT Call 305-929-8559 x850 11-3-09-
20-14
Babysitter Needed, weekly T/Th afternoons
(12-6 pm) for two kids near campus. Must
have experience, references, own car and
be non-smoker. Submit resume and brief
letter of interest to erowefl@cox.net. 10-
15-09-5-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Evenings &
weekends. Fax resume to 373-2230 10-22-
09-10-14
Need someone dependable, computer sav-
vy, attention to detail, 1-2 hours per day near
UF, some from your location, flexible hours,
good pay, 352-356-2563 or e-mail
snapjacksboss~yahoo.com 10-19-09-7-14
Wanted: Grad Student preferred, Free Room
& Board Modest Salary, exchange light
housekeeping, occasional companionship
(dinner/games)non-sexual, no dui's/drugs.
Resume/photo. 25 min from campus.
johnsfcc@yahoo.com 10-16-09-5-14
Notes & Note Takers
Wanted Immediately.
Freshman & Sophomores in Demand.
We pay top dollar for Notes & Note Takers.
email: tamunotes@gmail.com 10-23-09-
10-14
ANIMAL CARE TECH- Animal Company
LLC is a snake breeding facility located in
Newberry (about 30 min from UF). We are
seeking an honest, caring and dependable
person to take care of snakes. Hours are
flexible but must be 16-24 hours a week
during the hours of 9AM-5:30PM M-F only.
Experience with reptiles is helpful but not
necessary. Please email theanimalcom-
pany@bellsouth.net for an application and
further info. No phone calls, please. 10-
14-09-3-14
L
By advertising in the Alligator, you
will reach over 50,000 readers who
are looking for new apartments,
condos, furniture, appliances,
household items and much more!
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE 2009
DEADLINE: October 29
RUN DATE: November 4
GAINESVILLE REAL ESTATE MAP
DEADLINE: January 14
RUN DATE: January 20
OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING FAIR
DEADLINE: January 29
RUN DATE: February 3
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE 2010
DEADLINE: March 18
RUN DATE: March 24
GAINESVILLE REAL ESTATE MAP
DEADLINE: April 2
RUN DATE: April 7Provide Personal care for a child with a de-
velopmental disability. Pick up from school,
and home help 3-7pm. Apply
Vendorslynz@gmail.com 10-15-09-3-14
TUTOR
for high school senior. GED, Santa Fe prep
+ study skills. $15/hr. 352-281-7932 10-20-
5-14
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children.
FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA
in education. Benefits available with FT. Call
377-2290 or 373-1481 11-13-09-27-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
r --- --
Get Your Property on the Boards
Don't let the competition pass you by!
-J
E>
]
Call your rep
today!
352-376-4482
alligatorHYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 10-28-
09-90-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS*
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
Personal Training
with Austin Wolfe
Call today for an appointment 321-960-5739
10-26-09-30-15
NEED EXTRA WRITING HELP?
Sharpen your skills with Ambassador's Ink:
experienced college writing assistants!
Visit us at www.ambink.com or contact us
at either ink@ambink.com or 440-376-4247
for proofing, revision, and tutoring services.
Highly competitive student rates available!
10-20-30-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 10-28-
30-15
From BRAZIL and NEW YORK- I have all
new trends for hair-DRY CUTS SAHAG
STYLE- BRAZILIAN KERATIN treat. NO
MORE FRIZZ HAIR-by CONCY STIMAC-
call(352)514-0957-1 0%off with this add
10-19-20-15
For thorough and dependable cleanings for
your home, office, or apartment please call
J & B Cleaning (352) 278-8571
10-15-09-14-15MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
10-20-15-15
STUDIO SENSUALE NOW OPEN!! Lessons:
Pole Dance, Burlesque, Jazz, Lap Dance,
Blues Dance, Aerial Dance. Bachelorette
or birthday parties you'll never forget! Enroll
today! 818 W Univ Av 373-6628 10-14-09-
5-15
Calculus Animation Web Site
http://calculus7.com/
The site contains over 450 downloads of
which 260 are animations.
$25/year 10-23-09-10-15
FHealth ServicesIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Gainesville SCUBA Club
Come to our first meeting Wednesday,
October 21 7:00pm at Water World
Go to www.gainesvillescubaclub.com for
more info 10-20-09-16-20
Fibromuscular Dysplasia Society of America,
Grass Roots Fundraiser
Midwest Feed Store 17010 W. Newberry Rd
October 17 -1Oam -2pm
RAFFLE DRAWINGS for DONATED ITEMS
For more information, call 352-222-8715
10-16-09-5-20
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call Entertainment334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
l Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards -Employment Visas
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-67482 ,WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
WJl Tickets
BOOSTER CLUB BUS PACKAGES
include hotel and tickets for LSU, MS State,
and South Carolina. DON'T WAIT -GOING
FAST! Call Betty 386-462-0404 10-14-09-
28-22
ww~u a v com
10-20-09-30-18 Buying FL vs GA TIx
Top $$ Paid- Local Pick-up. 1-877-596-1234
n . 10-30-09-21-22
Want to make a connection? W ilI i I I
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
WEZ IPets
Furry, feathery, scaly .no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.Student Living Guides
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersF
0 1
Sports WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
UF FOOTBALL
Gators winning with defense, run game
By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kmaistri@alligator org
Florida's gameplan for a 5-0 start has
been a whole lot of dominant defense and
tough running, with a touch of passing.
The Gators ran the ball 48 times for 193
yards and passed the ball 16 times for 134
yards in their 13-3 win against LSU on Sat-
urday. The offensive results were under-
whelming, but the suffocating defensive
effort turned 13 points into an insurmount-
able deficit for the Tigers to overcome.
"The reality to me is, yes in the big
scheme of things, that's our goal (to be bal-
anced)," offensive coordinator Steve Add-
azio said. "But the No. 1 goal is to go win
the football game. Your defense is playing
their tail off and we controlled -we al-
most had double the time of possession
that they had -and that's a team win like
that.
"Now, to think that it's always going to
be that way -no. No. That scenario, that
day, that game, that's the way that was."
But UF has been missing offensive bal-
ance between the pass and the run in all
of its Southeastern Conference matchups
thus far. Florida ran the ball 52 times for
362 yards and passed the ball 16 times
for 133 yards against Kentucky, and the
breakdown was 44 runs for 208 yards and
19 passes for 115 yards against Tennessee.
The ratio of run plays to pass plays in
the three SEC games is close to 3:1.
"Obviously, you're always striving for
balance," Addazio said. "There's not a
coach that wouldn't say you want to get
balance, but the No. 1 thing you want to
SEE OFFENSE, PAGE 15A
Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
UF offensive coordinator Steve Addazio isn't worried about his unit's dependence on the
run through five games. Florida had 48 rushes and 16 passes against LSU.
Elliott coming back for fifth season
0 THE SENIOR TORE HER
ACL EARLIER THIS YEAR.
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
tjett@alligator org
Ashlee Elliott is looking for-
ward to "doing the Tebow."
Elliott, a senior who is out
for the season with a torn left
ACL, told her teammates be-
fore practice Tuesday that she
will redshirt this year so she
can return to Gainesville for
the 2010 season.
Elliott has an academic
plan that she refers to as "do-ing the Tebow," in reference
to the one-credit workload the
Gators quarterback is taking
this semester. Elliott will take
one class during the summer
and one more next fall.
"You can't ever get these
college years back."
Ashlee Elliott
UF senior forwardseason-ending injury against
South Florida, the forward was
hoping to graduate in Decem-
ber and join Women's Profes-
sional Soccer.
But she has since realized
the difficulties of going pro
while rehabbing an injury, and
she is no longer eager to leave
Gainesville.
"You can't ever get these
college years back," Elliott
said. "I feel like if I were toElliott's announcement go straight to the league, notcomes a little more than a knowing what would hap-
C doLta Ler site oL0 her Lea -
mates that she would not take
a redshirt. At that time, just
two days after suffering thepen, what would come out of
it, maybe I would be on a side
team and not being able to
play. I'd rather have a full yearof playing."
After going down with
the injury, Elliott spoke with
UCLA coach Jillian Ellis, who
coached Elliott on the U-20
National Team in 2008. Ellis
also spoke with Elliott's moth-
er Betsy frequently and sug-
gested Elliott go pro.
Despite the advice, Elliott
did not feel right about leav-
ing.
"I had a gut feeling saying,
'Ashlee, you need to wait,"'
she said. "I didn't even think
about it. It just hit me."
Elliott, who turns 21 on
SEE SOCCER, PAGE 15T
UF FOOTBALL NEWS
U Florida's game at Mississippi
State on Oct. 24 will kick off at
7:30 p.m. ET and will be televised
by either ESPN or ESPN2.U Fantasy sports juggernaut Ben Volin suf-
fered his first loss to our own Mike McCall
this week. McCall is one of three writers in a
three-way tie for second behind Volin (5-1).
Check out our Web site for a recap.TEEING OFF WITH BOBBY CALLOV
E Warriors forward Stephen Jackson asked to no longer be a team captain and
said he doesn't want to be a role model. I bet plenty of parents want their kids to
grow up to be just like him ever since seeing the Pistons-Pacers brawl. .I'm not
saying Cleveland Browns QB Brady Quinn is hoping for a trade after losing his
starting job, but he did put his house in Ohio up for sale.Lack of pass
game could
bite UF later
he Florida football team is
5-0, ranked No. 1 in both
polls, quarterbacked by one
of the best college football play-
ers of all time, led by one of the
best defenses in a long while and
should coast into the Southeastern
Conference Championship Game.
It's time to be real, however -
the Gators are playing with fire.
The flame is being caused by
relying too much on UF's impres-
sive defense. Yes, the unit is prob-
ably the best in school history and
may very well rank among the best
ever by season's end. It is close to
achieving the holy superfecta of
defensive excellence -total de-
fense, scoring defense, passing
defense and
running de-
fense. Cur-
rently, the
Gators are
No. 1 in all
but the lat-Phil Kegler ter (No. 11
Phil on the Hill in run de-
pkegler@a lIigator org fense).
"W e
have that mentality of the Balti-
more Ravens in that 2000 season,"
linebacker Ryan Stamper said. "If
we get three points, we feel like we
should win the game. All the of-
fense has to do is get three points,
and we're going to win."
That's an impressive way to
think, and the fact is it's very close
to being true, but a defense this
good doesn't deserve to have that
much pressure put on it.
Is winning the absolute objec-
tive? Absolutely. But let's stop
pretending every win is equal or
even "OK" by Florida standards.
Would anyone be excited by a
one-point win over Troy? Right,
that's what I thought.
With as dominant as Florida's
defense is, the Gators will be able
to wins with lackluster offensive
performances. In fact, they could
win all their remaining regular-
season games in this fashion.
But winning alone does not
SEE PHIL, PAGE 15a
UF FOOTBALL
Moses Jenkins still sitting out
By BOBBY CALLOVI
Alligator Staff Writer
bcalIlIovi @alIlIiga to r org
It was nearly impossible to miss how quar-
terback Tim Tebow suffered his concussion,
but Moses Jenkins' concussion went barely
noticed.
Even though he didn't take a hit as bad as
the one Tebow did, Jenkins is the one still sit-
ting out because of the injury suffered in the
same game as Tebow.
"Moses Jenkins did not practice today," UF
coach Urban Meyer said. "It's still a 50-50 for
the game."
Meyer was also surprised that Jenkins still
has not returned from the concussion he suf-
fered on a kickoff against Kentucky and Tebow
has despite his looking much worse.
"I said the same thing, and (the medical
staff) said, 'A lot of times that happens,"' Mey-
er said.
ANKLE INJURIES: Defensive tackle Lawrence
Marsh played sparingly against LSU, and
Meyer said Marsh didn't do much in practice
Tuesday, and they will have someone else look
at his ankle.
Linebacker Jelani Jenkins has also been
slowed by an ankle and re-aggravated it i one
of the Gators' recent games.
"Ankles are a bad thing around here," Mey-
er said.Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF cornerback Moses Jenkins hasn't practiced since
suffering a concussion in the Kentucky game.
Meyer: UF making effort to get WRs, Hernandez more involved
OFFENSE, from page 14
do is win. That's No. 1: Win the game. Every situation is
different. We went into that game, we consciously man-
aged that game for a host of reasons and we're going to
keep doing that. Yes, in the big picture of things, you're al-
ways looking to stay as balanced as you can stay, without
question. But ultimately it's real nice to be 5-0."
The Gators haven't needed to stray from their run-
heavy strategy to maintain their No. 1 ranking and unde-
feated record. Still, coach Urban Meyer admitted there is
some cause for concern about losing down the road if the
team is unable to get its passing game going.
"A lot of concern. Yeah," Meyer said. "We worked aw-
ful hard at it today in practice."
Meyer said they are making a concerted effort to getthe wide receivers as well as tight end Aaron Hernandez
more involved. He specifically mentioned redshirt senior
David Nelson, who did not catch a single ball against LSU
and has logged seven catches on the
season.
Addazio, however, didn't express
the same concern that Meyer did in re-
gards to the passing game, saying that
he isn't worried about whether or not
the Gators will be able to pass the ball
when the time comes.
"Oh, we can get the passing game
Meyer going. We can get the passing game go-
ing," Addazio said. "I'm not worried about the passing
game. We're the No. 1 team in the conference on third-
down conversions. I'm not sweating that right now."2009 Avg:
2009 SEC Avg:
2008 Avg:
2006 Avg:
Burleigh found out two weeks ago
SOCCER, from page 14
Thursday, is young for her grade, and
staying in college for an extra year will
only bring her back to par.
"I have girls that are from my older
club teams that are juniors now, which is
my true age," she said.
Elliott told coach Becky Burleigh
two weeks ago about her decision to re-
turn, and she said Burleigh welcomed
her back. But Elliott did not want to tell
the rest of the team until after its game
against Auburn on Sunday, which was
senior day.
"I wanted to do senior day with my
class," she said. "I didn't want to break
the news before and them be like, 'Well
you have to do senior day next year."'
Interestingly, Sunday's opponentcould be one of the reasons Elliott wants
to play another season in the Southeast-
ern Conference. Her sister, Alexandrea,
will be a freshman at Auburn next year.
Elliott is taking enough credits to
graduate in December, but she will drop
two of her classes so she can enroll next
year.
Elliott is working with Athletic Train-
er Emily Kiefer right now
and is hoping to be able to
run by December. But with
only two credits left for herSoccer to graduate, Elliott will not
take classes this spring and
will only rehab.
And find a way to get some money,
seeing as she won't have a scholarship
that semester.
"Mom said I must get a job," Elliott
said.PHIL, from page 14
automatically mean every phase of the
team played well.
Take, for example, the FSU-Georgia
Tech game this week. The Yellow Jack-
ets won despite allowing 44 points. Did
GT's defense play well? I mean, it did
enough to win, right? It got just enough
stops for a W. See how silly that point
is?
Open your eyes a bit, and you'll see
the possible consequences this lack of
offensive balance can have down the
road.
Florida currently ranks No. 2 in the
nation in rushing and No. 78 in passing.
For anyone hoping for orange-and-
blue confetti in Pasadena in January,
that's not a good sign.
Of the last 10 national championship
teams, only two ended the season ranked
higher than 70th in rushing or passing
(1999 FSU -83rd in rushing, 2002 Ohio
St. -92nd in passing).
Even worse from the Gators' per-
spective? None of those teams have had
a 76-place differential between their
passing and rushing attacks. The largest
among the champs were those Buckeyes(difference of 61) and Seminoles (differ-
ence of 71).
So UF fans should probably wait to
see a few games with an aerial attack be-
fore planning on spending January 8th
in California.
Then again, according to offensive
coordinator Steve Addazio, all the pass-
ing game seems to need is a flick of a
switch.
"Oh, we can get the passing game
going," Addazio said. "I'm not worried
about the passing game. We're the No.
1 team in the conference on third-down
conversions. I'm not sweating that right
now.
That sounds rather suspect -UF is
averaging 127.3 yards per game so far
in three SEC contests -but Florida will
have a good chance to show off Tim
Tebow's arm Saturday -Arkansas en-
ters the game ranked 100th in the coun-
try in pass defense.
Or maybe the Gators will keep rely-
ing on their defense and a rushing-de-
pendent offense.
But if UF does that and proceeds to
get burned by Alabama or a national title
game foe, just remember the fire started
a long time ago.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
Av Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Offensive Breakdown
Pass/Rush
attempts per game
23/45
17/48
24/39
29/34Pass/Rush
yards per game
202/285
127/254
214/231
236/160
16, ALLIGATOR 0 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2009
Dawes injured in one car accident
Copyrighted Material
Lidge hitt, Syndicated Content or Dodgers
0 Available from Commercial News Providers
il GO N -
GNRAL TITIONES
25% OFF env one GNC Product
Cannot embined.OneCouponpercustomer3914 SW Archer Rd $
Dal 1=ral 377-02(/ Exp 10/31/09
Dyslexia
-Slow Reading?
-Poor Comprehension?
-Poor Spelling?
Years of gain in
weeks of treatment!
Serving Gainesvillefor over 22 years.
The Morris Center, Inc.
32322629 15930 SW Archer Rd
inomorriscenters.comNow there's an
app for that!
For details, visit
MiamiHerald.com/College
)hefiami~ealb
go, P d and unesar e tr :, ademarksof Aplein
DON'T DRINK & DRIVEStudent Governmentus 10 Qth Year
-ogo Competition!
T GO4
Submissions due on October 23rd by 5 pm to Advertising@sg.ufl.edu
