Today
Partly 
cloudy
78/57
visit www.alligator.orgWe Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 102 ISSUE 99 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2009Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaRecycle
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9
CROSSWORD 13
SPORTS 14Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff 
A Date a Minute
UF student Sebastian Vasquez talks with Natalia Rothschild during a speed dating event held by the 
Premed American Medical Student Association in the Orange and Brew at the Reitz Union Monday night. Participants had five minutes to talk before moving on to the next table.
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligator.org
Students with Bright 
Futures would have to take 
more credits to remain eli-gible and would have to pay 
for classes they dropped after 
the Drop/Add period if leg-
islation introduced by Florida 
lawmakers passes this spring.
The legislation could also 
cost UF more than $100,000 a year to implement, said Karen 
Fooks, director of UF’s Student 
Financial Affairs.
Two identical bills have 
been filed in the Florida Senate and House of Representatives 
that would tweak Florida’s 
Bright Futures scholarship program, which pays tuition 
for about 73 percent of UF’s 
undergraduates and is funded 
by the Florida Lottery.
The bill would require stu-dents to take 24 credit hours a year, up from 12, in order to 
remain eligible for the scholar-
ship.
The bill would also force 
students to reimburse Bright 
Futures for classes they drop 
after the Drop/Add period.
The bill, if passed, would 
go into effect July 1.
Rep. Kelli Stargel, who filed 
the bill in the House, said she 
wants to help protect Bright 
Futures, which has taken heat 
for giving scarce state funds to 
less-than-needy students.
Critics have dubbed it the 
“reverse Robin Hood pro-
gram” and the “BMW fund.”
She said the Bright Futures 
won’t be saved by the bill alone, but she said it’s a start. 
“It’s just anything we can 
do to help make it more effi-Bill threatens 
Bright Futures
NewsState
LOCAL
BY EMILY FUGGETTA
Alligator Writer
Fewer abnormal pap smears have been 
noted at the UF Student Health Care Center 
since Gardasil, a vaccine that prevents four forms of human papillomavirus known to cause cervical cancer, became widely used 
three years ago.
Phylis Craig, a spokeswoman for the 
women’s clinic at UF’s Student Health Care 
Center, said that she gives several shots ev-
ery week of the vaccine, which is marketed 
toward women between 9 and 26 years old.Although the SHCC has administered the 
vaccine to men — because anal sex increases risk of genital warts and  precancerous le-sions, which Gardasil helps prevent — it is given predominantly to women, Craig said.
According to Craig, before Gardasil 
was approved by the Food and Drug Administration, abnormal pap smears, 
which are often indicative of high-risk vi-
ruses, were more common.
Craig said the SHCC has noticed fewer 
cases of genital warts in recent years, but the 
trend started before Gardasil’s release.Vaccine reduces number of abnormal pap smears
n THE UNITE PARTY HAS 
ALREADY SPENT $1,270.
By CHELSEA KEENAN
Alligator Writer
As Student Government elec-
tions draw near, political parties 
are raking in the dough.With candidates for Student 
Senate and the executive ticket chosen, parties are focusing elec-
tion season efforts on spending hundreds of dollars to spread their party messages to the Student Body.
The Unite Party has raked in 
about $2,300 so far, according to Treasurer James Greenwood.
Greenwood said the Unite 
Party plans to raise between $6,000 and $7,000 for the 
campaign.
“It may seem like a lot,” he 
said. “But we see it as a big in-vestment. We’re hoping to really reach out to the students.”
The Unite Party has already 
spent $1,270 on campaign mate-rials, such as its 1-800 number, which cost $30. More than $800 was spent on fliers and five ban-
ners.
Records state the largest do-nations have come from Jordan 
Johnson, the party’s candidate 
for Student Body president.
Johnson donated $600, while 
his father, Randy, donated $750.
Unite Party spokeswoman 
Ashton Charles said party mem-bers are encouraged to make a SG parties focus efforts on fundraising, campaigning
StudentGovernmentSEE BRIGHT, PAGE 8
SEE HPV, PAGE 8
SEE FINANCE, PAGE 8
n Alex Tyus (right) 
and the UF men’s 
basketball team 
head to Kentucky 
tonight to renew a 
once-fierce rivalry 
that may have lost 
its luster in recent -
years. 
See Story, Page 14.Octuplet mom was treated at Beverly Hills clinic 
LOS ANGELES (AP) — The Southern California mother of octu-
plets was implanted with embryos at a Beverly Hills fertility clinic run 
by a well-known — and controversial — specialist who pioneered a method for helping women conceive.
Dr. Michael Kamrava’s name emerged Monday as a result of an 
interview aired Monday on NBC with Nadya Suleman, who gave birth to eight babies Jan. 26.
“He’s tried some novel techniques and some of those methods 
have been controversial,” said Dr. John Jain, founder of Santa Monica Fertility Specialists.n A local gallery 
is displaying 
finger paintings 
made by res -
cued monkeys 
to raise money 
for the primates. 
See Story, 
Page 4.
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 102 ISSUE 99 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.FORECAST
TODAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY2, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2009
PARTLY 
CLOUDY
76/48PARTLY 
CLOUDY
73/54PARTLY 
CLOUDY
75/47PARTLY 
CLOUDY
79/58SUNNY
79/55
CSE E121
The Jamaican-American Student Association pres-
ents a night of arts and 
crafts, speed dating, re-freshments, music and po-etry. Come with your love 
song requests.
Got something going on?
And want to post it in this 
space? Send an e-mail to 
kbjornsen@alligator.org 
with “What’s Happening” in the subject line.
STATE
Cold case unit investigates 
missing female jogger 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. (AP) — 
Cold case detectives are pour-
ing over 3,000 leads in the case 
of a University of Florida stu-
dent who disappeared while jogging in 1989.
The Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office updated the case Monday, 20 years after Tiffany Sessions disappeared. Since 2007, cold case detec-tives have been flying across 
the country following up leads 
and interviewing possible wit-nesses.
Two leads involve suspi-
cious persons in the area the night Sessions disappeared.
Lt. Stephen Maynard didn’t 
want to give false hope about the leads, saying authorities 
are still waiting for a break in 
the case.
Sessions’ family is offer-
ing a $25,000 reward and has 
launched a Web site dedicated 
to finding her.
Patrick Sessions pleaded 
for tips from the public.
“I really need your help,” 
he said.
Report: Deputy crashes 
patrol car, fails test
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. 
(AP) — A West Palm Beach 
police report says a Palm 
Beach County Sheriff’s depu-
ty crashed his patrol car into a palm tree and then failed a sobriety test.
Records show that 38-year-
old Christopher M. Grube was booked early Saturday into the Palm Beach County Jail and was released later on his own recognizance.
Prosecutors say the DUI 
charge is a misdemeanor.
A sheriff’s spokeswoman 
says Grube is on administra-
tive leave with pay. She says 
Grube was in a field training program and had called in sick for the day.His attorney’s name wasn’t 
immediately known. A phone listing under a similar name to 
Grube was disconnected.
State gas prices up 17 
cents in past month
MIAMI (AP) — Gas prices 
have edged up about 17 cents in 
Florida over the past month.
AAA says the average price 
for a gallon of regular unlead-ed is about $1.99 in Florida, up from $1.82 in January. That’s 
still way down from about $3.05 
a year ago.
West Palm Beach recorded 
the highest per-gallon average in the state, at about $2.08.
Florida’s prices are above the 
national average, which AAA says is about $1.92 a gallon.
Fla. returns to in-house food 
service for prisons 
MADISON, Fla. (AP) — 
Florida is returning to in-house 
food service for its prisons while 
the Legislature cuts spending in 
the nation’s third-largest state prison system.
Philadelphia-based Aramark 
withdrew its food services from Florida’s prisons last month. The company said it couldn’t make money due to the rising cost of bread, milk and other 
staples amid pressure from the 
state to cut costs.
A smaller, Florida-based 
food service company, Trinity 
Services Group of Oldsmar, 
also has pulled out of the state’s prisons.
The state paid the two ven-
dors $85 million for the fiscal 
year 2007-2008. The current 
year’s food budget is $76 mil-lion.
Prison menus will change 
to save money. Inmates will get corn bread instead of sliced bread at some meals, fewer sweetener packets and orange 
juice that comes from concen-
trate.
CORRECTION
The Alligator incorrectly re-
ported that the band Ra Ra Riot 
canceled its performance at the Harvest of Hope music festival next month. They will be per-forming.
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at (352) 376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Peace Corps and the Liberal Arts Major
Today, 6:30 p.m.The Hub International CenterThe panel includes returned 
volunteers who graduated 
with liberal arts degrees and will discuss how to make yourself competitive for the Peace Corps. A recruiter 
will be available to discuss 
the application process. The event is open to students and the public.
Year of the Gentleman Tour featuring Ne-Yo andMusiq Soulchild
Today, 8 p.m.
Stephen C. O’Connell Center
Tickets for UF students are still available at the University Box Office for $10. Tickets 
for the general public can be 
purchased at Ticketmaster.com for $20. Prices do not include applicable fees and taxes. Limit eight per person. 
Visit ufblackhistorymonth.
com or oconnellcenter.ufl.edu for more details.
RUB Entertainment Presents: The Dating Game
Wednesday, Feb. 11, 8 p.m.Orange & BrewJoin RUB Entertainment for 
its first dating game. Come 
find the right guy or gal or just enjoy the show as partic-ipants get up on stage to find 
their perfect matches.
Study Abroad Information 
Session
Wednesday, Feb. 11, 3 p.m.
Academic Advising Rm. 200
Want to study in Europe this summer? Meet students and faculty of the Brussels, 
Krakow, Salzburg and 
Prague programs. Hosted by the Center for European Studies. Free pizza.
SG Election Absentee Ballot Request Deadline
Friday, Feb. 13, 5 p.m.To request an absentee bal-
lot, please visit the SG Web 
page and click on Election Page Updates — Spring 2009. Click on Absentee Ballot Application. You can 
e-mail your request to the 
Supervisor of Elections at elections@sg.ufl.edu.
Guest Speaker Dr. Debra Walker King
Friday, Feb. 13, 1 p.m.Smathers Library East Room 1A. Dr. Debra Walker King 
will speak about her book 
“African Americans and the Culture of Pain.” Free and open to the public.
JAMSA PresentsCupid’s Moonlight
Friday, Feb. 13,  7:20 p.m.NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Nicole Safker, nsafker@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristin Bjornsen, 
  kbjornsen@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / New Media Rachel Roy, rroy@alligator.org
 University Editor Lauren Baker, lbaker@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Brittany Davis, bdavis@alligator.org
 Freelance Editors Emily Blake, eblake@alligator.org
  Christina McGinley, 
  cmcginley@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Evan Drexler, edrexler@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor Adam Berry, aberry@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Dan Seco, dseco@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Nicole Safker, Kristin Bjornsen, 
  Dan Seco
 Photo Editor Harrison Diamond, 
  hdiamond@alligator.org
  Sarah Hsu, shsu@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, lnieset@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Brian Kelley, 
  Katherine Mojena, Stephanie Slade
 Copy Editors Morgan Collins, 
  Cassandra Fellerman, Joe Holzer,
  Rachael Pino, Jennifer Smith,
  Sara Watson
 Staff Phil Kegler, Mike McCall, 
  Brian Steele
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org 
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Daniel Webber
 Intern Coordinator Sarah Buckwald
 Display Advertising Clerks Sarah Buckwald, Kaela Hill
 Sales Representatives Amanda Freilich, Sara Ingebretsen, 
  Shaun O’Connor, Madeline Ross, 
  Lexie Stout, Kaia Tershowski, 
  Ryan Winkler
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario     
MARKETING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4558 (Fax)
 Marketing Director Brad Smith, bsmith@alligator.org
CIRCULATION
 Operations Manager Scott McKearnan,
  smckearnan@alligator.org
 Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Ramona Pelham, 
  businessoffice@alligator.org
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Jennifer Cavasino, Amanda Clifton
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
PRODUCTION/SYSTEMS
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Editorial Production Supervisors Erica Bales, James Hibbs
 Advertising Production Staff Erica Bales, Aki Chang, 
  Shannon Close, Doug Eastman, 
  Brianna O’Sullivan
 Editorial Production Staff Vidhika Agrawal, Erica Ervin, 
  Kevin Hart, Max Weissler
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 3
 COVERAGE WOULD BE 
REQUIRED TO ENROLL.  
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligator.org
Details on the proposal are 
scarce, but UF is considering mak-
ing health insurance mandatory for all students.
If the policy is enacted, unin-
sured students would be forced to purchase a plan that meets UF’s standards for appropriate health coverage before they could register for classes.
Phillip Barkley, director of UF’s 
Student Health Care Center, said a plan offered through UF would probably cost less than $1,300 a year, 
although that plan would not be 
mandatory.
Most students are already cov-
ered by their parents’ insurance, he said, but 9.4 percent of students re-ported they had no health insurance and 1.7 percent reported in a survey of more than 2,500 UF students that they were unsure of their statuses.
Barkley said he thinks the real number is near 15 to 20 percent be-cause many students may report in-correct information. The percentage may rise as unemployment rises, he said.
“You want to make sure that ev-
eryone has (insurance) so if some-thing comes up they’ll be covered,” said Patricia Telles-Irvin, UF’s vice president of Student Affairs, adding no decision has been made.
“It’s really just at the discussion 
level,” she said. 
She said students who truly 
could not afford the increased cost  
would likely be eligible for insurance through a financial aid package.
She said it wasn’t yet clear how 
much the plan would cost to enforce 
or how much UF might make in increased revenues and noted that health insurance is already manda-
tory for international students.
Barkley said UF has been consid-
ering the idea for years and would 
be following the trend among uni-versities nationwide. In fall 2007, FSU became the first public univer-sity in the state to mandate health insurance, said Mary Coburn, FSU’s vice president for Student Affairs. 
More healthy people signed up, which made it more profitable for insurers, she said. Plans were then cheaper and sbenefits were added.
Xabier Osteikoetxea, a UF junior, 
said he thinks asking uninsured stu-dents to pay $1,300 to be able to en-
roll isn’t fair.
“That’s almost the cost of tu-
ition,” he said.
He said he would be more open 
to the idea if it was a referendum 
question that students could vote on.
“I wouldn’t want it to be an exec-
utive order from President Machen,” 
he said.
UF considers making health insurance mandatory
By VALERIE GARMAN 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Economic troubles are putting pres-
sure on Americans’ mental health as well 
as their wallets, according to a recent sur-
vey.  
Mental health providers across the 
country are seeing an increase in the 
number of people seeking help, with a 40 percent increase in demand for therapists from June to December alone, USA Today reported last week. 
Mental health and counseling centers 
in Gainesville have seen a slight increase 
in the number of people seeking help and reporting financial stress. 
The Alachua County Crisis Center has 
seen an increase in the number of people accessing its services, which includes a 24-
hour crisis hot line and face-to-face coun-seling. 
“We’re getting a lot more calls about 
financial problems and employment and housing problems,” said Rob Lotzkar, vol-unteer coordinator for the center. “Along with that comes a depression increase.” 
Lotzkar said money problems cause 
anxiety and depression when people struggle to pay bills or provide for their families.
He also said the increase in suicidal ten-dencies is not dramatic, but notable. 
“It’s not significant, but we are receiv-
ing more calls about people contemplating 
suicide,” Lotzkar said.
Both increases seem to reflect the na-
tional trend, he said. 
“It’s just a difficult time,” Lotzkar said. 
The UF Counseling Center has also been busier than usual since fall, accord-ing to Carlos Hernandez, interim clinical director at the center.
“We’re seeing an increase in students 
accessing our services earlier in the semes-ter,” Hernandez said. “Usually we peak at midterms.” 
Hernandez said UF students are greatly 
affected by the financial layoffs they or their parents experience. Some students are forced to take out loans or delay grad-uation as a result. 
“It’s an added stress or two,” Hernandez 
said. “In uncontrollable situations we just have to ask ourselves, ‘What can we get control of?’” Economic downturn causes more to seek mental helpLOCAL
 “It’s not significant, but we are 
receiving more calls about people 
contemplating suicide.”
Rob Lotzkar
Volunteer coordinatorn THE SHOW FEATURES 
FINGER PAINTINGS MADE BY RESCUED MONKEYS.
By BRITTNEY SHEFFIELD
Alligator Contributing Writer
An art show opening at 
the Artisans Guild Gallery of 
Gainesville doesn’t typically fea-
ture finger paintings, but when monkeys are the artists, nothing is typical. 
Canvases smeared with pink, 
green, purple and, of course, or-ange and blue were displayed Friday night at the gallery that teamed up with Jungle Friends 
Primate Sanctuary, a nonprofit 
organization that currently pro-vides care for 117 monkeys.
The opening kicked off the 
first collaboration between Jungle 
Friends and the Artisans Guild.
“That’s a first we were excited 
about,” said Sheila Andrews, a 
13-year member of the Artisans 
Guild.
Jungle Friends, which provides 
monkeys with a 12-acre safe ha-
ven in Gainesville that resembles 
their natural environment, works 
with monkeys whose owners can 
no longer provide proper care for 
them and who were previously used in labs and the entertain-
ment industry. The group’s goal is to help them reach the “play 
state” where they can success-fully play with other monkeys.
The monkeys’ participation in 
finger painting depends on the day and their moods, according to Shauna Canty, executive assis-tant for Jungle Friends. 
Some just slap their hands in 
the paint on the canvas once and walk away, but others put more 
effort into their painting.
“Stinky’s my favorite,” Canty 
said. “She’d scream at me if I took it from her too soon.”
Stinky is a 9-year-old white-
faced capuchin monkey who has 
been with Jungle Friends since 
May 2004 after being stolen from 
her mother and sold by exotic pet traders.Erin Buckner, an intern with 
Jungle Friends, said she also en-joyed how Stinky seemed to con-centrate on her painting, furrow-
ing her brow as she rubbed her 
hand across the canvas.
Her favorite painting, how-
ever, was one by an artist with a 
different approach.
“I like Chucky’s because he 
just kind of slapped it,” she said. 
His canvas was decorated with orange and blue handprints. 
Chucky is a brown capuchin 
who was intended to star in a TV show. He was rescued dur-ing a marijuana bust. This month 
marks his one-year anniversary 
with Jungle Friends.
While the monkeys may be 
rambunctious, employees can’t help but become attached to their 
personalities.
“They can hurl crap and throw 
food at you, but you still love 
them,” Buckner said.  
They even understand the bar-
ter system.  One monkey grabbed a key chain out of an employee’s pocket and traded the keys back one at a time in exchange for 
grapes, according to Buckner.
Paintings by the monkeys 
can be purchased at the Artisans 
Guild Gallery, and the  proceeds 
go to Jungle Friends. The artwork 
will be on display until the end of February.4, ALLIGATORn TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2009
Sarah Hsu / Alligator Staff
Stuffed monkeys hang Monday afternoon next to finger paintings created by real monkeys from the 
Jungle Friends Primate Sanctuary for a special exhibit at the Artisans Guild Gallery.
ARouND g AINES vILLE
By KATIE EMMETS
Alligator Writer
kemmets@alligator.org
Few UF students watched the 51st 
Annual Grammy Awards show Sunday, 
but those who tuned in did so to see their 
favorite artists, from Coldplay to Jay-Z.
The show also featured Stevie Wonder, 
The Jonas Brothers and Radiohead.
UF senior Jenn Kacerosky said her favor-
ite performance was The Four Tops with Jamie Foxx and Ne-Yo.
“Its great to see soul and R&B coming 
back,” she said. “That mix of old-school fla-
vor with today’s pop voices, I think there 
should be more performances like that.”
Marlee Croissy, a UF junior, said she 
was shocked that Rihanna and her alleged boyfriend Chris Brown canceled their per-
formances. 
Brown is under investigation for battery 
and Croissy said she thinks Rihanna was 
the target of his attack.Freshman Angelina La Lima said she 
watched the Grammys specifically to see Lil 
Wayne, who won four 
awards out of his eight 
nominations.
“I have loved him for-
ever,” La Lima said. “His 
voice is so different from 
other performers.”
Not all students 
watched Sunday night.UF sophomore Alex Mourant said 
he didn’t care about the Grammys.  
“I’m not into that kind of music,” Mourant 
said, adding that he listens to music with 
more of an acoustic feel.
Tammy Dingley, a UF alumna, said she 
didn’t even know the Grammys aired last night until she read about it in an advertise-
ment on her e-mail homepage.
“I don’t watch TV,” Dingley said. “I only 
know about things like this because people 
tell me.”Grammy Awards receive mixed reviews from students
n THE CITY WILL MAKE ITS 
FINAL DECISION FEB. 19.
By HuNTER SIZEMoRE
Alligator Writer
Red lights may have the Gainesville 
Police Department seeing green.
An ordinance that permits the in-
stallation of traffic light cameras at in-
tersections will have its final vote on 
Feb. 19.
The first vote was taken at a City 
Commision meeting last Thursday.
The cameras would snap photos 
of red-light runners’ license plates, according to the ordinance. Photos taken by the cameras would not to be used as evidence of other crimes, according to Sgt. Joe Raulerson of the GPD Traffic Safety Team.
A ticket for running a red light in 
Gainesville is $125 for the first two vi-olations and $175 for every violation thereafter.
Plans about where the cameras 
would be placed, how much they would cost and whether they would 
be government- or privately operated 
have not been made yet.
“The cameras would be in the in-
terest of public safety,” Raulerson said.
The intersection of Archer Road 
and Southwest 34th Street has as many as 47 violations during peak hours, according to a 2004 transporta-
tion report cited by GPD in their pre-
sentation to the City Commission.Red-light runners may 
receive more tickets
By CHELSEA KEENAN
Alligator Writer
The mud-slinging was thick Monday night 
as 19 elections complaints filed by student polit-
ical parties against other parties were addressed 
by the six members of Student Government’s Elections Commission. Representatives from each party running in the SG elections on Feb. 24 and Feb. 25 attended, including the Progress Party, the Orange and Blue Party, the Unite Party and the Keg Party.
The creation of a Facebook group titled 
“KICK OUT the Gator/Unite Party” was also 
in question. 
Unite Party President Will Harrell demand-
ed an apology from the group’s creator, Matt 
Martz, an independent Student Senate candi-date. The Commission voted in favor of Harrell and ruled that Martz, who called the commis-
sion biased, must remove the group and write 
an apology to the Unite and Gator parties for misrepresentation. 
The rest of the nearly 
three-hour  meeting focused on 13 complaints filed against the Progress Party by Orange and Blue Sen. Sam Miorelli, who represents District D.  
Miorelli’s complaints ad-
dressed illegal campaigning 
done by the Progress Party.
Of the three complaints 
voted on, two were considered violations, re-sulting in a fine of $20 against the Progress Party.
The Commission decided to continue the 
meeting on Thursday.SG elections complaints heardPrimate painting show raises money for monkeys
Brown
Harrell
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 5
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON — President Barack 
Obama pressured lawmakers to urgently ap-
prove a massive economic recovery bill and criticized Republicans who have balked at the legislation Monday night, saying, “I can’t af-
ford to see Congress play the usual political 
games.” 
Obama used the first prime-time news con-
ference of his presidency to warn that a failure to act swiftly and boldly “could turn a crisis into a catastrophe.”
With the nation falling deeper into a long 
and painful recession, Obama defended his program against Republican criticism that it is 
loaded with pork-barrel spending and will not 
create jobs.
“The plan is not perfect,” the president 
said. “No plan is. I can’t tell you for sure that everything in this plan will work exactly as we hope, but I can tell you with complete con-fidence that a failure to act will only deepen this crisis as well as the pain felt by millions of 
Americans.”
Obama addressed the nation from the East 
Room of the White House in a news confer-
ence that lasted almost exactly one hour. He hit repeatedly at the themes he has empha-sized in recent weeks, including at a town hall meeting to promote his plan earlier in the day in Elkhart, Ind.
When the stimulus bill passed the House 
last month, not a single Republican voted for it. On Monday an $838 billion version of the legislation cleared a crucial test vote in the Senate by a 61-36 margin, with all but three Republican senators opposing it.
Obama said he had made a deliberate ef-
fort to reach out to the GOP, putting three Republicans into his Cabinet, and “as I contin-ue to make these overtures, over time, hope-
fully that will be reciprocated.”
Obama acknowledged the difficulty of mending political divisions between 
Republicans and Democrats.
“Old habits are hard to break,” he said. 
“We’re coming off an election, and people sort of want to test the limits of what they can get. There’s a lot of jockeying in this town and who’s up and who’s down, testing for the next election.”
Obama said the federal government was 
the only power that could save the nation at a time of crisis, with huge spending outlays and tax cuts.
“At this particular moment, with the pri-
vate sector so weakened by this recession, the federal government is the only entity left with the resources to jolt our economy back to life,” he said.
Rejecting criticism that the emphasis on 
federal action was too great, he said that 90 percent of the jobs created by the plan would be in the private sector, rebuilding crumbling roads, bridges and other aging infrastructure.
“The plan that ultimately emerges from 
Congress must be big enough and bold enough to meet the size of the economic challenge we face right now,” Obama said.
Again and again, he stressed that the econ-
omy is in dire straits.
“This is not your ordinary, run-of-the-mill 
recession,” he said. Obama said the U.S. aims to avoid the kind of economic pain that Japan endured in the 1990s — the “lost decade” when that nation showed no economic growth.
“My bottom line is to make sure that we are 
saving or creating 4 million jobs,” he said, and 
that homeowners facing foreclosure receive 
some relief.Eastside High teacher found with guns at school
 BOTH OF THE HANDGUNS 
WERE LOADED.
A math teacher at a local high 
school was arrested Monday after 
he was found with two loaded guns on school grounds.
Alachua County Sheriff’s depu-ties went to Eastside High School to ask Mark Stockdale, 43, if they could take him to the Gainesville Police Department for questioning about a 
dispute he had Sunday night.
Stockdale agreed, and was taken 
to an ASO patrol car where deputies 
handcuffed him and asked if there was anything in his pockets that could be used as a weapon, accord-ing to the ASO arrest report.
Stockdale said 
there was a pock-
etknife in his front 
pocket. When depu-
ties went to remove it, they found a .22-caliber handgun, which gave them probable cause to search his car, the report stated.
According to the report, deputies 
found a loaded .44-caliber handgun in the front seat console of his car.
While deputies questioned him 
about the loaded guns, Stockdale said he would not speak without his lawyer present, said ASO spokes-man Steve Maynard.Maynard said even if Stockdale 
has a concealed weapons license, he committed a felony by taking the loaded gun inside a classroom while 
he was teaching.
Stockdale was charged with two 
counts of having a firearm on school 
property.
— KATIE EMMETS
Obama urges approval of $838 billion recovery billNATIONAL
“I can’t afford to see Congress play 
the usual political games.”
Barack Obama
PresidentNewsLocalThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2009
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionsEditorial
Nicole Safker
EDITORKristin BjornsenRachel RoyMANAGING EDITORSDan Seco
OPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Do you forgive 
A-Rod for his admitted steroid use?Monday’s question: Did you go to Gasparilla in Tampa this past weekend?
193 TOTAL VOTES22% YES78% NOColumn
Losing Game
A-Rod’s legacy in 
question after admission
In Teacher We Trust? Turning to Darwinism in time of need
Sitting in a classroom 
while someone in the room, unbeknownst to 
you, carries a weapon cuts quite the startling image.
Now imagine that person 
is the teacher.
For the math students in 
Mark Stockdale’s class, this hypothetical situation came to fruition on Monday morning at Eastside High School.
According to a Gainesville 
Sun article, a sheriff’s deputy 
drove to the school to locate 
Stockdale and bring him back to the station for questioning about an incident that oc-curred over the weekend.
What ensued was the dis-
covery of two loaded guns — one on his person and another in his car — which led to his 
arrest.
First and foremost, the 
Editorial Board is relieved 
to know that Stockdale did not fire the weapons while on school property. Granted, who knows what may have ensued if he had stayed at Eastside for the rest of the day?
We applaud the officer 
at the scene for arresting the teacher without students around to witness the situa-tion. While Stockdale clearly had no business bringing a weapon to school, his in-tentions remain unclear. Regardless, there is no pos-sible way he can construct a 
logical argument as to why he 
had a loaded gun in his pocket while teachingclass.
What can he say — that he 
was heading to the shooting range on his lunch break?
For Stockdale’s complete 
disregard for his students’ safety, he should be prohib-
ited from ever stepping foot 
into a classroom again.
Cue the music so we can 
sing along with Alice Cooper: “School’s out forever” for this guy. Everybody loves birthdays and anniversaries, espe-
cially when they correspond to big, round numbers — but nobody loves them more than the media in-
dustry. Thursday marks what would be Charles Darwin’s 200th birthday, and later this year is the 150th anniversary of the publication of his seminal work, “On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection.” A bookshelf full 
of Darwin-related publications will hit the market this 
year, and the deluge of Darwin-related articles in global newspapers will run unabated at least through the sum-mer. 
America, though, still has quite a prickly relationship 
with Darwin. Each election cycle brings new challenges to the educational value of evolution in school systems across the country, and polls continually suggest that less than half the adult population of the U.S. believes evolu-
tion explains how the world works.  
In one of our most famous court cases, we even put 
Darwin’s ideas on trial in the 1925 Scopes judgment. 
Tellingly, even our Supreme Court could not decisive-ly stand up for Darwin in a case that guides squishy 
American jurisprudence regarding the defense of evolu-
tion.
Here in America, we line up behind either God or 
Darwin.  
Gregory Paul and Phil Zuckerman try to blur that 
line of distinction. They wrote “Why the Gods Are Not Winning” in 2007 to explain their observations on religion in the developed world. 
The countries of Western Europe all have a few things 
in common. These countries protect their citizens with supportive welfare systems, comprehensive health care, rehabilitative penal systems and a dedication to more lib-eral ideas concerning gun control and balance between work and life.  
These countries also share a 
disbelief in God, with at least 75 percent of the adult population professing some acceptance of evo-lution. Paul and Zuckerman con-
tend that the egalitarian cultures of 
these countries — the “equally dis-tributed prosperity and education” 
— result in a “mass rejection of the gods.”  
Their main point is that countries that exhibit high lev-
els of socioeconomic disparity are the only ones that can sustain a high level of faith in religion. In countries where Darwin’s ideas on the survival of the fittest are most evi-dent in daily life, religion is more powerful and salient.
The American struggle against expectations of pros-
perity, especially in the light of the economic collapse, frames our classic “keeping up with the Joneses” mental-ity as proving the controversial extension of Darwinian theory into social Darwinism. We believe in God because 
we are all in this thing without a safety net, just like the 
rest of the polarized societies divided up into two catego-ries: the super rich and the rest of us.
As the developed world watches individual economies 
spin out of control in this interconnected fiscal disaster, more and more of what people clung to instead of God is facing erosion. America, and its uneasy relationship with Charles Darwin, may be less of an outlier in social research and more of a blueprint for explaining how to 
survive in a brutal world.
Tommy Maple is an international communications gradu-
ate student. His column appears on Tuesdays.“Say it ain’t so, Alex” just doesn’t have the same ring 
to it.
In his interview with ESPN’s Peter Gammons, 
all-world baseball player Alex Rodriguez came clean on Monday about his use of performance-enhancing drugs while a member of the Texas Rangers.
According to Rodriguez, his experimentation stacking 
testosterone with an anabolic steroid called Primobolan be-gan in the 2001 season and subsided during spring training in 2003.
Over the course of his admission, Rodriguez apologized, 
offering an explanation as to why he felt the need to subject his body to PEDs — citing high expectations and the culture in baseball at the time.
Having just inked a then-record $252 million contract in 
‘01, Rodriguez turned to the illegal drugs so that he could, as he put it, “perform at a high level every day.”
The Editorial Board can’t help but feel bad for Alex 
Rodriguez. The three-time MVP of the American League is no Jason Giambi or Miguel Tejada; rather, he holds the dis-tinction of being the greatest player in the entire game.
Rodriguez had nothing to gain and everything to lose 
by using PEDs after seeing the drugs become commonplace around the league. Blessed with arguably the greatest natu-ral ability to hit and field a baseball since the likes of Mickey Mantle, Rodriguez embodies the term “once-in-a-genera-tion” talent with or without a syringe.
Statistically a sure-fire Hall of Famer if he retired today 
at age 33, Rodriguez’s place in history may sadly no longer include a coveted spot in Cooperstown.6, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2009
Tommy Maple
letters@alligator.orgLetter to the Editor
Fewer deaths not just due to policing
In response to Monday’s article, “Highway 
fatalities lowest since 2000 due to cam-paigns,” I’d like to point out that perhaps increased law enforcement isn’t the cause of lowered deaths. Although death rates did lower, we must consider the potential causes and whether they’re statistically significant. 
Even though population increased and 
deaths lowered slightly, we must consider that all additions to the net population since 2000 are from births and migration. 
Since the majority of accidents occur dur-
ing rush hour — when the breadwinners of a household return home — most of these in-dividuals are not carrying their children with them. Also, it should be noted that an increase 
in juvenile population doesn’t add a signifi-
cant number of cars to the roads, as children 
don’t drive. According to the Florida Office of Vital Statistics, 87 percent of the population increase in Florida from 1970 to 2000 was due 
to net migration. 
Since most migrants to Florida are either 
rich old people who are statistically terrible 
drivers or poorer immigrants from other countries who generally lack personal trans-
portation, I would venture to guess that the 
increase in law enforcement activity had a 
much lesser effect on lowering death rates than is proposed in Monday’s article.
Even if I’m incorrect, we should always 
take reported statistics with a grain of salt, es-
pecially if they’re conducted by government-
contracted entities expecting to see gains on their investments. That is, data is sometimes interpreted in a deceitful manner in order jus-
tify expenses.
Eric Fredrick
3BATUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 7
Column
There’s nothing like an awk-
ward moment. 
And there’s nothing quite 
like standing in line for your sushi 
wondering if you should acknowl-edge that guy you hooked up with 
at the club last night. 
While awkward tension may be 
overwhelming at times, it’s a ne-
cessity for college students. 
College students need social 
interaction, but it’s hard to escape 
awkward moments when making 
new friends.  
The awkward sharing and bar-
ing of your soul is a stipulation 
in the process of meeting people, 
making friends and learning more 
about each other. 
It’s uncomfortable, but awk-
wardness shoves people into each other’s lives and creates lasting 
bonds. 
Those foot-in-mouth moments, 
like the time you accidentally in-
sulted a new friend by talking trash about her home state, are 
memories that last forever. These 
moments are learning experiences 
that teach you how to handle awk-ward circumstances with grace. After walking into your room-
mate’s makeout session, a warning 
knock becomes habit.  
You may begin to carry a safety 
pin after walking around all day 
with a hole in your pants, and after 
these many embarassing moments, 
you learn to get back on your feet 
after a mortifying tumble. 
They allow you to laugh at 
yourself because there’s noth-ing funnier 
than leav-
ing the rest-
room with last night’s 
underwear 
hanging out 
of your back 
pocket. 
And there 
is nothing quite like walking into a 
pole and explaining how you got a 
bump on your head. 
Awkward moments also give 
you thicker skin, especially if you 
caused the moment, such as mess-
ing up a high-five. They teach you 
to not be so sensitive when you 
join in on a random conversation and you’re met with stares.
They also teach you about the proverbial “think before you 
speak.”  
Awkward moments also prove 
to you who your real friends are. 
It takes a true friend to ac-
knowledge their relationship with you after you threw up on yourself 
at the local bar, or to deal with the 
embarassment of your drunken karaoke.
Although we wish these mo-
ments never happened, they do 
and, unfortunately, with a lot of 
frequency. I’m a victim of awk-ward moments; I experience them far too regularly for my liking. 
I wish I could permanently ban-
ish awkward moments from exis-tence, or that I could find a univer-sal word that would cover all the sins of an awkward moment.It would be nice to sail through 
life calm, cool and always collect-
ed. 
But then again, I would never 
meet interesting, random people. I 
would never have interesting sto-
ries to share. I would never learn 
from my experiences, and most of 
all I would never mature as a per-son. 
Awkward moments, however 
awkward at the time, always make 
great stories later. 
They remind us to laugh at our-
selves and not to take ourselves so 
seriously, because seriously, who 
isn’t awkward?
Michelle A. Hipps is a telecommu-
nications senior. Her column appears 
weekly. Awkward moment can be embarrassing blessing in disguise
Michelle Hipps
letters@alligator.org
n THE CONSTRUCTION WILL 
LAST ABOUT 30 DAYS.
By MORGAN COLLINS
Alligator Writer
University Avenue is getting a 
style upgrade. 
Gainesville launched the 
University Avenue Improvement 
Project this week to redesign the 
road’s medians and pedestrian amenities, according to a City of Gainesville news release.
The city’s Community 
Redevelopment Agency is in charge of the project, which will restore medians, replace trash bins and add benches on University 
Avenue between Northeast 
15th Street and Northwest 20th Terrace.
Six new medians, made from 
ground covers, shrubs and native Florida plants, will be installed, the release stated.
The agency will add 65 steel 
trash bins and replace old con-crete benches along University Avenue, including at a bus stop near City Hall.
A beautification project is also 
in the works.
The agency will place steel 
planters east of Main Street to test out the project. If it succeeds, 
the agency may add more. 
“This is really meant to make 
University Avenue look and feel 
a whole lot better than it cur-rently does,” said Community 
Redevelopment Agency manager 
Anthony Lyons.
He said the University 
Improvement Project is part of a 
multi-stage process to renovate 
the roadway. 
Over the summer, the agency 
replaced streetlights between East University Avenue and the President’s Home. It also con-structed a gateway to improve 
pedestrian and traffic flow at the 
forked intersection of University Avenue and Hawthorne Road.
The cost for these projects was 
$350,000, he said.
The new University Avenue construction will cost $135,000 and last about 30 days.
Lyons said construction should 
not cause any traffic disruption.8, ALLIGATORn TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2009
Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator 
Cars drive by cement planters currently under construction on University Avenue Monday morning. The 
road construction will cost $135,000 and last about 30 days.
University Avenue 
construction begins
However, many believe 
that Gardasil has made virus-
es such as genital warts less 
common.
Craig said that the SHCC 
has seen a steady stream of 
interest in the vaccine since its 
release and most women who 
visit the clinic have completed the vaccine series, which con-sists of three injections over six months.
Craig said the vaccine has 
been well-received by SHCC patients and she hasn’t heard 
of any students with negative 
side effects. Nationally, some 
patients have reported prob-lems. 
Some pa-
tients are needle-shy and show symptoms of anxiety while the vaccine is adminis-
tered, Craig said.“It’s all been a very positive 
experience,” she said. “Most 
people do just perfectly.”
Craig recommends the 
vaccine, even for people who already have genital warts.
“The vaccine protects you 
from four different viruses, so even if you already have one, 
you’re protected from three 
others,” she said. “We pro-mote it all the way down the line.”SHCC says vaccine was well-received
HPV , from page 1
cient,” she said.
She said she’s looking for ways 
to save the state money during the 
budget crunch but didn’t know yet 
how much money the bill could 
save.
She said she got the idea for the 
bill from her daughter, who gradu-ated from Florida State University two years ago. Her daughter was frustrated because other students were dropping classes to lighten 
their workload, she said.
“It was so they had more time to 
goof off and have fun, and it was 
basically costing the state money for them to do that,” she said.
She said the bill won’t affect 
students who use the scholarship responsibly and added that it in-cludes exceptions for emergency 
situations.
If a student gets sick or injured 
and has to drop classes, they can 
get a waiver, she said.
But they would still have to 
make up the missed credits the next semester in order to earn the 24 credit hours required each year to keep the scholarship, Stargel said.
Fooks said she is concerned 
about the possible consequences of the bill on students and UF.
She estimated it would cost well 
over $100,000 a year to enforce the 
Drop/Add reimbursement policy. 
That includes possibly hiring two new staff members to process the paperwork, she said.
“It would be a very big deal,” 
she said.
She said that’s not counting the amount of money UF could lose 
from students who withdrew for a 
semester and decided not to return 
to UF because they couldn’t afford 
to pay for the classes out of pocket.
Students drop classes for all 
kinds of reasons, she said, and she’s 
worried the state may not give them waivers.
However, she said the bill might 
make students take dropping class more seriously. 
“To the extent that students 
might not value their Bright Futures, it’s a good thing,” she said.
“Because we have heard stu-
dents say that they can drop the semester because, you know, they weren’t paying for it anyway,” she said. “I think that this would be 
kind of a wake up call.”
But overall, she said she thinks 
the bill is too punitive and has 
asked UF to take an official stance against it.
Ben Wilkening, a UF political 
science senior, said he agrees with the intent of the bill.
“It makes sense. If you drop a 
class, the government shouldn’t have to pay for it,” he said.
But Anaelys Concepción, a UF 
animal biology junior, said she’s worried about being stuck with the bill for a class she had to drop for unexpected reasons.
“I would not know where to get 
the money from,” she said. “With the economy, there’s no jobs,” she said, “I would need to probably take out a loan.”
“I think they should just keep it 
the way it is. It’s been good so far,” she said.Drops could cost students
donation because donations buy food for 
candidates. According to party records, about $192 has been spent on barbecue sup-
plies and pizza.
The Orange and Blue Party has raised 
$1,020 as of Monday night, according to 
Orange and Blue Sen. Mark McShera.
The Orange and Blue Party candidate for 
Student Body treasurer, Sen. Brandon White, could not be reached for comment.
But McShera, the party’s Student Body 
presidential candidate, said most of the par-
ty’s success comes from its members.
“Compared to volunteers and organiza-
tional support, money is not a deciding fac-
tor,” he said. “At Orange and Blue, we are 
driven by people.”
Still, McShera said, candidates are asked 
for a suggested donation of $75.
He said the Orange and Blue Party aims to 
raise about $2,000 this election season in or-der to purchase T-shirts, stickers, additional 
fliers and food for volunteers.
About  $180 has been spent so far, with 
about $150 on fliers, about $6 on masking 
tape and about $26 on donuts, according to 
party records. Meanwhile, the Progress Party has raised about $1,600 so far, said Treasurer Peter Laumann.
The bulk of donations have come from 
Party President Josh Simmons and  Orange and Blue  Party candidate for Student Body treasurer, Jose Ortega, who each donated $300.
“This is just setting up the framework,” 
Laumann said, adding the Progress Party 
asks candidates to donate about $40.
Expense reports show 
the Progress Party has spent about $36 this election sea-son, to purchase a domain registration for the party’s Web site and office sup-
plies.
Laumann said the amount of money 
raised isn’t as important as what the money is used for.  
“It’s not about buying votes,” he said. “It’s 
about getting the party’s message out there and why it’s important to vote.”
Each party must file expense reports ev-
ery Monday night, listing its collected dona-
tions as well as expenses with accompanying 
receipts.
This is done in order to monitor parties’  
use of funds, according to Supervisor of 
Elections Dan Siegel.Data was collected from expense reportsBRIGHT , from page 1
FINANCES , from page 1NewsLocal
Laumann
ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$485 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-22-72-1
NEED ROOMMATES? 
One Month Rent Free!
Inclusive 3’s-$535, 4’s-$482;
HUGE 2/2.5 Townhomes at $530/person.
FREE UF Parking, Cable, Water!
FREE Roommate Match, Tanning
FREE Alarms, W/D, 24hr Gym
Sparkling Pool, Tennis, BBall
336-3838 TheLandingsUF.com
Great Bus Route! 2 Miles to UF
4-22-72-1
Take Me Now!
Huge 1,2,&3 Beds& FREE Cable
Waived Move-in Fees!
W/D in unit* Free Tanning
FREE Internet 372-8100 
4-22-72-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-22-72-1
WANT $$$ JUST FOR LIVING HERE?!?
2/2 & 4/4 APTS STARTING AT $509!
MOVE IN FOR ONLY $35!! 
GET $750 OFF YOUR LEASE TODAY!!
CALL NOW: 352.271.3131
GainesvillePlace.com
4-22-72-1
The Crossing at Santa Fe
$484 - $509 Gets you all this!Furnished, Free Ethernet, Free Cable &Utilities, W/D, Events,Roommate Matching!  379-93004-22-72-1
$IGN AND GET CA$H BACK!
$400 CA$H OR CREDIT
PRICES START FROM $466
MOVE IN FEES ONLY $99
www.LexingtonCrossingUF.com
CALL NOW!  (352) 373-9009
4-22-72-1TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2009
LYONS SPECIAL
$99 1st month’s rent 377-8797
4-22-08-72-2
1, 2, &3 BR- Live Life Big!
* Available Today & August!
* HUGE Floorplans! Pets Loved!
*1BR $655 & 2BR $755 * 3BR $889* Bike to UF/Shands * 335-72754-22-08-72-2 
Terrific Two Bedrooms For Fall!
W/D*huge walk-in closets*park free
Downtown location - Close to UF
Steps from everywhere you want to be!
Sign now, don’t miss out - the best location!
No fees & get $350 cash back! 338-0002
4-22-72-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave.  Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF.  Price 
range $445 to $665.  Includes water, sewer, 
garbage and pest control.  Sorry no pets al-lowed.  Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri.    4-22-08-
72-2
1 & 2 BRs - Now & August!
* Quiet, Convenient, Affordable
* 1 BR $560 ** 2 BR $639
* Walk/Bike to UF/Shands* Pets OK * 372-7555
4-22-08-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-22-08-72-2
1 Tour & You’re Sure!
Leasing for Now & Fall
1, 2, 3 & 4 brs, 2br Townhomes
W/D, dishwasher, tennis/bball courts
We love pets! Ask about specials!
pinetreegardens.com*376-4002
4-22-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-22-08-72-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-22-72-2 ELLIE’S HOUSES 
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990 12-11-171-2 
STUDIOS and 1/1s
ONLY 2 BLOCKS TO UF!
As low as $525, Pets ok
Pool, Open late and weekends
371-0769 CollegeParkUF.com
4-22-08-72-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Shotime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get 1 MONTH FREE*
www.thelaurelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-22-08-72-2
Huge 2 & 3 BR’s
Starting at $730
Pets Welcome * Great location *
Close to UF, Dining
373-1111* SpanishTrace.org
4-22-08-72-2
COBBLESTONE
Luxury Townhomes
Private Dog Park!  Free Cable
Gated, Garages, Gorgeous!
Immediate Move-in Specials!
(352)377-2801
4-22-72-2
2/3/4 BR’s for Fall From $335/per person
W/D avail, pet friendly, inc water & sewer
1 miile from UF/Bball/Tennis Court
HUGE floorplans, pool, fitness
www.bivenscove.com  352-376-2507
4-22-08-72-2We Have your roommates!
We DON’T have fees....
Limited time only: $0 Deposit/$0 Fees, and 
ask how to get your lease FREE!
$ign now and pay $0 fees. Nicely fur-
nished 2/1 or 4/2 condos renting by the bedroom starting at only $449 all inclusive.
Furniture,cable,pest control,refuse & W/D all
included.GYM,PC LAB, POOL/SPA, AND MORE!! Hurry will not last at these rates. 
$ave $500!!!
352-377-6700 www.Ucommonscondos.com     
4-22-72-1
!HOT SUMMER SPECIALS!
4/4   @   $399
3/3   @   $429
2/2   @   $549
Move in fees ONLY $99
All inclusive w/FREE roommate matching
www.LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373-9009
4-22-72-1
Best All Inclusive Rate In Town!!
We will find you a roommate!
3/3’s start at $536 and 2/2’s start at $633
Incl. Utilities, Cable & Internet
Call Now: 352-374-3866
4-22-72-1
4/2 Beautiful Spacious Home for Rent! Walk 
to campus, huge yard! Available Fall 2009. 
Professional/Graduate students preferred. 
Call Michelle (561)289-4759   2-13-09-10-1
- :: 2 Blocks To UF :: - 
Room in 4br condo incl utils, internet, cable 
TV, pool. Very Nice $375. 283-8777www.Gainesville-Rooms-4-Rent.com  4-22-09-68-1
**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect, 
cable tv, & high speed internet. $350/mo 352-278-9347, www.lamanchacondos.com   2-13-20-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate 
Matching. ONLY 10 Steps to UF $479-$504/month* All-Inclusive Rent * Fully-furnishedwww.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557   4-22-60-1
3BR/3BA avail Jan 08 in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room. Direct bus to UF 3 mi. Bball, pool, exercise room, nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-357-9656, Sebastian 352-874-8905  2-27-09-26-14BR/4BA condo University Terrace. Spacious 
kitchen & living area, newly remodeled. 
Convenient to UF & shopping. Close to 
bus stop. Rent: $450/mo OR QUICK SELL: 
$150k. Call 941-232-1960   2-23-09-20-1
$465-4/4 University Terrace condo; includes 
cable, internet, and utilities. On routes 12 and 35. Immediate occupancy. 352.514.3398   2-12-10-1
ROOM FOR RENT $500/MO
All utils, cable & internet incl. Bedroom set 
& vase included. Near SFC, Oaks Mall & UF  
786-325-7941 or after 8pm 352-332-9305    
2-13-09-10-1
2 Bedroom 2.5 Bath, pet friendly,
approximately 15-20 mins to campus. 
Cost - $995 + Utilities. Immediate Move in 
Lease length - negotiable e-mail magatsu0067@yahoo if interested.    2-10-5-1
INDIVIDUAL BR W/ FULL BATH & WALK-
IN CLOSET in 4BR Countryside. Util, DSL, cable, W/D, 51 in TV, year lease from 8/09. $400/mo  352-281-4588    2-20-09-10-1
Furnished sublease in Looking Glass. 
Reduced Rent ($475 a month + utilities). Master bedroom (1br/1ba) in a 2br/2ba. Great location - easy walking distance to campus. Call 727-742-6610.    2-18-09-7-1
2009/2010 school year starting Aug 15,2009, 
4 bedroom/4 bath VERY CLEAN furnished Condo on ground floor at University Terrace West on 20th Ave between UF and Butler Plaza. Washer/dryer, pool, hot tub, bus line, etc. $400/month plus utilities. 352-586-6468   2-27-09-14-1
La Mancha furnished room 4 rent $350 2 blks 
to UF/Shands/ VA includes dsl,utilities,cable free call 352-284-7304    3-23-09-30-1

&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE. 
Rustic 1BR apt. $380/mo.1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 378-9220 or mobile 213-3901. 4-22-08-72-2
LUXURY 2/2 ACROSS FROM UF!
Under 600/person! W/D
Pets welcome! Free Parking!
Open late and weekends!
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-22-08-72-2ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law . All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color , religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or VisaThe Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F , 8am - 4pm
Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard
www.alligator.org/classified
By Email:  classifieds@alligator.orgBy Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONL Y . M-F , 8am - 4pm
By Fax: (352) 376-4556When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F , 8am - 4pm. No refunds or cred-
its can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RE-SPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE 
NOON for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
Beautiful 1,2 & 3 Beds
FREE Cable w/HBO & Internet
LOW Rates starting at $699
W/D in each unit!*Free Tanning!
We love pets: 372-8100
4-22-72-2
Available Today!
$0 Move In Fees! 
1/1-from $649*2/2-from $769*3/2-from $899
(352) 377-7401 * www.theboardwalkapt.com
4-22-08-72-2
ALL THE SPACE YOU NEED!
At the price you want
No Move-in Fees! Move in TODAY!
1, 1 w/den & 2 BRs - Reduced Rates!FREE UF parking * FREE Gym
Pets Welcome * 352-332-7401
4-22-72-2
PARKING
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-22-08-72-2
YOUR MOM...
...wants you to live here!
AMAZING DEALS!
1, 2, & 3 bdrms, W/D
Gated, Pet friendly, 
Immediate Move-in Specials
(352)372-0400
4-22-72-2
Three Pools!  Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis!  Business Center!
Billards Room!  Fitness Center w/ Free 
weights!  Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts!  Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, I-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!  
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$754 2/2-$440/person 3/3-$350/person 
Washer/Dryer in ALL UNITS!
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-22-72-2
Affordable, Quiet, Comfortable
1’s from $539 * 2’s from $375/person
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
4-22-08-72-2
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Huge 4BR TH W/D inc.FREE UF Parking*FREE GymCall for specials 332-7401      4-22-72-2
Great Pet Place!
Waived Move-in Fees!
Free Cable w/HBO & Internet
W/D in Unit*Free Tanning!
Huge 1,2,3 Beds: 372-8100!
4-22-08-72-2
LOVE GOING OUT?
Luxury 3/3TH Perfectly Located Downtown!
1 month free for fall &
no move-in fees from $500/person!
W/D*Free Parking*Pets Welcome
Live where you play!! 338-0002
www.arlingtonsquare.org
4-22-72-2
MUSEUM WALK
Gainesville’s Best Kept Secret
Leasing for Fall & NOW!
Luxury 2/2 THs and 3/3 Flats
FREE Cable, FREE Tanning, FREE Alarms
Walk to UF *379-WALK
4-22-72-2
THREE BLOCKS TO UF!
2br/1ba from $700
No Move-in Fees! Water included
Wood floors avail! Pets loved!
FREE Parking! 372-7111
4-22-08-72-210, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2009
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $695
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
4-22-08-72-2
 SPYGLASS 
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Incl Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $485
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 10-5:30, Sat 11-2
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
4-22-08-72-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
No Move-in Fees! Pets loved.
Studios - $549, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
372-7111 Collegemanor.org
4-22-08-72-2
* Where in the world is Hidden Lake?
You may want to find these luxury apts!
3/3’s start at $425 person for Immediate
2/2’s are $490 person, Includes Cable & Internet
Call Now 352-374-3866
4-22-08-72-2
3 and 4 BRs STEPS TO UF
From $450/person
Pets loved! W/D avail
Pool, Open late
CollegeParkUF.com 371-7777
4-22-08-72-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $599 - 150 ft from UF!
$0 move-in fees! Move-in Today!
FREE parking! Pets Welcome!
372-7111 CollegeManor.org
4-22-08-72-2
GREAT ODIN’S RAVEN:
Our 4/4’s are classy!!
SIGN TODAY and get $720 off your lease!!
Rates starting at $509!!
CALL: 352.271.3131
GainesvillePlace.com
4-22-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-22-08-72-2
NOW FULLY FURNISHED/ALL-INCLUSIVE
Introductory rates starting at $529!
Visit our models and sign for Fall 09
Huge, luxury 1br-4brs with TVs in kitchen
Beach-entry pool*free tanning*pet friendly*352.376.0696 * www.EnclaveUF.com*4-22-08-72-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 bed luxury condos for rent.
Granite tops, tall ceilings, private balcony, super quiet construction. $1600/mo.Call Eric Wild at 352-870-94534-22-72-2
4BR/2BA HISTORIC HOUSE
10 blocks to UF. Near downtown. High ceil-ing, wood floor, cent A/C, W/D, tons of char-acter. Avail Now  237 SW 4th Ave. $980/mo  352-214-9270   4-22-08-72-2WOODLAND VILLAS 
2BR units starting at 
$695. Gated community.
Private courtyards. 
M-F 10-6 Sat. 10-2
5950 SW 20th Ave.
888-803-7678
www.woodlandvillas.com
4-22-08-72-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on 
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to 
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824   2-10-09-55-2
WALK TO UF - AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
1BR/$495 to $999/mo
2BR/2.5BA $1499/mo
Gore Rabell Real Estate378-1387  Gore-Rabell.com4-22-08-72-2
RIGHT PLACE, RIGHT PRICE, RIGHT NOW 
Steps from VA, Shands, Vet School & UF.
1 & 2 Bedrooms from $625. Grad student &
VA/Shands discounts Renovated units avail 
Union Properties@Summit House 376-9668
4-22-08-72-2
SUN ISLAND
1BRs from $580  2BRs from $650
Sun Bay  Sun Key  Sun Harbor
352-376-6720
4-22-08-72-2
1 Tour & You’re Sure!
Leasing for Now & Fall
1, 2, 3 & 4 brs, 2br Townhomes
W/D, dishwasher, tennis/bball courts
We love pets! Ask about specials!
pinetreegardens.com*376-4002
4-22-08-72-2
PET’S PARADISE
$375 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-10-
08-37-2
100+ Apts: Walk to UF
On 1 website: www.ForRentNearUF.com
Photos & Virtual Tours for 100 apts near UF
Studios $625+ * 1BR $689+ * 2BR $839+
3BR $650/br+ * 4BR $479/br * 352-376-6223
4-22-72-2
2/1 House w/ Big Yard
4 Blocks to UF, HW Floors
Pet Friendly $1200/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-76-2
BRAND NEW FOR AUG 09
CAMPUS VIEW PLACE2BR/2BA OR 3BR/3BALuxury Suites near Shands,
Norman Hall, UF Sorority Row
1240 SW 9th Road
Please visit us at the model
1185 SW 9th Road 1-5pm
Union Properties 352-373-7578www.campusviewplace.com   4-22-75-2
LEASING FOR AUG 09
Quality Student HousingNear UF, Norman & Shands1,2,3,4 & 5 BR PropertiesList Avail Jan 20th!!Please call or email us toReceive a list before theyAre all gone!!!Union Properties 352-373-7578info@rentgainesville.comwww.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
University Terrace West
1 Female needed $325/moLease through July 2009Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-72-2
POOL HOUSE AVAILABLE NOW!
Bike to UF 4BR/3BA, over 2000 sf, nice area 1 mi to UF. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo now or $1700/mo in fall. Can divide into 3/2 for $1200/mo. Pool service extra376-6183, 352-327-2931  2-12-09-25-2
1BR/1BA w/lg STUDY - Great Location
1blk to UF/Shands Avail Now! Energy ef-ficient, some utils. Very spacious, carpet, decal park Prefer grad student/mature. $650. postj@bellsouth.net 376-0080, 284-3873   2-27-09-36-2AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/2BA nice, large house. Hot tub, privacy 
fenced yard, W/D provided, 3413 NW 8th 
Ave. $1600/mo. Screened back porch, other 
houses available. 339-2342 for more info.  
2-13-09-24-2
2/1 Funky Upstairs Apt
3 Blocks to UF
Pet Friendly $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
2/1 Apt, 4 Blocks to UF 
Central AC, No Tow Parking,
Pet Friendly, $700/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
2/1 Apt, 1000 SF
Island Kitchen, WD hookups
Centr. AC, Pet Friendly $700/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
NO FEES and One Month Free!
On Bivens Arm Nature Preserve
Inclusive 2’s, 3’s, and 4’s
MASSIVE Townhomes!
W/D and Jumbo Microwaves in Every Unit
Free Water, Cable, Tanning, Alarms, Pool
336-3838 TheLandingsUF.com
Great Bus Route! 2 Miles to UF
4-22-63-2
LARGE AFFORDABLE CONVENIENT
Serious students upgrade into private condo 
2BR/2BA vaulted ceilings, breakfast bar, tile, 
carpet, smoke-free, laundryroom, fenced 
backyard. $675. SW. 374-4216 appt.  2-12-
09-20-2
HUGE 2BR 1BA
W/D hookups. Pets OK
Walk to Vet School
$595 mo. Move in today!
866-747-8314 CMC LLLP
Lic. Real Estate Broker
Equal Housing Oppty.
4-22-09-61-2AVAILABLE AUGUST 1.
Studio, fireplace, washer/dryer provided, wd  
floors. Yard area for grill, etc. 1 blk from cam-
pus, attached to rental house w/separate en-
trance. 106 SW 12th St. $525/mo 339-2342  
2-13-09-17-2
*Huge 1BR Loft w/Skylight*
3 Blocks to Mid-Town/Univ Ave*Walk to UF
Cathedral Ceilings*Only $799 at Arbor Lofts
www.ForRentNearUF.com * 352-376-6223
4-22-59-2
2BR WALK TO CLASS!
As low as $380/person!
Pets welcome, wood floor avail
Pool, Open late and weekends
371-0769 CollegeParkUF.com
4-22-09-59-2
WALK TO SANTA FE COLLEGE
2BR/2BA $750/mo til 7/31/09
3108 NW 79th Court 1 car garage
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-59-2
LARGE HOME NEAR UF
Nice home w/many upgrades
Ready now! 1789 SF Garage
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-59-2
HISTORIC HOMES
1-3BR apts + 2 houses 923 SE 4th St, 18 NE 10th St. High ceilings, porch, wood floors. $500-$1100/mo. No dogs. 1st, last, sec. Call 378-3704, sallygville@aol.com   2-19-20-2
4/2 HOME PLUS STUDY
corner lot, H/D 2385 sq ft for $1500 + $1500 
deposit. 3608 NW 22nd Pl. Call 352-214-
1956   2-19-09-20-2
Summit House 1BR/1BA Available Now
$605 per mouth $250 security Walk to VA or Shands Call 352-672-1482   3-6-09-30-2
** Across From UF ** 
$1150/mo Special!
2br/2ba Limited Time Offer  for Fall Luxury Apts w/ Internet & Parking Incl.www.LookingGlassApartments.com111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-22-09-59-2
One month FREE!
Zero Redec Fee
1 & 2 BR single-story villas
starting from $529
Move in costs starting at $139
Close to Oaks Mall and Archer Road.
Pine Rush Villas 375-1519          4-22-09-
59-2
One month FREE!
Zero Redec Fee1 & 2 BR flats starting from $599Move in costs starting at $139
Two blocks south of Archer Rd. & 34th St
Homestead Apts. 376-0828     4-22-09-59-2
One month FREE! $189 Moves you in!
HUGE 2 & 3 BR single story villasstarting from $759Close to Oaks Mall & Newberry Rd.
Ashton Square Villas 333-1120    4-22-09-
59-2
LARGE 2BR DUPLEX NEAR UF. Fenced 
backyard, lots of privacy, W/D, screened 
porch & extra large utility room. Only $500 
deposit & $725/mo. Call 352-372-3131. Location: 1710 SW 38th Terr.    4-22-09-58-2
UNREAL LOCATION ON UNIVERSITY 
AVE/LAW SCHOOL
2360 W University Ave
4 bed/ 2 bth, w/d, Large Yard, Fireplace. Walking distance to UF, 1 block from law school. Call Bill at 615-400-5178$1000.00 a month through July. $1400.00 Starting Aug 1.  2-10-09-10-2
Huge 5/3 MH on 5ac 12 min to UF, w/d, no 
pet fee. $1600 mth. 352-213-3943   2-17-14-2
$445-4/4 University Terrace condo; includes 
cable, internet, and utilities. On routes 12 and 35. Immediate occupancy. 352.514.3398   2-12-10-21BR/1BA Next to UF Campus
W/D incl in unit. Small pet ok. Pool/exercise 
room. $800/mo 352-378-5801 x 5   2-12-09-
5-2
Duckpond
2 bd 1.5 ba 1200 sq ft townhouse in heart of 
historic neighborhood.w/d Blocks to down -
town shops & restaurants. 508 NE 4th A ave 
avail immediately  $695/mo 379-4952
2-13-09-10-2
1BR/1BA apt. Large screened in porch, W/D 
hook-ups, pets ok. Rent $525/mo; sec dep $525. 3300 SW 23rd St. Apt. #2. Call 352-371-3473    2-13-09-10-2
2BR/1.5BA Townhouse. Fenced in courtyard, 
W/D hook-ups. Newly remodeled kitchen. Monthly rent $700. Pets ok. Sec dep $700. 3935 & 4007 SW 26th Terr. Call 352-371-3473   2-13-09-10-2
Downtown Luxury & Cash Back 4 Fall!
Sign now for studios, 1/1, 2/2, 3/3s! Perfect 
Location-Great Price-No Move-in Fees
W/D*Wood Floors*Bring Your Pets!
Great parking-walk to bars-bike to UF
Reserve now! 338-0002
4-22-09-53-2
1 & 2 BRS Avail NOW! NO MOVE-IN FEES!
1/1 - 750 SQ FT - $699
2/2-1007 sq ft for $799 or $899 for brand new 
& w/d. Water & Sewer Included!Call Today! 352-376-2507      4-22-58-2
HCAMPUS EDGE CONDOH
2/2 Waltk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile floor, W/D 
in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate 239-250-
6149   239-992-2449   2-20-09-14-2
Why Pay More?
Great Apartments at a Great Price!1/1 - From $689;  2/2 - From $759;3/2 - From $899 CALL:  (352) 377-7401www.theboardwalkapt.com   4-22-09-56-2
We have REAL 1/1s for Feb ‘09!
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
300 NW 18 St-Large, 575 sq ft only $585!
Bike to UF - CENTERPOINT
1220 NW 12 St-530 sq ft big, only $475!
No Application Fee, Most Pets OK. For info
call E.F.N. Properties, (352) 371-3636 or
email Rentals@EFNProperties.com
2-20-09-14-2
HLive on UF Lake H
Huge 2/2 with Den - 3/2
Fully Remodeled $1275/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-53-2
HLive on UF Lake H
Large Estate, 5 bedrms
Dock & Pool, $2500/mo
352-339-4862
4-22-53-2
2 bdrm/1 bath, Sun Bay Apts. near UF cam-
pus, bus route, 2 pools, workout room, W/D hookup, $685/mo. (negotiable). Contact for more information: slw@hellokitty.com or (352)870-0010.   2-10-09-5-2
2/1.5 Newly Renovated Townhouse. Avail 
Now or Fall 09. Close to Shands, Park N Ride 2, & Shopping. Incl W/D, A/C, Pvt Patio, & Pool. $745/mth & $500 Dep. No Pets Pls. 772-538-5792 or ltsao12@hotmail.com   2-10-09-5-2
2BR/1BA SPACIOUS 
7209 SW 45th Pl, Gainesville. Cent H/AC, 
W/D hk-up. $600/mo, $500 sec dep. No pets. Call 386-462-0994   2-17-08-10-2
3BR/1BA HOUSE
1 car garage. Biking distance to UF. $900/
mo. $700 sec dep. No pets. 825 NW 10th Ave. 386-462-0994   2-17-09-10-2
AFFORDABLE, COZY AND PRIVATE!!!
2bdrmS/1bath apt and 2bdrmS/2baths/1Loft home for rent. Near UF, SFCC, Shands, Restaurants and Shopping. For more info, please call 352-359-0711.    2-10-09-5-2
GOT LATE NIGHT MUNCHIES?
Tropical Smoothie CafeNOW OPEN 24 HOURSCome study with us - Free WiFi3345 SW 34th Street        2-17-10-22BR/2.5BA CONDO
with furnished living room, dining room & 
kitchen. $550/mo/person. utils included. 
Great location - near UF. Available immedi -
ately. Call 561-753-6972   2-10-09-5-2
HWALK 2 BLOCKS TO UFH
2b,1b * 1 block MidTown * 2 Car Decals, 
WiFi-Internet * Washer & Dryer. Sm pet ok. 
Jan-July 204 NW 18 St Manny 317 4408   
2-18-09-10-2
1/1 Avail 2/15 $585mo dep $300
CentHeat/Air W/D tile & carpetnear Sam’s in a creek settingLease options /can furnish352.224.8163     2-11-09-5-2
Very Nice Mother-in Law Suite Near Haile
1BR, kitchen, dining room, full bath, W/D, cable, utilities all included. $750/mo.  367-0372   3-6-22-2
Sorority Row Apts
Luxury Apts Steps from Sorority Row & UF
New 1BR to 4BR * Virtual Tours & Photos *
www.SororityRowApts.com * 352-376-6223    
4-22-50-2
$500 2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE
UF, Shands area. Private parking & backyard; W/D hk-ups, laundromat, buses. Quiet, safe, pvt owner. Ceramic/carpet options. 386-972-4115 moritae@yahoo.com   2-18-9-10-2
2BR/2BA Unfurnished for $600. 7200 SW 8th 
Ave- Unit B#8 Woodside Villas off of Tower 
road. 1YR Leases. Call: Joanne at 808-779-
0714    2-12-09-5-2
1BR apt. w/pvt gated courtyard located in 
small proffesional complex @ 3320 SW 23d St. Single, mature applicants only. $550.00/mo small pets ok @ $25.00/mo 352 377-2150 Please leave a msg.   2-19-09-10-2
H2BR/2.5BA Twnhouse condo near UF. 2 
Master BRs w/ own BA, Ideal for 2 to share. 
Wired for inet + sec sys, W/D hk-up, appli -
ances, comm pool, 1st & sec dep req. $1000/mo 954-805-7827  dennismiller@tycoint.com  
2-19-09-20-2
Beautiful, spacious 4/4 2 blocks from UF in 
Oxford Terrace. $550/month incl. washer/dryer, electricity, water, cable, and internet. Bus comes every 10 min. Avail in August. Call Amy (954) 536-2052 for more info.   2-25-14-2
BRAND NEW Cricket Club
Phase II, 2BR/2BA Condogated,pool,fitness center,W/D$1100/mo,call mario 352-219-4426or jmacmaster@e-techservices.com   2-19-10-2
2br/2.5ba townhouse for rent! First month 
free! Close to UF and Santa Fe. Bus stop in front of complex! W&D included and pets allowed! $750 a month. Call Rhonda at (727-243-4688) or (813-833-3495).   2-27-09-15-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office.2BR $550   1BR $500Call for daily specials352-335-0420       3-6-09-20-2
3BR & 4BR/2BA HOUSES
Hardwood floors, fireplace, new baths, screened patio, big yard, carport, storage shed. Minutes to UF, on bus route, $1400-$1500/mo First, last security. 954-899-7197   3-6-09-20-2
4BR/3BA 1700+sqft home for rent. 1.3 miles 
from UF. Wood floors, newly renovated kitchen, washer/dryer, dish washer, fenced-in back yard, and much more. $1450/month. Available ASAP. Call 305-764-0975 for info   2-24-11-2
Andree Realty
4br 2 ba, 2406 sq ft       $1600
4br 2ba, in SW Pool      $1400
3br 2ba Rosemont         $1350
3br 2ba, near UF            $1200
3br 2ba condo                 $990
3br 2ba House SW          $975
2br 2ba T-House            $1000
2br 1ba Timberway          $675
1br 1ba Furnished            $650
www.AndreeRealty.com
352-375-2900
2-18-7-2Available now 2BR duplex behind Norman Hall. Free parking $625/mo. 1119 SW 7th Ave. Call 372-4903 or 917-416-6968   2-13-09-4-2

3UBLEASES
DON’T WAIT
TO PLACE 
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 22rd.
CALL TODAY!!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT 
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
First month’s rent FREE!
Fully furnished premium apt. at Gateway at 
Glades. $455/mo., all utilities included.
jbreland@ufl.edu   2-11-15-3
ONE BLOCK ACROSS FROM UF/LIBRARY 
WEST! $410/month for 1BR/1BA in 2/2 at Looking Glass Apts. Great location, price greatly reduced! Can lease through August. 561.261.2249   2-13-10-3
Sublease a 1-bd unfurn. Apt. at Pine Rush 
Villas. Feb. rent free, $429 + utilities. call 352-222-1428 (larry)Lease is thru July 09.   2-13-5-3
1bdrm/1bth at looking glass apt
1 block across from fl fieldavailable 3-09$500/month through augustemail heather at h.shirk@ufl.edu    2-13-09-5-3
NICE furnished 1/1 in 4/4. AVAILABLE NOW. 
First month *FREE*. $425/month includes: utilities, cable, internet, parking. No Deposit. Washer/dryer. Pool at complex. Buses 35 & 12. UF 10 min bus ride. CALL 352-262-4240   2-12-09-4-3
Windsor Hall large luxury dorm style apt. 
Summer sublease. Fully furnished w/ bath-room, electricity included, 1 roommate, 3 blocks to campus, gym downstairs! $509/mth Avail. for Summer C. Call Carla at 443-244-1184 or www.trimarkproperties.com for more information.   2-13-5-3

2OOMMATES
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-22-72-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
l1br w/pvt entrance available in 2BR condo 
Central air and heat. 2 pools in complex. Walking distance to UF. Rent 375/mol1BR hdwd flrs, pvt ba avail in beautiful NW house close to UF $395/mo 352-316-3930.    2-13-09-30-4
Very close to campus 4/2 remodeled condo 
opens to lovely courtyard and pool. $425 w/ UT cable and internet included.(for sale or rent) call 352-870-0291   2-17-09-30-4Male roommate needed. Share furn 3BR/2BA 
house w/yng prof $400/mo +1/2 util Directv, ph, wireless, Vonage, elec. W/D, ofc space pvt BA (morn) lg yd fenced, pets ok, trees, 
wooddeck, hottub, pond. UF-15 min drive, 
near bus, Lakeview Ests 352-682-6297    
2-10-25-4
2 BRs AVAIL FOR FEMALES ONLY
in 4/2.5 townhouse. $450/mo/room. All in-
cluded: internet, cable, electric, etc. 754-204-1624   2-13-09-27-4
2 Female roommates NS/ND to share a new 
4/2 house in a quiet neighborhood 3 mi. W of I-75. w/ cable, internet & security alarm. $475/mo. util. incl. Call 352 331 8794   2-20-30-4
Share 2/2 MH Furn rm $200 N/R dep. $400/
mo; $100/wk incl util.  2wk adv. laun/cook svc 
avail N/S, N/A, N/D. Discount for handyman. 
Car a+ 30 day notice 2 vacate. Nr bus/shops 
Sm caged pet ok 331-0762   2-16-15-4
- :: 2 Blocks To UF :: - 
Room in 4br condo incl utils, internet, cable 
TV, pool. Very Nice $375. 283-8777
www.Gainesville-Rooms-4-Rent.com  4-22-
09-62-4
TWO FEMALE ROOMMATES needed for a 
nice 4/2 house to live with two other gradu -
ate professional women. ONLY $350 & $375. 
Includes util and swimming pool. Great loca-
tion, quiet neighborhood. Call Mr. Kristoff 
352-332-5030    2-10-09-10-4
1/2 OFF 1st MONTH Rent if in by March!
Seeking 2 roommates-1.5 miles to UF
easy ride2 SFCC off-NW 16th-HUGE house,
PoolTable,65”TV Large rooms!sayNo2apts$495/MONTH per room 561-756-5368   2-10-10-4
1BR/1BA avail march 1st in 2Br/2BA for re-
sponsible mature individual. $425-$450/mo + utils. Barandywine on Archer Rd. yttek@yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566   2-13-09-11-4
1 bedroom for rent in 4/2 house near Gville 
Pl. $400 everything included (elect, cable, internet). Looking for mature M or F. Flexible lease period. 727-420-5699   2-12-09-5-4
Housemate wanted in NW G’ville. NICE pri-
vate bdrm and bath. House has PRIVATE pool/fireplaces/large fenced yard. Utilities included (WiFi/cable/electric). 500/month contact max (215-917-0829) maxs@ufl.edu   2-20-09-10-4
1/1 in 2/2.5 townhouse avail NOW-7/30/09 
at 1812 nw 2nd ave. $675/mo OBO + 1/2 utilities. w/d, dishwasher, common areas fur-nished, pets ok, m/f. call lauren 3862162038 or laurenkropp@yahoo.com   2-13-5-4
09/10 school year. 2rms avail in 3/2 beautiful 
5 yr old house for 2 females. 2 car garage, fully furn, except BRs. W/D. 7 mins to UF on bus rte. Very safe community $525/mo + utils (~$35/mo) Please call 321-662-1772   2-23-09-10-4

2EAL %STATE
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD ONLINE AT www.al-ligator.org.  or please call 373-Find
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551   4-22-72-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4 
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman, Campus Realty at 352-219-2879.  4-22-72-5
Brand new luxury condos starting at $220k. 
Granite tops, tall ceilings, private balcony, steel & concrete construction, alarm system. Call Eric Wild at 352-870-9453    4-22-72-5TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 11
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL 
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite 
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF. Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
4-22-72-5
CONDOS AT UF
www.CONDOSatUF.com
Matt & Tiffany Thomas, Bosshardt Realty
(352) 494-0194 or (352) 316-5556  2-17-
60-5
HUGE 4bd/3.5ba NW home in Walnut Creek 
off 39th Ave! Great location to UF or SantaFe! Tons of upgrades, huge porch off 2nd story, 2 car garage & more. $229,900! Please call Dana Fults @ 352.318.0686!    2-18-15-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS - New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879   4-22-49-5

&URNISHINGS
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-22-08-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846       4-22-08-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490       4-22-08-72-6
BED - KING - $170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  4-22-08-72-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost 
$1500, sacrifice $450     352-333-7516
___________________________________
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg     333-75164-22-72-6 
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100 (352) 372-7490     4-22-08-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846   4-22-08-72-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table, 
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New, still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100. Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588   4-22-72-6 
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-22-08-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516. 4-22-72-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846. 4-22-72-6 
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop 
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516. 4-22-72-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard, 2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.    4-22-08-72-6
FUTON - $60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With 
plush mattress $140. All brand NEW still in box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516  4-22-72-6 Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. 
New in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
___________________________________SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516   4-22-72-6 

#OMPUTERS
CASH PAID FOR LAPTOP’S
Buy - Sell - Trade Any Condition
336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz Joel      4-22-
08-72-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-08-72-7
4-22-70-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041. www.GatorlandComputers.com  4-22-70-7
HP PAVILLION 524C
For sale including keyboard, monitor & 
speakers. $100/OBO.   352-332-2705   2-10-
5-7

 "ICYCLES
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)   
4-22-72-9

 &OR 3ALE
PARKING :
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-22-08-72-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: http://www.surplus.ufl.edu/online/  392-0370
4-22-08-72-10

-OTORCYCLES -OPEDS
 SCOOTERS 
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974 
4-22-08-72-11
New Scooters 4 Less 
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-22-08-72-11
GatorMoto
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com  4-22-08-72-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-22-08-72-11***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
 Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
 All on one site! Check the website or call 
336-1271 for more info!  4-22-08-72-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   4-22-08-72-11
SWAMP CYCLES
Closest to Campus. Largest selection,
Best Customer Service.
Motorcycles, Scooters, Accessories, and Service.
633 NW 13th Street    www.swampcycles.com
4-22-72-11
SOLANO CYCLE
Scooters from $799. Largest selection from 
KYMCO, Daelim, Hyosung, Adly, Genuine, 
Estblished 10 yrs,     2 yr warranties
1024 S Main St 338-8450 solanocycle.com
4-22-08-72-11
Vintage Motorcycle Works, Buying-Selling
352.871.3863, Gainesville, FL 32609
Service on new/old custom motorcycles and 
scooters. Lowest rates in town.   2-13-09-5-
11

 !UTOS
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS
Running or not! 
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPSOver 15 yr svc to UF students
Call Don @ 215-7987    4-22-08-72-12
CARS - CARS BuySellTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-22-72-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622 4-22-72-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas  Chevys  Jeeps and more!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 97654-22-72-12
FAST CASH PAID
For any running cars or trucks. 1995 and up. 
Clean or ugly. Segovia 352-284-8619  4-22-72-12
ATTENTION
 SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WHY PAY MORE? YOU COULD PAY LESS!300+ vehicles @ wholesale prices 338-1999      4-22-08-72-12
All Vehicles Must Go!
Liquidation Sale Special60 Days Payoff on Cash Vehicles(Payoff time negotiable)Sun City Auto 352-338-1999  4-22-09-62-12
Over 250 Vehicles Will Be Sold At 
Wholesale Prices to the PublicIncluding Cars, Trucks, Vans & SUVsSun City Auto 352-338-1999   4-22-09-62-12
Bring Your W-2 and Ride Home Today
Why Wait for Your Refund?File Your Taxes Here andDrive Off in Your VehicleSun City Auto 352-338-1999   4-22-09-62-12
Sun City Auto
No Credit CheckAll Vehicles $0 DownBuy Here – Pay Here352-338-1999    4-22-09-62-12
 2003 Saab 93, 60,000 miles fully loaded in 
excellent condition! $10,000.
2002 Mitsubishi Eclipse RS, manual trans-
mission, $85,000 miles. $4,800. Call (352) 
284-8478 or e-mail jessiesawka@gmail.com   
2-18-20-12$$ CASH TODAY! $$
For Your Unwanted Cars
Junk!! Trucks, RVs, & Wrecks!!!
TOP DOLLAR PAID!
386-234-0072 & 386-234-0075
2-27-09-24-12

 7ANTED
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
 Gold  Diamonds  Gems  Class Rings 
 ETC  Top Cash $$$ or Trade 
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243.  4-22-
72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090  4-22-
08-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and for walks and shopping as needed. We’ll have lots of fun! And you will make a new friend!  
Contact 219-6948    2-12-09-74-13

 (ELP 7ANTED
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be 
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, perssonal references. www.carrsmith.com for details.    4-22-72-14
EARN $60 THIS WEEK!
Donate Plasma & Save a Life
$$$$$$$$$$$$
Best part-time job you’ll ever have.
NEW DONORS
Bring this Ad and Earn an
Extra $5 on Your 2nd Donation.
DCI Biologicals 150 NW 6th St.
352-378-9204
4-22-08-72-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  4-22-08-72-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-22-08-72-14
CNA TRAINING CLASS: $250! Work at your 
own time & pace in your own home! To get program on DVD’s call 352-597-2559. For online program visit  www.lapcnatraining.com Get started right away!   4-22-72-14
Paradigm Properties
Leasing Specialist, PTSales & Customer service exp.EOE, DFWPApply on-line at: www.teamparadigm.com 352-375-2152 ex 301    4-22-67-14
Earn extra money. Students needed ASAP. 
Earn up to $150/day being a mystery shop-per. No experience required. Call 1-800-722-4791   4-22-09-65-14Busy doctor needs professional executive 
assistant 20-30 hrs/week. Experience is an 
absolute must. Ideal applicant able to an-
ticipate need. Compensation based on exp, 
email CV to gm@ehsfamily.com   2-16-09-
22-14
Are you tired of working more for less and less?
Break the cycle & get what you really want: 
1-800-679-7042 Ex.2660   2-16-20-14
Immediate opening for a
Professional Leasing Agent!Part Time or Full TimeExperience Preferred, Great Pay!
Fax resume to 352-372-0708   4-22-59-14
NO JOBS AVAILABLE,
BUT WE OFFER CASH AND TRADE for 
CDs and DVDs (and we sell them too).
HEAR AGAIN CDs & DVDs
818 W University Ave 32601  2-17-09-20-14
Paralegal/Legal Assistant; Legal office expe-
rience preferred. Energetic, High work ethic, 
good people skills and attention to detail a 
must! Full time, non-smoker. Fax resume 
with cover letter to Law Office of Carl Carrillo 
(352)371-7127.    2-11-09-14-14
400+ Counselors/Instructors Jobs!
3 Coed summer camps in PA.
Travel Paid, Top Salary.
Cool Nights & Warm Days!
1-800-488-4321, www.lohikan.com    4-22-
09-59-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-22-
09-59-14
Toddler Teacher Needed. Imagine Learning 
Center info@imaginelearningcenter.
com 371-5450. Taking applications from 
reliable,creative individuals who enjoy work-
ing with children.    2-18-09-15-14
Rep/Model wanted to promote local 
Motocross Track. Some local travelinvolved, looking for outgoing,personable, some computer skills,dependable transportation. Salary Negotiable. Email photo and resume to Terri at admin@lcmg.info     2-12-09-10-1412, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2009
DANCERS NEEDED
For adult entertainment company. Make 
$1000/wk. Flex schedule 378-3312   4-22-
54-14
Survey Takers Needed:
Make $5-$25 per survey.
GetPaidToThink.com   2-27-20-14
FLOWER SHOP HELPERS
for Valentine’s week. Apply 635 NW 13th St.   
2-11-7-14
DELIVERY DRIVERS
Needed for flower shop for Valentine’s week. 
Must have own car. Apply 635 NW 13th St.   
2-11-7-14
Summer Jobs
                    $2100
                    Co-ed camp
                    Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs 
male and female summer camp counselors 
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located off of  Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL. 
The camp runs June 8 –  July 25. Please 
contact Krys  Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267   4-22-09-72-14.
PT tennis ct & gen maintenance/tennis shop 
person at Haile Plantation CC. Early morn-
ing hrs req. Must have proven background of 
reliability & punctuality. Tennis background 
a+, enjoys customer relations. Bob 335-4105   
2-10-09-5-14An awesome summer job.
If you’re looking to spend this summer out-
doors, have fun while you work, and make 
lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a residential camp in Maine, has female/male summertime openings for Land Sports, Waterfront (small crafts, skiing, life guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Cooking, Gymnastics, Dance, Videography, Group Leaders & more. Top salaries plus room/board & travel provided. Call us today toll free at 1-561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.   3-19-09-28-14
FREE GRE WORKSHOP. Monday - 
Thursday, February 16th - 19th. Verbal 
sessions on Monday & Wednesday from 
5:00 - 7:00 pm. Math sessions on Tuesday 
& Thursday from 5:00 - 7:00 p.m. Call 392-
2010 to register and learn the room location.
Atttorney needed for will contest. Florida 
Bar certified. Preferably someone new and 
affordable. 352-332-0515 or 352-222-0267   
3-4-09-20-14

 3ERVICES
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-22-72-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners. 
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250’ x 
160’ riding ring, round pen  & jump paddock. Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175 
everglade-equestrian.com   4-22-74-15
Want to be a CNA? Don’t want to wait? 
Express Training Services can get you certi-
fied under 3 wks! Hands-on exp, no videos. 
Day/eve/wkend. Class sizes limited. 338-1193 for details expresstrainingservices.com 
4-22-08-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-22-72-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762. Greathouse Equestrian Ctr.   4-22-72-15
GATOR MOVING & STORAGE 
Local and long distance moving
One item or a houseful!
10% off with this ad!       FL Reg IM 19  
Call Now! 352-374-4791, 800-797-6766
4-22-08-72-15
HORSE BOARDING
12 x 12 stall - cement block barn. Good grass 
turnout with room to run! Limited # of stalls available. 352-472-2627 for info & directions. 4-22-08-72-15
HYPNOTIST - Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Elminate bad habits. Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis. Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH, NGH certified 379-1079     4-22-72-15
 MOVING? 
 FREEWAY MOVING 
You’ll love our low rates & references. Student 
Discount. Call 352-256-0999. Lic #IM7074-22-72-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
4-22-72-15
Ivy-League Educated Editors!
Use us to help you produce a powerful, well-written and outstanding academic paper or personal statement! Find us at www.onyxwriting.com.   2-10-09-10-15
HORSE BOARDING
Stalls, pasture available. Turn out or full board. For information & directions call 352-591-1850, if no answer leave message.  2-12-09-10-15Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding. Owner  
housing. Dressage, stadium jumping, 
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities. 
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges. 
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie 
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.   2-20-
09-15-15
POLE DANCING LESSONS
Call French Addiction 352-373-6628 or stop 
by 819 W. University Ave.   2-10-09-5-15
ENGLISH TEACHER FOR HIRE
Got Writer’s Block? Need an editor?Learn reading and writing skills.I tutor all ages. giselle@alumni.ufl.edu    2-11-09-5-15
Beginner Guitar & Piano Lessons for ALL 
ages. My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or email gidonherman00@gmail.com   2-25-15-15
MATH & PHYSICS TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   3-2-10-15
BLUEGRASS BANJO LESSONS
MUSIC JUNCTION
HIGH SPRINGS 386 454 3364    2-18-7-15
Minimax Warehouses; corner of Waldo Rd & 
NE 31st Ave; 10 sizes, student & staff rentals; UHaul warehouse complex, trucks & trailors. $20 off any warehouse rental! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale.  8-31-09-79-15

(EALTH 3ERVICES
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-22-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-22-72-16

 0ERSONALS
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Family Chiropractic 
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-22-72-18 
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
4-22-08-72-18

 #ONNECTIONS
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
Kell,Why weren’t you at my place?  I called and you haven’t an-swered. What’s up?                                    Jack
2-10-09-1-19IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NOW OPEN 24 HRS ---- STUDY WITH US!
2-1710-20
Feb 27 09 An auction will be held at Jolo 
Enterprises, Inc 3530 SE Hawthorne Rd at 1:00 PM 1990 Toyota Celica #JT2AT86F8L0033850    2-12-5-20

%NTERTAINMENT
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-22-08-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public Wed-Fri-Sat-Sun 1pm-6pm
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-19-09-97-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville  Better Prices
Better Fields  Better Call 371-2092
4-22-08-72-21
 BAHAMAS SPRING BREAK 
$189 5-Days or $239 7-Days. All prices 
include: Round trip luxury cruise with
food. Accommodations on the island at
your choice of thirteen resorts. 
Appalachia Travel 1-800-867-5018.
www.BahamaSun.com #ST35585
3-4-08-86-21

 2IDES
WiFi on buses – New Departures 
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1, 3 & 4:30 
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm – Mon 2 pm -Also 
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra 
charge pay by phone or in person- $35 O/W 
- $45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-22-72-23

 0ETS
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.

 ,OST  &OUND
LARGE HORSE PAINTING by Darien 
Bogart. Predominately black, red. Some horses are skeletons, one’s popping out with open mouth. Given to Goodwill mistakenly. Will pay. 904-434-9320 apc452@yahoo.com   2-10-09-5-25TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 13
DANCE INSTRUCTORS
FOR POLE DANCING LESSONSCall French Addiction 352-373-6628 or stop by 819 W. University Ave.    2-10-09-5-14
TROPICAL SMOOTHIE CAFE
Come Study with Us - Free WiFi
NOW OPEN 24 HOURS
3345 SW 34th Street     379-9988    
2-17-10-14
CLERICAL/TECHNICIAN POSITION FT
Please apply in personInstitute of Veterinary Spec.4011 NW 43rd St. Suite A.    2-11-5-14
GENERAL HELP WANTED
Mon-Fri 10am-5pm. Starting $8/hr. No exp 
req’d. Apply in person 1031 NW 6th St. Suite 
A-3,  352-379-2812             2-12-5-14
THE RED ONION
NEIGHBORHOOD GRILL  Now hiring exp 
line cooks & exp  day servers. Please ap-ply in person, located in Uptown Village at 
Townsend, NW 39 Ave, 3885 NW 24 Blvd   
2-11-5-14
CAREGIVING POSITIONS AVAILABLE
for Nursing, PT, OT, and healthcare majors. 
Must be available nights and weekends for 
more info call Staphanie @ 352-231-0815   
2-13-09-5-14
FREE CLAST WORKSHOP. This UF 
Teaching Center workshop helps students with ELS, ESSAY & MATH sections.  MATH 
on M 2/16 & W 2/18 from 6:15 - 8:10 p.m; 
ELS & Essay on T 2/17 from 6:15 - 8:10  Call 
392-2010 to register & learn the location.
Sports
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
I DID NOT KNOW THAT ONLINE POLL RESULTS BEST SPORTS VIDEO GAMEAndrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
Kentucky’s Joe Crawford looks to pass around UF center Alex Tyus 
during the Gators’ 81-70 win against the Wildcats on Jan. 19, 2008.
By MIKE DiFERDINANDO
Alligator Staff Writer
miferdinando@alligator.org
The UF-Kentucky rivalry is littered with gold-
en moments.
In 2003, UF rolled into Rupp Arena as the na-
tion’s No. 1 team only to have the No. 6 Wildcats 
thump them 70-55 in front of a crowd of almost 
25,000.
Gators fans will never forget David Lee climb-
ing on top of the scorers’ table at the O’Connell 
Center to celebrate when UF finally beat Kentucky 53-52 in 2005 after losing eight straight to the Southeastern Conference bully.
And in 2007, UF became only the second SEC 
school to beat Kentucky in five consecutive meet-ings.
But with neither school ranked in any of the 
national polls heading into tonight’s showdown in Lexington, Ky., and Kentucky (16-7, 5-3 SEC) coming off its third straight loss, this once-fierce rivalry seems to have lost a bit of its luster. 
“Is the rivalry more important than Vanderbilt 
or Georgia or Tennessee or South Carolina? I don’t know,” UF coach Billy Donovan said. “It’s one game right now. It’s a game on the road. 
Both teams are a game apart. I think it will be a 
big game for both teams. To say it’s bigger than another game, I wouldn’t say that right now.”
Unlike Donovan, his players are quick to de-
fend the game.
“I don’t think the rivalry has lost anything,” 
forward Chandler Parsons said. “Our fans don’t like them. Their fans don’t like us. It’s going to be a war out there.”
Having followed the rivalry from afar as a 
child, Parsons said that playing in it is somewhat of a dream come true.
“To have watched it all growing up and to 
now be a part of it is really something special,” Parsons said.
UF (19-4, 6-2 SEC) and Kentucky have won 
13 of the last 17 SEC championships, and with 43 SEC regular-season titles, the Wildcats have 
nearly as many conference crowns as the rest of UF, Kentucky to renew rivalry in Rupp
Imagine you’re standing in line at 
your local deli. The person behind 
the counter is slicing your cheese, and 
you don’t like the thickness of the cut.
How do you respond? You erupt in 
boos.
Uh-oh. Now the person is getting ner-
vous. He’s slicing too thin. He’s slicing  too thick. You’re only getting more and 
more annoyed, and the boos start get-ting louder.
Eventually, the 
deli employee freaks out and cuts off part of his thumb. Now 
look what you’ve 
done.
O b v i o u s l y , 
you’re not going to 
be booing the person slicing your salami. 
But why do fans at sporting events boo 
referees? No good can come from it.
At the UF men’s basketball game 
against South Carolina on Tuesday night, 
the referees missed what was — to me 
and most of the fans in the O’Connell Center — an incredibly obvious goalten-ding call, effectively taking 2 points away from the Gators.
The crowd responded by immediately 
screaming at them and yelling obsceni-ties, a staple of rowdy fans, without ever thinking there was a huge chance the 
refs’ sight lines had been blocked by Booing referees 
fuels bad calls
UF MEN’S TENNIS
By JOSEPH R. HOLZER
Alligator Writer
On its way to Chicago, the UF 
men’s tennis team will make a pit 
stop in Champaign, Ill., for its first taste of indoor dual match play this season.
The No. 7 Gators (5-0) will play 
No. 13 Illinois today at 6 p.m. in the Atkins Tennis Center.
Illinois (4-2) is coming off its sec-
ond loss of the season. Tennessee claimed a 4-3 win on the Fighting Illini’s home court on Saturday.Still, UF coach Andy Jackson 
considers his team’s next opponent a dangerous one.
“They’re probably better than 
that (ranking), and we’ve never had much success there,” Jackson said. “We have to get acclimated to the indoors.”
Illinois has two singles players 
and a doubles team ranked in the Intercollegiate Tennis Association’s top 50. Freshmen Roy Kalmanovich and Dennis Nevolo are ranked No. 
23 and No. 41, respectively.
The tandem of Billy Heiser and Ruan Roelofse are No. 36 in dou-
bles.
UF sophomore 
Alex Lacroix is 
undefeated in 
both singles and 
doubles play. He has toppled three top-50 players himself. 
After playing 
on Court 1 for 
the second time this season while 
Carlos Cueto sat out, Lacroix said 
he was looking forward to playing in the ITA Indoors after missing it last year.
Daniel Cash and Erik Corace 
received playing time Thursday 
against Central Florida. This, Jackson 
said, adds depth to UF’s lineup.
“I’m happy to be out there again,” 
Cash said. “It sucks that Carlos and Johnny (Hamui) are injured, but it feels good to hit the ball around.”
UF has defeated two oppo-
nents — Baylor and Texas A&M — ranked in the top 15. But both of 
those matches were in the friendly 
confines of Linder Stadium.The Gators are heading into a 
hostile environment, one with a roof and a few guys likely holding a grudge against the Southeastern 
Conference after falling to the 
Volunteers.
This may be the best thing for 
them, Jackson said.
UF’s first road match will 
be a preview of the ITA Indoor Championships, beginning Friday in Chicago. 
Illinois is also one of the 16 teams 
featured in the tournament, making a rematch a possibility.
Gators head to Illinois for first indoor match of year
Evan Drexler
The Drex Factor
edrexler@alligator.org
SEE EVAN, PAGE 15
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15
 UF senior guard Sha Brooks was 
named the Southeastern Conference 
Women’s Basketball Player of the Week after the team’s win against Tennessee on Sunday. After a one-week poll, Alligator 
readers decided Tecmo Super Bowl is 
the greatest sports video game of all 
time (29 percent), just beating out Ken 
Griffey Jr. Baseball (23 percent).Previous question:  Will the UF women’s basketball team advance past the Sweet Sixteen? (see right for results)
 Percent (Votes)
Yes 89% (39)
No 11% (5)
44 TOTAL VOTES The UF women’s golf team was 
in action three time zones away Monday. For a story on the team’s opening round in Palos Verdes, Ca -
lif., check out alligatorSports.org.Jackson
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NEW YORK — Alex Rodriguez admitted 
Monday to using banned drugs, the biggest 
name yet to acknowledge he couldn’t resist 
the temptation to juice up during baseball’s 
Steroids Era.
The All-Star third baseman said in an 
interview with ESPN that he used steroids 
with the Texas Rangers for three years, from 2001-03, in an attempt to justify his status as 
the game’s highest-paid player after sign-
ing a 10-year, $252 million contract.
“Back then it was a different culture,” 
Rodriguez said. “It was very loose. I was young. I was stupid. I was naive, and I 
wanted to prove to everyone that, you know, I was worth, you know — and being 
one of the greatest players of all time.”
He said he quit after 2003, his first of 
three AL MVP seasons, because “I’ve 
proved to myself and to everyone that I 
don’t need any of that.” He was traded to the New York Yankees before the 2004 sea-
son.
The admission came two days after 
Sports Illustrated reported on its Web site 
that Rodriguez was among 104 names on a list of players who tested positive for ste-
roids in 2003, when testing was intended to determine the extent of steroid use in base-
ball. The results weren’t subject to discipline and were supposed to remain anonymous.
Rodriguez said he alone was to blame but 
then accused one of the Sports Illustrated 
reporters who broke the story of collecting 
“nonsense.”
“When I arrived in Texas in 2001, I felt 
an enormous amount of pressure. I felt like 
I had all the weight of the world on top of 
me and I needed to perform, and perform at a high level every day,” Rodriguez said.
“And I did take a banned substance, 
and, you know, for that I’m very sorry 
and deeply regretful. And although it was 
the culture back then and Major League 
Baseball overall was very — I just feel that 
— You know, I’m just sorry. I’m sorry for 
that time. I’m sorry to fans. I’m sorry for my 
fans in Texas. It wasn’t until then that I ever thought about substance of any kind.”
Rangers owner Tom Hicks said the ad-
mission caught him by surprise.
“I feel personally betrayed. I feel de-
ceived by Alex,” Hicks said in a conference call. “He assured me that he had far too 
much respect for his own body to ever do 
that to himself. ... I certainly don’t believe 
that if he’s now admitting that he started 
using when he came to the Texas Rangers, 
why should I believe that it didn’t start be-fore he came to the Texas Rangers?”
During those three seasons, Rodriguez 
averaged 161.7 games, 52 homers, 131.7 
RBIs and a .615 slugging percentage. In the other 10 full seasons of his career, he aver-
aged 149.2 games, 39.2 homers, 119 RBIs 
and a .574 slugging percentage, according 
to the Elias Sports Bureau.
“This is three years I’m not proud of,” 
Rodriguez said.
The 33-year-old Rodriguez ranks 12th on the career list with 553 homers, includ-ing 52, 57 and 47 in his three seasons with the Rangers. He is 209 behind Barry Bonds’ 
record 762.
Now, though, he’s on top of another — 
the highest-profile player to confess to dop-ing. 
Yankees teammates Jason Giambi 
and Andy Pettitte and former MVPs Ken 
Caminiti and Jose Canseco admitted to ste-
roid use earlier.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 15
AP Photo
Former Texas Rangers shortstop Alex Rodriguez heads for first base after hitting his 
300th career home run against the Anaheim Angels on April 2, 2003.
Yankees’ Rodriguez admits to steroid use
6-foot-tall players.
But think about what you’re 
doing to the man in stripes.
When a referee gets booed, he 
becomes more aware of the bad 
calls he’s making, and he will 
only proceed to make more of 
them as pressure from the fans rains down on him.
The other bad thing that could 
happen when fans boo an official would be an subconscious bias against the home team. When you’re getting booed by 90,000 people at The Swamp, you’re go-
ing to dislike The Swamp a little 
bit. That could result, uninten-tionally, of course, in more calls against the home team.
Unless you believe in the 
make-up call, which I don’t, the officiating will only get worse with boos. The make-up call is a common misconception in that 
it is actually just bad refereeing 
that happens to be in the other direction. Refs are trained to ig-nore jeers, but their job is hard 
enough as it is. They don’t need 
people screaming curses at them or telling them they’re blind.
So it makes sense for fans to 
keep their reactions to them-
selves. The coaches and players 
on the floor let the referees hear their anger plenty, and they do 
so respectfully.
“If there was a call that we 
question, we just want to know 
what we could have done to get a call to go our way,” UF center Alex Tyus said Tuesday night.
I can say booing officials is 
not smart all I want, but it’s not like I’m completely innocent of this infraction either. God knows 
I booed the referees subcon-
sciously while sitting in the up-per deck of the Miami Dolphins’ huge first-round playoff loss to 
the Baltimore Ravens on Jan. 4. 
What were those idiot zebras thinking?
Booing the referees isn’t logi-
cal, but that doesn’t stop fans from expressing themselves in the heat of the moment. 
Tyus has an explanation.
“They’re just watching the 
game,” Tyus said. “They’re spec-
tators.”
I’ll admit it’s part of the game, 
but it doesn’t really make sense.
Logically, chastising an of-
ficial for a job poorly done will only lead to worse job perfor-mance, more bad calls and dis-
taste for the home crowd.
But there never was much 
logic to being a sports fan in 
general, and logic won’t be en-tering the minds of the people 
in the bleachers while they’re 
telling referees to get a new set of glasses or to get their mouths off their whistles, and it doesn’t seem like anything will.EvAn , from page 14
league combined (44). 
UF has won the SEC four 
times, the last coming in 2007. 
“They’re definitely a rival,” 
forward Dan Werner said. 
“Kentucky has dominated this league for a while.”
But in recent years, it has 
been the Gators who have had the best of the matchup, win-ning seven of the last eight meetings between the two schools.
If the team hopes to grab 
win No. 8, UF will have to slow down guard Jodie Meeks, who is averaging 25 points per game this season.
Earlier this year Meeks 
scored 54 points in Kentucky’s 90-72 win at Tennessee.
The Gators want to avoid a 
similar fate.
“I don’t think any team 
wants somebody to score 54 points on them,” guard Erving Walker said. “We don’t want 
that to be us.”
Down low, 
UF will have its hands full with sopho-more Patrick 
Patterson.
P a t t e r s o n 
chose to play at Kentucky 
over UF two years ago and has since become one of the nation’s most productive big men.
“I don’t know if anyone 
has ever handled him down low,” Donovan said. “He’s one of the better players in the league, and he’s a tremendous post-up player.”
Patterson is averaging 18 
points and nine rebounds per game this year.
“I don’t think it’s any secret 
that we have some challenges in the frontcourt,” Donovan said.
Wildcats’ Patterson poses unique threat down low
HOOPS , from page 14“This is three years I’m not proud 
of.”
Alex Rodriguez
New York Yankees third baseman
Men's
Bask etball16, ALLIGATOR TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2009
 THIS MARKS THE HIGHEST SPOT 
FOR THE GATORS SINCE 2001.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Not even Tennessee coach Pat 
Summitt’s 1,000th career victory could 
prevent the Volunteers from dropping to 
their lowest Top 25 ranking in 23 years.
Tennessee fell three spots to No. 15 
in the latest AP women’s college basket-
ball poll after losing twice last week — to 
Oklahoma and UF on Sunday — and beat-
ing Georgia for Summitt’s milestone vic-
tory.
After the team’s 66-57 win against 
Tennessee, UF moved into the top 10 for 
the first time since Feb. 12, 2001. It was 
only the Gators’ third win in 40 games 
against the Volunteers, and it was their fourth win over a ranked team this sea-son.
“I’m excited for our team to be get-
ting that type of recognition because they’ve put in a great amount of work to get to where we are right now,” UF coach Amanda Butler said.
The Gators will face another ranked 
opponent — No. 24 Vanderbilt — in Nashville, Tenn., on Thursday.
“We can’t be consumed with a rank-
ing because at this point of the season, the 
most important ranking is where you fin-
ish in the league standings,” Butler said.
“The road ahead of us, specifically on 
Thursday when we play at Vanderbilt, is very challenging, and we can’t get distract-ed by our ranking or by things that won’t 
have any impact on beating Vanderbilt. 
They are not going to care at all what our ranking is.”
Connecticut remained the unanimous 
No. 1 choice for an 11th straight week, while Oklahoma was a unanimous No. 2.
Connecticut is 23-0 for the first time 
since 2002-03. The Huskies face St. John’s on Wednesday before hosting No. 19 
Pittsburgh on Sunday.
California was third, with Duke and 
Auburn rounding out the 
top five. The Blue Devils 
visit No. 8 North Carolina 
on Monday night.
Stanford was No. 6, fol-
lowed by Baylor, North Carolina, UF and Louisville. 
Stanford plays California on Saturday with the Pacific-10 Conference title likely on the line.
Louisville dropped five places af-
ter losing at home to West Virginia on Saturday.
The Cardinals were followed by 
Maryland, Texas A&M, Texas and Florida State, which reached its highest ranking 
ever at No. 14.
Tennessee lost at No. 2 Oklahoma last 
Monday before the win against Georgia 
on Thursday. 
UF then stunned the Volunteers on 
Sunday.
The last time Tennessee was ranked so 
low was the final ballot of the 1985-86 sea-son.UF ranked No. 9 in AP poll
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff 
UF guard Kim Critton celebrates after the Gators defeated Tennessee on Sunday.Women's
Bask etball