theh a t t i the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 4 i9 We Inform. You Decide.
UF ADMINISTRATION
Machen: No more cuts
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@a Iligator org
He knows it could come back to haunt
him, but he's willing to take that chance.
Fresh off a year plagued by budget cuts,
UF President Bernie Machen said he's ready
to predict there will be no more cuts to UF's
budget next spring.
"The economy seems to be stabilized,
(which) allows us to kinda get back on terra
firma," Machen said in an interview Wednes-
day.
"I just think it's gonna be a positive year
after a pretty negative year," he said. "I'm
going to venture out there .the fool that I
am.",
Although UF needs to cut about $16 mil-
lion from its budget this year, Machen said
the university plans to hire more faculty to
stem the brain drain and reduce UF's high
faculty-student ratio, which clocks in at over
20-to-1.
The hires initially will be paid for by stim-
ulus money, then covered by differential tu-ition funds, he said.
They will help to counteract the net loss of
81 faculty since last August, he said.
"What we're anxious to do is get back into
a hiring mode," he said.
More details of the plan will be announced
at today's State of the University speech at 3
p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
Machen said part of the $42 million in
stimulus funds UF has been allocated will be
used to cover $16 million that UF still hasn't
decided how to cut.
That figure used to be $11.6 million, ac-
cording to plans announced in May, but Ma-
chen conceded Wednesday that those calcu-
lations were off the mark.
The cuts will still come from the same
places, which means they will not involve
reductions or eliminations of academic pro-
grams or employee layoffs, he said.
The cuts likely will be announced in No-
vember or December after a discussion with
the university community.
Proposals being considered include chang-
es to vacation and sick-leave policies as well
SEE MACHEN, PAGE 81b
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009
Pastor defends shirts
By J. HUNTER SIZEMORE
Alligator Staff Writer
jhsizemore@alligator org
A pair of black flats, jeans and a
white T-shirt bearing "Islam is of the
Devil" in red stenciled lettering across
the back-this was Emily Sapp'sback-
to-school outfit Monday at Gainesville
High School.
When she wore a similar outfit on
Tuesday, she was sent to the princi-
pal's office before reaching first pe-
riod. The school administration gave
Sapp, 16, three options: change into
other clothing, cover up the phrase or
go home.
Sapp chose home, but she didn't
feel nervous about the decision.
"I think I was already ready," she
said.
She is one of six young church
members at the Dove World OutreachCenter who have worn the shirts,
which display the Bible verse John
14:6 on the front, to local elementary,
middle and high schools.
A sign lettered with the same mes-
sage has stood in
front of the Dove
Center since early
July.On Wednes-
day, head church
members were
contacted by the
American Civil
Jones Liberties Union
and a conference was held later in the
day, said Terry Jones, senior pastor at
the church.
"We are not sure how far we want
to push it, but we want to accomplish
what we have set out to accomplish,"
SEE SHIRTS, PAGE 4
A foldable scooter for Fabulous Rides, right, a company that is offering intoxicated Gainesville residents a ride home
from the bars and clubs, pulls in front of a scooter outside The Swamp restaurant Wednesday night.Company kicks
off ride service
* THEY WILL OPERATE UNTIL 3 A.M.
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
Three shiny blue scooters, two Lincoln Town Cars and a
mini bus stood waiting as about 60 UF students socialized
at The Swamp Restaurant Wednesday night.
The vehicles belonged to Fabulous Rides, a new service
that offers transportation anywhere in Gainesville for resi-
dents unable to drive themselves home after a
Local night of drinking, said Ray Land, president of
NewS Fabulous Rides.
Land said he expected rides to be given out
to about 150 people Wednesday night.
Fabulous Rides will offer free rides to students until Sat-
urday, although rides will normally cost $20 for the scooter
service, $25 for the Lincoln Town Car and $45 for the mini
bus. The service will run until 3 a.m.
The company worked with Student Government, which
organized the event in order to kick off its new DUI preven-
tion program, said Dana Somerstein, the External Affairs
SEE PARTY, PAGE 8
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"Today
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 9
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS14
19
21* Freshmanlinebacker Jelani
Jenkins (right)
sprained his ankle
during practice
Tuesday and was in
a boot Wednesday.
He is expected to
return to practice
next week.
See Story, Page 21.Thunder
storms
88/72
visit www.alligator.orgl cyole At\v_
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Organic Coffee Farming
Presentation
Today, 6:30 p.m.
Christian Study Center
112 NW 16th St.
A presentation by Miguel Tum
of La Chujalense coop on or-
ganic farming, fair trade and
coffee growing in Guatemala.
Hosted by Pascal's Coffeehouse
and Sweetwater Organic Coffee
Roasters. For more details go to
www.pascalscoffee.com.
First Shabbat at Hillel
Hillel, 2020 W University Ave.
Friday, 7 p.m.
Hillel will be celebrating the
first Shabbat of the semester
with candlelighting, three ser-
vices (Orthodox, Conservative
and Reform) and free kosher
dinner.
Luau at Broward Pool
Sunday, 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.
Sponsored by Hillel and Jewish
Student Union.
Florida Educator Association
Meeting
College of Education Terrace
Room
Sept. 1, 7 p.m.
Education majors interested in
getting involved with political
action, community service and
attending professional develop-
ment workshops are welcome
to attend UF FEA's first meet-
ing of the semester. There will
be free food and giveaways.
FACES Modeling Troupe
meeting
Pugh Hall
Sept. 2, 6:30 p.m.
Positions for fashion team, pub-
lic relations staff and runway
models are open.
UF American Solar Energy Society
meeting
Sept. 3, 7 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Rinker 235
Interested in clean, green and
sustainable energy? Learn
more about the American Solar
Energy Society's UF chap-
ter. Upcoming events include
National Solar Tour, One Less
Car, our solar-powered vehicle
project and our annual national
conference in Phoenix, Ariz.,
during Summer 2010.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this
space? Send an e-mail to bkel-
ley@alligator.org with "What's
Happening" in the subject line.
Please include a one- to two-
sentence synopsis of the event.
NATIONAL
Mass. Sen. Edward M. Ken-
nedy dies at age 77
BOSTON -Sen. Edward M.
Kennedy, the liberal lion of the Sen-
ate and haunted bearer of the Cam-
elot torch after two of his brothers
fell to assassins' bullets, has died at
his home in Hyannis Port after bat-
tling a brain tumor. He was 77.
For nearly a half-century in the
Senate, Kennedy was a steadfast
champion of the working class
and the poor, a powerful voice
on health care, civil rights, andFORECAST
TODAY
THUNDER
STORMS
88/72FRIDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
88/71
war and peace. To the Ameri-
can public, though, he was best
known as the last surviving son
of America's most glamorous
political family, the eulogist of a
clan shattered again and again
by tragedy.
"We've lost the irreplaceable
center of our family and joyous
light in our lives, but the inspira-
tion of his faith, optimism, and
perseverance will live on in our
hearts forever," his family wrote
in a statement.
Kennedy was elected to the
Senate in 1962, when his brother
John was president, and served
longer than all but two senators
in history. Over the decades, he
put his imprint on every major
piece of social legislation to clear
the Congress.
To the moon, NASA? Not
on this budget, experts say
WASHINGTON -NASA
will test the powerful first stage
of its new Ares moon rocket
Thursday, a milestone in a pro-
gram that has already spent $7
billion for a rocket that astro-
nauts may never use.
When that first stage is tested,
it will be mounted horizontally.
The engine will fire, shake and
make lots of noise. But by design,
it will not leave the ground. The
same could be said for NASA's
plans to go to the moon, Mars
or beyond Earth orbit. It's not
so much a physical challenge for
engineers as it is a financial chal-
lenge for budgeteers.
The $108 billion program to
return to the moon by 2020 was
started five years ago by then-
President George W. Bush. But a
special independent panel com-
missioned by President Barack
Obama concluded that the plan
cannot work on the existing bud-
get schedule because it's likely to
cost at least an extra $30 billion
through 2020.
Slain model's missing car
found in West Hollywood
WEST HOLLYWOOD, Calif.
-Police say a car found in West
Hollywood belonged to an ex-
model who police suspect was
killed by a former reality show
contestant.
Buena Park police Detective
Eric Burciaga says police re-
ceived an anonymous telephone
tip Wednesday and found the
white Mercedes-Benz belonging
to Jasmine Fiore in a parking lot.
Fiore's nude body was found
in a suitcase in a Southern Cali-
fornia trashbin on Aug. 15.
Burciaga says a witness told
police the car had been parked in
West Hollywood since the day of
the killing.
Ryan Jenkins, a wealthy real-
ity TV contestant wanted in the
killing, was found hanging from
a clothes rack in a hotel room in
his native Canada on Sunday.SATURDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
88/72SUNDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
88/72
Cu
~0
0-M
0M0
0
Cu)MON DAY
THUNDER
STORMS
88/71
Lee
L.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the Endependent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 4 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/Online Jennifer Jenkins
jenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor AndrewStanfill, astanf//@a//igator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Ca Ilovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
Opinions Editor Allie Conti, aconti@a//igator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Allie Conti,
Brian Kelley, Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@a//igator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry, Emily Blake,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Ashley Cruel,
Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Joe Holzer, Amanda Milligan,
Jennifer Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director
Advertising Office Manager
Advertising Assistant
Intern Coordinator
Display Advertising Clerks
Sales RepresentativesRose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Melissa Bell
Sara Ingebretsen
Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Zoya Avyaeva, Helen Callis, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Brittany Fayne,
Jon Levine, Joaquin Martinez,
Melany Valderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, e//ight@a//igator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Manager Scott McKearnan,
smckearnan@alligator.org
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Andrea Almeida
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
STUDENT LIFE
Politicians discuss health coverage
By KATIE EMMETS
Alligator Staff Writer
kemmets@alligator org
Upon graduating from Colorado
State University in 2004, Abby Berendt
landed her dream job at a large media
corporation in New York City. Berendt
had been working full time at the com-
pany for 10 months when she arrived
at work one day with what she thought
was a horrible stomachache.
Because her company only offered
insurance to those employed for a year,
Berendt Googled hospitals that accepted
people without health insurance.
After 12 hours of being connected to
an I. V., Berendt was told she needed
emergency surgery to take out an ovari-
an tumor the size of a golf ball. Although
she was treated and healed, she was left
with more than $12,000 in bills.
In a Wednesday conference call,
Congressman Chris Van Hollen, D-Md.,
said he is working to give those in situa-
tions like Berendt's a break.
"We need to preserve what's best
and fix what's broken," Van Hollen
said. "[Health care] is very broken foryoung people because they have huge
problems getting access to quality af-
fordable health care."
Van Hollen said those starting ca-
reers are predicted to change jobs four
or five times during their lives, losing
their health insurance each time.
"We want young
people to be entrepre-
neurs," he said. "We
don't want them to
feel trapped in a job
because it's the only
place they get quality
health care."
Van Hollen Proposed legisla-
tion in the U.S. House
of Representatives will make health care
cheaper by adding affordability credits
and allowing young people to stay on
their parents' plans until the age of 26.
"Right now a lot of young people are
being forced off of their parents' policies
between the ages of 19 and 22," he said.
Thomas Bates, Vice President of Civ-
ic Engagement for Rock the Vote, said in
the call that he thinks current employer-
based insurance plans aren't working
for those just beginning their careers."Half of the young people who do
not have insurance actually work full
time," Bates said. "They are just not in
jobs where their employers are provid-
ing health coverage."
Because young people have the high-
est rate of unemployment, Bates said
students who are not getting jobs when
they graduate are worsening an already
fragile situation.
"Half of the people who are under
the age of 26 are already in some kind
of medical debt," he said. "If you add
that to the higher cost of education and
this unemployment issue, you really
are talking about a systemic failure that
needs to be addressed."
To pay her hospital bills, Abby Be-
rendt's parents had to refinance their
house.
The self-proclaimed healthy, salad-
eating, three-miles-a-day runner had
two more months until her coverage be-
gan, but she said she couldn't wait.
"The saddest thing to me about this
whole story is that the situation isn't un-
common," she said. "Everyone should
have the right to get health care when
they need it and not go bankrupt for it."THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
'Messing with
cousin' leads
to two arrests
* ABOUT 50 WITNESSED THE FIGHT.
Two Gainesville women were arrested after
their fight in a downtown parking lot drew a crowd
of about 50 people.
When Gainesville Police officers responded to
Club Decadence, 12 SW Second St., at about 1:30
a.m., they saw Tawanna Smalls, 21, and Patricia
Palmer, 21, punching, kicking and wrestling with
each other.
Although GPD spokesman Keith Kameg said it
never became clear why the women were fighting,
officers reported that they heard Smalls say that she
would seek revenge on someone while Palmer said
she was fighting because someone was "messing
with her cousin," according to the arrest report.
According to the report, the fight between
Smalls and Palmer caused several smaller fights to
break out.
-KATIE EMMETS
Organizational rieetlngs;
Tuesday league -Sept I
Wednesdays league -Sept 2Information and skinup in the
Game Room. Located on the
ground floor of He Reitz Union
Phone 3)2-3,'-l367
WWW uni ufl eILgamqnesEYECAREEXPRESS
Corner of NW 131h St & 39th Ave.
(near Pubbx)
352.375.6133FOWLING LEAGUES C>
at the
Reitz Union Game Room
Tuesdays & Wednesdays
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009
Consumer confidence rises
By JESSICA CHAPMAN
Alligator Writer
Although the country is
still deep in recession, con-
sumers think it may get better
soon.
Based on results from the
Conference Board Consumer
Research Center and the UF
Bureau of Economic and Busi-
ness Research, people across
the country are feeling better
about the economy this month
than last month.
The Conference Board's
Consumer Confidence Index,
which serves as a gauge of
economic health, rose from
47.4 in July to 54.1 this month,
according to a report released
Tuesday.
The Expectations Index,
which illustrates how consum-
ers feel about the economic fu-
ture, jumped from 63.4 to 73.5
in July, the highest level since
December 2007, according to
the report.
The index reflects the idea
that consumers expect the
economy to improve over thenext five years as a result of
what they have seen or heard
in the news, economics pro-
fessor David Denslow said.
He said the recession could
move in different directions,
and the increase suggests it
will be a positive one.
The economy could contin-
DenslowAue to "scrape
the bottom"
for a while
and then
bounceback,
or it could
take another
decline, he
explained.
"It's still
miserable, but at least [the
numbers] are up," Denslow
said. "It will be a sluggish re-
covery, but [the results offer]
useful information."
Lynn Franco, director of
the Conference Board, said
the results offer good news
to consumers, explaining that
the index has bounced back
from a fall in June and July.
"The road to recovery is
never smooth," Franco said."The worst of economic times
are behind us, but there's still
a ways to go."
The Florida index conduct-
ed by the UF Bureau of Eco-
nomic and Business Research
showed similar results, with
Florida's confidence index ris-
ing three points to 70.
The rise in confidence is a
result of stock market gains,
rising house prices and a lack
of more setbacks in the na-
tional economy, according to
a release.
Despite overall improved
confidence in the economy,
confidence in some categories
did not rise.
Consumers' perception of
personal finances remained
the same, while willingness
to buy big-ticket items fell by
five points to 72, according to
the Bureau's survey.
"It all depends on whether
or not you are worse off now
than you were a year ago,"
Denslow said. "And of course
you are [worse off]. It will be
a weak recovery. It won't be
vigorous."ACLU met with church leaders
SHIRTS,from page 1
he said, citing conversionof Muslims
from Islam as one of the goals, Jones
said. According to Jones, the phrase
targets Islam because of its growth
in the United States and Europe, but
any religion that does not offer Jesus
as the savior is of the devil, includ-
ing Judaism.
"We are not for any hostility to-
ward the individual; we are against
the religion," he said. "[Some Mus-
lims] may know no better."
But UF Anthropology of Religion
professor Gerald Murray said the
tactic isn't sound.
"You attract more flies with hon-
ey than vinegar, and that's vinegar,"
he said. "If the goal is to win Mus-
lims, this is not the way to go about
it."
Clay Calvert, a First Amendment
expert at UF's Brechner Center, be-
lieves that the T-shirt wearers may
have a case against the school.
"There is no First Amendment
right to not be offended," he said.
The school's dress code states
that students must "wear clothes
and accessories which are not dan-
gerous to health or safety [and] do
not disrupt the learning process."
The Supreme Court has ruled
that wording of this sort is too vague
and that schools must demonstrate
that a message disrupts school, such
as causing fights or school skipping,in order to censor religious or politi-
cal messages, he said.
Calvert suggests an approach
other than censorship.
"Throw more speech out into the
marketplace of ideas," he said. "Put
out an argument to counter theirs if
you don't like it."
But Jackie Johnson, spokes-
woman for Alachua County Public
Schools, said the issue is simple.
"From our point of view, this is a
violation of the dress code like any
other, though it may
Local be receiving more at-
News tention than most,"
she said.
Kenneth Wald, a
politics and religion expert at UF,
said the school system's case is
strong.
"The school is well within their
right," he said. "Legally, I don't
think [the students] have a foot to
stand on."
Wald is harshly critical of the stu-
dents' involvement in the spread of
the church's message.
"When I first heard the story
I thought of it as child abuse and
mind-poisoning," he said.
Wald's criticism was unsurpris-
ing to Jones.
"Of course we expected that to
come up," he said. "That is why we
did try to express to the children
that there would be no consequenc-
es or rewards from us if they went
ahead."
APPY HOUR ALL DAY EVERYDAY!
~ La tin Party P
Turs Aug. 27th E
9pm-2am $5 cover N
y Saturday L
A Thursday A
R sO Oysters at the Oyster Bar Fight Night
Buy One 1/2 lb. Shrimp Aug. 29thS Get One 1/2 lb. FREE No Cover Charge
3,75siBEER * 3507 SW 2nd Ave * CalicoJacks.net * 371-1675
UP is a moving, funny,....n .l- -.6d a strong resume builder.
egin to build your
business experience
To compete in today's job market,
you need experience. The Alligator offers
students just like you that opportunity. As a sales
intern or representative, you will gain valuable sales
experience through personal contact with clients.
You will learn the media business from a hands-on
6~
*V.perspective.
If you can work fall and spring semesters, come
see what makes us a reflection of your college
marlet. You must be enrolled in classes.
Le the Alligator be your first step toward a
I successful future.
Applications are available at The Alligator
Application deadline:
Hi PP IS ANYBODY THERE?
Starring Michael Caine FINAL NIGHT 7 & 9PM
cin ema TETRO The new film by Francis Ford Coppola opens Friday
Tickets and Information 352-375-HIPP I THEHIPPORG
Emily Fuggetta / Alligator Statt
Veterinary technician Lauren MacDonald shaves Luncinda, a feral
cat, before surgery in No More Homeless Pets' Big Fix Rig.THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
AROUND GAINESVILLE
PetSnip helps owners in need
By EMILY FUGGETTA
Alligator Staff Writer
efuggetta@alligator org
Operation PetSnip's surgery
room is only slightly larger than
the average bathroom.
Despite squeezing its entire
operation into a roughly 50-by-
9-foot trailer called the "Big Fix
Rig," No More Homeless Pets'
newest venture has spayed and
neutered more than 105 cats and
dogs since it was stationed out-
side the Alachua County Hu-
mane Society on Aug. 17.
PetSnip, a low-cost service
aimed at low-income pet owners,
runs on goodwill. The "Big Fix
Rig" was donated by the North
Carolina-based Humane Alli-
ance.
Operational costs are drawing
from a $250,000 donation from
local philanthropist Gladys Cof-
rin and a matched amount from
Alachua County.
Cofrin, an animal lover who
has owned and rescued pitbulls
since the 1970s, said she hopes
the grant will help to reduce
the population of dogs and cats,
which is out of control in Alach-
ua county.
According to Animal Services
director David Flagler, AlachuaCounty has worked toward de-
creasing its population of home-
less animals for years but has
exhausted the ideas and funding
for getting animals adopted.
"We've reached the capac-
ity of the adoption efforts," he
said. "At some point, you have to
start targeting the problem at its
source."
"We've reached the capac-
ity of the adoption efforts.
At some point, you have to
start targeting the problem
at its source."
David Flagler
Animal service director of
Alachua County
The Big Fix Rig will remain at
2909 NW Sixth St. until Sept. 1,
when it will relocate to just north
of 39th Avenue on the same street
-the location of the future Hu-
mane Society building.
Operation PetSnip will con-
tinue offering its services from
the rig until the construction of
its permanent clinic is completed
in the Humane Society building,
which is scheduled for 2010, ac-
cording to No More Homeless
Pets clinical operations managerJessica Torrence.
Operation Petsnip performs
spay and neuter surgeries on
cats and dogs under 40 pounds,
but Torrence said dogs over 40
pounds will be welcome as soon
as PetSnip gets equipment that
can handle the extra weight -
hopefully in the next few weeks.
Although other local low-
cost services only accept animals
based on breed or owner income
or location, Operation PetSnip
does not have prerequisites for
surgeries, which cost $40 for cats
and $60 for dogs.
Torrence said people who
can afford standard veterinary
service should continue to go
to their regular clinics in order
to keep space open for those in
need, but they do not require
proof of need.
"You'll always see people tak-
ing advantage," she said, "but
mainly the people who have been
coming in have been those that
do have the need."
Torrence said she can't esti-
mate when the grant will run
out.
"There is money out there to be
had," she said. "But our program
is excellent and necessary. Hope-
fully, people will understand that
and help us keep going."
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009
Editorial
Childish Church
Anti-Islam shirts pathetic
ploy to get attention
he Dove World Outreach Center has already blurred
the lines between a church and a for-profit enterprise
and the lines between a place of "outreach" and a place
that calls for exclusion.
It is now blurring the line between protected free speech
and a classroom disruption.
Students have been sent home from Gainesville public
schools for wearing shirts with the center's "Islam is of the
Devil" slogan. The slogan caused controversy in July when it
appeared on a sign outside the church.
The Dove World Outreach Center has been involved in
shady business from the get-go, with former members of its
academy now coming forward to say they were put to work
for the church's pastor, who used their unpaid labor for his
own profit. After being rebuked for their anti-Islam sign and
embarrassed by the investigation into their business practic-
es, it seems the members of the Dove World Outreach Center
are really pulling for straws, like a painfully unremarkable
middle child pining for attention.
The controlling members of the church are technically
adults, but that hasn't stopped them from behaving like chil-
dren.
Using their offspring to shove hateful messages into the
faces of others is cowardly. Because those bearing the mes-
sage are blameless (or just clearly brainwashed) minors, the
propagators of this speech are protected from direct confron-
tation. Technically, the schools' administrations can't kill
the messengers. Likewise, a person incensed by the message
can't slug a 12-year-old in the face. Freedom of speech does
not mean freedom from the consequences of speech, and by
outsourcing their message onto some pitiable adolescents (or
preadolescents), the members of the Dove World Outreach
Center are also outsourcing the consequences of their ac-
tions.
We are against squelching any kind of personal expres-
sion, but this is a totally different thing from the symbolic
speech protected by the Supreme Court in Tinker v. Des
Moines Independent School District.
Black Panther armbands weren't about hate or violence
but its antithesis, as they called for an end to the Vietnam
War. Those armbands wouldn't offend or distract anyone in
a school unless LBJ's children happened to be in the same
calculus class as the protesters. All these "Islam is of the Dev-
il" shirts do is promote intolerance and discrimination to a
bunch of impressionable children.
The administrations of these schools acted appropriately
in asking the students wearing the "Islam is of the Devil"
t-shirts to cover up. A public school should be a refuge from
religious proclamation and hate speech. If the school officials
did nothing as students openly condemned other students
on the basis of their beliefs, they would be complicit in the
hate speech. This, in turn, would be a total affront to the sep-
aration of church and state.
A church has the right to display a hateful sign in public.
If someone feels strongly about it, they can make their own
sign. (Hey, that's the definition of free speech.) Bringing the
church's hate speech into an educational environment is an
entirely different scenario.
Let's hope that a third controversy will put Pastor Terry
Jones and his army of hate-mongering man-children to bed.
01 the independent floridaalligator
Kristin Bjornsen Allie Conti
EDITOR OPINIONS EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University A e, or send them to PO Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIigato r.org/opinions
Kids, %@or moM
cn't repel
diveristi at a U
cheaper pricelt
C4'
OFi
Column
Obama-Hitler comparison
resident Obama has pushed ahead on a plan tooverhaul the American health-insurance racket,
skipping merrily down a path that tripped up
every Democratic politician since Demosthenes. Select
groups of highly motivated individuals, deeply trou-
bled by this government's foray into health care, have
been so vocal with their displeasure that some of their
vitriol has ended up in my inbox.
Though I have long since become accustomed to a
barrage of alarming e-mails from mysterious people
concerned with the relative size of my genitals and of-
fering great deals on Cialis and Viagra, a recent spate of
startling, non-spam e-mail sent to my account nonethe-
less took me by surprise.
Don't get me wrong -I enjoy a divisive political ar-
gument as much as the next patriot. But I was beginning
to get tired of the comparisons between Adolf Hitler
and Barack Obama.
Hitler forever ruined the tiny mustache look for all
of Western civilization, and he was the person most
responsible for the Holocaust. Obama has not done
anything as reprehensible as these twin crimes against
humanity, though he is guilty of some very reasonable
hubris and seems to detest reading the legislation he
talks up so dreamily.
It turns out I was wrong in dismissing the Hitler-
Obama comparisons so quickly, as one of the angry
e-mails I received sleuthed out a shocking program
hidden somewhere in the health care bill passed by the
House earlier this month.
Everybody knows about Cash for Clunkers, the col-
loquial name for a government program that generated
an avalanche of press coverage and thousands of tenu-H
Tommy Maple
letters@alligator orginaccurate
ous new car loans (as well as mil-
lions in new consumer debt). Ac-
cording to the digital watchdogs,
there is a nefarious plan hatched
by Obama himself to tackle both
the rising obesity levels in our
country and the debt burden fac-
ing each American family.
Cash for Chunkers involves
giving $10,000 to American families who call a govern-
ment hotline and report each family member with a
BMI of 30 or higher.
After a six-month grace period to allow offenders the
chance to slim down, these self-reported violators enter
into a secret government database.
Government agents, possibly conspiring with the
Illuminati, will storm houses known to harbor huge
humans and kidnap everyone who has not shed their
extra heft. These violators will slave off their weight in
government-led work camps aimed at fighting invasive
species. Here in Florida, the bigger amongst us could
be sent to the Everglades to do battle with non-native
snakes and yank out tons of kudzu.
Thankfully, the plans for this offensive and possi-
bly illegal government program have found their way
to my e-mail inbox. Ever vigilant, my digital watchdog
compatriots have sent me the all-knowing light of truth.
And now, dear readers, I hope to inspire you to send
off your own ranting e-mails to your friends and loved
ones. All I ask is that you refrain from sending a copy
to me.
Tommy Maple is an international relations graduate
student. His column appears weekly.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Do you miss
getting The New York Times for
free on campus?Wednesday's question is unavailable
due to technical error.
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
DUI campaign sends wrong message
Drinking and driving is bad -there is
no denying that fact. As somebody who files
claims for an insurance company, I have heard
the horror stories from the victims' families
first-hand. I agree that Fabulous Rides sounds
like a fabulous program and the Student Body
president ought to be commended for trying
to promote awareness of its existence in an ef-
fort to reduce drunken driving. However, his
approach sells the dangers short.
First, his angle is one of selfishness. The
message here isn't that you shouldn't drink
and drive because you could crash your car,
possibly killing yourself, your passengers and
innocent bystanders. Instead, it is sold on the
idea you might avoid a DUI. Your life and the
lives of others are always more important than
your driving record. Additionally, the fact the
launch event is at the biggest watering hole in
town is also irresponsible.
Student Government doesn't belong in the
business of bar advertisement and promo-
tion. Ever. According to the National Council
on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence, heavy
drinkers are eight times more likely than non-
binge drinkers to miss a class, fall behind in
schoolwork, get hurt or injured and damage
property. To promote drinking on a Wednes-
day night under the guise of a new taxi service
misses the mark almost entirely.
Joseph Trimboli
4LSProgress Party shouldn't promote power
I was very disturbed to read in Wednes-
day's Alligator about Progress Party Leader
David Schneider's blatant intellectual dishon-
esty. To say that giving the Student Body pres-
ident the unilateral ability "to create executive
orders to create offices, departments and poli-
cies" would "discourage too much centraliza-
tion of one power," as the article stated, is ex-
actly the opposite of what is going to happen.
This is a shoot-first-ask-questions-later pol-
icy, and it hinges on the idea that the Student
Body president will actually inform the Sen-
ate of everything he's doing or has done in a
timely manner to give them the opportunity
to tell him no. Won't happen. Tuesday night,
the majority party in Senate (Unite) voted to
centralize more power into the executive, also
controlled by the Unite Party. The Progress
Party, who supposedly ran in opposition to
Unite, had its leadership champion this?
Sounds like Unite Lite to me.
Taylor Cinalli
2LS
SG officials shouldn't get perks
Tuesday was a sad day for democracy
within UF Student Government. In that
night's meeting, the Student Senate voted to
keep giving top SG officials perks that are out
of reach for ordinary students. They also ille-gally moved several powers of the Senate to
the Unite-controlled executive branch, essen-
tially creating the new office of Student Body
Dictator.
The worst thing I saw wasn't even the out-
come of the meeting (which, mind you, was
pretty horrible). During a vote on the Parking
Decal Fairness Act, I saw one senator raise his
hand, voting to eliminate wasteful Student
Government perks. However, the Unite Party
member next to him pulled his hand down,
saying that he wasn't supposed to vote that
way. And when one of the majority's own
members stood up to present a compromise,
the Unite Party quickly cut off debate and
voted him down.
The Unite Party controls a massive su-
permajority of the Senate, which they use to
stifle debate and increase their own power.
And when a Unite senator actually tries to
vote with the minority, they are almost always
silenced and probably won't find their names
on the Unite Party slate again.
I urge the Senators of the Unite Party to
be brave and stand up for what they think is
right. It's time the Senate starts working for the
students instead of only working to keep the
majority in power.
Jonathan Ossip
3LS, Murphree Senator,
Orange and Blue Party LeaderSG should bring back New York Times
When I arrived on campus early Monday
morning, I immediately headed to the news-
paper dispensers near Turlington to get my
copy of The New York Times. They only held
copies of USA Today. I assumed that particu-
lar dispenser was simply out of The New York
Times, so I checked the one near Library West.
Again, only USA Today.
I know I'm not the only one on campus
who considers the free copy of The New York
Times to be the highlight of the day. In the
past, copies of The New York Times usually
run out by 11 a.m. at the latest, while copies
of USA Today remain in the stands late into
the evening.
The New York Times is an internationally
respected, educational newspaper, while USA
Today focuses on gossip and dumbs down
the news it does cover. The fact that copies of
The New York Times have been snapped up
so quickly shows that other people on campus
agree with this assessment.
Student Government should bring back
The New York Times. If budget cuts are forc-
ing them to drop one paper, they should drop
USA Today instead.
I miss my paper.
Zoe Ziliak
9LS
U.
Some things you don't
mind waiting by the
mailbox for.
Books are another matter.
At the UF Bookstore,
"in-stock" means in-store,
in your hands today.
*
IffBOOKSTORES
www.ufL bkstr.corm
Museum Road & Reitz Union Drive
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
Find us on Facebook: UF BookstoreTHE TONY'-WINNING REST MUSICAL
ABOUT HOME, FAMILY AND
INDING WHERE YOU BELONG.
ASK
BaC,'DUARKCafhScribe
eTextbooks
PU uS CAT P Go.
Please use trash cans and clean up spills in libraries that allow food.
8, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009
Machen does not plan to relocate the annual UF-Ga. football game
MACHEN, from page 1
as adjusting summer pay rates.
Machen said he would have dealt
with the cuts differently if he had more
control over the budget.
"We still have an incredible state
bureaucracy that tells us how to spend
our money," he said.
For example, he said, in 2007-2008
when UF had to make $47 million in
cuts, the university was also given $62
million in Public Education Capital
Outlay, or PECO, funds designated for
building construction.
"If that had been a pot of money, I
wouldn't have done it that way," he
said. "I would've spent money on the
budget."
Asked about his negotiations with
Jacksonville to limit the availability of
alcohol during festivities at the annual
Florida-Georgia football game, Machen
said his safety concerns aren't enough
for him to lobby for a new location.
Later this fall, he said he plans to
announce an extension of the contract
that calls for the game to be held in
Jacksonville.
I /Alligator Staff He also responded to criticisms
from students, including Student BodyPresident Jordan Johnson, that he is
overstepping his role as president by
trying to regulate the drinking habits
of students during that weekend.
"I don't believe the safety of our
fans and students is outside the realm
of responsibility for a university," Ma-
chen said.
"What we're anxious to do is
get back into a hiring mode."
Bernie Machen
UF president
As for UF's drop in the party-school
rankings, he renewed his objection to
the rankings' validity but said many
people take them seriously, so he's
glad UF is no longer No. 1.
"I had parents ask me at Preview, 'Is
it safe for my son or daughter to come
to the University of Florida if all you
do up here is party?"' he said.
"You know that's not the truth," he
said. "Our kids work very hard, but
the perception is something we have to
deal with."
Discussing his recent trip to Indone-
sia, Machen said he would like to see
more students being traded betweenUF and Indonesian universities, but
acknowledged it might be a long shot.
"The problem is, it's so far and their
country is so poor," he said.
"They have good students, but
they can't afford to come to the U.S.,"
he said. "We're hopeful that the (U.S.)
State Department is gonna increase aid
to Indonesia."
Asked if he had any plans this year
to donate his bonus, assuming the
Board of Trustees approves it, Machen
said he hadn't made any plans yet.
"I don't make a decision until I have
something to decide," he said.
In December, Machen pledged to
donate his $285,000 to the Florida Op-
portunity Scholars Program, a scholar-
ship for low-income, first-generation
college students.
Earlier this month, football coach
Urban Meyer signed a new contract
that included a $1 million donation to
the program over six years.
Machen said if freshmen could learn
one thing by the time they leave here,
it should be "how to think and how the
world is not a simple little place, that
it's a big, complex world and they're
gonna have to be adaptive to be suc-
cessful."
Fabulous Rides will offer free services to students until Saturday
PARTY, from page 1
Director for SG.
Somerstein said the program aims to
make students aware of all the alternative
forms of transportation available to them.
Mark McShera, a former Orange and Blueparty senator, said he wished the event also tor of marketing and innovation of Fabulous Tara Blaylock, a psychology senior, said
focused on decreasing injuries on the roads, Rides. she thought the wristbands advertising
not just preventing DUIs. Local Hamel said he hopes the Fabulous Rides were an effective marketing
Students aged 21 and older received News new service will prevent stu- ploy.
white wristbands outside The Swamp along dents from facing the pressure "They're off to a good start," she said.
with a reservation ticket with their request- that comes with wondering if they are sober Students interested in using the Fabulous
ed ride time, said Jeremy Hamel, the direc- enough to drive. Rides service can call 1-866-448-RIDE.
Want to
make a
Difference?
Become a
Crisis Line
Counselor
For the
Alachua County
Crisis Center
Training begins
September 12, 2009
Contact Ali Martinez
352-264-6782
amartinez@
alachuacounty.usGENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF any one GNC Product
Cannotbecombined.OneCouponpercustomer 043914 SW Archer Rd 4Daily Sgeaals 37 6020 Exp9/30/09 41
ADVERTISING
Contact us at [352] 376.4482.
southwest grill"
Monday-Friday
10:30am-9:OOpm
Saturday-Sunday
11:OOam-9:OOpmunlock yoUR IsReading s71
Improve your reading,
spelling, and writing.
Reading Class for Adults
Monday -Thursday
5:30-7:30PM
Research Proven Treatment
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 i5930SWArcher Rd
into(dimorriscenters.com
O-cIjistoo
Monday-Thursday
10:3Oam-9:OOpm
Friday
1 O:30am-3:OOpm
Saturday-Sunday
11 "-":"n"mUF President Bernie Machen.
Here on Campus!HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
' rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
0 * BlueCross BlueShieldof Florida
F ,rd,,ber:3- ,373-0775
Form Number: 18533-599SU 3669 S.W. 2nd AvenueCheck it out at
a E Qrs alligatorSports.org
or subscribe onTune in for the latest Gators sports iTunes.news and analysis from our beat
writers and columnists. alligator
theAvenue thursday, august 27, 2009
Tucker Max premieres new film
Tucker Max answers questions from a crowd at the premier of "I Hope They Serve Beer in Hell," a film
based on his book of the same name at Trademark Cinemas Gator 4 Monday night.
page 1THIS WEEK:
PG 10: Free concert on campus
Saturday with Citizen Cope and
The Whigs
PG 11: Review of the trailer for
Burton's Alice in Wonderlan
ONLINE: Look out for blogs
featuring more fashion, sex and
cooking tips
www.alligator.org/avenue
REGULA RS:
SEX: Tricks to spice up a monoto-
nous sex life, page 10
FASHION: Street style on cam-
pus, page 1 3
COMING UP:
Check out recipes for game day
meals and a review of the new
art exhibit at the Harn
Already drained from the first
week of school? Take advan-
tage of the weekend and plan
a roadtrip to kick off the se-
mester. The beach is only a few
hours away, and you can per-
fect the tan you were attempt-
ing to get all summer.
LC pI
Local pizza shops offer originality, culture to dining
By ALEX ORLANDO
avenue writer
With college students scarfing
down pizza faster than the average
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle, the pizza
market is thriving in Gainesville.
Some go for the cheap, quick and
easy service at franchise pizza shops,
but others prefer to linger a while and
soak in the culture at Gainesville's in-
dependent pizzerias.
In the seaweed green, wood-frame
building on Northwest 13th Street, lo-
cals have been eating pizza on and off
for more than half a century. Duane's
Original Pizza Palace, first opened in
1953, has been serving people of all
dietary needs since it reopened under
new management in 2008.
"We're all mad about food," said
Duane Olson, owner and operator of
the Original Pizza Palace, affection-
ately known by locals as OPP.
With a mostly organic menu, many
of the ingredients for pizzas and break-fast items -including yogurt, jam,
granola, cheese and half and half -
are produced either locally or on site,
and OPP is set to handle most dietary
needs, according to Olson.
But food preference isn't the only
thing that OPP tries to accommodate.
The restaurant also strives to embody
the personality of Gainesville.
"It's very homey, but it's Gainesville
home-style," manager Ariel Koller-
Faloom said. "Earthy, crunchy, indie,
hipster, Gainesville home-style."
Even some of the menu items re-
flect the culture of the town.
"We serve Bageland bagels be-
cause it's old-school Gainesville,"
Olson said. "We get our food from
people we like."
Olson also showcases the town's
culture by displaying paintings, photos
and stained glass from local artists on
the walls. Local musicians and sing-
ers, such as Anna Marie and Friends
and Rashon Medlock, are invited to
perform in the restaurant three timesa week with music ranging from man-
dolin to pop.
Regulars Patt and Suzanne Crews
have been coming on dates to OPP
since the '70s. Suzanne remembers
eating there with her parents when
she was a kid.
"It was the only place to go back in
the day," she said.
It's no surprise that Patt and Su-
zanne also remember dining down the
street at Leonardo's Pizza on Univer-
sity Avenue.
"I'd like to think everyone who
grows up in Gainesville has been to
Leonardo's," owner Steve Solomon
said.
Both of the Crewses remember
eating Leonardo's Pizza since the res-
taurant opened in 1973 and said they
loved the Chicago-style pizza, chunky
tomatoes and pizza sauce.
"Killer sauce taste, that's what
Leo's is all about," Suzanne said.
But Solomon attributes more than
just sauce to the steady flow of cus-tomers. He said it's the serving size
and innovative ingredients that keeps
them coming back.
"When we came to Gainesville
[from Chicago], people sold pizza that
was round and you could only buy the
whole thing. We changed all that,"
Solomon said.
The pizzeria now serves pizza by
the slice baked in a brick oven and
in different shapes: square, triangle,
even heart-shaped on Valentine's
Day.
With toppings ranging from Thai
chicken and curry to gefilte fish with
matzo dough crust, Solomon said he
prides himself in keeping the menu
interesting.
"Kids grow up today with so much
corporate food in their diet," he said.
"You wonder if a person who works
at Domino's [Pizza] actually eats that
crap."
He said his refusal to give up qual-
ity of the pizza ingredients and person-
al interaction for timeliness is key. Heuses locally grown foods and selects
employees who will personally benefit
from working there.
Satchel's Pizza, 800 NE 23rd Ave.,
also plays to the college and commu-
nity's fun-loving and progressive over-
tones, owner and creator Satchel Raye
said.
He said he gets a mix of college
students and seniors, but mostly lo-
cal families, which is why business
doesn't slow down over summer.
Raye said the playgrounds and
novelty toy store, Lightnin' Salvage,
behind the restaurant tweaks that
childlike sense of fun.
"I think Gainesville's a very liberal
type of place," Raye said. "Being a
college town, it has a very progressive
feel.
It's this philosophy, along with the
college mindset, that has students
coming through the doors, despite its
out-of-the-way location, he said.
"What's a more quintessential col-
lege food than pizza?" Raye said.
10, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009
Change of sc
By MEAGAN McGONE
avenue writer
Break up boredom in the bedroom.
A friend once said to me that being with the
same person for a while feels like eating chicken
for dinner every single night. Sure, she may think
about steak while she's at work. Sure, she may
contemplate giving in to her cravings for that en-
ticing slice of pizza after a drunken night at the
bars. At the end of the day though, she must
come home to that trusty piece of chicken.
All food references aside, the point is that sex
with the same person can get a little monotonous
after a while. The initial attraction and excitement
that boiled in the beginning is now down to a
simmer. You've already discovered every part ofenery, lingerie
each other's bodies, and you know exactly what
positions will get the job done.
Besides the whole obvious reproducing as-
pect, sex is meant to be passionate and fresh, a
way to communicate with your partner in a man-
ner that only the two of you can experience. How
much communication can happen in a two-min-
ute fit of thrustingthat ends in both of you turning
your separate ways and falling asleep?
Don't worry if this sounds all too familiar.
There are easy fixes, and the first one is called
Victoria's Secret.
For women, slipping into a racy outfit that
molds to your body and accentuates your curves
will bring out your most powerful weapon in bed-
confidence. Lingerie allows you to feel sexy and
present yourself to your man like a gift. Don't bespices up rem
intimidated by the hefty
purchase; the image
you'll leave in his mind
will be worth replacing a
few meals with Ramen
noodles.
If you want to go a
Meagan cheaper route, teasing is
a great way to spice upMcGone your sex life. Send her a
Columnist text while she's in class
detailing your favorite
parts of last night or give him a preview before he
goes to work of what he's going to get when he
comes home. The forbidden feeling will drive you
both crazy all day, making sex that much better
all night.tionships
Even a change of scenery is always nice; sex
does not need to be limited to the bed. Surprise
your partner byjumping into a shower together. If
you are sick of the bedroom, try the kitchen. Just
be sure to sanitize it after for your roommate's
sake.
Finally, let loose. Say what you are thinking
and do what you want to do. Role play, try dif-
ferent positions, and don't be afraid to get loud
and kinky. Even bring out some wine, as long as
the liquid courage doesn't result in a screaming
match or cry fest.
Consider sex as an art in which you can ex-
press yourself and just relax and let passion lead
the way.
After all, aren't there a thousand different
ways to cook a piece of chicken?
Citizen Cope, The Whigs concert kicks off semester
By KARINA GALVEZ
avenue writer
The sounds of The Whigs and Citi-
zen Cope will echo from Flavet Field on
Saturday night as the bands kick off
the grand opening of the field's new
Bandshell.
The field, on Woodland Drive be-
tween Stadium and Museum roads on
campus, will reopen its performance
area after making necessary safety
regulation improvements.
%YEAR IARANTEE
Butler Plaza Newberry Square
335-1232 332-3937
Smile.
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
ABiotest
From hNature for Life
1112 N. Main St.
GainesvilLe, FL 32601
352-378-9431The Whigs, currently on tour with
Kings of Leon, will open for Citizen
Cope at 7 p.m., and the show will go
on until 10 p.m. The concert, which is
free for students and the Gainesville
community, is expected to entertain a
crowd of about 3,000.
Student Government Productions
is expecting costs of about $60,000 to
$70,000, a number that significantly
decreased after determiningthe band-
shell would reopen in time.
"We really lucked out because theBandshell was completed," said Aaron
Crespin, SGP chairman. "We didn't
have to provide
temporary staging
and we were able
to cut costs."
Citizen Cope,
who is set to re-
W lease an album in
February 2010, is
known for his raspy voice and soothing
mix of jazz, R&B and hip-hop-a sound
completely different from The Whigs'garage band, punk-rock sound.
"We are expecting a very diverse,
very exciting crowd," said Jennifer Lett-
man, SGP spokeswoman.
To select the bands, SGP Chairman
Aaron Crespin said the organization
placed polls and questionnaires on
its Facebook group asking members
which bands they would like to see.
"We try to put on as many and as
diverse events as possible," said Cre-
spin. "The indie/alternative rock selec-
tion is hitting a certain genre."SGP spent the week promoting the
concert on campus in the Turlington
area and the Plaza of the Americas, as
well as at local venues such as Moth-
er's Pub & Grill and The Swamp Res-
taurant. It will continue promoting the
event tonight at 2nd Street Speakeasy
and Friday at Skyy.
"Everyone heard their music on
their iPods and on the radio," said
Melanie Lyon, SGP administrative as-
sistant. "It's going to be really cool to
see them in concert."
ITr071_M9hi
co~www.cox.com/gators * 1-866-463-6714
Tucker Max scores in Gainesville
By ASHLEY ROSS
avenue writer
Raise your hand if you've slept
with a midget, a deaf girl and an am-
putee. Anyone? Oh yes, in the back of
the class, Mr. Tucker Max.
Max's movie, "I Hope They Serve
Beer in Hell," based on the New York
Times bestseller, premiered Monday
night at Gator Cinemas. Gainesville is
one of 31 stops on Max's movie pre-
miere tour before the film opens na-
tionwide on September 25.
But the premiere didn't just in-
clude a screening; it also included
a question-and-answer session with
Max and his co-writer, Nils Parker,
and swag bags for all viewers that
included a beer glass, movie poster,
bumper sticker, bottle opener key-
chain and wristband.
Max stopped in Gainesville just
after premiering the film in Tallahas-
see.
"Those FSU girls take it out of you,"
he said sipping out of a red Solo cup.
"They steal part of your soul."
Before the movie started, Max
asked audience members for their
best, most ludicrous sex stories.
Though there's no way to tell if they're
true or not, there was everything from
tag-teaming a girl in the back of a
hearse on Valentine's Day to a guy
who was caught losing his virginity by
his girlfriend's Amish father-
"How do you even spit game to
an Amish girl," Max asked. "I'll churn
your butter?"
Max's fame stems from his book,
a compilation of 27 ridiculous and
hilarious stories involving outrageous
amounts of alcohol, inappropriate ac-
tions and more sex "than is safe or
reasonable."But the book is only a small slice
of who Max really is; the movie shows
more.
The film follows Tucker (Matt
Czuchry, Gilmore Girls), Dan (Geoff
Stults, The Break-Up, Wedding Crash-
ers) and Drew (Jesse Bradford, Bring
it On, Swimfan) as they venture on an
impromptu bachelor party trip. Tucker
ends up dragging Dan into a lie with
his fianc6e and abandons his friends
to pursue a -let's just say, unique -
sexual interest and is forced to bal-
ance his selfish narcissism with what
it takes to be a true friend.
"The book is about being funny
and entertaining," Max said. "The
movie shows a different side of me,
how my personality traits impact my
friends."
While the movie does tell a great
story of three friends,
New it's jam-packed with
* nudity, raunchiness,
vulgar language, hilari-
ous dialogue and an
epic diarrhea scene.
The movie's humor is very simi-
lar to that of this summer's highest
grossing R-rated comedy,"The Hang-
over," but viewers on Monday said
they thought Max's movie was even
funnier. Stults was actually offered
Doug Bartha's role in "The Hangover,"
but turned it down for "I Hope They
Serve Beer in Hell."
Max thinks a big part of why the
movie works so well is because
Czuchry really nailed the character.
Big names like Wilder Valderrama
and Justin Timberlake were thrown
around for the part, but Czuchry truly
"channeled [Max's] oblique disregard
of other people's feelings" to master
the role.
In fact, Max said Czuchry createda more likable character out of Tucker
Max.
"He made me a better me," he
said. "I feel like he can take the char-
acter and go places where maybe I'm
not going to go in real life."
Although Max is known as a hor-
rible person who's mastered the art
of misogyny, he's not as much of a
douchebag as everyone thinks. Tuck-
er Max actually has a heart; he just
hasn't grown up. Yet.
"No question I want a wife and
kids. How [crappy] would it be to go
through your whole life single with no
one to love who loves you? I absolute-
ly want that, I just don't think today,
right now, I'm quite ready," he said.
And he is definitely not ready con-
sidering his first blog post after leav-
ing Gainesville was titled "I Scored in
the Swamp." The post described how
he snuck into Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
and had sex with a girl in the south
end zone underneath the national
championship signs. There are even
pictures to prove it.
His actions may seem disrespect-
ful, but Max has nothing but good
things to say about the Gators.
"To every other team in the SEC:
You are welcome to bask in the glow
of this score also, because it will prob-
ably be the only one any of us get on
UF this year."
Max, who graduated summa cum
laude from the University of Chicago
in 1998 and then went on to get his
JD from Duke Law School, is nearly
finished with his second book and
said he has plans for a sequel, which
would be set in law school.
To follow the rest of his tour or for
more information on the movie, go to
www.ihopetheyservebeerinhell.com.THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009 *ALLIGATOR, 11
First glance at
new Wonder-
land trailer
By JON SILMAN
avenue writer
At the intersection of expectation and reality you
can sometimes end up at disappointment street.
You can look forward to something so much that it
will never live up to the idea you had in your brain. A
shame, really.
I know you don't want to count your chickens
before they hatch, or your Cheshire cats or whatever,
but the trailer for the new Tim Burton film "Alice in
Wonderland" left me a bit underwhelmed. Before
you scream "off with my head" or any other "Alice"
colloquialism, understand this: I just don't want to be
let down again.
At first glance, the trailer looks enticing enough.
The mood set by the dark walk through the forest is
engaging, but the furniture looks fairly fake in the fall
through the rabbit hole.
Also, there are some hair issues. I'm no physics
major, but I'm pretty sure hair will fly upward as you
fall down. If this were any other director, it wouldn't
be a problem. But this is Tim Burton, the master of
the macabre, the gleeful ghost
of Gothic ghoulishness. The guy
brought us "The Nightmare Before
Christmas," a classic. I expect
more.
The checkered floor, the clear
liquid in the glass vial, it all seems
so ordinary, and so. expected.
It's as if I could close my eyes
Jon Silman and imagine the whole movie.
I don't want to do that. I want
to be shocked and breathless,
something that only a good trailer can do. I want to
salivate and be unable to contain my fervent desire.
In Burton's defense, he admits that the film is not
quite yet ready. In an interview with film site rotten-
tomatoes.com, he said, "I'll be working up until the
end. It's a weird process, because we're using so
many different techniques, it takes a very long time
to get to a finished shot, so I have very few finished
shots, if any. And it comes out in March. So there's a
lot of work to do, but a lot of it will come together at
the end. It's a bit scary, but it's exciting as well."
This brings up the question as to why the trailer is
out in the first place. Two years ago, the trailer for
"Iron Man" debuted at Comic-Con 2007 and created
an Internet sensation. I would have put off surgery to
see that movie. Was this a similar ploy? If it was, or
is, it's misguided to say the least.
Also, I am forced to deal with the sad, sobering
truth that a Johnny Depp movie does not mean a
good movie. Evidence: "Public Enemies." This movie
had everything going for it. Two of the world's biggest
movie stars, a real-life American outlaw story and the
director of "Heat," "Ali" and "The Aviator."
However, it stank worse than a nursing home with
a shortage of adult diapers. I was contemplating if
the theater stairs were enough to tumble me to my
death.
Bottom line: the trailer is lame, but I won't give up
hope. I honestly thought that "Pirates of the Carib-
bean" looked about as exciting as a math club get
together. But I was pleasantly surprised, blown away
really, at the sheer amount of awesome that was
packed into that movie.
So yes, I guess I do have a very important date to
keep. I just don't want to be disappointed.
Juliana Jimenez/ Alligator Staff
Tucker Max (right) signed autographs for fans after the screening.
12, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009 AUGUST 27, 2009
Cafe Gardens
Cafe Gardens has been just
across from campus since
1976. This quaint landmark
establishment with award
winning courtyard dining
is perfect for any date or
gathering. Open 7 days. For live
music schedule, call 376-2233.
Hours: Mon-Wed llam-lopm,
Thurs -Sat 1lam-llpm Sun
Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave
Gator Dawgs
Check us out. We have over
20 styles of hot dogs to choose
from. Chicago style, a frito dog,
a Colombia dog, etc. and we
come up with new ones all the
time. Our burgers are prepared
fresh daily and cooked to order.
Our deli sandwiches come with
over pd of meat and your
choice of toppings. We serve
beer, too. For delivery or to see
our full menu -check us out at
GatorDawgs.com
We are located at 1023 W.
University Ave. 378-4353 Call
ahead for pickup.
Peach Valley Cafe
Experience the freshness in
everything we do. Open daily
from 7a.m. to 8p.m. We have a
fill menu ranging from Orchard
fresh Apple Fritters to fried
artichokes and Lobster bites.
Breakfast is served all day here
at Peach Valley Cafe including
Gainesville's best fresh Omelets
and Benedicts; mouth watering
Sausage Gravy and Biscuits,
and yes, Mammoth Pancakes
and waffles. Lunch and dinner
are also available any time
with bountiful salads, fresh
sandwiches, Pot Roast and
don't forget to ask your server
about our shrimp-n-grits
(wonderful). We are located ay
3275 SW 34th Street directly
behind Hooter's (352) 376-
1834.
Liquid Ginger Asian
Grille & Teahouse
101 SE 2nd Pl. (behind
Hippodrome Theater
Downtown) Offering Asian
Fusion Cuisine in a relaxing
atmosphere. Wed and Thurs
night $5 martinis. Open for
lunch: Mon-Fri 11:30-2:30 Sun
12-5 and dinner Sun-Thurs
S-l0pm Fri-Satp.-10:3Opm.
Call 371-2323 for a reservation.43rd Street Deli and
Breakfast House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to
for over 25 years-we probably
served your parents! Biggest
4-egg omelette, French toast,
and daily specials. Not full yet?
Have lunch with us & enjoy a
large selection of sandwiches,
the best Reuben, gyros &
soup all at a reasonable price.
Vegetarian? Not a problem. We
have a selection that is sure
to fulfill your needs. We now
offer free WiFi! Open Monday-
Sunday lam-3pm.
4401 NW 25th Place 373-2927.
3483 Williston Rd 373-5656
conveniently located off 1-75.
Bagels Unlimited
Serving Gainesville for over
25 years. BU is a tradition of
sorts. We offer many breakfast
platters cooked fresh, featuring
omelettes, eggs any style, large
pancakes, French Toast, Knishes,
17 varieties of bagels and a large
assortment of spreads. Also
available are tofu and tempeh.
Over 100 bottles of hot sauces
are available for sampling.
1222 West University Ave.
Open everyday from 6:30am-
3pm.
Golden Buddha
Where eating well means eating
healthy.Gainesville's best
Chinese food. Now with more
sizes available with more vegan
options. As always, generous
portions, fast service & super
lunch/dinner combos. FREE
DELIVERY.
613 NW 16th Ave. 372-4282 or
380-9076. Full menu and specials
@ GoldenBuddhaSpecial.com
@ 9MV
Maude's Classic
Cof fee
A gourmet coffee shoppe with
a wide array of desserts and
treats made daily. We also
serve delicious sandwiches,
salads, appetizers, beer, & wine.
Much of our menu is vegan orin Gumm To
NI N,\K EMN
vegetarian friendly. Bring your
own CLEAN 12 oz. cup and get
a daily brew for a buck. Indoor
and outdoor seating available.
Free wireless and parking
behind the building. Downtown
Gainesville 336-9646.
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301
The Melting Pot
Your fondue experience.
Attentive service, fine
wines, the highest quality
fresh ingredients, a variety
of cooking styles, unique
sauces, your favorite chocolate
fondue. Dip into something
different. Located at 418 E.
University Ave.
(352)372-5623
D'Lites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
d'licious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly
without the diet taste. We also
feature a whole array of cookies,
chips, and various grocery treats
that appeal to Atkins, Weight
Watchers, and other dieters.
Our every day daily specials
make shopping at D'Lites a
special value! Come weigh your
options at the Marketplace Plaza
at NW 16th Blvd. and 43rd St.
(next to the Hollywood Video)
or at the Shoppes of Williston at
S.W. 34th Street and Williston
Rd. (next to Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair
ice cream, coffee, desserts,
beer, with lots of vegan op
Now open 24 hours. Free '
Located 2 blocks east of ca
at 1025W. University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogi
Try our premium self-serv
frozen yogurt as a healthy
dessert alternative. Our yo
has 0% fat and contains liv
and active cultures. ChoosE
any combination of 8 differ
flavors and over 30 toppin
Everything for just 45 cents
ounce. 3841 SW Archer Rd
to Bento Red) Open from n
to midnight daily!
TCBY
Please visit one of our 3
locations to enjoy real froz
yogurt products. Our low c
and low-fat soft serve is yo
healthiest choice in Gaines
and it tastes great too. Waf
Cone Wednesday from 5-8
and half-off smoothies front
5-6p.m. every day! Locatio
at 34th Street next to Crisp
Thornebrook Village at 43r
Street and Town of Tioga.I
us one Facebook and follow
on Twitter at "TCBYgaines
Manuel's Vintage
Room
This family owned restaur
is perfect for dinner any d
the week. Come in and ch
out one of the best wine li
town. Ask questions and 1
while you wait for the che
put out nothing but goodn
from the kitchen using fre:
simple, and local ingredier
Try the Early Dinner Sund,
Tuesday-Thursday 5-7pm.
wines/$10 bottles. $10 Me
Ask about our Monday Wi
Dinners and private parties
lunch or dinner. 6 South Tv
St. (352)375-7372
Ristorante Denenc
With new ownership at th
helm, Deneno is presentin
great Italian food in nearby'
Alachua. Worth the drive!Open for lunch Tues-Fri 11-2.
trade Dinner Tues-Sun starting at
and 5pm. Happy Hour Tues-Fri S-7.
tons. Every Tuesday is 1/2 off bottles
WtiFi! of wine. 14960 Main Street,
mpus Alachua. 386-418-1066
urt Caribbean Queen
e Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
and oxtail. Opened Mon thru
gurt Thurs 1lam-7:30pm, Fri and Sat
ve 11am-11:45pm.
e Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
rent 352-374-8111
,gs.
s an
(next
ioon Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a
en hip, trendy atmosphere. Two
alorie great locations with outside
)ur eating. Open every day for carry-ville, out or dine-in. Call our Newberryfle Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
p.m-
-n Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.
)ers,
d
Find Cabana Cove
w us Key West Grilleville" Open for Lunch & Dinner
$6.99 Daily Lunch Specials
Happy Hour 4pm-7pm w/
$12.50 Buckets of ANY beer
Check Out Our New & Exciting
Menu & Expanded
ant Sunday Brunch Menu
ay of $4 Martini Menu Wednesdays
eck $4 Mojito Menu Thursdays
sts in
earn $5 off next $25 purchase
f to With This Ad
ess
sh, 352-377-3278
ts www.cabanacove.net
lay, 2410 NW 43rd St.
$3 Gainesville, Fl. 32606
nu. Located Behind Garden
-ine Gate Nursery
s for
.ain
e
glate hours, you're sure to hit the
spot whether it's lunch, dinner
or snacktime. Don't forget to ask
abt our specials & catering!
352-376-7600
409 SW 8th st (behind the
quikstop) Check our our menu
@menuwall.com
Green Plantains
Happy Hour $2.75
Drink + Appetizer from 3-7pm.
$5 To-Go Dinners. Mon-Sat
from 4pm. Don't miss out $4.95
dinner + soda on Thursday,
student night from 4pm-l0pm.
Visit us at 5150 SW 34th Street
at the new Publix Shopping
Center 7 days a week.
We cater. Check us out on
GatorFood.com 352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.com
Mildred's Big City
Food
Eat Gainesville's Best Food at
Mildred's. We support LOCAL
and SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh Dishes
Made From Scratch!
OPEN SUNDAYS!
CONVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371-1711
MildredsBigCityFood.com
New Deal Caf 6
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burgers! This 12oz.
Goliath is Naturally Aged and
Fresh Ground. MONSTROUS
Desserts. HUGE Martinis.
A Diamond in the Ruff!
Mon-Thurs. 11am-10pm
Fri-Sat. llam-llpm
371-4418
Located next door to Mildred'sthe independent florida
SaBaBa
Only a few short blocks from UF,
you can experience a fusion of
fresh Middle eastern food & great
homestyle cooking! Our grocery
features unique products from
Israel & more. With our Kosher
menu, vegan/veggie options, &Ti Rmo!
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine
agrees, "[the chef] adds visual
flair to every dish to make it as
good-looking as it is flavorful."
NEW Happy Hour Specials!
Every day from 4pm-7pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices &
terrific service.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.
com
12 SE 2nd Ave. 378-6307
Mellow Mushroom
Shroomin' Student Specials
DOLLAR DRAFTS
14" Pizza $9.99
$3 Jager Meister
Happy Hour 3-7
All Apps Price
All Mixed Drinks 2-4-1
Order Online @
mellowmushroom .com
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta, & desserts. All you
can eat buffet available!
Outdoor dining. Visit www.
newyorkpizzaplus.com for
coupons. We Deliver!
490 NE 23rd Ave. 377-2542
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade,
meals, sandwiches, soups,
home-baked desserts. Brunch
Weekends. Specials: Cupcake
Mon., Southern Cooking Tues.,
Greek Wed 6pm, Ethiopian
Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 10am-Spm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
Saigon Legend
Delicious traditional Vietnamese
cuisine with popular Asian
favorites. Pho, Banh-Cuon,
Banh Xeo, Banh Tom Ha-Woi.
Enjoy great food at great prices.
Big new room! Family owned
restaurant. Next to HolidaykInn
Downtown. Dine in or take
out. Catering available. Mon-Sat
10:30am-9:30pm, Sun 11:30am-
9pm
374-0934 1228 W Univ AveMossPhoto by Lane Nieset
Sophomore Ching-Ya Ni, 19, poses on campus wearing a layered bohemian outfit
consisting of a floral top, knit vest and jean shorts
job leads to guilty conscience
By ERIK VOSS
avenue writer
From the moment we're born, we're all
guilty of something.
As infants we were guilty of waking up
our parents at night, vomiting on their
clothes and forcing them to dispose of
our feces. Like drunk roommates.
Over time, guilt evolves. This summer,
for example, I worked as an intern for
my hometown's state attorney. After
spending a few months herding soci-
ety into two groups -"guilty" and "not
[yet] guilty" -some of the guilt rubbed
off on me.
My job was to track down people who
had written worthless checks and
scare them into paying them. I had to
read from a scriptfull ofavaguely threat-
ening words like "capias."
Capiases are the hall monitors of legal
citations: their bark is worse than their
bite.
Attorneys, much like the street gangs
they prosecute, wield words as weap-ons. Though while one group sprays
their lexicon in paint on railroad cars,
the other group's medium is an intern
with severe phone anxiety.
"Ma'am, I know the check was for only
$3.72," stuttered the arthritic arm of
the law, "but it's still a misdemeanor in
the state of Florida.
Please stop laugh-
ing."
As casual tourists
to the criminal un-
derworld, worth-
less check writers
belong to a rich cor-
nucopia of society.
These people enter battle armed with
a variety of excuses, sharing their per-
sonal drama with me as if I were their
manicurist.
"Sir, I strongly doubt the mailman has
been stealing our letters to you be-
cause he hates your Chihuahua."
"No ma'am, we haven't found the man
who made you write him a check atgunpoint."
"You probably shouldn't tell the state
attorney's office you needed moneyfor
marijuana."
Of course, many of the offenders were
good people who faced tough times
and needed cash for groceries or rent,
but it wasn't my job to discriminate -
only intimidate.
"We're gonna throw you behind bars,
Grandpa! Try sending your grand-
daughter birthday checks while Big
Bruce is checking your prostate in the
showers!"
In reality, I never worked up the cour-
age to call elderly offenders, worried
the discussion would result in another
addition to the "deceased" bin. I left
those files untouched, knowing they
would later be discovered by a more
ambitious and blood-thirsty intern who
would gladly yank the walker from that
poor old grandpa.
Maybe I should just write him a bad
check. At least then I'd feel less guilty.THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009*4ALLIGATOR, 13
Street style on campus
Layering creates new look for old clothing
By Lane Nieset
avenue editor
Ching-Ya Ni, 19, a UF sophomore,
masters the art of boho chic in this
fun and versatile school ensemble.
Her layered look adds new flair to
pieces found in her closet. Ni says
she doesn't follow trends, but she
can'twaitto pull out herfall clothing
this season. Try lookingthrough your
closet and pairing clothing together
in new ways to create a look for fall.
Adding colored tights underneath
flowing dresses or shorts takes a
summer look and transforms it for
the winter. Also, play with different
sizes of belts and boots to add a
little edge to the ensemble. Mix and
match different accessories that will
keep your outfits looking fresh for
the entire season.
Looking forward to most
about fall:
"Boots, boots, boots."
Favorite accessory to wear to
school:
hats, particularly berets
What she's wearing:
clothing from Forever 21, purse
from Urban Thread, an old mini
dress worn as a vest and a top that
is actually a skirt
Style icon:
Kate Moss
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished furnished furnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
LIVE FOR $319!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
*TheLandingsUF.com 336-3838
.3801 SW 13 St
12-9-75-1
SUPER HERO SAVINGS
HULK-Smashing Prices!
As Low As $299/person!
3515 SW 39th Blvd
Let Greenwich save you Green! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1L}The ,g
at Santa Fe
Walk to Santa Fe College!!!
Limited Time Only
Rates starting at $399 or
Receive a $1000 rebate check on us!
4/4's or Brand New 3/3's!
Fully Furnished, Free Ethernet
Free Cable and Utilities
Roommate Matching, Free Tanning!
352-379-9300 www.thecrossingatsantafe.com
12-9-75-1
STARTING @ $369
$0 to sign, 4 more info text
LEXINGTON to 25278
ALL INCLUSIVE & FURNISHED
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-12 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
Female roommates needed for 3/3 @
Windsor Park, own bed/bath, washer/dryer,
near 34th & Archer. Close to UF on bus stop,
pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $420, inc. utili-
ties. Prefer clean & studious. 407-361-1154
8-28-09-46-1
350/mo Countryside @ the University 4/4
with W/D Newly remodeled. Furnished. Call
352-274-3089 or email
redfox8979@gmail.com
8-28-30-1
Three bedroom out of four are available for
rent, furnished with utilities included. Near
UF and Shands, $400.00 a month. Call 352-
795-1870 or 352-266-4114. 9-3-09-30-1
Rooms for Rent- UF students pref
$325/mo + 1/3 of the bills/room/tenant
3BR/3BA, $300 sec dep. 1 Yr lease Aug 1st,
09 -July 31st '10 Call for info 386-445-0043
8-28-09-27-1
$295/Rm Univ Commons 4BR/2BA Privately
owned = rent below mgmt company's rate !
Fully furnished, full size washer and dryer,
quiet 3rd floor with balcony. Free cable TV w/
HBO. Also on 5 bus routes. $50/month utili-
ties. No Pets. Brad @ 813-854-5628 or
bkseshep@tampabay.rr.com 8-31-09-16-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-1
*$350 for a room, meals & convenience*
One block N of UF campus. Includes utilities,
laundry room, computer lab and parking.
Fall/Spring leases for a shared dormitory.
352.377.4269 www.cloliving.org 117 nw 15 st
8-28-09-17-1
WWW.TheFloridaRenterslnsurance.COM
Renters Insurance from $9 per month
Online Quotes 9-16-09-31-1Univ. Terr. Gainesville, 3921 SW 34th st., 1st
fir., 4 bd, 4 ba, cent A/C, cable, wash., dry.,
full kitch., Sept rent free! $300/mo.ea., $25/
person finders fee, owner/manager/gaines-
ville Immediate occupancy. 352-472-9778
9-4-09-27-1
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Beautiful 3/3 condo
Windsor Park, dir on bus route, new furn.,
beaut. remod. bathrooms and hardwood
floors, upstairs, front bldg, 1300/mo, 772-
349-3221, bdduf86@comcast.net 9-23-
09-30-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
BEAUTIFUL 7TH STREET STATION
TOWNHOUSE. Close to UF. 2BR/2pvt BA +
1/2 BA. New floor & carpet. Secure parking.
$815/mo. Please call 407-227-7223 8-28-
09-10-1
Oxford Terrace-Private bed/bath in big 4/4.
Rent includes: wi-ficable, utilities & w/d in
unit. No sm or pets, M or F welcome.
407-774-7176 or beweiss59@hotmail.com
Clean / Ready to move-in! 8-28-09-9-1
2 RM for Rent in 4BR Spacious House across
from UF Track. Wi-Fi, HBO, DW, W/D, hard-
wood floors in room. 2min walk to bus route.
Utilities included in rent. $500-$550. 352-
653-0397 or hpeta@ufl.edu 8-27-7-1
PROF/GRAD STUDENT. All Amenities.
Studious & quiet. Safe & secure. $350/mo.
Leave message 333-8300. 9-4-09-14-1
lbr/lba in 4/4 luxury condo $410/mth,
all inclusive (utilities, internet, tv, phone,
washer/dryer), fully furnitured. very close to
campus. contact 352-235-4762 or
toxapheneufl@yahoo.com 9-16-20-1
******* University Terrace West *******
4BR/4BA. Individual leases. Fully furnished,
utils included, W/D. $399/mo Call 352-278-
9347 www.bogartproperties.com or rent the
whole place for $1600. 8-28-5-1
NEED FEMALE ROOMMATE FOR 2B/2BA
Nantucket Walk Condo. Fully furnished.$600/
month. Luxury style condo with parking
balcony,w/d in unit, granite counters,etc.Call
2566981203.carab@ufl.edu 8-28-09-7-12 girls need 1 more for BEAUTIFUL 3BR/3BA
condo. Close to UF min to SF. Near RTS bus-
stop. Lrg-priv BR/BA & walk-in closet. Tall
ceil, outside lanai, pool. $550 ALL UTILITIES
INC! No pets, yr lease reqd. 305-304-1703
8-31-09-6-1
**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $350/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 8-28-6-1
LIVE IN LUXURY @ Windsor Park! A MUST
SEE APT! 3Bd/3Private BTH All Inclusive:
water,light,cable, and h-s internet plus more!
ONLY $470 no security deposit! Call for more
details 305-984-4245 9-1-09-7-1
3 ROOMS FOR RENT
$525-$650/mo All utils incl. Near SFC, Oaks
Mall & UF 786-325-7941 9-21-09-20-1
Looking for 2 female UF Grad student
roommates for a townhouse in Marchwood.
$399 plus utilities. 3 bedroom, 2 bathroom,
fully furnished, complete kitchen, and
fireplace. Located on SW 43rd st near SW
20th av. Contact Sarah at sonofrio@ufl.edu
8-28-09-5-1
Two furnished 1/1's available in 2/2 at
Capstone Quarters. One room available im-
mediately other room available in Dec. All
inclusive for $550. $550 S.D. + 1st months.
rent. Call Valerie Rivera @ 904-910-7506
8-28-09-5-1
FIRST MONTH FREE!!! Apt for rent. 4bd/2ba.
$400/mo/room. Three blks from campus.
Newly remodeled. Pool, Internet. 813-690-
3781. 9-11-09-14-1
DUCKPOND
Prof/grad student. fully furn large room in qui-
et house. Bike to campus. $350/mo. Leave
message 872-8388 9-4-09-10-1
$350 MOVES YOU IN! Need 1 roommate to
rent rm in a 3/2 FULLY FURNISHED house.
5 mins to UF. 10 mins to Santa Fe. No sec or
util deposit. Split utils, maid & yard man, W/D,
Irg yard, family & living rm 813-362-7729
8-28-09-5-1
$700/month, 2BR/2BA Furnished Apt with
washer/dryer, walk-in closets, 2905 SW
Archer Rd, minutes from UF and Shands,
on bus route. 954-452-3600 or diwool@aol.
com. 8-28-09-5-1$300/mo.each 4 bdrm/2bath, washer &
dryer with utility pkg. CLEAN! @ University
Commons. 352-266-4114. 9-8-09-10-1
-Furnished. 1 br/1 ba, Windsor Park. Room. 2
mi from UF, $ 420/mo. Avail Right now. Elec,
cab.tv, internet,gym, pool, washer/dryer,
closet. Basketball, .soccer & tennis courts.
305-408-4330,305-962-2525 or
c2000_1@msn.com 9-2-09-7-1
NS male to share 2/1.5 furnished town-
house. Cresap Arms:4blk north of Lib.W/
Chipotle, 6min walk to Turlington. $600/mo
incld:cable/internet, kitchen, W/D, DW, TV,
resv.park, balcony, 1/2utils. 239-994-6249
8-31-09-5-1
Beautifully Furnished 2/2 condo at Creeks
Edge, Ground floor, pool, 24hr gym, tennis
court, on RTS route 8, less than 2 miles to
campus, $1100 call 904-501-1990
9-8-09-10-1
NEED FEMALE ROOMMATE
for 3BR/2BA townhouse. $550/mo all inclu-
sive. W/D, on direct bus route, minutes to
campus. No pets. Please call 813-892-3996
9-23-09-20-1
For FRentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
1, 2, 3's *SUPER RENT DISCOUNTS!
1BR $509 2BR $579* 3BR $775
HUGE FLOORPLANS! * Pets Loved!
Bus Stop * Pools * Green Courtyards!
Park Free Across From UF! 335-7275
12-9-09-75-2
The ONLY Apartments Downtown
Studios-$645*1/1 from $699
2/2 from $900* 3/3 $500/bed
Washers & Dryers*Alarms*We Love Pets
207 SE 2nd Place-Next to Starbucks
352.338.0002-arlingtonsquare.org
12-9-09-75-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAYTHE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Onlie: / Vsa o MaterardPaymnt y Vsa r MaterardONL. caceled ds.the first day will not be further compensated.OnIi ne: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
WALK TO UF!
Studios & 1 Beds starting at $499!
Pet friendly, Free Parking Near UF
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2Best Price & Great Location
Large 1 & 2's available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments
3/3 for only $1007. $0 moves you in!!
Free Cable-Unlimited Tanning-Fitness Ctr
2801 NW 23rd Blvd 352-377-2801
Cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
BIVENS COVE
1/1 -From $649 2/2 -From $699
3/2 -From $824 4/3 -From $1099
Close to UF/Shands * Pet Friendly
(352) 376-2507 * 3301 SW 13th Street
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
2/2 & 3/3 with GARAGE!
W/D, Alarm, Huge patio!
We love pets! $875-$1012
372-0400*MadisonPointe.org
12-9-75-2
Thousands of Alligator alumni have credited their success
to their experiences, what they learned and the friends
they made at the Alligator.
The Alligator is currently looking to fill the following positions:
section editors, online staff, writers, graphic
designers, columnists, photographers,
bloggers, copy editors, advertising interns
and sales representatives
OPEN HOUSE
Interviews will be held on-site, so please bring
your resume, clips, and portfolio if you have one.
the independent florida
alli gator
Located at 1105 W. University Ave,
two blocks east of UF campus,
across the street from the Bank of America.*POLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly *376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
Get it while it's HOT!
Starting at $299
FREE Tanning*Poo*Gym
3813 SW 34th st
Call NOW! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
*379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
SORORITY ROW 2BDs!
2br/2.5ba from $899
W/D included. No Move-in Fees!
Pets welcome! FREE Parking!.
372-7111 CollegeManor.org
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $695
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21 st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com 12-9-
75-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Across From UF! PET FRIENDLY!
Two Bedrooms starting at $599!
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!!
303 NW 17th Street, Ste A
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
**LUXURIOUS 1800 SQ FT HOME**
SECLUDED, UPSCALE NEAR UF. 3/2, SUN
ROOM, COVERED PATIO W/D. $1400/MO
PERFECT FOR GRAD. AVAIL AUG. 1607
NW 12 RD 352-466-4171 LV MSG 8-28-
09-58-2
1 & 2BR/1BA
W/D. Tile throughout, front gated patio. Pet
friendly. From $635/mo. Call 352-377-1633.
www.lenoxcorner.com 8-31-09-56-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 9-8-09-
59-2
We have REAL 1/1s
Dump your roommate & save on gas!
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $575 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450 -Only 4 left!
1600 NW4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $475 -Just a few left!
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
8-28-09-45-2
* NANTUCKET WALK *
* UPPER WEST SIDE *
Brand new luxury apartments! Walk to class!
All-inclusive! nantucketwalk@cmcapt.com
352-240-6961
12-9-09-74-2
large 4 bed 3 bath house for rent. near uni-
versity and 34th, pets ok, washer & dryer, first
and security 1500/mo. Available June 1st.
yearly. Call 727-430-3094 7-19-09-21-2
BIKE TO UF! 1st mont free!
SBR 3BA, lawn service inc,
Fireplace, carport, w/d hkups, $1800/rent
3920 SW 20th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 8-28-09-
34-2
NW 39 Av fancy 3br/1.5ba w/loft Ig open
bright Costly laminated wd-looking fir. $740-
775 XL 3/1.5 loft apt, new ceramic firs carpet
$850. Nice 2br/2ba gated patio, trees $550-
580 2/1.5 fancy firs $610 373-8310/219-3937
8-31-28-2
16, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009
Rent For rrRent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
VICTORIA STATION! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2.5 BA TH, washer/dryer, high ceilings,
separate Dining room, pool,
$800/rent, 3552 SW 30th Way #146
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 8-28-09-
25-2
WALK TO UF! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR duplex, CH/AC, will consider small pet,
$695/rent 120-A NW 10th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 8-28-09-
30-2
GREAT MOVE-IN SPECIALS!
1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 BR Houses & apartments!
Contact us for pricing & availability!
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 8-28-09-
30-2
3BR $99 Move you in! $750/mo
Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D, fenced yards,
pet friendly, wd firs, 352-505-9264 or 352-
870-0904
8-28-09-30-2
4/2 $99 Moves you in! $1000/mo
Super Special, Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D
hkup, carpet & wd firs, extra room, large
fenced yard, pet friendly 352-505-9264
8-28-09-30-2
2/1 Apt. $99 Move-in $500 total.
Historic downtown, cent AC, W/D hkup,
10min bike to UF, front porch, pets ok,
great size. Yes $500 whole apt! 505-9264
8-28-09-30-2
Room $299. $99 first month.
has everything, walk-in closet, pvt BA,
W/D, DW, built-in micro, tile & carpet, pool
on site, 505-9264 or 870-0904
8-28-09-30-2
$499, IBR apt, spacious,very quiet, energy
efficient, private gated patio, Trees w/lots of
greenspace, 1824 NW 9th St. prefer grad/
mature person.(352)376 0080; (352) 284
3873; postj@bellsouth.net. 8-31-09-22-2
SOUTHFORK OAKS! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 1.5 BA TH, Pool, w/d hkups, close to
everything! $675/rent,
2300 SW 43rd St #1-3
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 8-28-09-
28-2
POOL HOUSE! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BIR with bonus room or 3rd BR,
Large screen porch & deck, wood floors,
fireplace, Living & dining rooms, $995/rent
includes pool svc, 738 NW 24th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 8-28-09-
28-2
STEPS TO CLASS! 4 BR 2.5 BA house,
Living, dining & sunrooms, w/d hkups,
CH/AC, $1800/rent, 1107 SW 1st Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 8-28-09-
28-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
ARBOR
Ask about our move-in specials!
Close to UF & Shands
2411 SW 35th PL
866-604-7097
M-F 9-6, Sat 10-2
www.arborgainesville.com
12-9-09-74-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2, Sun 1-5
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off. 2/2 Close to UF &
bus route. Great for grad students! Building
is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev tenant. W/D, D/W,
tile & carpet in BDs $800 for the whole place
Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
9-4-09-27-21 MONTH FREE RENT! 2 br/1 ba;$599, near
UF & downtown; 1830 NW 10th St. quiet;
greenspace; spacious, tile floors, balcony;
upstairs; prefer quiet mature person;postj@
bellsouth.net application reqd.352 376 0080
8-31-09-22-2
GREAT LOCATION! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2BA in Concordia, w/d, pool, quiet loca-
tion! $750/rent, 405-B NW 39th Road
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 8-28-09-
20-2
Nantucket Walk Luxury 1 BR/1 BA Condo
1460 NW 3rd Place, 640 sq ft, stainless ap-
pliances, black granite countertops, tiled,
covered balcony, reserved parking, H/AC,
DW, W/D $1000/mo 813-766-4003 9-1-09-
21-2
3BR/1BA House Available August 1st. Cent
H/AC, ceiling fans, carport. $900/mo. 217
NW 36th Terrace. Call 372-4903 or 917-416-
6968 9-4-09-24-2
611 NW 34th Dr. Available August 1st.
3BR/2BA house. Cent H/AC, ceiling fans.
$950/mo. Call 372-4903 or 917-416-6968
9-4-09-24-2
Downtown House 110 SE 4th PI 3BD/1.5BA
Central heat/air. On street parking, fenced
yard, w/d hookups. Walk downtown & bike/
bus to campus! $730/mo + 1st, last $500 dep
Call 373-6551 9-8-23-2
WWW.TheFloridaRenterslnsurance.COM
Renters Insurance from $9 per month
Online Quotes 9-16-09-31-2
LAS PAMPAS! 2 BR 2 BA townhouse,
Wood laminate floors, screen porch, pool,
loft $800/rent, 3482 NW 37th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 8-28-09-
16-2
August free! Beautiful extra large 2BR/1BA
avail 8/1. M-21 Summit House 1700 SW
16th Ave. Near UFNA/Vet/Shands. $600/
mo. Pool, parking. Private lease. 480-390-
4528. Deposit. Leave name & number 8-28-
09-14-2
LOTS OF SPACE! 1ST MONTH FREE!
3 BIR 2 BA w/ living, family & dining rooms,
2 car carport, fenced yard, w/d, lawn svc,,
$1 000/rent, 126 SW 40th St.
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 8-28-
09-14-2
LIVE BY THE GOLF COURSE!
1st month free! 3 BR 2 BA TH, garage, vault-
ed ceilings, living & family rooms,
$895/rent, 1627 NE 40th PI
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 8-28-
09-14-2
CLOSE TO EVERYTHING! 1st month free!
3/2 house, carport, living & family rooms,
newer carpet,
$825/rent, 1901 NW 38th Terr
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 8-28-
09-14-2
CHEAP RENT! 1st month free! 2/2 MH,
Wood laminate floors, fenced yard, w/d hk-
ups, $595/rent, 5238 SW 66th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 8-28-09-
14-2
Tumbling Creek Condos. Creekfront Condo
within walking distance of UF 1BR/1BA
CHNA W/D Water Sewer Garbage provided
$550 rent $550 deposit 352-493-3487 352-
493-515 8-31-09-14-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 9-16-09-25-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560
iBR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 9-16-09-25-2Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $550 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
1 MONTH FREE in Spacious 4br/3ba Home.
Near Campus across from Best Buy and on
Bus Rt. Fenced backyard, w/d hookups, d/w,
brand new c/ac. $1250/mth Call 786-999-
8440 8-28-09-12-2
1BR EFFICIENCY $360/MO
No pets. Year lease. Shady lot. 1022.5 NW
4th Ave. 352-359-1508 8-31-09-12-2
GRANTWOOD 2 MONTHS FREE!
2 BR 2 BA Townhouse, loft, wood laminate
floors, Washer/Dryer, pool, courtyard,
$750/rent, 2508 SW 35th PI #47
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 8-28-
09-14-2
ROCKWOOD VILLAS 2 MONTHS FREE!
3 BR 3 BA Townhouse, wood laminate floors
& ceramic tile, porch, Washer/Dryer,
$895/rent, 858 SW 58th Terr
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 8-28-
09-14-2
CUTE 3 BR HOUSE! 1st month free! Garage,
Newer flooring, w/d hkups, $775/rent
1730 NW 31st Place
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 8-28-09-
14-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D hk-
ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/mo
Phone (352) 359-8311 9-30-09-34-21st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
$39 Moves You In! No Pet Fees!
1/1s from $416* (Rate includes specials)
Close to UF & Oaks Mall.
Pine Rush Villas 375-1519
www.gremco.com
8-28-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
$39 Moves You In! No Pet Fees!
2 BRs from $532* (Rate includes specials)
SW Archer Rd
Homestead Apts. 376-0828
www.gremco.com
8-28-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE* +$200 Gift Card
$39 Moves You In! No Pet Fees!
2BRs from $616* & 3BRs from $707*
(Rate includes specials)
Close to Oaks Mall & Newberry Rd.
Ashton Square Villas 333-1120
www.gremco.com
8-28-09-25-2
1st MONTH FREE*!
$39 Moves You In! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Private Patios
1BRs from $485* (Rate includes specials)
Gator Village 372-3826
www.gremco.com
8-28-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*!
$39 Moves You In! No Pet Fees!
Studios from $391* (Rate includes specials)
Walk to Butler Plaza
Sundowne 352-377-2596
www.gremco.com
8-28-09-25-21st TWO MONTHS FREE* + $100 Gift Card
$39 Moves You In! No Pet Fees!!
1 BR from $424* (Rate includes specials)
1/2 mile to UF
Sunrise 352-372-4835
www.gremco.com
8-28-09-25-2
* Totally Renovated 1 Bdrs
$39 Moves You In! No Pet Fees
*$535 Month*lncludes Specials*
2 MONTHS FREE + $300 Gift Card
Free Tanning/Cyber Cafe
Great Location!
Courtney Greens 375-3077
www.gremco.com
8-28-09-i11-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*!
$39 Moves You In! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Great Location
1 Bdr from $441 (Rate includes specials)
Summer Place 372-2818
3316 SW 41st Place Just off SW 34th Street
www.gremco.com
8-28-09-11-2
3 Blocks from UF 1bd in a 4/2 apt 295/mth
Individual lease. No pets. 1740 NW 3rd PL.
Only 1 left. 352-231-3002
Large 2/1 apt 600/mth w/d hook up
615 SW 11th lane 8-27-09-10-2
Available Aug: Cute & Clean Vintage 4bd/
2.5ba behind Applebee's. Bike to UF! Wd
firs, CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds. Huge rooms!
907 NW 11th Ave. $1350/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com 352-338-7670
8-31-09-12-2
HOUSE avail 1st wk of Aug. 4BR/2BA, 1.5
mis to UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF
bus rte. Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fire-
place, cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $1200/
mo. Call 376-6183 or 327-2931 9-3-09-5-2
kickoff EDITIONS
Reach your Target Market before theg
Call today! 352-376-4482
aligantor
September 4
September 11
September 18
October 30
November 6
November 20
November 25
December 4C
Charleston Southern
Troy
Tennessee
Georgia
Vanderbilt
Florida International
Florida State
SEC Championship*Deadline: SFptember 2
Deadline: September 9
Deadline: September 16
Deadline: October 28
Deadline: November 4
Deadline: November 18
Deadline: November 23
Deadline: December 2
'To Be Determinec-
p =
fe
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 17
Rent For FrRent For Rent For Rent For RentO nFnished unfnished ufurnished nffrnished furnished
Beautiful Historic Home
Walking Distance To UF. 4BD/2BA w/ Irg
fenced yard, W/D hook-up, Heat/AC & More.
$1495. Avail Aug 1, Call Tom @ 2626423
8-31-09-12-2
2 bedroom/2 bath for rent in Looking Glass,
2 parking spaces, great location right across
from Stadium & Library West! $960/month.
e-mail d.villoch@gmail.com 8-28-10-2
4BR/2 1/2BA Town home in gated com-
munity Cricket Club on Tower Rd. Newly
remodeled with hardwood floors through-
out. Washer/dryer in unit. Pool, club house,
fitness room, tennis courts and duck pond
on premesis. $1100 352-665-9838 Robert
Stawicki 8-28-10-2
II I I *\ \ \ \
.. \ .N I)e
$99 Moves You In!
1, 2, 3 Bedroom
$0 RENT
UNTIL OCTOBER
Rents start at $750.00
Open 'til 8:00pm
Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday
Call Today 352-331-2966
2625 SW 75th St, Gainesville, FL 32608
Equal Housing Opportunity.
Rath/Harper and Associates.
8-28-09-10-2
PRIVATE VIEWS -FENCED YARD -
DOGGIE DOOR. Cabin & 20 acres, 7 mi
south of Newberry -Paddocks, riding trails.
$575 -Pets welcome. 330-329-8834,
writer777@att.net 8-31-10-2
NEXT TO UF CAMPUS
1BR/1 BA, W/D in unit.
Pets ok with deposit. $500/mo 378-5801
8-31-09-10-2
M MOST WANTED
Wendy Gayle
Hart
White Female
(DOB 02/12/69); 5'07",
135 Ibs, Brown Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
Traffic Offense: DUI Alcohol
or Drugs 3rd Violation
CALACUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOPGET A FREE BEACH VACATION!
Large 2 BR 1.5 BA Townhomes
Close to UF & On 2 Bus Routes
Open House Everyday 359-6386
www.gopinnaclepoint.com
9-4-09-13-2
ROCKWOOD VILLAS 3 bed/3 bath $1,100.
Each room has a private bath. End unit in
quiet neighborhood. 2 pools, sand vball court,
tennis courts. Close to the mall, UF, and
SFCC. On bus route. Call 352.514.3424.
9-9-09-15-2
1 MONTH RENT FREE! 4 Bed 4 Bath Condo
at Univ Terrace. W/d, walk in closets, new
carpet, Right near pool. Less than 2 mi to UF
w/bus stop out front. (386)747-8672 $350/
mo per pers. or $1300/mo forwhole unit. +util
8-28-09-8-2
REDUCED PRICE Immediate occupancy
House Duckpond area 4BR/2.5BA. W/D,
storage bldg, fireplace, wd firs, glassed-in
porch. 1st, last + $200 dep. $375/mo/rm or
$1500/mo for all + utils. George 466-0165
8-31-09-9-2
1 BR/1 BA available now. Near Shands. Large
screened-in porch. W/D hook-ups. Pets ok.
$525/mo, $575 sec dep. 3300 SW 23rd St.
Apt #2. Call 352-371-3473, please leave
message. 9-4-09-12-2
2BR + small bonus room/1 BA. Near Shands.
Availalbe now. Large screened-in porch. W/D
hook-ups. $685/mo, $700 sec dep. 3300 SW
23rd St. Apt #1. Call 352-371-3473 please
leave message. 9-4-09-12-2
Home 3BR/2BTH Close SF/UF
Lg Shady Fenced Lot, All ApIncs. NW Gville.
$1000. 772-631-1448, 305-401-6817
8-28-09-7-2
1Bdrm in 4/2 home, Fall sublease, close to
UF and SFC, quiet neighborhood,3 male
grad student roomates, $425/mo call Dan
954-551-9846 8-28-09-7-2
Looking for a place to live
before school starts?
Homes available for immediate occupancy
Low payments!
Call for details: 352-378-4411 8-31-09-8-2
Historic 3 Br 1 ba House for Rent. Walk to
downtown, behind Melting Pot. C/H Air, New
carpet & paint. Front porch, fenced back yrd.
$900 mo, 1st, last $500 Dep. Small pets ok
with approval. Call (352) 258-6582
or e-mail tamorcutt@yahoo.com 8-31-09-
7-2
Move in Special: No Security Deposit
2/2 Condo/w/washer/dryer, screened-in
porch/newer condo/near UF/Shands/located
off 34th & Archer Rd./$750 per month-
call 317-5060 8-27-09-5-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
Houses
Close to Campus
2/1 713 NW 30th Ave 650
3/1 503 NW 6th Ave remodeled $950
3/1 1607 NW 8th Ave wood firs $975
4/2 541 NW 34th St new apple. $995
4/2 3737 SW 4th PI 1918 sq ft $1350
4/2.5 212 NW 21st St 1 mo. free $2000
4/2.5 16 NW 29th St brand new $2000
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St-375-7104
8-31-09-7-2
AVAILABLE NOW!
Nice 1BR/1BA apt. Close to campus and
convenient to everything. $395. Call Richard
371-4367 8-27-09-5-2
GREAT DEAL ON 2/2.5 TOWNHOME.
Kensington North, quiet neighborhood close
to campus, on busline, with pool and gym.
Washer and dryer in unit. $700 or best offer.
Call Amy at 813-205-3533. 8-27-09-5-2
2 Bedroom-2 Full Bath Modern Condo. One
Car Garage plus reserved parking. Tiffany
Condos -NW 23rd Blvd. $850 mo + $500 dep
tiffany@NFMLLC.com, 352-514-1800. Pics
at tinyurl.com/tiffany4 9-8-09-12-2Non-Smoking Female. 2 miles east of UF.
On bus route. One bedroom for rent. Share
full bath. CLEAN cat OK. $240/month. Ind.
Util. Call Jane 871-6065 8-28-09-5-2
Beautiful 3/2 house nice NW area.
Options:washer,dryer,cable tv. Includes:dish
washercentral AC,garage,nice above ground
pool,1500 sq/ft, sun room,great yard. $1100
month Call:352-283-8366. 9-2-8-2
* 2/1 House -Stephen Foster
* 2/1 House -Hippy-style SW
0 2/2 Condo -Large, clean
* 2/1 Condo -Cute
$550-$750. 352-374-4216
8-28-09-5-2
GRAD STUDENT NEEDS 1 ROOMMATE:
$450 rent plus utilities for 1 Room in 2bed
2bath, 1190SQ.FT. apt. in Bellamay Grand.
Call Abby @ 484-951-5736, email:
abbyc@ufl.edu 8-28-09-5-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosed front patio
W/D, Wood floors, Fireplace
3 blocks from UF! Pets loved!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10th Street
12-9-09-75-2
1 BLOCK TO SHANDS
2BR/1 BA units. $725, $800, $850.
Furnished/unfurnished.
Summit House. 359-6785 8-28-09-5-2
DUCK POND 1ST MONTH FREE!
$1085 MO 3 OR 4 BR/2BA.
LR/DR. LGE YARD. QUIET.
CLOSE TO UF. NEW PAINT.
904/415-0370 kbskiis@yahoo.com 9-1-09-
7-2
WALK TO UF 1 OR 2 bedrooms in 4/2 APT
Ind. lease 295/month 1/4 utilities no pets
1740 NW 3rd PL Call 352-231-3002 or email
hodgeproperties@cox.net for more info
8-28-09-5-2
2 bd 2.5 bath townhouse SW 43rd St. Near
Archer Rd & 1-75. Community pool & 2 park-
ing places. Water and trash included. $800
941-773-8887 941-301-7577 8-28-09-5-2
DUPLEX EFFICIENCY Private entrance
1BR/1 BA, full kitchen, double stainless sink
garbage disposal, microwave, ref/freezer
Dish TV, covered patio, shed. Utils incl $495/
mo. Tower & Archer Rd. 352-372-6466
8-28-09-5-2
*3BR/1 BA House
819 NW 10th Ave $850/mo
*2BR/1.5BA Townhouse
7130 SW 45th PI $600/mo.
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 9-4-09-
10-2
Quiet, Green, 1/2 mile to UF, Reduced Rent
and must see! 2BR/2.5BA Townhouse, 1200
s.ft, 4112 SW 15th PI., fenced yard, A/C,
W/D hook-up, DW, Pets OK, SW 20th Ave.
busline,$786/mo. Call Lalit 352-378-6817,
871-8205 8-28-09-5-2
CUSTOM UPGRADED 2BDRM BATH
TILE IN LR KIT HALL BATH NEW CARPET
IN BDRMS W CEILING FANS LIKE NEW
STAINLESS APPL IN KIT NEW TUB TOILET
VANITY IN BATH FULL SIZE W/D AVAIL
CABLE/INTERNET CENT H/A 1 1/2 MI TO
UF SHANDS BUTLER PL ON BUS RTE NO
PETS $685/MO 7272423-9463 JOE 8-28-
09-5-2
Great deal 3/2 home @ 4139 NW 19th
Drive. New study w/ ceiling fan, carport,
W/D hookup, screened porch, fenced yard.
Quiet neighborhood, Norton Elem. district.
Pets negotiable $895/month. Call 371-2118.
8-28-09-5-2
Upscale 2/2 Condo in Haile Plantation $1175
Fireplacebalconywasher dryer,cathedral
ceilings,split floor plan,two master suites and
computer station.Community pool, workout
centerwalking trails 3523753677 8-28-09-
5-2
Clean, spacious 3/2 condo. Quiet, yet cen-
trally located just 1.5 mi. from law school.
Very low utilities, W/D, pool. Sorry, no pets.
Just $1000. Call 352-262-9119 9-11-09-
14-22BR1 BA HOUSE Only $575/mo
Near Newnan's Lake.
653 NE 73rd Terr. 514-6281 8-28-09-5-2
1 BR/1 BA apt. $400/mo
3 Blocks to UF.
Water incl. 115 NW 9th Terr. 514-6281
8-28-09-5-2
Condo 4/2/1/2 covered parking, swimming,
exercise room, screened porches, laundry
hook ups,clean updated unit, pets less than
40 lbs okay. $1,000.00 rent + deposit Susan
352-262-4617. 8-31-09-5-2
Perfect 3BR for grad students or profession-
als. Close to SW Rec Center & Archer Rd
conveniences. Hardwood fir, cent H/AC, nice
yard. 2627 SW 31st Terrace. $840/mo. 215-
7199 8-31-09-5-2
Casablanca East #303
Newly renovated condo
2 Bed/1.5 Bath 5 min. from UF
$700 w/ washer & dryer
Tile floors & New carpet 786-280-8895
8-31-09-5-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.
one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceiling
fans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, secu-
rity. No dogs. 378-3704 sallygville@aol.com
9-15-09-15-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home on shady
lot. From $345-$425/mo incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th St. Last month free. 376-
5887 10-9-33-2
2-BR apartment in historic home, Duck Pond
Area, bike to campus, washer/dryer, quiet
and private, 905 NE Third Ave., $550 month-
ly, 352-494-7837,
chriseversolel@gmail.com. 9-1-09-6-2
Peaceful & Private Condo in a gated
community with all the Amenities of resort
style living for $750 price is negotiable.
Please contact Linus at (352)215-0630 or
email us at djord2630@yahoo.com
8-31-09-5-2
Near Law school 3/2 ($350-$400/BR) Lg
yard w/ fruit trees, nice porch, ceiling fans,
gorgeous wood floors & ceramic, W/D HU,
1/4 utils. Newly remodeled. Negotiable lease
terms. Call Tom 954-529-4031 8-31-09-5-2
4BR newer double-wide on 5 acres in
Newberry. 6-stall barn, board fence, horses
welcome. $1300/mo. Call 850-329-7669
9-15-15-2
Beautiful 2/2 Apt for $840/month located in
downtown Gainesvile. 2 miles from campus
and close to shops and restaurants. Apt in-
cludes washer, dryer, balcony, pool, and
alarm system. Available now. Call (561) 827
5358 9-8-09-10-2
-Wd ur
Management Inc.
Ready now--- check our website for specials
Tiffany, 2br/2ba, 3059 NW 28 Circle, $700
Cypress Point, 3br/2ba, 5426 4 P, $800
Montecello 3br/3.Sba 522 NW 50 Blvd $1100
Wood Crk Village 3br/2ba 4019 NW 23 Cir $900
Casablanca East2br/1.5ba2635-905SW35 PI $550
Whispering Pines 2br/2ba 3443 SW 24 St $800
Edbaurmanagement.com -1731 NW 6th St
352-375-7104
8-31-09-5-2
$650. Washer/Dryer provided;upstairs; 2
br; ceiling fans, CHA, quiet, prefer grad
student or professional; greenspace,
parking, close to UF/downtown. 1822 NW
10th St. 352 376 0080 9-8-09-10-2
HALF OFF 1ST MONTH'S RENT. 3Bd/2Ba
home off of Archer Road, near Pita Pit. $900/
mo with $500 sec. dep. Large deck with
fenced yard. Pets ok with addl dep. Call 213-
1567. 9-14-5-2
4/2 HOME PLUS STUDY
Corner lot, H/D 2385 sq ft Rent reduced to
$1400 + $1400/OBO dep. Motivated to rent!
Avail now. 3608 NW 22nd Pl. Call 352-214-
1956 9-9-09-10-2ROOM FOR RENT in 2/1 apt., 2nd fl, clean,
light, walk to UF, rts 13, 16 & 17. $330/mo
incl. water & tv. students only. 407-922-0029
9-1-09-5-2
* 1BR condo, 2nd fir. $625/mo;
* 2BR condo, 1stfIrw/ patio $750/mo
Both newly remodeled. New appliances incl
built-in microwaves & W/D. 1 mi from UF.
772-801-9884 9-1-09-5-2
1 room available in AWESOME 4/2 near Law
School. Perfect for student or young profes-
sional. Rent is 485 + utilities. Looking for fun
respectful roommate. (321) 303-2214. Avail.
immediately 9-1-09-4-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
3/1 within 5 miles of UF and downtown. tile,
wood,w/d, newer apple & ac, fncd yd. Walk to
NE Park to enjoy playground,dog park, ten-
nis, baseball, racquetball & soccer. Some
pets okay. Avail 9/1. $875/mo. 338-1452.
9-2-09-5-2
-subleases
one bedroom sublease in a 4/4 apt of girls.
private room and bath.$565 mth.
941-914-5255 8-27-09-5-3
WALK TO SFC
The Crossings at Santa Fe, Apt #2114. $519/
mo for 1BR/1BA in 3BR/3BA. Share with 2
other girls. Availalbe Sept '09 thru Aug '10.
Pool. Call 328-5101 8-27-09-5-3
Desperate. Must rent daughter's
apartment. 2bd2bath large with male UF
graduate. Rent $352 until August 2010. Will
subside to make rent $200 for whole year.
Cindi 352 331-3793
8-27-09-4-3
THE POLOS 2/2 $475 a room. pets OK. TOP
FLOOR, vaulted ceilings, fireplace, WALK-
IN closets, screen porch, ALL appliances!
TONS OF AMENITIES! CALL Nicole 321-
663-9545 8-31-5-3
FEMALE wanted, $550 furnished, all-inclu-
sive sublease 1/1 in a 2/2 at JEFFERSON!
352-895-6346 or neha63@ufl.edu
9-8-09-10-3
sRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Renovated, beautiful condo.'Close to
Shands, VA, campus. Prefer female. $525/
mo includes utils. Call (386)871-7184 8-28-
09-30-4
1st MO FREE RENT. Countryside Share
4BR/4BA upgraded furn condo w/ 2 other
students. 1.5 miles to UF on bus rte, pool,
W/D, cable & utils incl. $425/mo. Call 386-
672-6969 or 386-295-7929. Avail Aug 1st.
9-4-09-26-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
Pool, laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-
4626 9-30-09-26-4
18, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009
F Roommaes Roommates Real Estate Furnishings l For Sale
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-4
Roommate wanted for furnished BD in
Creeks Edge Condos. Close to UF & Santa
Fe. Incl pool, tennis courts, workout room,
clubhouse, outdoor grills & picnic tables.
Very wooded & quiet. (407) 276-5702
8-27-09-14-4
Male, grad student, small furnished apt on
side of private home close to UF. One per-
son only. No pets. Cable, patio, clean, quiet.
$500 pm, utilities included. 336-5808 8-31-
09-16-4
Young professional seeking grad/law stu-
dent house roomate. Quiet neighborhood,
short drive/bike ride to campus, walking dis-
tance to Starbucks! Must love dogs. $450 per
month.
E-mail Chris: trinitytennis@gmail.com 8-31-
09-13-4
Female roommate pref for furn/unfurn
lbr/lba in a 2br/2.5ba townhouse in quiet
SW neighborhood near UF & Shands. AVAIL
NOW, M-to-M lease, $450/month & $250
refundable deposit. Call Ann 352-870-7414
8-23-10-4
$350 MOVES YOU IN! Need 1 roommate to
rent rm in a 3/2 FULLY FURNISHED house.
5 mins to UF. 10 mins to Santa Fe. No sec or
util deposit. Split utils, maid & yard man, W/D,
Irg yard, family & living rm 813-362-7729
8-28-09-4-4
Southfork Oaks; 2 Bd/2.5 Ba;
Clean, studious, female rmmate needed.
$415/mo + utilities. Water incld.
Call cell 954-579-9368. Leave message
8-28-11-4
Room $299. $99 first month
has everything, walk-in closet, pvt BA,
W/D, DW, built-in micro, tile & carpet, pool
on site. 505-9264 or 870-0904 8-28-09-
9-4
Female for upstairs 4/bed 4/bath Countryside
@ UF Condo fully furnished, $435 incl utilities
cable/internet W/D pool work-out fac. semes-
ter renter ok, great bus route. 904-612-3944
9-8-09-15-4
AVAILABLE NOW 1 BD in 4BD/2BA house
with 3 females. Rent is $400/mo + 1/4 utili-
ties. Pets welcome. Cable hook ups and
wireless internet. weelo25@ufl.edu 8-31-
09-10-4
Roommate wanted to share 3br/2ba house
w/pool near UF campus. No pets, No smok-
ing.
$395/month +1/3 utilities.
Call 321-537-6212 for more info 9-8-09-15-
4
GREAT PRICE!
$380 & all utils incl. 1/1 avail in fully furn 4/4
apt. New carpet & paint, cable, wireless in-
ternet, pool, W/D in unit. SW area on 2 bus
rts. Bus stop on site. 954-593-3063 9-4-09-
13-4
Hate long bus rides? Be in class/Shands/
VA in 5 mins. Share 2/1 at Summit House
Condos, $375/mo + 1/2 util.$200 sec. dep.
No pets per complex, Available immed. Call
Tim 352-843-0220 9-15-19-4
Male college student preferred. 4BR/4BA
Countryside condo. Own bathroom, W/D,
hi-speed internet, on bus rte. Utils included.
$430/mo. 863-634-1893. Available immedi-
ately. 9-10-09-15-4
1 BR in 3BR/2BA GREENLEAF
Furnished condo. W/D, free TV cable. $350/
mo + 1/3 utils. Call 352-260-3359 9-10-09-
15-4
1 female roommate needed. Move in now.
Poolside 1/1 in 4/4 at Countryside. $425/mo.
Internet, W/D, great deal and location. Call
386-676-9703 or nukken1@aol.com 8-27-
09-5-4Roommate Wanted in Rockwood Villas 1
bedroom private bath available in a 3/3. Room
available immediatley,August rent free. On
bus route to UF and Santa Fe College. Call
Jeff at 352-538-7521 8-28-09-6-4
Need roommate pref. male for 2 bed 2 1/2
bath townhouse style apt on sw 10th st and
sw 7th ave behind Norman Hall (Taylor
Square) $650/month flat rate, everything in-
cluded. call 772-370-5006 8-27-5-4
3BR/3BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-side
condo. $435/mo/room, + utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mi. Bball, pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd FIr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, Sebastian 352-874-8905 8-31-
09-7-4
CLEAN+QUIET STUDENT/PROF WANTED
Private bed/bath in 2/2 1300sf pvt condo
15m toUF,2m toMall-QuietNice Nghbrhood
common areas frnshd,w/d,pool.NO smk/pets
$425+1/2 util. call alex 352-514-0405 8-28-
09-6-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
8-28-6-4
Serious but fun medical student needs 2
roommates for 3BR condo. 1BR furn, the
other not. Moderate drinking okay but no
drunks or drugs. $375/mo + 1/3 utils. Call
(386) 397-6775 8-27-09-5-4
Male roommate needed. Share furn 3BR/2BA
house w/yng prof $400/mo +1/2 util Directv,
ph, wireless, Vonage, elec. W/D, ofc space
pvt BA (morn) Ig yd fenced, pets ok, trees,
wooddeck, hottub, pond. UF-15 min drive,
near bus, Lakeview Ests 352-682-6297
7-31-7-4
******YOU FOUND IT******
NW Gainesville Cozy home. 3 furn BDs on
bus rt 8. 3 mi to UF, 5 to SFC. Female seek-
ing same. W/D. Wireless inet Bonus! School
parking paid $425 all incl. (239) 220-3771
8-27-09-5-4
Handyman spec Disc 4 wk share 2/2-furn
rm avail now $200/NR dep $300/mo $75/
wk +1/2 GRU 2 wk adv Laund/cook svc avail
NS/NA/ND Car a+ 30day vacate notice. Near
bus/shops. Some pet ok. Donna 331-0762
8-31-6-4
Female roommate needed, beautifully
renovated, furnished condo,1 mile
from UF, $399/MO includes cable,
internet, utilities, pool + fitness room
and on bus routes, 352 262-2871
9-4-09-10-4
Roommates wanted to share nice 4/2.5 fur-
nished NW home in quiet neighborhood 1.5
miles to UF. Large yard. $450-$500 includes
utilities, cable in all BR's, hi speed internet,
W/D. NS & no pets. 352-284-0771. 8-28-
09-5-4
Roommate needed for 2/3 condo in Chase
Hollows. $400/mo fully furn BR w/ cable,
wireless, w/ in-state calling. Pre-professional
preferred. Call 352-283-5062 or
email felineequineyaoi@hotmail.com
8-31-09-5-4
$375 + divide utilities. 2 spacious rooms
avail. in 4/2 furnished house. Female college
student pref. 10 min from UF. Bus stop in
front of house & goes straight to UF. W/D in
house. Avail. immed. No pets 954-667-7290
9-9-2-4
FIRST MONTH FREE
Share 3br/2.5ba townhouse on SW 35th
PI with one roommate! $399/mo+1/2 utils,
cable, internet. Close to campus, great bus
route. Call Lee 239-353-9010(day) or 239-
353-5340 (evenings). 9-9-09-10-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
2001 2BR/2BA Mobile Home
in Oak Park Village. Includes appliances,
10x1O shed, awning. $12,000. 352-424-0687
8-31-09-15-5
Tumbling Creek Condo. Creek Front
1 BR/1 BA Wood flooring $59900
352-493-3487 8-31-14-5
2006 Homes of Merrit 3/2 excellent condi-
tion 28x56 double wide in Westgage Mobile
Manor.Storage shed all appliances included.
Great home for students. Only $39,999
352-214-8310 or email
dblochkell@yahoo.com 8-31-09-9-5
2BR/2BA Mobile home. Lot 38-E Oak Park
Village. All appliances, new heat-pump AC,
fireplace, screened patio & shed. Fresh
paint, spotless. $15,995. Call 352-493-1965
or cell 352-949-5847 8-31-09-5-5
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name
brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490
will deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Mattress Set -Purchased new for guest bed-
room -never used. Paid over $350 -Sell for
$250 -like new. Close to UF. Call James
373-6078 8-28-09-7-6
05 PC Bedroom set -$275
ODining table w/ four chairs -$125
*Queen & Full mattress sets -$90/set
Call Billy 215-3403 9-9-09-14-6
\Like New corner fireplace,tools,screen and
logs over$ 800.00.and an etagege with 3
glass shelves.Has pineapple frons on each
corner.Cost over$ 1200.00 both for$ 900.00.
352-378-5622 8-28-3-6
S P COm puterSO F Frnihins i CASH PAID FOR LAPTOP'S
Buy -Sell -Trade Any Condition
336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz Joel 12-9-
09-74-7
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
Triathlon?
Learn more about triathlons at one of our
FREE clinics! All experience levels welcome!
352-573-9481
www.pointyhelmetcoaching.com
8-28-09-6-9
POWDER COAT
BIKE FRAMES
$75 AND UP 352-377-2231
8-31-09-5-9*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
PARKING SPACES
FOR RENT $60/mo.
Call 372-4903 or 917-416-6968 9-4-09-24-
10
PARKING 60 SECONDS TO UF
Next to McDonalds NW 13th St. Call for se-
mester rates: 352-538-2454. 9-4-09-14-10
PLAY & BUY DRUMS, GUITARS, MORE
@ STUDIO PERCUSSION
www.STUDIOPERCUSSION.org
(352) 338-8302 9-18-20-10
OSOOJET BOATOOSO
'97 14' SeaDoo, 4-5 seater, perfect for lakes,
rivers, intercoastal. Runs great, looks great!
Must sell, moving. Comes w/ wakeboard, ski
rope & skis. $6500/OBO Call 352-316-1637
9-4-09-10-10
MotorCycIes, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***Www.B~uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
OF Autos
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS 0
ORunning or not!0
ONEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Autos Wanted Wanted Help Wanted Help Wanted
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
2000 NISSAN MAXIMA GLE
Good condition. 149k miles. AC/heat, CD
player, sunroof, tinted windows. $4500/OBO.
Call 352-318-0821 8-31-09-5-12LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgoldjewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 8-28-09-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
GMAT I GRE I LSAT I MCAT Enroll by 9/1 /09
(APLAN and receive
$200 off
1-800-KAP-TEST I kaptest.com/save200
"Copyrighted Material P
Syndicated Content 
.
Available from Commercial News Providers".
I I
3D
IpI 
-
INLooking for someone to help me learn to rake
knit a hat, second and fourth wednesdays of
each month. These hats are made for peo-
ple in Haiti. Come and have fun with Lenora.
Call 219-6948. 8-28-09-74-13
Unlimited Music & Video Downloads
Music, videos, movies, TV shows, games,
ringtones, audio books, etc. to your iPhone,
iPod, or cellphone. No per download fee.
www.fastappsdownl oader.co m/91288
8-28-09-5-13
$ WANTED
GRAPHIC CALCULATORS
Will pay cash. Call 352-284-8140 8-28-09-
5-13
NEED TWO SUPERSTAR PARTNERS
FOR A HUGE 'NOW' OPPORTUNITY
Very small investment / fast return
Call: Dave (352)222-7930
Email: Fortune@DaveFeather.com 8-31-
09-4-13DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
Executive Assistant- Crime Prevention
Security experiencing huge growth, great
career opportunity! Experience preferred.
Background check, drug test & valid FL
Drivers License required. Great benefits! Fax
resume to Jessica @ 376-9236
9-9-09-14-14
CATERING or RESTAURANT EXP
Catering Staff for special events.
Call Omi 352-215-1363 8-28-5-14
Help Wanted
1, IE S
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
OWNER
FINANCING
ON 19.99 ACRES
IN NEWBERRY, FL
Fenced and cross
fenced, high and dry.
Oak trees, zonedAG
and low taxes.
$269K
Call Gigi Tajalli
@ 352-281-0001
Watson Realty Corp.NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
FALL 2009
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
9-4-09-11-14
EVENT SUPERVISORS!!
PT Supervisors needed. days, nights week-
ends. Flexible hours. Great 2nd Job! Apply
at Concessions Office, South End Zone Ben
Hill Griffin Stadium, next to the Gator Sport
Shop (352) 375-4683 x6500 8-28-09-6-14
WAREHOUSE STAFF!!
FT/PT inventory control, flexible hours. Great
job for students! Will work around Class
schedule. Apply at Concessions Office,
South End Zone Ben Hill Griffin Stadium,
next To the Gator Sport Shop (352) 375-
4683 x6500 8-28-09-6-14
Tutors needed -grad students pref. Writing,
English Composition & Literature, & geogra-
phy for local non-profit serving learning dis-
abled students. We'll work with your sched-
ule. Please call 352-335-8966 for more info
8-31-09-7-14
Brand new start-up company is looking
for Reps in ALL areas. We train & support
at no cost. Be your own boss. Make the
fortune you've dreamed of. No $ to start.
http://stokton.org/vacancies.htm 9-10-
09-14-14
HfowIGotAnA'1U
Have a 3.6 GPA & want to earn some extra
cash? We are hiring notetakers for fall '09.
Go to www.HowlGotanA.com
8-31-09-7-14
Office Assistant -F/T -Passion -Numbers/
language/organization/fitness. Eye for detail.
1 year + commitment. Resume to: 625 NE
1st St. 32601 or paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
8-28-09-5-14
BABYSITTER needed for a boy and a girl
ages 14 & 10. Daily pick up at 4pm at bus
drop and escort to home, prepare dinner
and help with homework. Daily 4-7pm. West
G'ville. Call 352-514-4339 8-28-09-5-14
PARK PLACE CARWASH
is looking for highly motivated employees,
morning & afternoon shifts available Apply in
person 7404 NW 4th Blvd. No calls please.
9-14-09-15-14
STUDENTS ONLY: 20 hour per week IT help
desk position with local government. Flexible
hours, great environment. Please submit re-
sume to resume.submit@actcfl.org. 8-28-
09-5-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT
15 hrs/wk. $7.25/hr. Proficiency typing,
Word, Excel, internet surfing. Indicate avail-
able hours, critical. sival950@yahoo.com
8-28-09-5-14MOSES MEDIA INC. has 18 immedi-
ate openings for National Internet Sales
Reps for our downtown office. Will train.
Commission based. Applicants must have
great communication skills, be self motivated
and computer literate. Telemarketing exp. a
plus. Please call Mr. Williams 352-337-2800
9-4-09-10-14
Part time home and office. $9.00/hr. start.
Weekends and weekdays. Mowing experi-
ence preferred. 591-3000 8-28-09-5-14
Movie Extras, Actors, Models Wanted -Up
to $300/day! All Looks Needed! Call NOW
1-800-458-9303 9-21-20-14
Long hair models needed Work in a easy
going beautiful outdoor setting. Hip length
and longer only. No exp. ness. earn $80-300
while enjoying the day. 352 792-1824
9-4-09-10-14
Consultants wanted at the Center for
Instructional Technology and Training at the
University of Florida to assist in Faculty lab.
Applicants must be familiar with Windows
and MS Office, Photoshop, & Dreamweaver.
A friendly and cheerful attitude is essential
for this customer service position. Pay
starts at $8.00/hour. Contact Jennifer Smith
jksmith@ufl.edu, online application at:
http://www.citt.ufl.edu/employment.php.
9-4-10-14
WEB GRAPHIC ARTISTS wanted at the
UF Center for Instructional Technology and
Training. Develop your portfolio! Please visit
our website for more information. Schedule
is flexible; pay starts at $10.00 per hour. Call
392-7249 ext 230, online application at http://
www.citt.ufl.edu/employment.php
9-4-10-14
MOTHERS HELPER
2:30-6 weekdays for 13 and 11 y/o kids.
References and reliable car
required. 352-379-1017.
9-4-09-10-14
PCA and CMA needed immediately to work
in Gainesville and Starke area. Male staff are
encouraged to apply. Call 352-284-2336 or
fax C.V. to 352-373-2254 8-28-09-5-14
IVEY'S GRILL
has openings for servers & dishwasher/
cooks. Apply in person before 11am or after
2pm. Closed Mondays. 8-28-09-5-14
Micanopy Animal Hospital is looking for an
experienced veterinary technician for a part-
time position. Must be able to work week-
ends. Fax resume to 352-466-4267 or email
to micanopytech@gmail.com. 8-28-09-5-14
EARN SERIOUS CASH!
INDEPENDENT SALES REPS WANTED TO
INTRODUCE HEALTHY ALL NATURAL
ENERGY DRINK TO CAMPUS MARKET.
SELF-MOTIVATED, ENTREPRENEUR
TYPES ONLY.
CALL 1-800-342-3083
www.theactiondrink.com/zilli
8-28-09-5-14
Dermatology Practice has an opportunity
for FT/PT employment. Excellent Benefits,
Competitive Salary. Retirees, Second Career
and Shared Shift welcome to apply. Excellent
opportunity for PA applicants too. Please
send resume to fscds2009@yahoo.com
8-28-09-4-14
SUPERNANNY NEEDED
Busy professional couple with 5 children
Need nanny/housekeeper/assistant
20+ hours per week. Email resume and ref-
erences to: Tony@mcknight.ws 8-28-09-
5-15
MWFSat. NANNY for 3: 15 hr/wk
MWF nanny for 1: 25 hrs/wk
newborn to 3yrs; in-home prior exp;
must be avail for 1 year min;
Noah's Ark Nanny email resume,
pic, sched. to gnv@nanoneone.com 8-28-
09-5-14
einstein's OASIS hair salon HAIRSTYLISTS
needed. up to 70% comm benefits 331-4340.
600 NW 75th St. Suite "C". 9-15-15-14
20, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009
FHelp Wanted Services U3cServices 7Event notices WJZ kets
Tutors needed -grad students pref. Math,
economics, & science for local non-profit
serving learning disabled students. We'll
work with your schedule. Please call 352-
335-8966 for more info. 8-28-09-4-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
SDR Auditor
Seeking serious, responsible detailed per-
son for part-time position at corp. Must work
some weekends. send resume to
flhenry@lifesouth.org 8-31-09-5-14
Record Specialist
Seeking responsible, organized, reliable per-
son for part-time position. Basic computer
skills, ability to lift 20 lbs., work -20 hrs/wk.
send resume to flhenry@lifesouth.org 8-31-
09-5-14
Geek your way to wealth & earn cash while
attending college! Fora confidential interview
call 1-800-577-2021 and please leave your
name and number TWICE 12-9-68-14
LIFE SKILLS COACH -needed for after-
school activities/care teenage boy with au-
tism. 2:30-6:30 M-F. References and reliable
transportation required. Experience and train-
ing preferred. Call 246-2353. 10-16-30-14
Notes & Note Takers
Wanted Immediately.
Freshman & Sophomores in Demand.
We pay top dollar for Notes & Note Takers.
email: tamunotes@gmail.com 9-10-09-3-
14
Tutors needed 1-on-1 at-risk elem, mid
school students. 1-4 afternoons per wk. $10/
hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed wk study req
for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally
352-384-1155, st23@cox.net 9-9-09-10-14
Do you have an entrepreneurial mind?!?!
We are a textbook company looking to ex-
pand into the Gainesville area. We are look-
ing for a student to hire who is very smart,
capable, and eager to work to be a manager.
The role would be to assist us in setting up
infrastructure and assisting with managing
operations. This opportunity is very unique
with long-term potential. Only serious appli-
cants only. Send us your resume at Yoav@
bookxchange.com and tell us why you are
the one for the job!!
This is a paid job! 8-28-09-3-14
Experienced Babysitter wanted for two kids
aged 1 and 3 from Mon-Thur 3:30PM-5:OOPM
at our NW home. Paying $80 a week. Please
have references.(352)375-4608 8-28-09-3-
14
Homework Tutor Needed
for an 8th grade student at Oak Hall
Middle School.1-2 Hours after school
Monday thur Thursday Call 352-318-0447
9-2-09-5-14
EVENT TELLERS!!
PT Cashiers needed. Days, nights
Weekends. Flexible hours. Great 2nd Job!
Bank Teller experience required Apply at
Concessions Office, South End Zone Ben
Hill Griffin Stadium, next to The Gator Sport
Shop (352) 375-4683 x6500 8-28-09-2-14
DRINK SELLERS NEEDED!!!!
All Gator Home Football Games. Join the
excitement and make money too! The South
End Zone of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, Enter
at gate 2, on Aug. 29th at 10am. Bring Photo
ID and $8.00 for required shirt. Call (352)
375-4683 ext. 6500 8-28-09-2-14
Sell Gators Merchandise On Campus!
Earn pay and commission selling Gators
handbags, memo boards and more.
Email resume to andy@tessuta.com
9-2-09-5-14
Cellular Sales / Customer Service Gator
Paging & Cellular is hiring pt/ft for outgoing
personable fun energetic personalities Sales/
Customer Ser Exp a must 2108 SW 13th St
we're a Metro PCS Dealer 9-2-09-5-14IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160 riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 9-16-
09-60-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
Laser Hair Removal, Electrolysis, & Skin
Care @ Advanced Hair Removal & Skin
Institute- 352.331.6797- Ask about student
discounts & sorority specials. Check out our
website @ www.hairskininstitute.com
9-30-09-27-15
Private home office experienced childcare.
Close to UF. 3 months to 3 years old. $17.50/
day & pay only for the day(s) you need.
Please call 352-372-1769 9-11-09-14-15
FHealth Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
Affordable Therapy at Stillpoint
This months Specials:
1 Hour Massage Therapy or.
1 Hour Acupuncture/Acupressure/Herbal
Consult. or Chiropractic Treatment Session
$ 40.00!!! Licensed, Experienced
Professionals 10 minutes from campus on
39th ave. schedule today. 376 1320 9-17-
20-16
C F PersonasIS
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
LAPTOP BACKPACKS!
All Jansport backpacks on sale. Many styles
with padded laptop compartments. All have
lifetime warranties. 1 mile N. of UF on 13th
St. Lloyd Clarke Sports 352-372-7836 9-3-
10-18
SHOE SALE
Over 200 styles are on sale 10-50% off.
Great selection of running shoes, sandals
and cleats too! Let us help you find the right
shoe. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St.
9-3-10-18
NEED A RUNNING BUDDY?
Come join our running group Sunday nights
at 6:00pm. Meet at Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504
NW 13th St (1 mile N. of UF) 3-6 mile loops -
Great company. www.lloydclarkesports.com
9-3-10-18
NEED TEAM UNIFORMS?
From super-technical to ultra-basic, we make
any type of jerseys you may need. Our team
department is fast, competitive and profes-
sional. Call Palmer @ 372-7836 for all of
your team needs. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504
NW 13th St. 9-3-10-18
CHACOS
Great sandal for walking all over campus.
Adjustable straps for a custom fit & they last a
long time. Flip flops too! Lloyd Clarke Sports
1504 NW 13th St. 352-372-7836 9-4-10-18
BOARDSHORT SALE!
Awesome colors & prints all on sale.
Billabong, Quiksilver, Element, Fox, Hurley &
Oakley. Check it out. Lloyd Clarke Sports, 1
mile N. on 13th St. 9-4-10-18
MODELS NEEDED
Hair and Fashion. No exp.
Editorial and photo. 331-4340.
EINSTEINS 600 NW 75th St. "C" 9-8-10-18
WJLCOIectioP 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
Handsome, romantic, mature artist, who
looks and acts younger, is looking for an at-
tractive female with a sense of humor. Object:
companionship and who knows? Please call
352-226-8449. I use a taxi. 8-27-09-5-19IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
THE BIGGEST POSTER SALE.
Biggest and Best Selection. Choose from
over 2000 different images. FINE ART,
MUSIC, MODELS, HUMOR, ANIMALS,
PERSONALITIES, LANDSCAPES,
MOTIVATIONALS, PHOTOGRAPHY.
MOST IMAGES ONLY $7, $8, AND $9
SEE US AT Reitz Union Colonnade ON
Monday August 24th thru Friday August
28th, 2009. THE HOURS ARE 9 AM -6 PM
THIS SALE IS SPONSORED BY
Reitz Union Arts and Crafts Center. 8-28-
09-5-20
BREAST CANCER AWARENESS
FUNDRAISER EVENT
Pole Dance Demonstration. Wine & Cheese
Friday, August 28th, 7-9pm, Artwalk.
352-373-6628 8-28-3-20TIX WANTED:
UF alumni needs 2-4 tickets to UF v Ga and
UF v SC 706-207-0512 or email thomasin-
afc@yahoo.com 8-31-5-22
a Rides
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
CHARTER BUS / CHARTER BUS RENTAL /
LIMOS / 352-494-1734 ask for Harold
WE BEAT ALL COMPETITOR PRICING
ASK ABOUT SPECIAL DISCOUNT OFFER
www.reliancecoach.com 9-22-20-23
t ai WEIZYZIDPets
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public Wed-Sat-Sun 1 pm-6pm
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
Tri-County Bird Hospital
Recept/Tech PT for more info call 352-31 8-
1247. Apply in person Mon thru Fri. 94-
09-10-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
SiSFdnLd5y Challrngc
5.\ (tC 5howdowA
5 V5
yave what it takes to
t you thdn Ybrfl the trash talk, we
bring s 100
words or less.
el 0Send it to
Spo0rtS01idr-g5p.m FRIDAYIr entries
W wilpbih the five winners' nreWe wil publs butfu lanuag
Anything goes,b na ge
gets Youelminated.
Sports
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009
LB Jenkins in boot
By MIKE DIFERDINANDO
Alligator Staff Writer
mdiferdinando@alligator org
Freshman linebacker Jelani
Jenkins is wearing a protective
boot while he tries to recover
from a sprained left ankle he in-
jured in practice Tuesday.
Florida coach Urban Meyer
said Jenkins should return to
practice sometime next week.
Tough practices have taken
their toll on the UF linebacking
corps this fall. Brandon Hicks
is also fighting an ankle injury.
Jon Bostic has missed time with
an injury to his trapezius muscle
and Brendan Beal has been lim-
ited with a sore neck.
"We've been banging them
pretty good," Meyer said.
DEBOSE MAKING A PUSH: Fresh-
man wide receiver Andre Debose
is making a run at serious play-
ing time this fall after a strong
showing in preseason camp.
"He's got natural hands and
that 10.4 (second)-100-meter
speed, so he's blessed." Meyer
said.
Much like former Gators re-
ceiver Percy Harvin, early play-
ing time could come if Debose
shows he can be productive car-rying the ball.
STRIPES STILL ON: With a little
more than a week left before the
Sept. 5 season opener against
Charleston Southern, only five
freshmen have become full mem-
bers of the UF football family by
having the stripes removed from
their helmets.
Quarterback Jordan Reed,
running back Mike Gillislee,
linemen Jonotthan Harrison and
Nick Alajajian and receiver Ste-
phen Alli have had theirs taken
off.
"It's going to
be embarrassing
that first game
to have those
Football stripes," Meyer
said.
MOORE STILL OUT: Senior wide
receiver Carl Moore had a proce-
dure done last week to help al-
leviate back pain, but it appears
the injury was more severe than
coaches had anticipated.
"It's a little more significant
procedure than (we thought).
I'd give you the term, but I don't
know what it was. Something
about the nerves in his back,"
Meyer said. "It's still going to be
SEE NOTES, PAGE 23UF freshman Jelani Jenkins has earned high praise from coaches and teammates during fall practice. The
linebacker sprained his left ankle Tuesday and is expected to return to practice sometime next week.
PAY FOR PLAY
UAA committed to facilities
By LAURA KUBITZ, KYLE MAISTRI and
MIKE McCALL
Alligator Writers
Editor's Note: This is the conclusion of our
four-part alligatorSports series in which
we examine whether college athletes de-
serve to be paid for their athletic efforts.
An alternative to paying student-athletes is
to improve their athletic and educational expe-
rience in ways other than paying them.
"The UAA will continue to plan a strong
focus on facilities, as we believe they are one
of the strongest statements we can make about
our commitment to our athletic programs,"
the University Athletic Association said in its
budget.Completed in August 2008, the "Gateway
of Champions" project renovated, expanded
and created a new entrance into the football
office complex. A new banquet/video room
was created, and the strength and conditioning
complex was expanded.
In 2007-08, the UAA completed a renova-
tion of the Office of Student Life that enhanced
the staff offices and work areas. This renova-
tion will help provide academic assistance to
student-athletes.
The construction of a new facility to sup-
port women's lacrosse finished up this sum-
mer, and an audio-visual display to honor the
achievements of the UF men's basketball team
was added to its practice facility.
In 2008-09, there was also a budget increase
of $430,000 toward men and women's scholar-
SEE PAY FOR PLAY, PAGE 23Milestones drive QB's legacy
hen it comes to a player'slegacy, perception is real-
ity.
Reality, however, is not always
perception.
Assuming Tim Tebow's senior
season is as least as productive as
his junior campaign, the three-year
starter will have done enough to go
down as the greatest player in col-
lege football history.
Tebow played his career in the
Southeastern Conference, a league
known for its stingy, NFL-style
defenses. Last season, the SEC fin-
ished with three teams in the top 10
in points allowed per game and six
teams in the top 21.
Tebow isn't racking up his stats
against Big 12 or Pac-10 foes. He
won a Heisman in a conference
where defense is king.
He is the conference's career
passing efficiency leader (173.8) and
is just seven rushing touchdownsfrom break-
ing Herschel
Walker's SEC
record 49 set
27 years ago.
In all like-
Kyle Maistri lihood, the
Kyle Points Golden Boy
krnaistri@a IIigator org will leave
Florida as the
career leader in both of those cat-
egories. It is football's equivalent to
a baseball player leading his confer-
ence in career home runs and stolen
bases.
He already has a Heisman Tro-
phy and two national champion-
ships to his name, one as a role
player and one as the star player.
When taking all that into ac-
count, I can't think of a single col-
lege football player with the type of
r6sum6 Tebow will be able to hand
to NFL scouts this spring.
SEE KYLE, PAGE 23
I DID NOT KNOW THAT
0 Soccer senior Lauren Hyde was named
one of 30 candidates for the 2009
Lowe's Senior CLASS Award. The mid-
fielder/defender is a three-time All-SEC
selection.TEEING OFF WITH MIKE DiFERDINANDO
The NAACP is organizing a pro-Michael Vick rally prior to the Eagles' home
preseason game against the Jaguars, proving once again that if you're good
enough at anything, you can literally get away with murder. .Ricky Rubio
is poised to sign a deal to play basketball for FC Barcelona. With him and
Lionel Messi, Barcelona might have the world's most dynamic backcourt.ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
alligatorSports Fantasy Challenge
U More than 30 million people in the
United States and Canada play fantasy
sports .apparently few of them attend
UF. Send your 100-word applications to
sports@alligator.org by Friday at 5 p.m.
22, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009
I\~~~tt I ~ t~ r'tIS ~
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
V " ' A
Still need housing this Fall?
Ask about our Last Minute Move-In Special!
Brand new -Key-card access -Huge walk-in closets
Only steps from class, The Swamp & sporting events!
Check out website for video tour!
352.338.7467I-.
C=
1" 1 SREIT
Only 6 Blocks from UF Campus!0 N .14I
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 23
Court rule% s4*rz' of 2(X 4 d"i" t.ins e ht unljful
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
Professor's study finds staying in school hurts athletes earning potential
PAY FOR PLAY, from page 21
ships. This number reflects the increase in tu-
ition, room and board and fees administered
by the university.
To help educate his players about the cur-
rent job market and how to manage money,
Urban Meyer set aside Tuesday night meet-
ings during spring practice to put the Gators
through informational sessions.
"One of the problems with college athlet-
ics is kids leave here and keep asking for their
Pell Grant checks and scholarship checks, and
that's going to stop," Meyer said. "You see so
many professional athletes blow their money
because they weren't taught. We're teaching
them right now.
"We've taken football time and taught
them how to go get a job and all the things this
university can do for you in the job market."
University of Vermont law professor Mi-
chael McCann has another solution.
"My argument would be that it isn't as
much that they deserve to be paid, but they
deserve the opportunity to go play pro sports,"
said McCann, who writes a column for Sports
Illustrated and helped represent former Ohio
State running back Maurice Clarett in his case
against the NFL.
"If they defy that opportunity and go to
college, that's their own decision. There are
benefits to doing either. I think in the NBA,
players should be able to go directly from high
school without a year off."
This opportunity would make college more
of a choice than a necessary stop en route to
the pros, McCann said, leaving less room to
gripe about compensation. Moreover, his 2004
study found that from 1995 to 2003, more than
80 percent of drafted high school players be-
came or will become multi-millionaires by the
age of 21.
The study also shows that these players
have maximized their earning potential by be-
coming unrestricted free agents by the age of
22, while graduating players will be bound bythe rookie salary scale.
He also broke down the myth that the lack
of a college education leads to more disciplin-
ary problems and showed "most players who
skip college may earn as much as $100 million
more over the course of their careers than if
they had done the 'smart thing' and earned a
college diploma."
While this system is unlikely to work with
college football, it would make the pay-for-
play argument less credible with basketball.
For football, Tampa sports talk radio host
and former Miami football player Dan Sileo
said student-athletes deserve the ability to test
the waters of the NFL Draft in a fashion simi-
lar to basketball players.
Currently, football players can ask a panel
to review and evaluate their
draft stock, but once they
declare for the draft, there's
no returning to college. Bas-
ketball players can declare
for the draft but retain col-
lege eligibility by not hiring
an agent.
Nelson And Florida receiver
David Nelson believes
there's value in not being paid. While he treats
playing football and taking classes as a job, he
doesn't see his predicament as a sob story.
"It is frustrating, but at the same time,
when you signed your scholarship, you came
to Florida to play football and be a student-
athlete," Nelson said. "You're supposed to be
a student-athlete, always go to class and give
100 percent to your studies and to football.
You have to get your mind right before you
come so you're ready for what's about to take
place."
Furthermore, Nelson fears that paying col-
lege athletes would take away from the spirit
of the game.
"If you add the paying component to it, it
takes away from the atmosphere and love that
makes up college football," he said. "You look
at the NFL, and it's a job and a business. It's
all about the individual and how much moneythey're getting. In college, it's all about doing
what you can for the team and the university.
"If you add that paying component in, it
takes away from the atmosphere and camara-
Top-Sellirderie we have between the team and student
body. People ask me all the time if we should
get paid, and I don't think so."
Melissa Rodgers contributed to this report.
Sby
Merchandise
Royalty
6 N
Lii
pENN STATE
Source: Collegiate Licensing Co. Jessica Warshaver / Alligator Staff
KYLE, from page 21
Yet, somehow, there are peo-
ple out there who think he needs
a second Heisman or a third na-
tional championship to secure
the sole spot atop college foot-
ball's Mount Olympus.
Reluctantly, I'm one of them.
The reality is that if Tebow only
earns a trip back to New York as
a Heisman finalist and loses in
the title game, there should be no
debate as to whether or not he is
the greatest ever.
His statistics, individual ac-
colades and team successes will
be greater than anyone who has
come before him, yet public opin-
ion won't see it that way -per-
ception will distort reality.
His legacy will be determined
based on one game against anelite team and a vote left in the
hands of former Heisman win-
ners and members of the media.
Any team, no matter how
good, can lose one game. And the
Heisman often goes to the best
player on the best team in the na-
tion rather than simply the best
player in the nation.
Unfairly, Tebow's legacy as
the greatest college football play-
er rests, in part, on the shoulders
of Brandon Spikes, Joe Haden,
Jeff Demps and the Pounceys.
It rests, in part, on the ballots
of Heisman voters who may notmost lucrative contract in the
NFL for doing little more than
winning a Super Bowl two years
ago. You know, because he did
that all by himself.
On the other hand, Donovan
McNabb, who has never been able
to get over the hump despite tak-
ing the Eagles to five NFC Cham-
pionship games in nine seasons,
routinely draws the ire of Eagles
fans and was almost run out of
town last year. You know, be-
cause he hasn't been able to win a
Super Bowl all by himself.
Even though he shouldn't
want another player to join Ar- need it, a second bronze statue
chie Griffin at his table for one. or a third crystal ball will leave
Football is the consummate people with no choice but to re-
team sport, which makes it that
much harder to evaluate individ-
ual talent.
Eli Manning just inked themember him as the best college
football player ever.
And it will be there that reality
and perception finally intersect.Loeffler: / have not
worked with Ha den
N OTES, from page 21
a little while until he's ready."
Moore caught 14 passes for 184 yards and a touchdown
last year but was expected to play a larger role this season
before injuring his back.
LOEFFLER DENIES WORKING WITH HADEN: Joe Haden and
Meyer have said that the Second-Team All-Southeastern
Conference defensive back will take snaps at quarterback
this fall as part of UF's Wildcat package.
But Wednesday, quarterbacks coach Scot Loeffler said he
has not worked with Haden at practice.
"I haven't had Joe in a team rep yet," Loeffler said.
24, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2009
GAo V'S
jebro
N:
CAMPUS
Iusa
I Must open a checking account and mention this ad to receive gift card. 2 Personal accounts only. Electronic monthly statements and credit approval required.
$50 initial opening deposit required. 3 Credit approval required. 4 Mention this ad and we'll waive the $15 new member fee.AUGUST~N bN~' NJe~
&
a jyc s
NCUA
