* Joe Haden called
sophomore Will Hill
(below) Florida's best
defensive player during
fall practice. Hill was
used on special teams
and at the nickelback
last season, but has
earned a job at safety.
the independent floridaalligator
fIEOfIMPE N
Editor Phil Kegler Cover Photo Harrison Diamond
Alligator, Friday, September 11, 2009
Jockeying
Position
Meyer's willingness to play the
best causes fierce competition
By KYLE MAISTRI The sophomore made his first
Alligator Staff Writer career start i UF's season opener
krna istni@a IlIigator org against Charleston Southern, re-
placing junior Ahmad Black, who
The five stars mean nothing was tied for the most interceptions
now. in the nation just a season ago.
Neither does the No. 1 position The Gators have three supremely
ranking, the high school All-Amer- talented safeties battling for two
ican game selection or the state spots on the field.
championships. Everyone has the Coach Urban Meyer and his staff
same pedigree. say they are all starters, but when
Come to Florida, where every the whistle blows and the first ca-
top recruit has a chance to play dence is called, someone is left
right away, provided he's willing standing on the sidelines.
to outwork the All-American to his "A lot of us have to get used to it
right and left. because coming out of high school,
The plan is simple: commit to all of us were great players, probably
one of the top programs in the na- the best players on the team," said
tion, outshine every other player at Black, who won three state titles at
the same position and secure a start- Lakeland High. "You know coming
ing job as an underclassman. to college, you know you got to split
Following through on the plan is time with other great players. You
significantly harder. know it will all work out."
Percy Harvin did it. Joe Haden Defensive coordinator Charlie
did it. So did Janoris Jenkins. Strong elected to use Hill, Black
Now, safety Will Hill is doing it, and junior Major Wright in a rota-
too. tion during the first game, which
AN""" to Illustration by Harrison Diamond and Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
Sophomore safety Will Hill (10) supplanted Ahmad Black (35) as UF's opening-day starter despite Black's impressive 2008 season. As a sophomore,
Black tied for the most interceptions in the nation with seven. Coach Urban Meyer plans to use a three-man rotation at safety for the forseeable future.
keeps everyone happy and works
fine in a 62-3 blowout. However,
when it comes time to put two
of them on the field late in close
games, a tough decision will have
to be made.
The fact that a decision even has
to be made after the year that Black
and Wright -who started in all 14
games for the Gators in 2008 -had
speaks volumes about Hill, who was
ranked the No. safety in his class,
according to Scout.com, and was se-
lected to play in the ESPNU Under
Armour High School All-American
Game.
The deadlocked defensive back
has given the coaching staff exactly
what it wants, a fierce competition
for playing time that pushes the
individuals involved to be the best
they can be for the team.
And Hill's not the only one mak-
ing things uncomfortable for some
returning starters.
Get Noticed
For players to respect a coach,
he has to build a strong, caring re-lationship with each of his guys,
which makes it tough to cast aside a
proven veteran for the promise of a
rising young star.
"It's tough because you getere-lationships with the players, but
I think at the end of the day, guys
come to Florida for a lot of reasons
and one of them is to win games,"
Meyer said. "If you're the best play-
er, you'reegoing to play, and they
understand that. If you're open and
honest and you evaluate, one thing
we do is we grade every snap and
we meet constantly, so there's no
surprises when there's a position
change made or when a guy moves
up the depth chart. People see it
momina.-"
< I The day-to-day competitions
Harrison Diamond/tAlligator:tafffor starting jobs, backup roles and
Running back Emmanuel Moody (21) transferred from USC to UF hoping formop-up duty are as intense as the
an increase in playing time but finds himself in a crowded backfield. Gainesville heat and as exhausting
statistical breakdown
TROY UF
14 Points Scored 62
31 Points Allowed 3
263 Passing Yards 255
41 Rushing Yards 369
339 Passing Yards Allowed 228
50 Rushing Yards Allowed 95
4/13 (31%) 3rd Down Conversions 6/9 (67%)
4/13 (31%) 3rd Down Defense 8/20 (40%)
2-4 (50%) Red Zone Scoring Efficiency (TD %) 5-6 (83%)
3-3 (67%) Red Zone Defense (TD%) 0-2 (0%)
-1 Turnover Margin +1
UF offense vs. Troy defenseas the Gators' new Banzai package.
Compounding the awkward
situation of an inherently adversar-
ial relationship with a teammate is
the fact that players, by and large,
spend the most time with their po-
sition groups, often growing closest
with guys they are in direct compe-tition with.
"You think about one's feelings,
but then you also think about you
and your career," Hill said. "So you
just got to just go out there and keep
your head level and just know ev-
erything is going to play out right."
Things have played out right for
Hill so far, but not every player's
presumed ascension has come to
fruition.
Junior Emmanuel Moody, whotransferred from USC to Floridalargely because of the apparent hole
in the Gators' backfield at the time,
has seen the field predominantly
during garbage time.
Sophomores Jeff Demps and
Chris Rainey emerged as home-run
hitting tailbacks during their fresh-
man seasons, frequently leaving the
oft-injured Moody as the odd man
out.
Moody, the Pacific-10 Freshman
of the Year in 2006, is now at full
speed and feels comfortable with
the competition for carries.
"What I love about it is there's no
envy toward any of the other run-
ning backs," Moody said. "We're
just pushing each other and which-
ever running back makes a big play,
we just try to encourage them."
That team-first attitude is birthed
out of a commitment to winning
first and foremost, something that
Black said makes the transition to a
reducedrole easier.
Fifth-year senior wide receiver
David Nelson commended Black
for his attitude while conceding
that all of the veterans feel pushed
by the young talent -the truesign
of Meyer's mark on the program.
"That's how it should be. That's
competition. Every down, you're
playing yo r hardest to keep your
spot," Nelson said. "Coach Meyer
has worked real hard heretoerecruit
good players and recruit depth.
When he first got here, he had first-
deep and that's all he was comfort-
able with. Now, he feels like he has
a two-deep and maybe a three-deep,
and so he's confident knowing if
somebody gets hurt, somebody is
going to step in and fill that void
and not miss a beat."
Practice Makes Perfect
Center Maurkice Pouncey, who
was on Lakeland's state-champion-
ship teams with Black, has startedall but one game since stepping on
campus, but he still feels like his
role is not guaranteed.
"Somebody is trying to come for
my job every day," Pouncey said.
"That's the way I approach it, ev-
erybody goes out there every daytrying to get a spot on the field.
We practice harder than any other
school out there.
Practice, to us, is harderthan any-
thing I ever experienced in my life.
I hope it keeps that way. It keeps us
winning."
It's easy to get down after a slip
on the depth chart, a decrease in
game snaps or any sort of deviation
from the aforementioned plan.
Junior linebacker Lorenzo Ed-
wards, who was ranked as the No. I
weakside linebacker in his class by
Scout.com and selected to the 2007
U.S. Army All-American game, ad-
mitted to being a little depressed
after he came in with lofty expec-tations but was unable to crack the
rotation.
Fifth-year senior Ryan Stamper,
who plays the same position as Ed-
wards, tried to help out his youngerteammate.
"My first year, my second year, I
wasn't playing and I was just telling
him, 'You think that it's the coaches.
You think that, but you pretty much
have to go deep down and it's pret-
ty much you,"'"Stamper said.
"Most of the players here -this
is Florida -the best players are go-
ing to play, and that's what I told
him, 'Man, you got to find some-
thing in yourself because it's you.
It's not no one but you."'"
It's easy to blame a setback on
outside interference like politics, fa-
voritism or even class standing, but
none of that makes a difference to
Meyer, now in his fifth year as UF's
head coach.
Players, like Hill, earn their
stripes in practice and on specialteams.
As a freshman, Hill started off
playing almost solely on special
teams and impressed coaches by
leading the team with 22 tackles on
kickoff and punt coverage.
He parlayed that into a role as
the Gators' nickelback and eventu-
ally, a starting safety job.
Hill said understanding how
such talented players can get bur-
ied on the depth chart isn't quite the
mystery some make it out to be.
"You got to think about it, there's
a reason for everything," Hill said.
"You just watch practice and, basi-
cally, practice tells it all."
If that's the case, competing with
theirteammatesmay be the tough-
est test the Gators face this season.-OUT-
OL Tyler Graves (suspension)
LB Bear Woods (suspension)
CB KeJuan Phillips
(academically ineligible for
the season)
-QUESTIONABLE.
RB Nate Nolin (knee)
OL Stephen Adams (calf)
-OUT
WR Carl Moore (back)
CB Jeremy Brown (back)
S Dorian Munroe (knee)
LB Brendan Beal (neck)
-DOUBTFU L
LB Jelani Jenkins (ankle)
-QUESTIONABLE.
LB Brandon Hicks (flu)
DT Lawrence Marsh (ankle)
-PROBABLE-
OL Carl Johnson (knee)
DE Jermaine Cunningham (ankle)
NUMBERS
First-quarter punts blocked by
2 Florida against Troy in the teams'
2007 matchup
Total punts by the Gators against
the Trojans in the game two years
ago
jTroy wins against ranked opponentsin 16 games The Trojans defeated
No 17 Missouri 24-14 in 2004
Troy's average margin2 .1 .7 of defeat in 15 losses to
ranked foes
Preseason AP poll ballots (out of
60) that had Troy on it (the Trojans
received one No 25 vote)
2Preseason AP ballots (out of 60)
that did not have Florida at No 1
J D
Jeff Demps Tim Tebow
Deonte Aaron Marcus I Maurkice I Carl David Nelson Riley Cooper
Thompson Hernandez Gilbert Mike Pouncey James Johnson
Pouncey Wilson
Brandon Kevin Eugene Cameron
Lang Dixon Kinlaw Sheffield
Daniel Boris Donnell
Sheffield Lee Golden
C F
Courtland Fuller Chris BowensIS
Bryan
WillisJanoris
Jenkins
J g
Jerrel
Jernigano 9 Will Hill Major Wright
eB eLB
Ryan Brandon A.J.
Stamper Spikes Jones
DETD
Jaye Carlos
Jermaine Howard Omar Dunlap
Cunningham HunterJoe Haden
00 Go 0 0 0e
James Danny Kyle Tebarius Gill Zack MarcumBrown Tyler Franks Steven Wilborn
Clark Adams
D v B
DJ Taylor Levi Brown DuJuan HarrisBarry
ValcinUF defense vs. Troy offenseI
0the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 14 We Inform. You Decide.-0Ret
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009
City to enforce Game-Day parking rules
* RESIDENTS MUST ACQUIRE A
PERMIT TO SELL SPACES.
By KATHLEEN BIRKHIMER and
DAVID TINTNER
Alligator Contributing Writers
Gainesville residents hoping to sell Game-
Day parking will have to pay close attention
to an ordinance the city plans to enforce morerigidly this year.
Over the weekend, officials from Gaines-
ville's code enforcement division reminded
property owners that selling spaces on their
lawn for parking requires a permit and a fee.
"It's really an education process at this
point," Gainesville spokesman Bob Woods
said.
Later this season, unlicensed lawn park-
ing will result in fines.
Violators will face punishment rangingfrom warnings to $500 fines and court ap-
pearances for repeat offenders.
Woods said the ordi-
Around nance has been effectiveGainesville since last year, and the
number of applications for
permits has doubled since then.
A parking permit for lots in business zones
costs $26.25, and private lots are charged
$52.50 for up to 25 spaces -after 25, the per-
mit costs $157.50."This is really an attempt just to observe
the extent of the yard parking that was taking
place," Woods said. "Our concern is not to
fine property owners; our concern is to gain
compliance."
According to Woods, homeowners -not
those who rent the houses -will be held re-
sponsible for infractions.
Woods said the city intends to have of-
SEE PARKING, PAGE 8
New Gainesville Police Chief Tony Jones answers questions at the first press conference of his
term at City Hall Thursday afternoon.Five-month search
for police chief ends
By JARED MISNER
Alligator Writer
After a nationwide search, City Man-
ager Russ Blackburn announced Capt.
Tony Jones as Gainesville's new police
chief at a press conference Wednesday
afternoon.
Jones has worked for the Gainesville
Police Department since 1975, most re-
cently as interim police chief.
Jones, who graduated from the Uni-
versity of Alabama, first served as inter-
im police chief from 1997 to 1998.
In addition to his 34 years with GPD,
Jones serves as a board member in com-
munity organizations such as the Boys &
Girls Club and the Black on Black Crime
Task Force.
"Tony brings a tremendous amount
to the City of Gainesville," Blackburn
said.
Out of 93 applicants for the position,five "highly qualified" applicants were
interviewed, according to Blackburn.
"It's been an exhaustive process,"
Blackburn said, adding that selecting a
new chief has garnered more public in-
terest than any issue he's faced as city
manager.
"Tony brings a
tremendous amount to
the City of Gainesville."
Russ Blackburn
City manager
Jones was appointed interim police
chief on July 6, following the retirement
of former police Chief Norman Botsford
on April 16.
Botsford, who served as GPD chief for
10 years, retired amid controversy sur-
rounding several GPD officers, includ-
SEE CHIEF, PAGE 8
LOCAL
Business college namesake announces $16M gift
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewa rt@a IIigator org
Al Warrington, namesake of UF's War-
rington College of Business Administration,
announced a $16 million gift to the college
Thursday.
The donation will also be eligible for a
matching grant from the state, pushing the
total to $32 million.Warrington said the money will be used
to hire more faculty in the college, which has
a faculty-student ratio of more than 90-to-1.
"We got great faculty," he said. "The
problem is there's just not enough of
them."
UF's overall faculty-student ratio is listed
as 20.3-to-1 in the latest U.S. News & World
Report, but internal numbers put the ratio
higher, at 22-to-1.
Warrington's donation will be used toestablish an endowment, and the yearly in-
come from the endowment
will fund the salaries and
benefits of new faculty.
The money will fund
a constant stream of new
faculty, four at a time, as
they work to attain tenure
Warrington in the college.
The college currently
has about 100 faculty.Warrington said he will donate the mon-
ey over time.
"I'll be making the gifts as I see fit and as
I can afford it," he said.
The state's portion will also not fall into
place right away, as the state has temporar-
ily halted its matching grants program due
to a lack of money.
The college was named after Warrington,
a UF Trustee and businessman from Hous-
ton, in 1996.
N The U.S.
Department of
Commerce awarded
UF with more than
$142,000 to help
Gainesville businesses.
See story at
alligator.org.Divers locate body of driver in Paynes Prairie waters Thursi
After nearly a day and a half of searching, authorities
found the body of a driver involved in Wednesday's ac-
cident near Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park.
Dive teams from the Alachua and Marion County
sheriff's offices recovered the body of Thomas Sherman,
48, of Ocala at about 11 a.m. Thursday from the swamp
water, according to Lt. Patrick Riordan of the Florida
Highway Patrol.
The divers had to feel their way through the murky
water in order to locate him, Riordan said.FHP also identified the other person involved in the
accident as Amy Hodges, 37, of Gainesville.
The accident, which occurred around 4 p.m. Wednes-
day, resulted from Sherman's vehicle hitting Hodges'
from behind.
The impact caused Sherman to lose control, plow
through a guardrail and land in the water.
Authorities have not determined the cause of death,
Riordan said.
-CJ PRUNERTOday
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
11
16
17Thunder
storms
87/71
visit www.alligator.org
2, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Framing Europe: Location
and Circulation in a Mediated
World
Today, 3 p.m.
Dauer Hall Room 219
A talk by Deniz G6kttirk from
the University of California,
Berkeley. G6kttirk has writ-
ten extensively on the literary
and cinematic imaginations
of America and Europe, as
well as on migration, culture
and cinema. This is part of the
Center for European Studies
series "Engaging Migration in
Europe."
Shabbat with a Senator
Friday, 7 p.m.
Hillel, 2020W University Ave.
Hillel will be hosting state Sen.
Ted Deutch, who will speak
during dinner about a nuclear
Iran and take questions after-
ward at a dessert reception.
Free Tango Classes and Practica
Today, 8 p.m. to midnight
Student Rec (SRFC), Room 1.
The UF Argentine Tango club
offers free dance classes ev-
ery week. Partners and dance
shoes are not required.
The 28th Annual Dog Days Run
Saturday, 8 to 10 a.m.
Westside Park
The UF Student Chapter of the
American Veterinary Medical
Association is hosting a 5K and
one-mile fun run for owners
and their dogs to benefit the
Alliance for Rabies Control.
There will be free food, a raf-
fle, goody bags and awards for
both runs. Registration forms
are available on floridatrack-
club.org or on the day of the
race.
Jamaican-American Student
Association and Iota Phi Theta
Fraternity present the second
annual Jerkfest
Saturday, 5 p.m.
Woodlands Apartment Pool
Caribbean-style fun in the sun.
There will be a pool party with
a live disc jockey and food ca-
tered by the Reggae Shack
Cafe. Visit JAMSA's Facebook
group for more information.
Shabbat yoga and services
Saturday, 11 a.m. and 5 p.m.
Hillel, 2020 W University Ave.
Hillel will offer a 45-minuteFORECAST
TODAY
THUNDER
STORMS
87/71SATURDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
82/72
yoga class in the morning
with reflections on Shabbat.
There will be an afternoon
Mincha service at 5 p.m.
(after the football game),
followed by snacks, learn-
ing and a short Havdalah
service marking the end of
Shabbat.
Breaking Down Borders with
Esperanto
Tuesday, 6:30 to 8 p.m.
Anderson Hall, Room 21
For the first Esperanto
Club meeting of the year,
two students will describe
their European travels with
Esperanto, a neutral lan-
guage created for interna-
tional communication.
Islam On Campus Ramadan
Fast-A-Thon
Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.,
Doors open at 6 p.m.
O'Connell Center main
court
Join the 1.5 billion Muslims
worldwide in fasting for
one day. For every pledge,
Islam on Campus aims to
raise $5 on their behalf for
the St. Francis House. At the
end of the day, there will be
an international feast at the
O'Connell Center free of
charge. Those who don't fast
are still welcome to attend.
UF Equestrian Club meeting
Wednesday, 7:30 p.m.
Norman Hall, Room 331
Come join the UF Equestrian
Club. Check out the Web site
at www.ufequestrian.word-
press.com
Learn to Row event
Sept. 25, 6 to 8 p.m.
Newnan's Lake Boathouse,
7300 E University Ave.
The Gainesville Area
Rowing Club is hosting a
Learn to Row event from
Sept. 25 to Sept. 27. The club,
a local nonprofit organiza-
tion, invites adult rowers to
participate in this three-daySUNDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
86/72MONDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
87/72TUESDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
87/71
workshop. The Learn to Row
course is designed as an intro-
duction to the sport of rowing
and includes an introduction
to indoor rowing machines,
sweep rowing and sculling.
Participants should expect
individual attention and time
rowing on the water.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this
space? Send an e-mail to
bkelley@alligator.org with
"What's Happening" in the
subject line. Please include a
one- to two-sentence synopsis
of the event.
ON CAMPUS
UF holds moment of silence
UF students are encouraged
to participate in a moment of si-
lence today at 9:11 a.m. in remem-
brance of the Sept. 11 attacks.
Additionally, a vigil will be
held on the Plaza of the Americas
at 7 p.m. next to the 9/11 Never
Forget Project, a display of 2,977
American flags, each one repre-
senting a person who died in the
attacks.
During the vigil, graduate
student Benjamin Wasmuth will
perform John Courter's "In Me-
moriam," on the Century Tower
carillon bells. "The National An-
them" and speakers will follow
Wasmuth's performance.
-CHELSEA KEENAN
CORRECTION
The Sept. 10 edition of the Alli-
gator incorrectly stated that Her-
bert J. Houck was a UF profes-
sor and biological scientist who
was charged with sexual assault.
Houck was a biological scientist
at UF, not a UF professor.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org
anonor taSfl uonate riasma! mnousanuis uo.
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6th St Gainesville (352) 378-9204
"Where It Pays to Care"a the independent florida
Not off iciall
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 14 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill, astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkeger@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Ca Ilovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Allie Conti, aconti@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Allie Conti,
Brian Kelley, Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry, Emily Blake,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Ashley Cruel,
Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Joe Holzer, Amanda Milligan,
George Pappas, Jennifer Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director
Advertising Office Manager
Advertising Assistant
Intern Coordinator
Display Advertising Clerks
Sales RepresentativesRose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Melissa Bell
Sara Ingebretsen
Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie, Caitlin Dilks,
Brittany Fayne, Jon Levine,
Joaquin Martinez, MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSIN ESS
352-3764446 (Voice), 352-3764556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Andrea Almeida, Amanda Miller
Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-3764446 (Voice), 352-3764556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
AROUND GAINESVILLE
New business caters to local cyclists, coffee-lovers
By KATELYN MCKEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
At The 8th Ave. Bike and Cof-
fee House, any service or bicycle
accessory costing more than $10
comes with a free cup of coffee.
"I am happy so far," said Au-
riona East, 20, as she purchased a
latte. "I like the idea of the coffee
house and bicycle combo."
No other coffee shop in
Gainesville also sells and repairs
bicycles.
"They are the two greatest
things ever," said Ryan Aulton,
one of the owners of the shop.
"We are totally original. We are
the only one south of the Mason-
Dixon Line."
The new bicycle and coffee
house has the elements of a stan-
dard coffee shop. It sells Organ-
ic Sweetwater Coffee, muffins,
quiches, croissants and vegan-
friendly pastries. There are plenty
of tables and chairs and Wi-Fi ac-
cess.
The shop specializes in refur-
bished vintage European bicycle
frames, which hang on display
throughout the store.
"It's like a bike museum. Theseare collectible pieces of art," said
Musa Blount, the shop's co-owner
and bicycle mechanic.One thing attracting new cus- bicycle. It will be given away in a
tomers to the store is the possibil- raffle. Each ticket costs $6.
ity of winning a custom Origin 8 The owners said the bicycles
UF student Amy Schweiss, 21, talks to John "Buzzy" Cowvins, co-owner of The 8th Ave. Bike and Coffee
House, about the bicycle she test-rode on Tuesday afternoon.
First Month of
Cox Digital Cable
Sand Installation (with paid subscription to standard cable service)
Mas a mrsam2"HD M~ C LRSSIC ==1171EW
With Cox Digital Cable, you can get all the sports programming you love -with FREE HD**. From the
hardwood to the gridiron, college and the pros, the games you've just got to see are all right here!
your friend in the digital age"1-800-942-1809 | www.cox.com
Offr, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ p exie 10310 and I,~d hp I avial onwrsdnilcstmr nCxCnrlFoiasevcal ra reisa tincvrItnadisaltonadaciaino n xsinSal Lte diinlfeswl eicre o ntlato n ciaino d insoteso f ru fnwoult n ~lne fsia
tax , an d I DAT V ot FreeD~ ofe aple to motl reurn chre fo Digta Cal wit up~~PC to3teso rgamn n qimetrna usr= t tnadsric sas eurdAe rmtoa prote urn tnadrtswilaPpySewv o o o t dpieifrain-o ochr, a o ro ln g~ tecanl nyu iia Cal susrito SubscriptionCI C~, to adiioa prga mn ir rpe imntok srqie ucs osm hleesadterH oneia~ nH T eevro Ca .I~ar and [ anHTstaerqie nodroracv o Dporm iglyu
On wa Diia Cal ed D RT rohe pa e o' Cb co ptbe o a es etesCleARDoti se toprcoer 2 C C C, o oet eCxDIR a e orcieIneatv Vsriesofrdb o uhAlteItrcie m rm igG ieIG) ne a a e Vea l iiaSpeech-Language
and OT Services
Assessment
Treatment
School Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 I 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.com
$23 Student Special
(includes golf cart)
Valid: Mon-Thurs (All Day)
Fri-Sun (After 11am)
Not Valid Friday 9/11 & 9/18
IRONWGDD
Call 334-3120 For Your Tee Time Today
2100 NE 39th Avenuethey sell are unlike those sold at
other shops. According to Aulton,
most of the bicycles are made of
steel, which is more comfortable
than aluminum and less expen-
sive than carbon fiber.
Prices for one of these refur-
bished vintage road bicycles
range from $200 to $2,000.
"Each colorful bike being sold
at the shop is unique," Aulton
said. "These are bikes with per-
sonality."
According to Aulton, the best
part of the whole deal is the fact
that the bicycles come completely
refurbished, which means new
tires and tubes, replaced brake
and shift cables and a clean sad-
dle.
The shop sells a select style of
bicycles, but employees will re-
pair any kind of bicycle.
Shop owners also hope to host
an event every month. A ride to
St. Augustine is planned for the
first weekend in October.
The 8th Ave. Bike and Coffee
House is located at 235 NW Eighth
Ave. The shop is open from 7 a.m.
to 7 p.m. Monday through Satur-
day and from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m on
Sunday.-VT
TSE-Z Z
4, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
Swine flu causes second
death in Alachua County
By JESSICA CHAPMAN
Alligator Writer
Alachua County experienced its sec-
ond death from the HINI virus, known
as swine flu, this week.
The Alachua County Health Depart-
ment suggested in a press release that
pre-existing health problems may have
made the 82-year-old man, whose name
was not released, more vulnerable to the
disease.
Although swine flu cases are normal-
ly mild, some people, especially chil-
dren and the elderly, experience severe
cases.
Jean Munden, administrator of the
ACHD, said that the county is continu-ing to receive and investigate reports of
flu transmission.
"Our deepest sympathies are extend-
ed to family and friends," Munden said
in the release. "[We] urge citizens to ex-
ercise precautions against infection."
On The Florida Department
Campus of Health reported that 670
people statewide have been
hospitalized with cases of
the swine flu.
Four of the cases reported were in
Alachua County.
There have been 9,079 people hospi-
talized for the virus in the U.S. and U.S.
territories, and 593 people have died, ac-
cording to the Centers for Disease Con-
trol.STATE NEWS
Fla. cigarette sales down
By MARIA PIQUET
Alligator Contributing Writer
In the last year, Florida cigarette
sales have decreased by 28 percent.
According to Florida's Department of
Business and Professional Regulation,
76.8 million packs of cigarettes were sold
between July 2008 and 2009 -down
from 106.6 million the previous year.
The new dollar-a-pack tax implement-
ed in June has also taken a toll -sales
from June to July of this year went down
17 percent, according to the report.
"It's because of the new tax," said
Matt Pritchett, a UF sophomore. "People
just don't want to pay it."
Sunoco employee Doug said he has
seen a recent decrease in sales but not a
significant drop.
"People are still smoking, still buy-
ing," Doug said. "We still have our regu-
lar customers come in and buy cigarettes
from us."Amy Patel, manager of BP, East Uni-
versity Avenue, said people are more
upset about losing flavored cigarettes
than about the tax, and sales haven't
been affected.
"We haven't had a problem, not with
the students here," Patel said. "Students
will always buy what they want."
"It's a sin tax, can't really com-
plain about it."
Matt Pritchett
UF sophomore
But Pritchett said he knows some
people who have quit because of the
price increase. He is also trying to cut
back, he said, and now rolls most of his
cigarettes because it's cheaper.
Pritchett isn't against the tax,
though.
"It's better to tax cigarettes than cut
schools or tax food," he said. "It's a sin
tax -can't really complain about it."
NEW STUDY AID*
*Energy drink with a
mind boost and no
crazy buzz.
-Official energy drink
of AVP PRO BEACH
VOLLEYBALL tour.
-Portable and Natural __
-Not Sold In Stores
www.AchevLiftOff.com
336-0004 -Gainesville
888-332-0334
*Teestatements have not been evaluated by the Food
and Drug Aministralon. This product is no intended to99 'K~eg Cuts'BEwt
GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF any one GNC Product Game day ONLY
Cannothecombined OneCouponp roustomer Hiysesnc
* 39l4,SWArcher RdiyBsnes1
.r Iy -valobl at Buti.r Pl-z lo iion W nSri 23WU
Cuban Sandwiches, Plates, Pastries,
Coffee, and more!
'Delicious fod made by Mom"
Across m 8 sc,
next to durtyw nells
371-200050%
b ou t iq ue
Michael Stars *. Eliza B flip flops
Guy Harvey for Men
Corner of 34th St.
and University Ave.271-5627
EVERYTHING MUnST GO!
*Gabby Gator and Titletown Ts merchandise not includedf
Playing in Protest
Eric Kassof, a UF music compostition and physics student, plays cello alongside protesters
outside Weimer Hall on campus early Thursday evening to demonstrate against WUFT-FM's
recent format shift from classical music to National Public Radio. WUFT's classical music
station can still be heard on WUFT HD radio. See story online.
nukA- itemls7 zz _
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
LOCAL
Pawn shop owner announces plan to run for mayor
By EMILY FUGGETTA
Alligator Staff Writer
efuggetta@alligator org
Richard Selwach only shares one
thing in common with the president
-a desire for change.
The second to announce his bid
for Gainesville mayor, pawn shop
owner Selwach said he changed his
plans to run again for a commission
seat after learning Penny Wheat was
competing for the District 4 seat.
"Penny and I would work well
together," he said. "Our plans to
I!(A PLANhelp the environment will go hand
inhand."
Selwach earned 6.19 percent of
the vote for the At-Large commis-
sion seat in March, losing to incum-
bent Jeanna Mastrodicasa.
Aside from improving Gaines-
ville's water supply and preserving
the environment, Selwach said his
major focus is government transpar-
ency and fiscal responsibility.
Selwach raised eyebrows dur-
ing the March elections for his op-
position of Charter Amendment 1,
which would cut nondiscriminationprotections from Gainesville's code
of ordinances.
If elected,
Selwach said he
will try to halt
equal-opportu-
nity legislation
-a far cry from
opponent Craig
Lowe, who chairs
Gainesville's
Equal Opportunity Committee.
"As far as I'm concerned, every-
one is equal. As long as you keep
on defining, you keep perpetuating
TEST PREP AND
ADMISSIONSselwach
in UNIVERSITY
Fi -EAresidents and business owners.
"I go into Chipotle, and I want
to get a hot and spicy burrito. I'm
47 years old, and I pay taxes, and
they want to see my ID," he said. "I
get upset. I say, 'Hey, I'm almost 50
years old, and I'm getting carded.
What is this, Nazi Germany?'
Selwach said his issue with the
current administration lies in too
much talk and little improvement.
"The less rules and the less taxes
and the smaller government, the bet-
ter," he said. "The more convoluted,
the more crap you have."inequality," he said. "Everybody
wants to file a lawsuit. We don't
need that."
Selwach also clashes with Mast-
rodicasa, who championed the city's
underage drinking ordinance.
"I wasn't for it," he said. "If the
business owners and the students
came to me and said they don't want
it, I would listen to the people and
debate it and put it to a vote."
Though the number of underage
arrests has decreased, Selwach said
the ordinance doesn't combat under-
age drinking in private and burdens
* Gator Gifts
* Gator Accessories
* Gator Stationery
.Pandora Jewelry
L Vera Bradley
201 SE 2nd Place Suite 112
DowntownGainesville
352-376-3266
OF ST. AUGUSTINE
L T H S C I E N C E SGMAT GRE LSAT
MCAT DAT OAT PCAT
ENROLL BY SEPTEMBER 15
PREP SMARTER, SCORE HIGHER-GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK.Poi, gw cay
Ipt ow dIvecfIopt.
Join us in beautiful St. Augustine, Florida to learn about
how a career in Physical Therapy or Occupational
Therapy could change your life.
Attend our Open House to meet with the faculty and
students of the University of St. Augustine (USA). View
hands-on demonstrations, learn about the continuously
growing professions of Physical and Occupational
Therapy, and take a tour of our beautiful St. Augustine,
FL campus.
USA is a graduate Institution that focuses solely on
health science education. It is our mission to provide
professional development to health care providers
through Innovative and Individualized education. We
look forward to meeting you on campus and sharing
with you all that our university has to offer.
To RSVP, please visit us at www.usa.edu and click
on the "Events" tab. If you have any further questions,
please call Kelly Kuecker at
(800) 241-1027 ext. 235.BUY ONE. GET ONE FREE
Regular cup or cone with this ad.
6, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009
Editorial
at the Department of Darts & Laurels aren't
huge TV fans, apart from our nightly "Jeopar-
dy!" sessions and one of our members' obsession
with all things TLC.
So, we're not sure how all of our Darts & Laurels ended
up being about as-seen-on-TV products, sitcoms, televised
speeches and hypothetical campaign ads. But instead of
worrying about what could be at the least, coincidence,
and at the most, fate, we present you with this week's sor-
ry-for-the-spoilers edition of.
Darts & Laurels
You've seen the commercials. You've seen the parodies
of the commercials. And, if you're unlucky enough, you've
seen someone actually wearing a Snuggie. The "blanket
you can wear" is excellent for old people who want to con-
tinue knitting, clipping coupons or wildly gesticulating
about back in the day while basking in the warmth that
their thin, semi-translucent skin can no longer provide.
However, in no instance is it acceptable for the young,
spry and fertile to enshroud themselves in a Snuggie.
For promoting what is quite possibly the grossest con-
cept we've ever been made aware of, we'd like to throw
wait-isn't-a-blanket-with-arms-supposed-to-be-a-mod-
ern-version-of-a-chastity-belt-anyway DART at Snuggie-
Sutra.com, which is exactly what it sounds like.
If curiosity got the best of you and you checked out
the aforementioned Web site (the figures look like monks,
right?), you can undo the damage by checking out the pi-
lot for Theater Strike Force's sitcom, "Oppie," which is
now available online. So, yeah, LAUREL to Theater Strike
Force for being funny. In the midst of Alligator Cartoon
Debacle 2009, we could use a laugh or two (or one daily,
please apply).
Although we liked the pilot, we have to admit that an
even funnier show will be Richard Selwach's campaign
for mayor. We enjoyed every second of his campaign for
city commissioner last year, and his campaign ads are still
in our favorites on YouTube. He's not playing ball yet, as
he told us his campaign is centered around "the environ-
ment" and "fiscal responsibility" (which is oddly broad in
comparison to "no men in women's restrooms at Home
Depot"), but he's got plenty of time to get specific and/
or crazy.
Actually, Selwach told us part of his platform is to get
city meetings aired on public access television. And no,
we didn't bother to tell him they've been doing that since
19-forever.
For having the bravery to run for mayor after losing
horribly in the race for a lesser office, we'd like to com-
mend Selwach with a only-you-can-make-us-enjoy-local-
politics LAUREL. We can't wait to see what you come up
with.
But while Selwach was in the process of brewing a
great political show, someone else was in the process of
ruining a perfectly good one. For showing disrespect for
our country's highest elected official and disrupting what
was supposed to be a reach across the proverbial aisle, we
would like to throw a DART at Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC).
You tarnished a great speech, not to mention the fact that
you ruined every cable news show that should have been
discussing the content of Obama's speech instead of the
motives for your childish outbursts.
That's all for this week. And if you don't attend this
weekend's football game, we hear that "Half-Ton Dad" is
an equally enjoyable spectacle. Go Half-Ton Dad?
0l the independent floridaalligator
Kristin Bjornsen Allie Conti
EDITOR OPINIONS EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University A e, or send them to PO Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions
REWARD:
a great experience
Column
Bright Futures sho
uit bitching. Seriously, shut up. I am tired of
hearing all of you Floridians complain about
how bad the recent cuts in the Florida Bright
Futur s program are for you.
Put bluntly, most of you don't need or deserve Bright
Futures, and is it not a grave injustice that you actually
now have to take responsibility for your classes and pay
for the ones you drop?
Just ask Mommy or Daddy for a little extra spending
money each week so you can still order your grande
caramel macchiato from Starbucks every morning.
Maybe it will keep you awake enough in that class you
would otherwise drop.
To be fair, there are certainly students here that need
Bright Futures to help pay their ways through college,
but it is definitely not most of us here. In fact, the medi-
an income of a UF freshman's family in 2006 was more
than $100,000.
That certainly puts most of us here within range of
paying the dirt-cheap tuition that the State of Florida
asks of us each year, which is by far one of the cheapest
in the nation.
Case in point, as an out-of-state student from Kansas
who has Florida Prepaid (but not Bright Futures), it is
less than half as expensive for me to attend UF as the
University of Kansas. Even without Bright Futures, you
all get the best education deal in the United States of
America.
But what makes your whimpering about minor cuts
in Bright Futures especially asinine is how ridiculously
easy it is for you all to earn the scholarship. All you
need to do is earn a weighted 3.0 GPA in high school
and a 970 on the SAT.ALLIGATOR
www.a ligator.org/opinions
.AS: "Cartoonist"
ESCRIPTION: pencil in hand and
Nays laughing
LST SEEN: sketching hilarious
ricatures of your professor in
ISSS-- -- --- --- -- ----
please contact:
Allie Conti
aconti@alligator.org
uld be need-based
Translation: Stumble though
high school without completely
dropping the ball and be sure to fill
out your name correctly on the day
of the SAT.
My solution is radical, yet sim-
Kyle Robisch ple. And if anyone actually reads
letters@alligator org my columns, I will find out Mon-
day morning when I wake up to a
mountain of angry letters in response.
We should eliminate the Bright Futures program
in its totality and make it an entirely need-based pro-
gram.
I'm sorry, but if you can't pull a 970 on your SAT,
you simply do not deserve to have the state pay for 75
percent (let alone any) of your already low college tu-
ition.
This program may have had noble aims in seeking to
keep Florida's talented youth in state, but in the end it
just ends up subsidizing the college tuition for the bot-
tom rung of Florida's weak high school system.
I should also note that I do believe every qualified
high school student should have the opportunity to at-
tend a first-rate educational institution such as UF, but
I am also sure that "qualified" is not a 3.0 and a 970 on
the SAT.
And I am even more certain that UF students do not
have the right to weep over a few lost dollars in their
already essentially free education.
The Starbucks coffee you bought with that extra cash
wasn't that good anyway. I promise.
Kyle Robisch is a political science and economics junior.
His column appears on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Should Bright Fu- Monday's question: Do you 48% YES
tures be need-based? support President Obama's health 52% NO
care plan? 231 TOTAL VOTES
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgAL VE!
NAME: Smiley Student
AGE: 18 -25
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Israel's violence disproportionate
Israelis claim they want peace but then cre-
ate settlements on Palestinian land. From 2005
to 2008 there were 1,754 Palestinian and 117
Israeli deaths. Israel should be charged with
war crimes for its disproportionate military
responses that often punish the Palestinians
collectively.
Just because someone has helicopters and
"precision" missiles does not mean he or she
is not a terrorist. As a Jew I know the need for
solidarity, but as a human, I cannot support
Israel.
Joel Flowers
UFalumnus
Israel should push harder for peace
I am Jewish and very proud of my religion
and heritage but I cannot say that I am proud
of the state of Israel. It is hard for me to talk
about this issue but I feel that I must.
I wish Israel would make a stronger effort
in the world to promote peace. I understand
that many countries in the region do not be-
lieve in her existence and continue to have
anti-Semitic views and actions, but Israel is
here to stay and must take a lead role in the
world to promote peace.
We are dealing with a very sensitive situ-
ation in the Middle East, but given that we
are one of the most powerful countries in the
region (thanks to the help from the U.S.) we
must make a stronger effort for peace.
Why must we keep building settlements
on Palestinian land in the West Bank? The
U.S. opposes it, and the people there are led
by an elected government that is supported
by the United States. Why must we use exces-
sive military force, killing innocent civilians in
Gaza? Why must we blockade humanitarian
aid to those in need? Why must we build an-
other Berlin Wall through Palestinian land? I
just do not understand."Defending ourselves" just does not jus-
tify all of these actions. Peace talks can also be
looked at as a form of "defense." A peaceful
solution with the Palestinians will ultimately
lead to more peace with Israel and its neigh-
bors. Many anti-Israel countries use this con-
flict as justification to hate Israel.
Eli Cohen
Jacksonville resident
UF shouldn't make students wait for aid
I sincerely hope the entire UF financial
sector is slated for a thorough overhaul. It is
nearing the end of the third week of classes,
and there is still no financial aid, much less
any noted 'progress' on ISIS. I have been to
the Registrar's Office, Financial Affairs and Fi-
nancial Services (including my dean's office)
several times, and the response is always the
same. No one takes responsibility, but every-
one is quick with excuses and a shove out the
door when in reality, it's one monetary me-
nage a trois.
That is unacceptable. I consider myself a
patient man, but when I'm facing eviction be-
cause of UF's bureaucratic bullshit, I say bull-
ocks to patience and demand answers.
I know there is a miracle "emergency loan"
available, but that's not the point. Why does
this avoidable situation exist in the first place?
Talk about a setup. Disburse financial aid be-
fore classes begin and leave the fiscal respon-
sibility to us to pay our academic bills.
Why does UF only process loans/waiv-
ers Mondays and Wednesdays in a school of
about 50,000 students? Why do no explana-
tions accompany the cryptic fluctuations and
revisions on ISIS?
Shame on you, UF, for giving the "We're
here for you, the students" spiel and failing to
make good on the financial end.I'm not sure which is worse: how it seems
UF intentionally places roadblocks to retain
our financial aid as long as possible or the
amount of generated interest UF makes as the
millions of our financial aid sit in the UF bank
account.
James Samson
6FA
Wilson's outburst childish
By now, you might've heard of Joe Wilson
and his inability to hold his tongue. If you
haven't, here's the story:
During President Obama's address to
the joint session of Congress and the nation
Wednesday night, Rep. Wilson (R-SC) was
heard shouting "You lie!" for all to hear. Wil-
son's outburst was in response to Obama's
statement that the health care "reforms [he's]
proposing will not cover those who are here
illegally."
My question is, what's this child doing
in Congress? The incident felt like an infant
crying in church. No, it's worse. The baby
wouldn't know any better. It was more like
a grown man yelling out "God who?" in the
middle of Communion.
Wilson's apology, which was three sen-
tences long, called his actions "inappropriate,"
"regrettable" and "lacking civility." Yeah, no
kidding. Isn't this apology a little sparse con-
sidering he blatantly disrespected the highest
elected official in this country, and maybe the
world?
The president's chief of staff has accepted
Wilson's apology, and Democrats in Congress
have come out saying they don't want to em-
phasize the event for fear that it might over-
shadow the president's address. I agree. I just
thought the Student Body should hear about
this disrespectful, immature representative, ifonly so that he is never elected to public office
again.
Much more important though, was the
president's speech. So if you haven't seen it
already, go find out what your president had
to say about health care reform.
Tyler Horvath
1LS
Aramark to blame for campus food prices
Campus food prices are high because the
university invites a company called Aramark
to operate as a monopoly over all food ser-
vices on campus.
As a former student senator with the Prog-
ress Party, I authored bills and tried to use the
power of Student Government to stop the ad-
ministration from signing a new, more-than-
decadelong, multimillion dollar contract with
Aramark a year ago.
My efforts were stopped by the majority
party who acted, as usual, as a mouthpiece
for the administration.
Aramark profits off of students not utiliz-
ing all of their pre-paid meals in dining halls
(about 40 percent are missed) and by taking
advantage of its monopoly position on cam-
pus and gouging students at its franchises.
On top of that, it extends its exploitation
beyond its on-campus monopoly; it's even a
violation for a student to bring food in from
an off-campus establishment for a group
meeting in the Reitz Union. The food must be
provided by Aramark's on-campus catering
company, Classic Fare. Talk about exploita-
tion.
Many campuses around the country in the
past few years have kicked Aramark out. It's
time for students to fight back.
Ben Dictor
UF Alum
Prices range from $26 to $157
PARKING, from page 1
ficials out and about for the next few
weekends. Property owners without a
permit will be asked to apply for one.
"At some point, and I don't want to
say exactly when that point will be, the
city will begin to actively enforce the
ordinance, after an appropriate num-
ber of exception days have passed,"
Woods said.The funds generated from the per-
mit fees and possible future fines will
be put toward the city's general fund,
such as the fire department, Woods
said.
He said those the application pro-
cess for those wishing to obtain a park-
ing permit is simple. After applicants
fill out an online request form and pay
the fee, the documentation will be sent
to the property owner.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Jones vows to form local partnerships
CHIEF, from page 1
ing two who were removed from the force for
having sex with prostitutes while on duty.
Blackburn pointed to Jones' strong sense
of integrity as a leading quality that will en-
sure Jones' success.
"I look forward to fulfilling many of the
community policing initiatives that I am cur-
rently involved with to strengthen and help
our department become the very best in the
state," Jones said.
Blackburn wrote in a press release that the
best decision he could make was to keep the
current team in place under Jones' leader-
ship.Jones will serve a 12-month commitment
as police chief, effective immediately.
After Jones' commitment expires, Jones
will meet with Blackburn to review his ten-
ure, the press release said.
"I think right now is a piv-
Local otal time for the Gainesville Po-
News lice Department," Jones said.
He added that his greatest
strength as police chief will be in forming
partnerships.
"Tony has a motto: to not only protect and
serve, but in partnership with the commu-
nity,"' Blackburn said.
GPD spokesman Lt. Keith Kameg could
not be reached for comment by press time.
Regular Price eBARBERSHOP
15 W. University Ave. -(352) 373-4841 PC & MAC
H,),,s: M1 ~ F -9 .- ~ 6 pm 
-
www.DTBarbershop. R E P A; 
SWS
W00 IMPACT T C !UTERS TH
ALL F00DCREEKSIDE MALL
MILE FROM UFSpcalin Fills NEXT TO GATOR TEX BOOKS
Stdnt Di-sconts Available AlDnuac lisWloeT3
A&S
GT Motorcatr;:3
Specializing in Collision repairs on all makes
Student Discounts Available I All Insurance Claims Welcomed
33 SE 13th Road www.GT-motorcars.com 371-0215
352-378-7033
The 171 S W. Univ. Ave.
Bar & Oriff
HOUSE SaturdaY
Free Bee
Liveb JOI IN THEATRES FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER11 
FACES OF GAINESVILLE
BY LORA ARNOWITZ
Downtown, where locals go to clubs,
bars and romantic dinners, William Moses
Smith Jr. takes walks for fresh air.
When asked, he recites his name in the
voice of a preacher, with a smile that dis-
plays a gap where a tooth once was.
With graying brown hair and warm,
blue-gray eyes, Smith paces downtown ev-
ery day. Tucked into the collar of his lem-
on-yellow polo shirt sits a small silver cross
and a collection of his past personas.
Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator Staff
William Smith sits outside the St. Fran-
cis House Homeless Shelter and Soup
Kitchen on Sept. 3.He's been a Navy corpsman, a surgical
technologist, a childhood baseball player,
an alcoholic and a cocaine addict.
Now, he is homeless. Smith stays in St.
Francis House on Main Street and South
Fourth Avenue. He has been sober for
about three months and attributes his new
lifestyle to a rededication to Christianity.
Growing up in Gainesville, Smith was
the youngest of four siblings and describes
himself as a shy boy.
"As a kid, I can remember having the
girls chase me on the playground," he said.
"Isn't that funny? I wasn't interested at
all."
At 17, he had his first beer. After high
school, he went through a program at UF
and Shands to become a surgical technolo-
gist, which is a substitute nurse.
He then joined the Navy, where his
alcoholism began. With beer constantly
flowing in his system, he said it was easy to
become involved with women. Smith was
engaged four times, married three times
and fathered a daughter with a friend.
In the '90s, he smoked crack cocaine
for the first time. He tried it three times
and didn't think much of it. Less than a
decade later, it became his biggest vice. As
his wives, girlfriends, jobs and religious at-
tachments came and went, the cocaine and
alcohol lingered.
"Working with the submarines, it was
very strict," he said. "I only did [cocaine] on
weekends or once in a while, but I would
do it for days in a row."
He dabbled in marijuana, getting tastes
of "Gainesville green" from dealers, but it
never had the attraction of cocaine, he said.
"I have tobe honest," he said, glancing at
his digital watch as if looking back in time."Cocaine for me is directly related with a
sexual thing, especially crack. It gives you
that excitement. Euphoric."
His need for sexual stimulation led to
the birth of his now 15-year-old daughter,
Kaitlin
After a night of beers and Jagermeister
shots, he went to bed with a friend who
was also his supervisor at work. A month
later, she told him she was expecting.
"She was very nonchalant about the
whole thing," Smith recalled with a deep-
throated laugh. "I said 'How are you? Is
there something wrong with you?' and she
said,'Oh, I'm pregnant,'and walked away.
I was in shock for two months."
After three years of trying to make the
relationship work, she and Smith broke it
off. She moved to Texas, taking their daugh-
ter with her. Smith said the loss, combined
with the death of his mother, drove him to
escalate his cocaine addiction.
"I went out binge drinking one night,
and I don't recall going, picking up a guy
and buying drugs, and next thing I know, I
was sobering up in a house somewhere."
Smith turned to a new woman to keep
from being lonely and married her shortly
after they began dating.
At the time, Smith was a clinical instruc-
tor at Tampa General Hospital and said he
felt guilty for "getting crocked" while he
was employed. On the fringes of a divorce
from his third wife, Smith turned to his
crack pipe, which caused him to lose both
his wife and his job.
He did a short stint living in a dealer's
cabin, where he was given drugs every day
in exchange for watching the home. The
downside, he said, was that he was only
fed on the whim of the dealer, Abe.Abe later threatened his life because
Smith owed him money for drugs, and
Smith eventually forfeited his truck to the
dealer to pay his dues.
"He could have been bluffing to a cer-
tain degree, but how did I know that?"
Smith said.
Carless and drug-hungry, Smith was
single and banned from his family's home.
"I was homeless," Smith said.
After selling two cars for drugs and al-
most losing his life, Smith had nothing to
his name. He had drug-dealer friends trade
him cocaine for everything he owned, in-
cluding food stamps.
"You smoke, and your problems fade
away," he said. "Once, I smoked for 10
days every day. I didn't eat for a week. I
picked at a burrito."
He said it was prayer that broke his
cycle of drug abuse. With a glaze shining
over his reddening eyes, Smith spoke of his
devotion to God.
Today, he spends his days reading
scripture, attending Alcoholics Anony-
mous meetings and doing chores at the St.
Francis House. He stays in a bedroom with
four male roommates, a floral comforter
covering his bed and a Bible laying face
up on the pillow. At his bedside, next to a
partially empty bottle of Fanta Orange, are
piles of neatly folded clothes.
"People always say, 'Bill, you have so
many clothes,' but I know I plan to move
out of here soon, so I brought everything
with me," he said.
Wrinkles crease his forehead as he
thinks seriously about his future.
"There's a fine line between recovery
and relapse," he said.
Smith has no plans to relapse.
"I'm not seeing my daughter, my rela-
tionships are strained with my family, I'm
just tired of feeling useless and worthless
and not having self-esteem," he said. "I
think this is my time."
CI)---------A
Free In-House Lunch Special:
Bring a friend and get a free gro with purchase of'
anU one gUro and twuo beverages!
(Customer must present this coupon to redeem special.
'352-378Available 1 1:30 am -3:30 pm I-F)
expires 20th September
-5179 1120 W. University Ave.
I H~ PP IN THE LOOP "Hands down the funniest movie I
cinema 6:30 & 8:30pm I Sat 4:30, 6:30 & 8:30 1 Sun at 2:30, 4:30
Tickets and Information 352-375-HIPP I THEHIPPORGESPN ERME DRy
VJATCH ALL THE COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION
Feel like you're at the Gator Games
with our BOSE SPEAKERS
bringing you all the action
Game Time Specials: $2 Domestic Drafts(
$4 Jager Shots
All Game Day $3.50 Bourbon Meyers
Visit our website for additional specials.
Wings, burgers, gator bites, and more.
'11 '11110
Fri .Sat-N n- -Sunday Noon-11 pm
2 Mites South of Camnpus www. )t1ilia1'f.CmPr,.1- -
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have vahd
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Wa k-ins Welcome.
ABiotest
From Nature for Life
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 9
Smile.IA
10, ALLIGATOR E FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009
VerI7nZ~wireless
Take theInternet.
Leave the bulk.
The HP Mini netbook. Connected. Portable. Affordable.
Introducing the ultra portable HP Mini netbook with America's Largest and Most Reliable 3G Network
built-in. Loaded with an 80GB hard drive, webcam, and Windows* XP, it's anything but small.
Plus, get a 15% faculty and staff discount.
On calling plans $39.99 or higher with a l- or 2-yr. agreement.
HP'Mini netbook
NOW $1 99ONLY 199
$299.99 2-yr. price, less $100 mail-in
rebate debit card with 2-yr. activation
on a Mobile Broadband plan from
$39.99 monthly access. Activation fees,
taxes & other charges apply.*
.Windows
Switch to America's Largest and Most Reliable Wireless Network.
Call 1.888.VZW.4BIZ (899.4249) Click verizonwireless.com/getdiscount Visit any store
VERIZON WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS STORES Open 7 days a week.
Technicians available at select locations
LADY LAKE 870 N. Hwy. 27/44
LAKE CITY Lake Cty Mall 386-
LEESBURG Lake Square Mall 3
OCALA 2613 S W 19th Ave. Rd, Ste. G. 352-35
19-2173
,2-787-2449
352-620-002530-2861 OCALA HUB/EAST 2606 SW 19th Ave.
OCALA WEST 4414 SW College Rd. 352BUSINESS CUSTOMERS
1-800-899-4249
In Collaboration with
Alcatel-Lucent 0Visit verizonwireless.Com
to find a Club near you.CLERMONT 14
GAINESVILLE
Oaks Mall
3401 SW
3626 SW3401 SW Arc
Kiosk 352-33
Archer Rd 35
Archer Rd. 15352-243-6826
her Rd 352-378-882l
1-0379
2-378-8828
2-491 -200
Aceptams La
Matricula Consular
* Our Surcharges (incl. Fed. Univ. Svc. of 12.9% of interstate & int'l telecom charges (varies quarterly), 7C Regulatory & 92( Administrative/line/mo., & others by area) are not taxes (details: 1-888-684-1888); gov't taxes & our surcharges could add 7% -27% to
your bill. Activation fee/line: $35.
IMPORTANT CONSUMER INFORMATION: Subject to Customer Ag mt, Data Plan, credit approval & rebate form. Up to $175 early termination fee, up to $.10/MB after allowance. Mobile Broad band is available to more than 280 million people in the U.S. in 259 major metros. Offers & coverage
not available everywhere. Rebate debit card takes up to 6 wks. & exp. in 12 mos. Network details & coverage maps at verizonwireless.com. 2009 Verizon Wireless. NETS
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
LIVE FOR $319!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
*TheLandingsUF.com 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13 St
12-9-75-1
SUPER HERO SAVINGS
HULK-Smashing Prices!
As Low As $299/person!
3515 SW 39th Blvd
Let Greenwich save you Green! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1
The *
at Santa Fe
Walk to Santa Fe College!!!
Limited Time Only
Rates starting at $399 or
Receive a $1000 rebate check on us!
4/4's or Brand New 3/3's!.
Fully Furnished, Free Ethernet
Free Cable and Utilities
Roommate Matching, Free Tanning!
352-379-9300 www.thecrossingatsantafe.com
12-9-75-1
STARTING @ $369
$0 to sign, 4 more info text
LEXINGTON to 25278
ALL INCLUSIVE & FURNISHED
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-12 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn'
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-1
WWW.TheFloridaRenterslnsurance.COM
Renters Insurance from $9 per month
Online Quotes 9-16-09-31-1
Univ. Terr. Gainesville, 3921 SW 34th st., 1st
fir., 4 bd, 4 ba, cent A/C, cable, wash., dry.,
full kitch., Sept rent free! $300/mo.ea., $25/
person finders fee, owner/manager/gaines-
ville Immediate occupancy. 352-472-9778
9-18-09-36-1
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Beautiful 3/3 condo
Windsor Park, dir on bus route, new furn.,
beaut. remod. bathrooms and hardwood
floors, upstairs, front bldg, 1300/mo, 772-
349-3221, bdduf86@comcast.net 9-23-
09-30-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
1br/1ba in 4/4 luxury condo $369/mth,
all inclusive (utilities, internet, tv, phone,
washer/dryer), fully furnitured. very close to
campus. contact 352-235-4762 or
toxapheneufl@yahoo.com 9-16-20-1
3 ROOMS FOR RENT
$525-$650/mo All utils incl. Near SFC, Oaks
Mall & UF 786-325-7941 9-21-09-20-1
FIRST MONTH FREE!!! Aptfor rent. 4bd/2ba.
$400/mo/room. Three blks from campus.
Newly remodeled. Pool, Internet. 813-690-
3781. 9-11-09-14-1NEED FEMALE ROOMMATE
for 3BR/2BA townhouse. $550/mo all inclu-
sive. W/D, on direct bus route, minutes to
campus. No pets. Please call 813-892-3996
9-23-09-20-1
Live in Luxury @ Windsor Park! Fully fur-
nished 3bed/3private bath poll view. Rent
includes: utilities, cable, high-speed inter-
net, washer/dryer, plus all amenities. ONLY
$399 CALL 305-984-4245 FOR MORE INFO
9-14-09-10-1
2 BR/ 2 pvt Bth Available in Rockwood Villas
3 BR unit- $400 per room plus 1/3 of utilities.
FREE Internet and Cable! W/D in unit. On
bus route close to Oaks Mall. Call 352-514-
0372 or email Carmen4909@yahoo.com
9-16-09-12-1
2/2 gated townhome with attached ga-
rage, cable w/hbo,sho,alarm. Close to
Shands.$980 mo. furn.opt.321-698-7579
myhomesoon@gmail.com. 9-25-09-17-1
Townhome 2/2 end unit,fenced
SW near UF/Shands,bus;avail.
now;vaulted,w/d,deck,icemkr
$850mo/$400sec 352-256-6158
doxie.dogs@hotmail.com 10-1-09-21-1
House for rent. Small, quiet and comfortable.
Renovated, open, modern floor plan. All new
fixtures. Ideal for one or two people. 1BR.
$560/mo. Available immediately. 125 SE
10th St. 316-6667 9-11-09-5-1
2 bedrm 2.5 bath, granite counter tops,
SS appliances, dishwasher, washer/dryer,
alarm, close to Campus & Shands Ready for
move in. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-5-09-
19-1
*Room in shared apartment*
Newly furnished, utils and parking incl.
1 blk off University Ave. Smokers welcome.
$110/wk +$110 sec dep. Inq 817-7054
9-15-09-5-1
DUPLEX EFFICIENCY Private entrance
1BR/1 BA, full kitchen, double stainless sink,
garbage disposal, microwave, ref/freezer,
Dish TV, covered patio, shed, utils incl $495/
mo Tower&ArcherRd. 352-372-6466 9-16-
09-5-1
Furnished., WINDSOR PARK .ROOM $
420 and APT 1/1 $ 600 .2 mi from UF.All
inclu. Elec, TV, Internet,Gym,Pool, W/Dry,
Basketball, Soccer & tennis courts. 305-
408-4330 -305-962-2525, 305-408-4330 -
c2000_1@msn.com 9-18-09-6-1QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
1, 2, 3's *SUPER RENT DISCOUNTS!
1BR $509 * 2BR $579* 3BR $775
HUGE FLOORPLANS! * Pets Loved!
Bus Stop * Pools * Green Courtyards!
Park Free Across From UF! 335-7275
12-9-09-75-2
The ONLY Apartments Downtown
Studios-$645*1/1 from $699
2/2 from $900* 3/3 $500/bed
Washers & Dryers*Alarms*We Love Pets
207 SE 2nd Place-Next to Starbucks
352.338.0002-arlingtonsquare.org
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 Iv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
WALK TO UF!
Studios & 1 Beds starting at $499!
Pet friendly, Free Parking Near UF
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Best Price & Great Location
Large 1 & 2's available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now!!! 3/3 for $336/person.
Cable w/HBO and Showtime included!
Private Dog Park-Tanning-Fitness Center
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
BIVENS COVE
1/1 -From $649 2/2 -From $699
3/2 -From $824 4/3 -From $1099
Close to UF/Shands * Pet Friendly
(352) 376-2507 *3301 SW 13th Street
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any cor-
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by4 pm will appear two publica- rections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one day. No
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after the first
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next
www.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
12, ALLIGATOR E FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
2/2 & 3/3 with GARAGE!
W/D, Alarm, Huge patio!
We love pets! $875-$1012
372-0400*MadisonPointe.org
12-9-75-2
*POLO S
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!?
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
Get it while it's HOT!
Starting at $299
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
3813 SW 34th st
Call NOW! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
SORORITY ROW 2BDs!
2br/2.5ba from $899
W/D included. No Move-in Fees!
Pets welcome! FREE Parking!
372-7111 CollegeManor.org
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $695
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
75-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
14 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-212-9-
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Across From UF! PET FRIENDLY!
Two Bedrooms starting at $599!
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!
303 NW 17th Street, Ste A
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
**LUXURIOUS 1800 SQ FT HOME**
SECLUDED, UPSCALE NEAR UF. 3/2, SUN
ROOM, COVERED PATIO W/D. $1400/MO
PERFECT FOR GRAD. AVAIL AUG. 1607
NW 12 RD 352-466-4171 LV MSG 9-14-
09-68-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 9-22-
09-69-2
We have REAL 1/1s
Dump your roommate & save on gas!
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $575 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450 -Only 4 left!
1600 NW 4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $475 -Just a few left!
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
9-30-09-66-2
* NANTUCKET WALK *
* UPPER WEST SIDE *
Brand new luxury apartments! Walk to class!
All-inclusive! nantucketwalk@cmcapt.com
352-240-6961
12-9-09-74-2
large 4 bed 3 bath house for rent. near uni-
versity and 34th, pets ok, washer& dryer, first
and security 1500/mo. Available June 1st.
yearly. Call 727-430-3094 7-19-09-21-2
BIKE TO UF! 1st mont free!
5BR 3BA, lawn service incl,
Fireplace, carport, w/d hkups, $1800/rent
3920 SW 20th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
43-2VICTORIA STATION! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2.5 BA TH, washer/dryer, high ceilings,
separate Dining room, pool,
$800/rent, 3552 SW 30th Way #146
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
WALK TO UF! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR duplex, CH/AC, will consider small pet,
$695/rent 120-A NW 10th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
GREAT MOVE-IN SPECIALS!
1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 BR Houses & apartments!
Contact us for pricing & availability!
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
* 3BR $99 Moves you in! $750
Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D, fenced yards,
pet friendly, wd firs, 352-505-9264 or 352-
870-0904 9-21-09-45-2
@ 4/2 $99 Moves U in! $1000/mo
Super Special, Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D
hkup, carpet & wd firs, extra room, large
fenced yard, pet friendly 352-505-9264
9-21-09-45-2
@2/1 Apt. $99 Move-in $500 total
Historic downtown, cent AC, W/D hkup,
10min bike to UF, front porch, pets ok,
great size. Yes $500 whole apt! 505-9264
9-21-09-45-2
*Room $299. $99 first month
has everything, walk-in closet, pvt BA,
W/D, DW, built-in micro, tile & carpet, pool
on site, 505-9264 or 870-0904
9-21-09-45-2
SOUTHFORK OAKS! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 1.5 BA TH, Pool, w/d hkups, close to
everything! $675/rent,
2300 SW 43rd St #1-3
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
37-2
1MOST WANTEDPOOL HOUSE! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR with bonus room or 3rd BR,
Large screen porch & deck, wood floors,
fireplace, Living & dining rooms, $995/rent
includes pool svc, 738 NW 24th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
37-2
STEPS TO CLASS! 4 BR 2.5 BA house,
Living, dining & sunrooms, w/d hkups,
CH/AC, $1800/rent, 1107 SW 1st Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
ARBOR
Ask about our move-in specials!
Close to UF & Shands
2411 SW 35th PL
866-604-7097
M-F 9-6, Sat 10-2
www.arborgainesville.com
12-9-09-74-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2, Sun 1-5
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off. 2/2 Close to UF &
bus route. Great for grad students! Builiding
is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev tenant. W/D, D/W,
tile & carpet in BDs $800 for the whole place
Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
9-18-09-36-2
GREAT LOCATION! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2BA in Concordia, w/d, pool, quiet loca-
tion! $750/rent, 405-B NW 39th Road
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
29-2
Downtown House 110 SE 4th PI 3BD/1.5BA
Central heat/air. On street parking, fenced
yard, w/d hookups. Walk downtown & bike/
bus to campus! $730/mo + 1st, last $500 dep
Call 373-6551 9-22-33-2
WWW.TheFloridaRenterslnsurance.COM
Renters Insurance from $9 per month
Online Quotes 9-16-09-31-2
LAS PAMPAS! 2 BR 2 BA townhouse,
Wood laminate floors, screen porch, pool,
loft $800/rent, 3482 NW 37th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
25-2
GREAT HOUSE BIKING DIST TO UF!
1st month free 3/2 in quiet area, fireplace,
garage, washer/dryer, $1095/rent,
3919 SW 28th Terrace
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-18-2
S
4
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial Mews Providers"
' S 4I
4
John F. Reed, Jr
White Male
(DOB 11/29/73); 6'00",
195 lbs, Brown Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
Burglary, Felony
Criminal Mischief and
Petit Theft
ALACHUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOPI
IS S
a 0 I
0 0
0 0 0
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished ] l unfurnished
LOTS OF SPACE! 1ST MONTH FREE!
3 BR 2 BA w/ living, family & dining rooms,
2 car carport, fenced yard, w/d, lawn svc,
$1000/rent, 126 SW 40th St.
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
LIVE BY THE GOLF COURSE!
ist month free! 3 BR 2 BA TH, garage, vault-
ed ceilings, living & family rooms,
$895/rent, 1627 NE 40th PI
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11 -
09-23-2
CLOSE TO EVERYTHING! 1st month free!
3/2 house, carport, living & family rooms,
newer carpet,
$825/rent, 1901 NW 38th Terr
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2CHEAP RENT! 1st month free! 2/2 MH,
Wood laminate floors, fenced yard, w/d hk-
ups, $595/rent, 5238 SW 66th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
23-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 9-16-09-25-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
iBR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 9-16-09-25-2
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $550 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2GRANTWOOD 2 MONTHS FREE!
2 BR 2 BA Townhouse, loft, wood laminate
floors, Washer/Dryer, pool, courtyard,
$750/rent, 2508 SW 35th PI #47
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
ROCKWOOD VILLAS 2 MONTHS FREE!
3 BR 3 BA Townhouse, wood laminate floors
& ceramic tile, porch, Washer/Dryer,
$895/rent, 858 SW 58th Terr
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
CUTE 3 BR HOUSE! ist month free! Garage,
Newer flooring, w/d hkups, $775/rent
i730 NW 3i st Place
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
23-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D hk-
ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/mo
Phone (352) 359-8311 9-30-09-34-2
u0
North Gainesville Baptist
Church
Independent & Missionary
www.ngbcfl.org
Heritage Park bldg
3401 NE 34th St
352-388-9050
Thi~ ffb
New Life Community
Chapel
New Life Community Chapel
Westside Park Rec. Center
Sundays at 10:30 AM
www.newlifecommunitychapel.org
Phone: (352) 214-4462
Episcopal Chapel House
Chapel of Incarnation
Chapel of Incarnation
www.ufchapelhouse.com
2 weekly communion services,
lovely garden, sweet fellowship,
holy fun! 352-372-8506
Creekside Community
Church
College Bible Study, Sun 7pm
Prayer and Praise, Wed 7:30pm
Worship Service, Sun 1 0:30am
For more info email Mary at
madmadamoo@gmail.com
Chabad Lubavitch
Jewish Student Center
-Your home away from home.-Services & Shabbat Dinner-
-7:30pm ALL FALL
-352-336-5877; 2021 NW 5th Ave.
-(5 blocks north of the stadium)
-www.JewishGator.com
..
The Spirit of Yahweh
Got truth?
The Gospel: Raw Uncut &
UNHEARD!
Bible Study Every Saturday
www.yahshuah.com
Gator Wesley Foundation
Sunday worship 11am at the
Presbyterian and Disciples of
Christ Student Center 1402 W.
Univ. Ave. with FREE lunch to
follow. Thursday evening the Ga-
tering/Bible Study 8pm. Office
located 1 04 NW 14th Street.
For full schedule of events visit
gatorwesley.com
Southwest United
Methodist Church
Open and inclusive, Family away
from home, Informal Worship,
Classes and activities will be
planned using student input.
Sunday worship 1 0:45am
2400 SW Williston Rd
352-378-4931
-Friday Night Live!
~ EiIi13t~* * Trinity Metropolitan
Community Church
Offering truely open and GLBTS?
inclusive Christian worship.
Sunday Worship, 10:1 5a.m.
11 604 SW Archer Road
For info: mccgainesville.org
Or call: (352) 495-3378"Tearing
Down Walls; Building Up Hope"
University City Church of
Christ
Gators for Christ campus ministry
college group meets at Univer-
sity City church on Sundays at
9:30am and Wednesdays at
7pm -practical application from
God's word, plus service projects,
large group events, free meals,
and much morel. (directions and
events calendar at
www.gatorsforchrsist.org)
Faith Presbyterian Church
1Dam Worship -Lunch Following
9am Sunday School
5916 NW 39th Avenue
Phone: 352-377-5482
www.fpc-gnv.org
Redemption Orthodox
Presbyterian Church
Christ-centered preaching
Joyful traditional worship
Rev Joel Fick, Pastor
Meeting at P.K. Yonge school
1080 SW 11th Street
Worship at 10:30am
Evening Instruction at 5:00pm
www.redemptionopc.org 327-
8127
m1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
1/1s from $392* 2/1s from $491*
(Rate includes specials)
Close to UF & Oaks Mall.
Pine Rush Villas 375-1519
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
2/1s from $491* (Rate includes specials)
SW Archer Rd
Homestead Apts. 376-0828
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE* +$200 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
2/2s from $605* & 3/2s from $695
(Rate includes specials)
Close to Oaks Mall & Newberry Rd.
Ashton Square Villas 333-1120
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st MONTH FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Private Patios
1/1s from $472* (Rate includes specials)
Gator Village 372-3826
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Studios from $384* 1/1s from $425*
(Rate includes specials)
Walk to Butler Plaza
Sundowne 352-377-2596
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE* + $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!!
1/1s from $401* (Rate includes specials)
1/2 mile to UF
Sunrise 352-372-4835
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
Totally Renovated 1 Bdrs
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees
*$507 Month*lncludes Specials*
2 MONTHS FREE + $300 Gift Card
Free Tanning/Cyber Cafe
Great Location!
Courtney Greens 375-3077
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Great Location
1/1s from $417* (Rate includes specials)
Summer Place 372-2818
3316 SW 41st Place Just off SW 34th Street
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
HOUSE avail ist wk of Aug. 4BR/2BA, 1.5
mis to UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF
bus rte. Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fire-
place, cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $1100/
mo. Call 376-6183 or 327-2931
9-i1i-09-15-2S I N \ A
$99 Moves You In!
1, 1 w/den, 2 & 3 Bedroom
Call About Two Months
FREE RENT
352-331-2966
Rent start at $750.00
2625 SW 75th St, Gainesville, FL 32608
Equal Housing Opportunity.
9-30-09-21-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosed front patio
W/D, Wood floors, Fireplace
3 blocks from UF! Pets loved!
372-7111 * 106 NW 1Oth Street
12-9-09-75-2
Clean, spacious 3/2 condo. Quiet, yet cen-
trally located just 1.5 mi. from law school.
Very low utilities, W/D, pool. Sorry, no pets.
Just $1000. Call 352-262-9119 9-11-09-
14-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.
one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceiling
fans, high ceiling & porches. ist, last, secu-
rity. No dogs. 378-3704 sallygville@aol.com
9-15-09-15-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home on shady
lot. From $345-$425/mo incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th St. Last month free. 376-
5887 10-9-33-2
4BR newer double-wide on 5 acres in
Newberry. 6-stall barn, board fence, horses
welcome. $1300/mo. Call 850-329-7669
9-15-15-2
HALF OFF 1ST MONTH'S RENT. 3Bd/2Ba
home off of Archer Road, near Pita Pit. $900/
mo with $500 sec. dep. Large deck with
fenced yard. Pets ok with addl dep. Call 213-
1567. 9-14-5-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
Downtown Bed & Breakfast District: historic,
huge 3/2, 2/1, and 1/1. Water inc. Laundry
inc. $1900, $700, and $650 respectively.
Walk downtown! 373-7566 M-F 9-5. 9-17-
14-2
Y HOUR ALL DAY EVERYDAY!HAPPY
:--.5 \N~e setNe ,V 0
0 000 -b
E Gator Saturdays E 00'
N The best place to watch Nee NM28 the Gators win.
Live Came on 45 TVsy 2Large screens L
E NFL Sunday + Monday Tuesday A
A tAp wigs (boneless oi iegUla All the jumbo wings T
R S1 Diats -$" Wells -$ y Calls $9.95 E
S S4 Cls JLice 5 eager Bombs No harin pl
375 -BEER * 3507 SW 2nd Ave * CalicoJacks.net * 371-1675
14, ALLIGATOR E FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009
For Rent r For Rent For Rentm
unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
2br/1ba House $795/mo walk to UF!
Located behind Norman Hall. Includes 2
parking spots, high speed internet, shared
washer/dryer. Renovated '09 -tile, paint,
appliances. Private owner 352-375-5975.
9-11-09-10-2
AVAILABLE NOW or JAN 1. 3BR/2BA nice
house. Pets ok, washer/dryer provided. Quiet
dead-end road. 4100 NW 14th Pl. $975/mo.
Fenced yard. 352-339-2342 9-14-09-10-2
WE'RE HERE TO HELP! FOCUS ON
SCHOOL Must see upgrades new carpettile
& more.from a disc. rate of $390 Move in to-
day Pets ok
15 mins from UF Call for specials 352-332-
8225 10-12-30-2
2BR/1BA 1 month FREE. Oak Condo by
Oaks Mall. $695, screened-in porch, W/D,
community pool & gym, water & trash includ-
ed. 321-948-6327 or americana@cfl.rr.com
9-28-09-20-2
HUGE 1BR available now
Terrazzo floors, close to UF & SFC. 4022
NW 7th. Flex lease. $425/mo A/C heat, close
to bus lines. 352-318-8822 9-15-09-9-2
4 bd/ 4 ba condo at Countryside, only $850,
1200 sq ft. Rented furnished or unfurnished,
washer & dryer incl, Community pool, fitness
center and basketball courts Call Bosshardt
Property Management Today! 352-371-2118
9-24-09-15-2
MOVE IN NOW -1BR/1BA condo walk to
UF $850 with utilities, cable, & Internet or
3BR/2BA home with large yard & carport
$850 Keller Williams Realty 352-240-0600
Tiffany McKenzie, Realtor @ 352-871-3890
9-25-09-15-2
2BR1.5BA townhouse for rent near UF,
Shands, VA. W/D hook-ups, fireplace, en-
closed backyard. $900/mo +. 904-524-3063
9-30-09-18-2
1/1 Apartment, Available now! 626 NW 10th
Ave, Gainesville, w/ w-d, hardwood floors,
herb garden, close to campus & downtown,
nice neighborhood-neighbors, quiet, interest-
ed call Lucas 601-421-4987. 9-14-5-2
HUGE 0 Great Rates!
Large rooms/windows, ceiling
fans, porch, storage, pets ok.
Volleyball, 2 pools, fitness ctr,
rec rm. Walk to Shands & UF.
Bus stop at entrance.
AMAZING MOVE IN SPECIALS
372-6535
parksixteen@gmail.com
9-14-09-4-2
Cute & Clean! Studio apt. in quiet NW area
near Ward's & Publix. Close to shopping &
busline, bike to UF. for $375/mo. Visit www.
cozygator.com, call 352-338-7670, or email
shepley@cozygator.com 9-15-09-5-2
1bedr, 2bedrms, 3bedrms, & 4bedrms close
to Campus. Call to see your new home today
Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-20-09-
30-2
RAMADAN
FAST-A-THON
September 16, 2009
6:30 pm
the O'Connell Center
For more info, visit:
www.IslamOnCampus.comMOVE IN NOW -1BR/1BA condo walk to
UF $850 with utilities, cable, & Internet or
3BR/2BA home with large yard & carport
$850 Keller Williams Realty 352-240-0600
Tiffany McKenzie, Realtor @ 352-871-3890
9-25-09-15-2
2/2 apt in the Avenues incl parking, alarm
system, w/d, kitchen w/dishwasher, garbage
disposal, & breakfast bar, dining/ living area
w/picture windows. 1 blkfrom UnivAve, great
for UF. Roommates needed 772-486-0303
9-15-09-5-2.
1BR/1BA EFFICIENCY
with A/C, $320/mo. No pets. Year lease.
Shady lot. 1022.5 NW 4t Ave. 352-376-5887
9-25-09-13-2
Room for rent near Archer Road. Non smoker
$500/month includes utilities.Sec dep. $500.
Call 352-213-1567. 9-17-6-2
$240/MO INCL UTIL.
ONE BEDROOM FOR RENT!
2 miles east of UF NE 9th St & 3rd Ave. On
bus route. Share full bath. Non-smoking fe-
male. Clean. Cat ok. Call Jane 871-6065
9-17-09-5-2
Homes Available for Immediate Occupancy.
Low Payments! $99 Deposit!
Call Today! 352-378-4411
9-30-09-15-2
We Love Pets &
Ready to Move in Today
Regency Oaks
1,2,3, Bedrooms
3230 SW Archer Rd
352-378-5766
Rocky Point
1,2,3 Bedrooms
3100 SW 35tth Place
352-376-1619
Archer Woods
1,2, Bedrooms
3020 SW Archer Rd
352-373-8727
Country Gardens
1 & 2 Bedrooms
2001 SW 16th St.
352-373-4500
12-9-09-65-2
2/2 Condo 2508 SW 35 PI
Gated Comm.w/Pool Near University
$750/Month Call Mike 786-299-4403 9-18-
09-7-2
*2 MONTHS RENT FREE*
Beautiful 2/2 Apt for $840/month located in
downtown Gainesville 1 mile from campus.
Includes washer, dryer, dishwasher, balcony,
pool, and alarm. Available now. Call 561 827
5358 or email zurich7@ufl.edu 9-18-09-6-2
1 Block to UF! GREAT LOCATIONS
1 BR and 2BR Apts. See our list at
www.merrillmanagement.net
or call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 9-25-09-11-2
2BR 1BA Apt 1BLK TO UF!
Grad II Apts Special: $650/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 9-25-09-1 1-2
9
4
6
2
56
3
9
7
4
56
8 1
2j46
3
9
4
8
7
2
53
7
5
9
8
2
4
65
2
8
3
1
9
8 4
9 6
3 74
5
2
8
6
7
3
92 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 9-25-09-11-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $500/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 9-25-09-1 1-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 9-25-09-1 1-2Female wanted to share brand new
3br/3ba home near campus. Washer
& dryer included. On bus route. Non-
smoking, serious students only. $450 plus
utilities. 813-610-1698 9-17-10-4
2BRs available for serious students, each
with private bath in completely remodeled,
fully furnished mobile home. 6 mins to UF -
Archer & 1-75. Very clean. $325/mo each +
1/2 utils. Call 352-256-0999 9-21-09-10-4
F Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
subleases _ SEE ALL CONDOS
WWWUJFCONDlOSCOMSpring 2010 College Park 1BR/1BA Studio
Apt Sublease. Walking distance to campus
and unfurnished. Rent is $625/month. Call
321-223-7867 or kmurph@ufl.edu 9-22-09-
15-3
1br apt, $575/month. Walking distance to UF
and 34th St Plaza. No move in charges; 1
1/2 months free. Call 502-608-3817 or e-mail
ozhegov@ufl.edu. 9-16-09-5-3
eRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Countryside Share 4BR/4BA upgraded furn
condo 1.5 miles to UF on bus rte, pool, W/D,
cable & utils incl. $425/mo. Call 386-672-
6969 or 386-295-7929. 9-18-09-35-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 10-1-09-26-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-4
Male, grad student, small furnished apt on
side of private home close to UF. One per-
son only. No pets. Cable, patio, clean, quiet.
$500 pm, utilities included. 336-5808 9-11-
09-24-4
SEMESTER/YEAR LEASE
All utils incl. 1/1 avail infullyfurn 4/4 apt. New
carpet & paint, cable, wireless internet, pool,
W/D in unit. SW area on 2 bus rts. Bus stop
on site. 954-593-3063 9-1 1-09-21-4
Hate long bus rides? Be in class/Shands/
VA in 5 mins. Share 2/1 at Summit House
Condos, $375/mo + 1/2 util.$200 sec. dep.
No pets per complex, Available immed. Call
Tim 352-843-0220 9-15-19-4
Male college student preferred. 4BR/4BA
Countryside condo. Own bathroom, W/D,
hi-speed internet, on bus rte. Utils included.
$415/mo. 863-634-1893. Available immedi-
ately. 9-24-09-25-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
9-21-09-15-4
Grad student seeking two female roommates
(NS/ND) to share a new 4/2 house in a quiet
neighborhood 3 mi. W of 1-75. With cable,
internet & security alarm. 475/mo., util. incl.
Please call 352-331-8794. Rooms are avail-
able immediately. 9-30-20-4Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Bank Owned Properties -Must Sell!
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
See ALL bank owned homes and condos @
www.allisonables.com/foreclosures
Allison Ables -Keller Williams Gainesville
11-2-38-5
HUD HOMES! 4bdr 3ba $217/mo! 3 bdrm
only $199/mo! Stop Renting! 5% dw, 15 yrs
@ 8% apr For Listings (800)366-9783 ext
5669 9-11-1-5
FORECLOSED HOME AUCTION 500+
FLORIDA Homes REDC I Free Brochure
www.Auction.com RE No. CQ1031187
9-11-1-5
AUCTION -SATURDAY, September 12,
10 am, Centre, Alabama, Hwy 411 80+/-
Acre Premier Cattle Farm in tracts, selling
Equipment ABSOLUTE (866)789-5169 www.
american-auctioneers.com, Keith Baldwin
AL1416. 9-11-1-5
A Bank Repo! 5bdr 4ba $317/mo! 3 br
Foreclosure! $199/mo!! 5% dw, 15 yrs @
8% apr For Listings (800)366-9783 ext 5853
9-11-1-5
FORECLOSED HOME AUCTION 500+
FLORIDA Homes REDC I Free Brochure
www.Auction.com RE No. CQ1031187
9-1 1-1-5
Owner Must Sell. 4+ acres- $57,300 Nice
oak trees, private access to lake. All utilities
in. Ready to build when you are! Financing
avail. Call now (866)352-2249. www.fllandof-
fer.com 9-11-1-5
AUCTION 16 residential lots ranging from
.39 acres to 5.68 acres in beautiful Roan
Mountain, TN. 3 lots to be offered Absolute
higgenbotham.com (800)257-4161 9-11-
1-5
LOG CABIN SALE ON 5 ACRES WITH
DOCKABLE LAKEFRONT only $69,900.
1680 sf log cabin kit on 5 acres with lakefront
on 12,000 acre recreational lake. Boat to
Gulf of Mexico. Excellent financing. Call now
(866)952-5339, x1560 www.grandviewhar-
bor.com 9-11-1-5ORTEGA LANDING Waterfront condos and
marina on Ortega River in Jacksonville, FL.
3 bedroom, 3 bath condos approx. 2,600
SF from $999K. Private elevator access,
covered parking, GE Monogram appliances,
9 ft ceilings. Marina slip memberships and
leasing available. (800)800-0895 or www.
visitortegalanding.com 9-11-1-5
sFurnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name
brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490
will deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
STACKED WASHER & DRYER
1 yr old -4 yr warranty -$800. 352-949-5948
9-17-09-5-6
UEFEompte
CASH PAID: Laptops Cameras Cells
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-79 3
5 7
8 12
6
4
39
8
7
3
27
4
5
6
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
computers Motorcycles, Mopeds Autos Help Wanted Help Wanted
-0
COMHlP UT ER 9
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
rp Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
Best Prices in Town
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
EFFo r Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
PLAY & BUY DRUMS, GUITARS, MORE
@ STUDIO PERCUSSION
www.STUDIOPERCUSSION.org
(352) 338-8302 9-18-20-10
Homes Available for Immediate Occupancy.
Low Payments! $99 Deposit!
Call Today! 352-378-4411
9-30-09-21-10
METAL ROOFING. 40 yr Warranty-Buy di-
rect from manufacturer 30/colors in stock,
w/all accessories. Quick turn around.
Delivery available. Gulf Coast Supply & Mfg,
(888)393-0335 www.GulfCoastSupply.com
9-11-1-10
ALL CASH VENDING! Do you earn $800 in a
day? 25 Local Machines and Candy $9,995.
(888)629-9968 B02000033 CALL US: We
will not be undersold! 9-11-1-10
DOLLAR & DOLLAR PLUS, MAILBOX,
PARTY, DISCOUNT CLOTHING OR TEEN
STORE FROM $51,900 Worldwide! 100%
TURNKEY CALL NOW (800)518-3064
WWW.DRSS6.COM. 9-11-1-10***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***www.B~uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
2005 kaw.zzr600 blue 8,000mi.
one owner,mint cond.new tires
tinted windscreen $4,500 obo
ph# 352-372-8656
ask for roger -owner 9-14-09-5-11
WLZAutosZ
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
*Running or not!0
*NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
2@ gI t i Also Available on Sept 17th:
Palatka Lakefront Custom Home DG-295
Some Selling Regardless of Price! 130 Timber Lane, Palatka, FL 32177
Palatka Home with Large Pool DG-302
2900 Twigg St., Palatka, FL 32177
Available on Sept 15th:
Sebring Family Home DG-303
2900 NE Lakeview Dr., Sebring, FL 33870
www.tranzon.com
Elkton Starter Home Built 2007 DG-301 877-374-4437
WILL SELL OVER MINIMUM BID OF $69,000! 7 -74 4 3
3373 4th St., Elkton, F $L 32177 tranNon DRIGGERS
-3BR/2BA -1,121 Sf.- Excellent condition WalterJ Diggersl I CAI,AARE Lic RealEstateBroker
-Full Kitchen -Financing Available FLLic #AU707&#AB1237 10%BPCARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
DONATE YOUR VEHICLE RECEIVE
$1000 GROCERY COUPON UNITED
BREAST CANCER FOUNDATION Free
Mammograms, Breast Cancer Info www.
ubcf.info FREE Towing, Tax Deductible,
Non-Runners Accepted, (888)468-5964.
9-11-1-12
Acura Integra 98 $500! Honda Civic 01
$550! Nissan Altima 99 $500! Toyota Corolla
02 $500! Police Impounds! For listings call
(800)366-9813 ext 9275. 9-11-1-12
CFWanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 9-11-09-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
Looking for someone to help me learn to rake
knit a hat, second and fourth wednesdays of
each month. These hats are made for peo-
ple in Haiti. Come and have fun with Lenora.
Call 219-6948. 9-11-09-74-13
EZ TENNIS
352-372-2257 9-30-17-13
WFHelpWanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
the independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOELIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
PARK PLACE CARWASH
is looking for highly motivated employees,
morning & afternoon shifts available Apply in
person 7404 NW 4th Blvd. No calls please.
9-14-09-15-14
Movie Extras, Actors, Models Wanted -Up
to $300/day! All Looks Needed! Call NOW
1-800-458-9303 9-21-20-14
einstein's OASIS hair salon HAIRSTYLISTS
needed. up to 70% comm benefits 331-4340.
600 NW 75th St. Suite "C". 9-15-15-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
We are looking for business leaders to help
us build our college database, earn bi-weekly
cash & monthly residual income. Graduate
debt-free. Please call 1-800-577-2021 for a
confidential interview. 12-9-68-14
LIFE SKILLS COACH -needed for after-
school activities/care teenage boy with au-
tism. 2:30-6:30 M-F. References and reliable
transportation required. Experience and train-
ing preferred. Call 246-2353. 10-16-30-14
Tutors needed 1-on-1 at-risk elem, mid
school students. 1-4 afternoons per wk. $10/
hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed wk study req
for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally
352-384-1155, st23@cox.net 9-16-09-15-
14
BOOKKEEPER/RECEPTION IST/
ASSISTANT
FT for Law Office. EXP in QB, with A/P, A/R
& trust accts. Client intake skills a must .
Email resume to: lisa@striplinglawfirm.com.
10-12-09-30-14
Female smokers ages 19-25 needed for con-
fidential phone interview. Call 404-324-6836
leave your name, number and the brand that
you smoke. Earn $50 for phone interview.
10-13-09-30-14
SHIPPING TECH
Full or part time. Must be dependable. Prior
experience a plus. Please send resume to
hr@gleim.com or apply online at www.gleim.
com 9-15-09-10-14LEASING AGENT PT
Friendly, energetic person. Experience
preferred. Great benefits. Must be avail.
afternoons & weekends. Apply in person.
Spyglass Apartments. DFWP
12-9-09-67-14
Geek your way to wealth & earn cash while
attending college. For a confidential inter-
view, call 1-800-577-2021 & please leave
your name & number TWICE 12-9-68-14
Fan Photographers needed for UF
football home games! Email to apply
ufphotomanager1 @gmail.com. Fan pho-
tographers motivate and excite fans to take
photos that are viewable on gatorzone.com
in a partnership with UF. $7.50/hour plus
productivity bonus drives hourly rate to $12-
$20/hour. Equipment provided.
9-1 5-09-8-14
SDR Auditor
Seeking serious, responsible detailed per-
son for part-time position at corp. Must work
some weekends. send resume to
flhenry@lifesouth.org 9-11-09-5-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
Nail Biters Ages 5-15 needed
UF psychology study
Pay $10 per hour, up to 9 hours
Flexible hours, we come to you!
Contact zawoyski@ufl.edu 9-14-09-4-14
Attention Smokers! Smokers are needed
to participate in a smoking cessation study.
You will be compensated for your participa-
tion. If interested, call the UF Smoking Lab
and Clinic at 352-273-2151 or email us at
ufsmokelab@gmail.com. 9-22-10-14
INTERNET WORK! $6.75-$139+/Hr. Flexible
Hours!. Use any computer! $25 Starting
Bonus. Tinyurl.com/FLAlligator 9-16-09-5-
14
OFFICE ASSISTANT
PT Quickbooks, financial accounts experi-
ence a must. Flex hrs around class. Evenings
&weekends possible. $7.25/hr up? 359-6785
9-16-09-5-14
Embroidery Machine Operatorexperience
req.Design & produce emb designs & logos.
Knowledge of computers & digitizing pro-
grams. Able to stand for long periods of time.
call 352-226-8868 M-F 7AM-4PM 9-21-09-
8-14
Need extra cash? Can you sell clothing?
Gainesville's newest Men's clothing fran-
chise has an opportunity for you!
262-7920 www.johnisaacsclothing.com
9-14-09-3-14
We need people to post ads
online. Social networking
knowledge a plus. Get paid
every Friday. For details see
paycheckonfriday.com 11-12-45-14
**MARTIAL ARTS INSTR. WANTED**
For growing TKD/MMA school
in Gville. Friendly, energetic
person. Experience preferred.
Leave msg at 352-375-0700
9-16-09-5-14
Homework Coach Wanted for bright ADHD
7th grade girl, $8/hr, flexible hours afterschool
or weekends, 4-8 hrs/week. Email qualifica-
tions to tracydz@cox.net 9-16-5-14
SALES REP NEEDED Looking for highly mo-
tivated sales reps for 3 new wireless stores.
We are an authorized dealer for Metro PCS.
We offer a rewarding career in an exciting,
fast-paced environment. Email resumes to
petercolucci@vivawireless.biz 9-11-09-2-14
DENTAL ASSISTANT
Certified with expanded functions. Good x-
ray skills a must. Mon-Thurs. Fax resume to
352-375-4268 9-16-09-5-14
16, ALLIGATOR E FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009
FHelp Wanted Services Health Services Personals Entertainment
DENTAL FRONT DESK
Scheduling & insurance billing for local den-
tal practice. Self-starter with experience.
Mon-Thurs. Fax resume 352-375-4268
9-16-09-5-14
Babysitter/Childcare Needed in my SW home
M-F. 8 am- 5 pm.
Approx. 20 hours a week
Must have own transporation and references
$8/Hr. (352)494-8848 9-18-6-14
HOMEWORK COACH for 8th grade High
Springs Community School ESE student w/
special needs (ADHD). Sun. thru Thurs., 2 to
3 hours/afternoon & additional time as need-
ed for projects. Some driving req'd. $10.00/
Hr. Great opportunity for someone pursuing
degree in special education. Send resume to
terryl_42@yahoo.com 9-17-09-5-14
Childcare/mother's helper needed to
help care for infant twins
Next to SFCC, perfect for student!
M,W,F 9am-noon
352-256-3715 9-17-5-14
PT SWIM COACH
Afternoon & evening hours available. Call
Perrin Foerster 352-359-0160 or email
coachperrin@yahoo.com 9-17-09-5-14
Heating/Air Tech Training. 3 week acceler-
ated program. Hands on environment. State
of the Art Lab. Nationwide certifications and
Local Job Placement Assistance! CALL
NOW: (877)994-9904. 9-11-1-14
W F services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 9-16-
09-60-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
Laser Hair Removal, Electrolysis, & Skin
Care @ Advanced Hair Removal & Skin
Institute- 352.331.6797- Ask about student
discounts & sorority specials. Check out our
website @ www.hairskininstitute.com
9-30-09-27-15
Private home office experienced childcare.
Close to UF. 3 months to 3 years old. $17.50/
day & pay only for the day(s) you need.
Please call 352-372-1769 9-11-09-14-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
9-25-20-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS*
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
EZ TENNIS
352-372-2257 9-30-17-15
STRINGING -Best machines in town. Huge
selection of strings -Ready in 24 hrs or free.
The same day service available and/or 1
hour. It is the EZ Thing 372-2257 9-30-
17-15
GREAT MATH TUTOR.
Over 30 years experience.
All classes thru Trig & Pre-Calc
Easy to understand explanations
Call Ed 331-4332 9-15-5-15
Need tutoring help in MAC 1105,
MAC 1140, MAC 1147, MAC 2233,
freshman physics courses, and select
Mechanical Enginnering courses? Contact
www.DrHasansTutoring.com for details.
9-16-5-15
*Splendid Image Hair Salon*
$25 shampoo & deep condition
$55 relaxer & conditioning w/ends clip
Call for appointment 373-9600 Mon-Thurs
9-17-09-5-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home.
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting,
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance.
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified.
Call (866)858-2121, www.CenturaOnline.
com. 9-11-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING -Train for high
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA
approved program. Financial aid if qualified -
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of
Maintenance (888)349-5387. 9-11-1-15
CRIMINAL RECORD? MISDEMEANOR,
FELONY? Have them expunged for $99.95,
30 to 60 days including DUI's. Get a Fresh
Start Today. Call (800)621-4889 24/7days
9-11-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
Affordable Therapy at Stillpoint
This months Specials:
1 Hour Massage Therapy or.
1 Hour Acupuncture/Acupressure/Herbal
Consult. or Chiropractic Treatment Session
$ 40.00!!! Licensed, Experienced
Professionals 10 minutes from campus on
39th ave. schedule today. 376 1320 9-17-
20-16
61F Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
EZ TENNIS
352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
FREE OVERGRIP with any stringing. Free
can of balls with purchase $20+. Lowest
prices on everything we sell. Where? At EZ
Tennis 352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
B-4-U buy or order any squash racket, check
out EZ Tennis for the lowest price in the
world. If any store can go lower, EZ 10-s can
go lower 352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
B-4-U buy or order badminton rackets check
out EZ Tennis for the lowest price in the
world. Yes, we will match & beat any lower
price. 372-2257 9-30-17-18
CREDIT CARD & BANKRUPTCY LAW
Helping debtors in consumer debt cases
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
10-7-21-18
OWNERS
FINANCING
ON 19.99 ACRES
IN NEWBERRY, Fl.
Fenced and cross
fenced, high and dry,
Oak trees, zonedAG
and low taxes.
$269K
Call Gigi Tajalli
@ 352-281 -0001
Watson Realty Corp.IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards -Employment Visas
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
www.ruthlaw.com
10-20-09-30-18
EVICTIONS
Sharon Ruth, Esq.
352-494-8848
9-28-14-18
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public Wed-Sat-Sun 1 pm-6pm
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
Bring any lower price u-find on any racket,
EZ Tennis will match & beat that price. And
yes, including e-bay buy it now. Please bring
the print-out. 372-2257 9-30-17-21COMIC BOOKS!
Low prices, huge selection. New comic sub-
scription service. Hoyt's Cosmos of Comics.
501 NW 23rd Ave. 352-378-0182.
cosmosofcomics.com 9-11-1-21
WJ Tickets
BOOSTER CLUB BUS PACKAGES
include hotel and tickets for LSU, MS State,
and South Carolina. DON'T WAIT -GOING
FAST! Call Betty 386-462-0404 9-30-09-
18-22
o il Rides
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
CHARTER BUS / CHARTER BUS RENTAL /
LIMOS / 352-494-1734 ask for Harold
WE BEAT ALL COMPETITOR PRICING
ASK ABOUT SPECIAL DISCOUNT OFFER
www.reliancecoach.com 9-22-20-23
0 6 p e 
-
"Coprighted Materiel
Syndicated Conten I
Available from Commercial Mews Providers"1111111111 s e .
-0
rI
SU
I
s-rn
wU
I ie"W
0016 1
Sports
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Picks
Column
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 12:21 p.m.
TV/RADIO: SEC Network/ AM 850
The alligatorSports Brand Picks
Column altered its style last week
with a debate over the week's most
divided game instead of a silly inter-
view, and we have taken the lack of
response from our readers as a sign
of approval.
The first week of college football
provided viewers with plenty of ac-
tion.
A knockout punch, a major upset
and an actual good game between
FSU and Miami. This season looks
promising already.
Week two comes with one of the
most anticipated games of the year:
No. 3 USC at No.8 Ohio State. Nat-
urally, it wasn't a hard choice for
which game to argue.
OHIO STATE WILL BEAT USC BE-
CAUSE. Ohio State was almost em-
barrassed last week by the Midship-
men.
The Buckeyes struggle at times to
stop the triple-option offense, but in
the end, they pulled out the win and
that's all that matters.
Terrelle Pryor was criticized for
supporting Michael Vick on his eye
black strips, but I say who cares?
He's allowed to say whatever he
wants, and he will silence his critics
by having a Vick-like performance
against a young Trojans defense.
Good thing he isn't playing a team
called the Bulldogs, or that could get
ugly.
USC freshman quarterback Matt
Barkley seems like he is destined for
greatness -and he probably is -
but he will struggle in his first game
on the road at a major college. The
Horseshoe will not exactly be the
friendliest of confines.
-BOBBY CALLOVI
SEE PICKS PAGE 19UF FOOTBALL
Gators to host Trojans in SEC warmup
By PHIL KEGLER
Alligator Staff Writer
pkegler@alligator org
It's time to spice things up a
bit.
Coach Urban Meyer called
his playcalling for the CharlestonSouthern game "painfully vanil-
la," but is opening up the Gators'
arsenal this week.
UF ran just three offensive for-
mations last week, according to
Meyer, and defensive coordinator
Charlie Strong said he only called
three different defenses againstthe Buccaneers.
Expect that to change Saturday
when No. 1 Florida (1-0) gets its
final tune-up at 12:21 p.m. against
Troy (0-1) with next week's South-
eastern Conference opener against
Tennessee looming.
The Trojans were the pre-
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF coach Urban Meyer said the Gators will open up the playbook this weekend against Troy after
using only three offenses and three defenses against Charleston Southern.season media pick to win the Sun
Belt Conference, although they
did lose 31-14 at Bowling Green
last week.
"You're facing a better team.
You're facing better personnel,"
Meyer said. "You're facing an of-
fense that's very explosive and a
real talented defense. Last week,
we went into the game with just
a couple defenses. You'll see the
whole defensive package. Offen-
sively, you saw very minimal op-
tion [last week]
"You're going to see a lot of
that this week. We're kind of let-
ting it go this week."
Meyer also used Troy's near-
upset of LSU in Baton Rouge, La.,
last season to keep UF focused.
The Trojans led 31-3 in the third
quarter before the Tigers rallied
for a 40-31 win.
"I think the best thing that hap-
pened to us iswhentheyshould've
beat LSU and outplayed LSU last
year," Meyer said.
Now, UF will seek to replicate
last week's offensive onslaught.
The Gators rushed for 369 yards
-Florida's second-highest total
in Meyer's four-plus years -and
five touchdowns behind the three-
headed attack of sophomores Jeff
Demps and Chris Rainey and ju-
nior Emmanuel Moody.
As for the defense that re-
turned all 11 starters from 2008, it
SEE FOOT, PAGE 18
NFL season brings questions, here are the answers
he NFL season has officially begun.The Steelers opened the season
with a 13-10 win against the Titans.
With the start of the season, some of the
questions that have been looming during
the offseason will get answered.
Luckily for you readers, I consider my-
self to be quite knowledgeable about the
NFL and have the answers for most of the
important questions heading into this sea-
son -at least that's what I like to think.
Here are some of those tough questions
with their answers:
Can Tom Brady return to form after a
knee injury in week one required season-
ending surgery?
Absolutely. Brady will have no problems
looking like his old MVP self, and having
Randy Moss and Wes Welker to throw todoesn't hurt.
Will the Lions actu-
ally win a game this
year?
e Yes, but not many.
I'll take a guess and
Bobby Callovi say three. Expect
Bobby's World rookie quarterback
bcallovi@alligator org Matthew Stafford to
look less than impres-
sive, but receiver Calvin Johnson will still
look like a stud.
How many games into the season before
Al Davis fires Tom Cable, and will Richard
Seymour ever show up in Oakland?
The first question shouldn't take long,
probably about six games. Davis barely
wanted him to begin with, but he seemed
to be the only one who wanted the job. Sey-mour will eventually suck it up and make
the trip out west. This trade will make him
lack motivation or make him hungry to
make the Pats dumb for getting rid of him.
Can Mark Sanchez lead the Jets back to
the playoffs?
Kind of. The Jets will make the playoffs,
but more so because of their strong running
game and great defense than because of
Sanchez.
Will Brett Favre make a difference in
Minnesota?
This unfortunately is a yes. As much as
I would like to see him fail for torturing us
by being the only thing ESPN would cover
this summer, Minnesota has Adrian Peter-
son, a good defense and playmaking wide
receivers that will make it hard for him not
SEE BOBBY, PAGE 19
UF FOOTBALL NEWS
U Linebacker Dustin Doe and cor-
nerback Janoris Jenkins are avail-
able to play this week, coach Urban
Meyer said Thursday. Both missed
the first game due to suspension.alligatorSports Podeast
U Check back tonight for a brand new epi-
sode of our podcast previewing the UF-Troy
game on Saturday. We will give expectations
and projections as well as recap the week in
Gators football. Check it out on iTunes.TEEING OFF WITH MIKE McCALL
U The NFL is going to let fans watch replays of blacked out games (read: Jaguars games)
for free online this year in a gallant effort to aid those hit by the recession. If they're
serious, why not just make tickets cheaper or not black out teams (the Jags) in the first
place? .Go watch "Ricky's Rant" on YouTube if you want to see a Crimson Tide fan in
complete meltdown. This jerk makes Alabama Man look like Mother Teresa.
18, ALLIGATOR E FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009
UF WOMEN'S TENNIS
Gators set to kick off season
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Writer
Things appear to be looking up for the Florida
women's tennis team. After reaching the Round
of 16 in the NCAA Championships and finishing
14th in the ITA rankings last year, the team has
reason to believe it can produce even better re-
sults this season.
Each of the top four players from last season's
team, including seniors Marrit Boonstra and An-
astasia Revzina, will be returning to action in
2009.
The team is also welcoming a recruiting class
that coach Roland Thornqvist believes is the best
he has had in his eight-year tenure at UF.
The incoming class is headlined by the nation's
No. 2 recruit Lauren Embree, who established a
36-11 record while playing as tough a schedule as
anyone in the nation. Embree, who attended Lely
High in Marco Island, has competed in a number
of prestigious tournaments such as the French
Open and U.S. Open Women's Qualifying Tour-
nament, and is expected to make an immediate
contribution to the UF team.
Other freshmen joining the Gators this sea-
son will be the nation's sixth-ranked recruit, Al-
lie Will, as well as Caroline Hitimana of Belgium
and Brittany Borsanyi.Also new to the team will be Claire Bartlett, a
former top-10 recruit who is transferring to UF
after spending a year at Virginia.
This mix of young talent and veteran lead-
ership ensures that the Gators will be a tough
matchup for any school in the nation when team
play begins in January.
Until then, the primary focus will be on the
numerous individual tournaments filling the
schedule in the coming months, beginning with
the SEC Coaches Fall Classic, which starts today.
The Gators head into these
tournaments with four players
ranked in the ITA preseason
rankings -Boonstra at No. 3,
Revzina at No. 33, sophomore
Joanna Mather at No. 86 and
sophomore Jessica Alexander
at No. 104.
Boonstra Boonstra's ranking comes
as no surprise, as she posted a
36-10 record last year and won 23 of her last 26
matches while playing as UF's No. 1 for the dura-
tion of the season. She also reached the quarterfi-
nals of the NCAA Singles Championship, earning
herself All-America honors in the process. Still,
Boonstra heads into the season with plenty left
to prove, as she was only 5-6 against opponents
ranked in the top 25 last season.Defense aims for shutout
FOOT, from page 17
feels like there is plenty to improve
upon -namely the three points
scored by Charleston Southern, a
Football Championship Subdivi-
sion team.
"I personally felt like it was
too much," redshirt senior Ryan
Stamper said. "Especially with all
the guys we had coming back and
the defense we have. Even with
our twos [backups] in there, I still
feel like a team like that shouldn't
score."
Strong added: "It's great that he
felt like that. .Sometimes the ex-
pectations are a little different with
the competition you have to play."
Strong expects an up-tempo,
quick passing attack from Troy
similar to Charleston Southern.
Florida's ability to pass rush has
caused opponents to incorporate
more one, two and three-stepdrops. The Gators allowed 228
yards passing against the Bucca-
neers.
Above all, though, the mis-
sion for this week remains the
same. One more victory will tie
the school record for longest win-
ning streak. The 1995 team won 12
games in a row before falling 62-24
to Nebraska in the
Fiesta Bowl.
"I know it
sounds cliche, butFootba I Iwe're just trying to
win the game," re-
ceiver David Nelson said. "We're
just trying to go out there this
weekend and beat Troy. We know
they have some phenomenal play-
ers and some great individual tal-
ent. We'll throw whatever we need
to win the game. Tennessee's next
week. We'll worry about them
after this week. Right now, we're
worried about Troy."
Pr 1\P s , I II
gators march for babies
UF
-nspprt f th, marhof d-e
Register, Raise Money and
Join Us to Help Save Babies!
www.gatorsmarchforbabies.org
TURLINC3TON PLAZA
REGISTRATION 1:00 PM
KICK-OFF 2:00 PM
march ofdimes AWARDS 3:00 PM
WITH SUPPORT FROM.
Fh oni r Suppomra
The Coller Companies dflifoal."gatoQ~ports
Tune in for the latest Gators sports )
news and analysis from our beat
writers and columnists.
alligatoralligatorsports.org
or subscribe on
iTunes.AvMED
Health plans with
your health
in mind.
* Expanded provider network
* No deductible/no co-insurance
* No referrals
* Retail Clinic Care -Pay your PCP
co-payment at AvMed-participating
clinics in Florida
* 24/7 Member Services and
24/7 Nurse On Call
* Worldwide emergency coverage
I Weight WatchersTM Reimbursement
program
* Discounts on gym memberships,
massage therapy, yoga and more
For more information,
call 1-888-762-8633
or visit AvMed's Web Site at
vww.avmed.org/go/state/welcome.asp
AVMED
HE A L T H P L A N STonight vs. Duke
* Stop by a Pepsi display at CVS pharmacy
locations to pick up a registration coupon for
a chance to win up to $500 at the match!
* First 500 fans will receive a Gator can koozie!
Sunday vs. Colorado
Bring your Troy Football ticket for a chance to
* *win tickets to the Tennessee Football game
and more!
Sr. JessiC2 Eicken
..
.n a
F"---.-. jPepsi
James G Presslv Stadium
Admission is FREE!
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
UF VOLLEYBALL
Gators look to stay unbeaten
t
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF coach Mary Wise will take her team to Tampa, the host of 2009's Final Four,
this weekend. Three of the four teams in the field are ranked in the top 10.By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
If the Gators' plans for this
season pan out, this weekend
will only be the first time they
make the trip to Tampa to play
in a four-team tournament.
No. 4 Florida (5-0) will com-
pete in the Tampa Twice Tour-
nament in the Sun Dome, about
12 miles from the St. Pete Times
Forum, the site of the Final Four
this December.
UF will face host South Flor-
ida (5-0) tonight at 8 before tak-
ing on No. 3 Washington (6-0)
at 6 p.m. Saturday.
The impetus for scheduling
the early season tournament
in Tampa was the opportunity
to promote women's college
volleyball in the area before
the Final Four, but UF coach
Mary Wise said she is more ex-
cited about the competition this
weekend than the city her team
is playing in.
"We'll get better if we play
South Florida and Washington
in a parking lot," Wise said. "It's
not the venue, it's the teams."
But with three of the four
teams participating ranked in
the top 10 -No. 9 Minnesota
rounds out the bracket -it's
not out of the realm of possibil-
ity that at least one of them will,
as the tournament's name im-plies, be back in Tampa at the
end of the season.
"We're kind of just taking it
one match at a time so far, but
it's definitely a goal to be down
there twice," sophomore setter
Kelly Murphy said.
"We'll get better if we
play South Florida and
Washington in a park-
ing lot."
Mary Wise
UF volleyball coach
Although the Gators made it
clear this week that their focus
was on the Bulls and the Hus-
kies, they still acknowledged
their long-term goal of getting
back to Tampa.
Regular-season competi-
tion against highly ranked op-
ponents, like the ones they will
face in this weekend's tourna-
ment, can help prepare them
for the postseason.
"Every time we do some-
thing correctly, every time we
win a match, every time we
beat a team to 25, it's practice
for the Final Four, it's practice
for the ultimate goal," junior
setter Brynja Rodgers said.
The Gators haven't shied
away from saying they have a
potential Final Four berth on
their minds.At the team's preseason me-
dia day on Aug. 13, Wise even
joked that it was exactly 131
miles from the team's practice
facility to the St. Pete Times Fo-
rum -"not that we counted."
Given the fact that Florida
will host an NCAA regional
and won't have to leave the
state once tournament play be-
gins, some have argued that the
Gators' road back to Tampa in
December could be easier than
the two-hour drive down Inter-
state 75.
Murphy said reaching the
Final Four will be no less of a
challenge for UF than usual de-
spite the convenient location,
and the team still has plenty
of room to improve before the
opening serve tonight.
The Gators still have not
outblocked any of their five op-
ponents this season, and they
recorded 28 service errors last
weekend.
An elite team like Washing-
ton is more than capable of ex-
ploiting Florida's weaknesses,
so UF placed a strong empha-
sis on both areas in practice
throughout the week.
"Missing serves is an au-
tomatic point lost," right-side
hitter Lauren Bledsoe said. "By
not getting a block, then you
have all these confident hitters
who just want to get kills on us
all the time."
PICKS, from page 17
USC WILL UNDOUBTEDLY COVER THE 7-POINTSPREAD BE-
CAUSE. of the questionable moral character of Ohio State
and quarterback Terrelle Pryor. The guy wore Mike Vick's
name on his eye black last week against Navy. When he
tried to justify it in an interview after the game, he offered
up this insightful analysis:
"Not everybody's the perfect person in the world. I
mean, everyone kills people, murders people, steals from
you, steals from me, whatever," Pryor told reporters.
It's a good thing he's so understanding when it comes
to murder. I guess he won't feel bad when Taylor Mays
and USC get done with him.
It's going to be a lot like what Vick did to his dogs, only
the Trojans won't put Pryor out of his misery afterwards.
-MIKE DiFERDINANDO
Now, on to the picks!
From the cream of the crop to the bottom of the barrel,
here are our 10 writers:
In the lead with a 7-3 record after the first week is Mike
"I have a problem" DiFerdinando, who has made at least
one reference to alcohol in all of his columns.
Next up sitting at 5-5 is Bobby "I'm putting Rutgers in
the Picks Column" Callovi, who really believed the Scarlet
Knights had a shot at keeping it within 30 against Cinci-
natti.
From the Florida Times-Union with a 5-5 record, Mike
"Take my time" DiRocco, who made sure to wait as long
as possible to send his picks in.
From the Orlando Sentinel and also holding a 5-5 re-
cord, Jeremy "Can someone tell me what is going on with
Andre Debose" Fowler, who can finally stop asking his
daily questions about Debose's injury.
From the Miami Herald with yet another 5-5 record, Joe
"Good job" Goodman, who I refuse to say anything nega-
tive about. Keep up the great work, Joe.
Tied for second with a 5-5 record is Mike "Silver spoon"McCall, who always seems to have things go his way, in-
cluding going to the usually boring FSU-UM game and not
only getting to see a great game, but also witnessing an
ass-beating in the stands. One of these days, something
bad will happen to you.
From the Gainesville Sun with a 4-6 record is Edward
"Nothing to see here" Aschoff, who wouldn't really talk to
us this week because he knows how embarassing his insult
could become.
At 4-6 is our sports editor Phil "Last minute" Kegler,
who has set a good example for the rest of the writers by
making it a habit of writing his stories after his 7 p.m.
deadline.
From the Palm Beach Post with a 4-6 record, Ben "You
stink" Volin, who got into an argument and almost a fight
with another beat writer after insulting his personal hy-
giene.
In last place at 2-8 is Kyle "Abandon ship" Maistri, who
has changed his allegiance in the Big 12 and Pac-10 from
Oklahoma and Oregon to Baylor and Oregon State. Sorry,
Bears and Beavers, looks like your seasons will be ruined
soon enough.
MDF BC MDR iF JO
SC (+7) at UGA SC UGA UGA UGA SC
USC at OSU (+7) USC osu USC USC USC
Vandy (+14 5) at LSU LSU LSU LSU LSU Vandy
MSU (+14) at AU AU MSU AU MSU MSU
ECU(+7) at WVU WVU WVU WVU WVU WVU
UCLA (+9) at UT UT UT UT UCLA UCLA
ND at UM (+3) ND ND ND ND ND
HOU (+15)at OKSt OKSt HOU OKSt OKSt HOU
UNCatUConn(+45) UNC UNC UNC UNC UNC
TROY (+36 5) atUF UF UF UF UF UF
SC (+7) at UGA
USC at OSU (+7)
Vandy(+145)at LSU
MSU (+14) at AU
ECU (+7) at WVU
UCLA (+9) at UT
ND at UM(+3)
HOU (+15at OKSt
UNC at UConn (+45)
TROY (+36 5) at UFMM
SC
USC
Vandy
MSU
ECU
UT
ND
HOU
UNC
UFEA
SC
USC
LSU
MSU
ECU
UCLA
ND
OK St
UNC
UFPK
UGA
OSU
LSU
MSU
WVU
UT
ND
OK St
UNC
UFBV
UGA
USC
LSU
MSU
ECU
UCLA
ND
OK St
UConn
UFKM
UGA
OSU
Vandy
AU
WVU
UCLA
ND
OK St
UNC
UFBOBBY, from page 17
to look decent. And being decent will be
good enough to make this team a champion-
ship contender.
How will Michael Vick perform for the
Eagles?
He is not allowed to play until week 3,
and by that time, the Eagles and quarterback
Donovan McNabb will have a better idea
what the plan for Vick is.
This will allow him to come in and be ei-
ther a distraction to defenses or catch them
off-guard. Either way, he will be an impact
player when he is on the field, but don't ex-
pect him to be on the field more than 15-20
snaps per game.
With some of the storylines out of the
way, it's on to my postseason predictions.
In the NFC, the Giants, Vikings, Falcons
and Seahawks will win their divisions, with
the Eagles and Packers making the playoffs
as wild cards. The Patriots, Steelers, Colts
and Chargers will be the division champions
in the AFC, and the Jets and Ravens will get
into the postseason with wild card bids.
Finally, who will win the Super Bowl?
The Ravens' dominating defense and
hard-nosed rushing attack will be enough
to top the Vikings 20-14 in this year's Super
Bowl.
Even if I'm off on a couple of these, one
thing is for sure: Thank goodness the NFL
season is back.
20, ALLIGATOR E FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009
UF will start six-game homestand
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@alligator org
Just because the grass is greener,
shorter or thicker on the other side
doesn't mean it's more fun to play
on.
The UF soccer team begins a six-
game home stint tonight when it
hosts Duke at 7, and so far this sea-
son, home is where the Gators'heart
is.
Playing at home means playing
on a pitch UF knows all too well,
and soccer fields aren't the same
everywhere. The ball moves differ-
ently on different grass surfaces, just
like in golf.
"It's like a different climate,"
midfielder Erika Tymrak said.
At UF, the grass is thinner, which
makes for a faster-moving ball that
rolls smoothly across the surface.
The grass fields in Indiana and Il-
linois were thicker, which meant a
slower-moving ball.
"We like to have fast balls on
the ground, so it made it difficult at
times (in the Midwest)," midfielder
Jessica Eicken said.
UF is 2-0 at home compared to
1-2 on the road.
While the team has struggled on
the road, UF coach Becky Burleigh
said the trip was good experience
for the younger players.
Playing away from home also
provided the team with a glimpse of
what happens when things don't go
the Gators' way.
"There's going to be days where
you can't really connect, so how
are you going to win games when
you're not in that rhythm?" Burleigh
said Monday at a press conference.
While playing on the road is a
staple of any level of athletics, there
is a certain routine to be established
at home that can't be mimicked on
the road.
Sleeping in your own bed, know-isA F a aaqV I 111s, I
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
UF coach Becky Burleigh said the Gators' recent road trip was a good
experience for her younger players, but she is happy to be home.
ing what to expect, not having to
worry about making up schoolwork
missed because of travel: all perks of
home-field advantage.
"I'd play all our games at home if
we could," Burleigh said.
Three consecutive weekends of
home play means the Gators will
have a relaxed rest of September."Personally, I'm done with trav-
eling," defender Caitlin Howard
said. "I think it's going to be good
to have home advantage and all our
fans out here and getting a lot of rest,
too.",
If nothing else, playing at home
means one thing: the opponent is
doing all the traveling.
EZ Tennis """'""""International 113 N. Main Downtown
Lowest prices in the world 372.8446
0% off the lowest TheWine&CheeseGalle
( 3 Happy Hour Tonight!
www.aztennis.Om 5-8 PM L
$5 Flight of Wines (3)
SAFETY BELTS. I $5 OFF any "H.H." Bottle
-SMART FROM THE START 
'
L EXCLUSIVE ENGAGEMENT STARTS TODAYRegal HATE GIECTORYO CASVLL FOR SOWDIM 143101 SW 3t BvI d 80E/FANT NG 185# 
MOBILE USERS: For Showtimes Text MYSTERY With Your ZIP CODE To 43KIX (43549)!stop Dy ine verizon wireless uator t-ant-est iocatea outside oT uate z ot tne v'tuonne center. see tne
Gator Radio Network pre-game show live! Win prizes, play games, get autographs and more!
FanFest starts at 9:30 a.m. and goes until kick-off!
Don't forget to
bring canned goods to FanFest
for the Gator Canned Goods
Challenge for Kids
Ga~ Fans, PVoalli
aos CtS tand o layo
o n GaO dttrie n g 9
Isai s dp ian tVe swireaessin Coleg tokal ntIed9 t aiti
IN S+.IF
" " " " " " """". ....."
24, ALLIGATOR E FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009
FOOTBALL
Troy in familiar position
By MIKE McCALL
Alligator Staff Writer
mmcca ll@alligator org
Don't expect Troy to be overwhelmed
by the prospect of facing the defending
national champions.
It's what the Trojans do.
Saturday's contest in The Swamp will
mark the third year in a row that Troy has
taken on college football's title-holder,
and after nearly upsetting LSU last sea-
son, intimidation is no longer a factor.
Troy has nothing to lose.
"We want to go in and show the big
teams we can compete with them," re-
ceiver Austin Silvoy said. "We have a
game plan we've created, and we're ex-
pecting to win with it.
"If we win, we beat the best team in
the nation. If we lose, it only makes us
better playing the best."
The Trojans went 8-5 in 2008, win-
ning the Sun Belt Conference, and put up
strong fights against the Tigers and the
Buckeyes. They fell 28-10 to Ohio State,
but OSU led just 14-10 after three quar-
ters. Then, in November, they led LSU
31-3 in the third quarter, but the Tigers
rattled off 37 unanswered points to fend
off the upset bid, 40-31.
Performances like that have made it
easy for UF coach Urban Meyer to keep
his squad from overlooking Troy.
"The best thing that happened to us
is when they should have beaten LSU,
when they outplayed LSU," Meyer said.
"The good thing is, I think our players
know from watching the film that they're
good schematically and have good per-
sonnel."Meyer singled out defensive end
Brandon Lang this week as a player to
watch, and for good reason. Lang led the
Trojans with 10.5 sacks and 17.5 tackles
for loss, and he ranked in the nation's top
15 in both categories.
Linebacker Boris Lee, who attended
football camps at UF growing up, and
receiver Tebiarus Gill could also cause
problems for the Gators, but the Trojans
will have to play better than last week's
31-14 loss to Bowling Green to keep
things competitive.
Receiver Josh Jarboe could also have
a big impact for Troy. The 6-foot-2,
199-pounder was rated as the nation's
No. 10 receiver by Rivals.com out of high
school, but he was kicked off the team at
Oklahoma after a gun charge and an on-
line rap video that stirred controversy.
The game Saturday will also mark a
reunion between UF quarterback Tim
Tebow and Silvoy. The two played to-
gether at St. Augustine Nease High,
where Silvoy nearly caught more passes
in his senior season (54) than UF starting
wideouts David Nelson and Riley Cooper
have combined for during their careers in
Gainesville (57).
If Silvoy duplicates his two-touch-
down performance from the 2007 meet-
ing between Florida and Troy, Tebow
will be partly to blame, as Silvoy credits
the quarterback with making him a suc-
cessful player.
"For me, it was huge because I played
junior varsity my junior year," Silvoy
said. "Having him as a leader, he taught
me how to work out and how to practice
right, having that never-let-up intensity."Syndicated Content,
Available from Commercial News Providers" Z .O
Troy receiver Austin Silvoy (bottom) will face former high school teammate Tim Tebow in The
Swamp on Saturday. Silvoy scored two touchdowns in 2007 when UF defeated Troy 59-31.
Save on great tailgating items each week, only at your neighborhood Publix.
For you, the tailgate party is the truest measure of your Gators- pride. The bigger, juicier, and tastier the food, the
more instinctive your allegiance. At Publix, we get that. That's why we have everything you need for game day, all
in one place. We call it The Ultimate Tailgate Party. You get in, get what you need, and ultimately, Rule the Lot.
Publix.
Proud Sponsor of the University of Florida Gatorso
Visit theultimatetailgateparty.com for your next play.29911
Publix Mild or Hot
Italian Pork Sausage
Our Exclusive Recipe, Fresh Pork and Savory Spices,
Any Size Package
SAVE UP TO 1.00 LB
Newman's Own
Pasta Sauce CC
Assorted Varieties, 15 or 24-oz jar Quantity rights reserved.
SAVE UP TO 2.77
Pepperidge Farm Buns or Rolls
Assorted Varieties, 12.25 to 15-oz pkg.
Publix Deli Garden Pasta Salad
Low Fat, For Fast Service, Grab & Go!
Located in the Publix Deli, 14-oz cont.
8-Pack Selected
Coca-Cola ProductsFr 400
229
* Free
12-oz bot.
(Sale Price 3/11.00, With 1 Free, That's 4/11.00 or 2.75 each.)
Prices effective Thursday, September 10 through
Wednesday, September 16, 2009,
Troy vs. University of Florida,
Saturday, September 12, 2009
