Today
visit www.alligator.orgWe Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 102 ISSUE 95 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaRecycle
SUNNY
50/22FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 15
CROSSWORD 17
SPORTS 23
n CENSUS TAKEN JAN. 27 AND 28.
By HUNTER SIZEMORE
Alligator Writer 
The number of homeless people in 
Alachua County rose from 952 to 1,631, a 
71-percent increase, since January of 2007, according to the Alachua County Coalition 
for the Homeless and Hungry.
The data, which were collected during 
a 24-hour period on January 27 and 28 in-cluded results from a survey and informa-
tion from schools, shelters, jails and other 
Alachua County institutions.
“The amount of time that people spend on the street is getting longer, especially for families,” said Jon DeCarmine, director of the coalition. “And the longer you’re on the streets, the harder it is to get back off of them.”
The number of homeless school chil-
dren also rose, from 279 in 2007 to 546 in 2009, a 96-percent increase. These children often represent hidden homeless — par-ents who are likely not housed but are dif-ficult to count.
“Homeless children are kind of like the 
canary in the coal mine,” DeCarmine said. 
“When we see the number of homeless 
children go up we can virtually guarantee Local homeless population up 71 percent
STUDENT gO vERNMENT
By CHELSEA KEENAN
Alligator Writer
Tuesday marked the end of 
Student Government Senate inter-
views and the newest announce-
ment of candidates for an exectu-tive ticket. Following three days of interviews, parties had to submit their selected applicants for the 
50 available Senate seats by mid-
night.
During the three days of inter-
viewing, more than 400 students 
participated. 
More than 700 students inter-
viewed to join a party ticket last 
semester. 
But Supervisor of Elections Dan 
Siegel said he was not disappoint-ed by the lower turnout.
“I saw quality over quantity,” 
he said. 
About 221 students registered 
with the Unite Party, about 89 registered with the Orange and Blue Party and about 65 registered with the Progress Party, according 
figures reported throughout the week.  
About 229 students showed up 
the last day to interview for the 
chance to campaign for an open 
Senate seat.
Four parties were present on 
Tuesday: Keg, Orange and Blue, 
Unite and Progress.
The Gator Party, Swamp Party 
and LAN Party chose to not par-ticipate. 
About halfway through the 
eight final hours of interviews, the Orange and Blue Party’s presiden-
tial candidate, Mark McShera, took 
a break to announce his completed executive ticket. 
McShera will be running along-Parties announce candidates for executive tickets
By KATIE EMMETS
Alligator Writer
Kemmets@alligator.org
TALLAHASSEE — After years of plan-
ning, the U.S. will finally be on the map when it comes to renewable energy, and 
Gainesville is the city that will put it 
there.
The Florida Alliance for Renewable Energy held a conference in Tallahassee Wednesday to discuss renewable energy plans for Florida, of which Gainesville is the leader.
Feed-in tariffs, a renewable energy pol-
icy that offers payments to electricity de-velopers for the electricity they produce, were the common thread throughout the conference that had about 220 attendees.
The tariffs will allow Gainesville Regional Utilities to buy 100 percent of the solar energy produced by houses and businesses. 
Gainesville will be the 
first city in the United States 
to have a feed-in tariff.
Thursday will be the sec-
ond reading of the feed-in tariff bill at the 
Gainesville City Commission.
If it is passed on Thursday, it will be-come law.
“We expect it to hit the streets by March 
1,” said John Crider, a GRU utilities ana-lyst.
Crider said it is more of a policy change 
than a new law.
“We’ve always paid people for their 
solar energy,” he said. “But we were only able to buy what energy that had left over Tariff allows GRU to buy solar energy from customers
NewsStateSEE CENSUS, PAGE 11
SEE SLATING, PAGE 12
SEE FORUM, PAGE 12Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff 
UF political science and economics junior Kori Benton, left, fills out paperwork to slate for a Student 
Senate seat with the Unite Party for the election on the second floor of the Reitz Union Tuesday.“I think this is the year. 
Students know it’s time for 
change, and I’m ready to go 
and get it.”
Stacey gray
Vice presidential candidate
Man gets 15 years in molestation case
SARASOTA, Fla. (AP) — A man who pleaded no contest 
to charges he molested a 12-year-old in the back of an ice 
cream truck in Sarasota has been sentenced to 15 years in prison.
Galen L. Yoder, 39, was sentenced Monday and will 
have to register as a sex offender once he is released.
The girl told police that Yoder drove the truck to a se-
cluded part of Sarasota and molested her.
Prosecutors dropped three other charges and Yoder 
pleaded guilty to one remaining charge as part of the plea agreement.n UF at Shands is 
seeing an increas -
ing number of 
women interested 
in egg donation, 
possibly as a way to 
make extra money. 
See story, Page 11.
n The UF men’s 
basketball team had six players score in double figures in Tuesday night’s win against South Carolina including Alex Tyus (left) and Erving Walker. See Story, Page 232, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 102 ISSUE 95 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Nicole Safker, nsafker@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristin Bjornsen, 
  kbjornsen@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / New Media Rachel Roy, rroy@alligator.org
 University Editor Lauren Baker, lbaker@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Brittany Davis, bdavis@alligator.org
 Freelance Editors Emily Blake, eblake@alligator.org
  Christina McGinley, 
  cmcginley@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Evan Drexler, edrexler@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor Adam Berry, aberry@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Dan Seco, dseco@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Nicole Safker, Kristin Bjornsen, 
  Dan Seco
 Photo Editor Harrison Diamond, 
  hdiamond@alligator.org
  Sarah Hsu, shsu@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, lnieset@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Brian Kelley, 
  Katherine Mojena, Stephanie Slade
 Copy Editors Morgan Collins, 
  Cassandra Fellerman, Joe Holzer,
  Rachael Pino, Jennifer Smith,
  Sara Watson
 Staff Phil Kegler, Mike McCall, 
  Brian Steele
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org 
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Daniel Webber
 Intern Coordinator Sarah Buckwald
 Display Advertising Clerks Sarah Buckwald, Kaela Hill
 Sales Representatives Amanda Freilich, Sara Ingebretsen, 
  Shaun O’Connor, Madeline Ross, 
  Lexie Stout, Kaia Tershowski, 
  Ryan Winkler
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario     
MARKETING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4558 (Fax)
 Marketing Director Brad Smith, bsmith@alligator.org
CIRCULATION
 Operations Manager Scott McKearnan,
  smckearnan@alligator.org
 Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Ramona Pelham, 
  businessoffice@alligator.org
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Jennifer Cavasino, Amanda Clifton
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 General Manager C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
PRODUCTION/SYSTEMS
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Editorial Production Supervisors Erica Bales, James Hibbs
 Advertising Production Staff Erica Bales, Aki Chang, 
  Shannon Close, Doug Eastman, 
  Brianna O’Sullivan
 Editorial Production Staff Vidhika Agrawal, Erica Ervin, 
  Kevin Hart, Max WeisslerFORECAST
TODAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at (352) 376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.ceptive and, in fact, he was,” 
Crist said. Crist lobbied Florida’s congressmen last week to sup-port the economic recovery plan passed by the House, though no Republicans voted for it.
Students treated after    
taking pills at school 
PALM SPRINGS, Fla. (AP) — 
Police said nine middle school 
students reported being sick and one student was transported to the hospital after taking anti-anx-
iety medicine at school.
Palm Springs Police Capt. 
Mark Hall said one student iden-
tified the pills students took as Xanax tablets.
Hall said police and fire offi-
cials responded to Palm Springs Community Middle School at about 2 p.m. The condition of the 
student transported to the hospi-
tal was not immediately known. The remaining students were turned over to their parents.
Trial opens in tobacco suit 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. 
(AP) — The first of about 8,000 lawsuits blaming the health problems and deaths of Florida smokers on tobacco companies 
went to trial Tuesday, more than 
two years after the state Supreme Court threw out a record $145 bil-lion class-action verdict.
The high court in 2006 rejected 
the punitive damages awarded by a jury as excessive but left in place the case’s conclusions that tobacco companies know-
ingly sold dangerous products 
and concealed the health risks of smoking for years. But the court also ruled that smokers or their survivors must prove their cases individually.
Elaine Hess, widow of 40-year 
smoker Stuart Hess, is the first of those plaintiffs to go to trial. 
Because of the previous findings 
on industry liability, the key to the case is proving whether her husband was addicted to ciga-rettes made by Richmond, Va.-based Philip Morris, a unit of Altria Group.
Hess’ attorney, Adam Trop, 
told a six-person jury that Stuart 
Hess, who died in 1997 of lung 
cancer at age 55, smoked about two packs of cigarettes a day and tried numerous times to quit. Trop said medical and other evi-dence shows that Hess became addicted to nicotine in the mid-1950s, long before the hazards of smoking were widely known out-
side the tobacco industry.STATE
Fuel valve concerns delay 
space shuttle launch 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
(AP) — NASA has delayed next 
week’s launch of space shuttle Discovery by at least a week over concerns about fuel valves.
Discovery had been sched-
uled to launch Feb. 12 on a space station construction mission.
But on Tuesday, NASA said 
it will launch no sooner than Feb. 19.
NASA spaceflight chief Bill 
Gerstenmaier said more time is needed to study three gaseous 
hydrogen flow-control valves 
that were replaced aboard Discovery. If a lip of a valve were to break off during launch, it could cause serious damage. A small part of the valve broke off during the last shuttle launch in November, but no harm was done.
Top NASA managers decid-
ed on the delay after spending a meeting Monday at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida to dis-cuss launch preparations.
Obama, Crist agree on 
stimulus, insurance
 TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) 
— For the second time in four 
days, Democratic President Barack Obama and Republican Gov. Charlie Crist spoke about 
policy and came down on the 
same side.
Obama called Crist on 
Tuesday to thank him for sup-porting the economic recov-ery plan being considered by 
Congress. Crist and 18 other 
governors wrote to Obama backing the plan. On Saturday, the men found common ground on an insurance issue important to Florida.
As unlikely as it would 
have seemed last year as Crist campaigned nationally for 
Republican presidential nomi-
nee John McCain, the governor is becoming an Obama fan. Crist said he was pleasantly surprised the president called.
“He said, ‘I just wanted to 
call and thank you for helping 
us on this stimulus package 
and trying to get this economy going,’ and I said, ‘Happy to help,’” Crist said. “It shows this president understands biparti-sanship and trying to put ... the people above all other issues, like party.”
On Saturday, the two also 
spoke at the annual Alfalfa Club dinner in Washington, D.C. 
Crist said he urged Obama to 
support creating a national ca-tastrophe fund to back up insur-ance companies in the event of major disasters. It’s an idea for-mer President George W. Bush opposed and one Obama sup-ported during his campaign.
“I thought he would be re-WHAT’S HAPPENING
Go Green Alternatives presents 
Green Drinks
Today, 5 to 7 p.m.The New Deal Café3445 W. University Ave.
Gainesville Green Drinks will 
provide a meeting place for 
those interested in or involved 
with environmental issues to 
learn about one another’s pro-
grams and how they might 
work together. Come share 
news about your green project or something you’d like to see here in the greater Gainesville 
area. The meeting is open to 
anyone interested in environ-
mental issues.
Business Study Abroad Info Session
Thursday, Feb. 5, 3 p.m.Stuzin Hall, Room 200
There will be an informa-tion session highlighting the Warrington College of Business 
Administration study abroad 
programs. All UF students are 
welcome. Come learn about the 
three programs offered every 
semester in London, Madrid 
and Rome. Contact Lucy DiLeo or Joe Rojo at 352-273-0165 to 
schedule an appointment, if 
you cannot attend the session. 
Online: http://www.cba.ufl.
edu/sb/intlprograms/uf/.
RUB Entertainment Presents: Zack and Miri Make A Porno
Reitz Union Cinema
Today, 8 and 10:30 p.m.
Thursday, 8 and 10:30 p.m.Lifelong platonic friends Zack and Miri look to solve their 
respective cash-flow problems 
by making an adult film to-
gether.
Bob Marley Celebration
Friday, Feb. 6,  7 to 9 p.m.
Reitz Union ColonnadeJoin UF’s Jamaican-American 
Student Association (JAMSA) 
in celebrating Bob Marley’s birthday. Come during Gator 
Nights for free birthday cake, 
trivia, Bob Marley-themed ka-raoke, reggae music and more.
Gainesville Holistic Health Fair
Saturday, Feb. 7, 10 a.m. to 
5 p.m., United Church of 
Gainesville1624 N.W. Fifth Ave.
Local practitioners and ven-
dors specializing in holistic 
medicine, health care and nu-
trition will be available to dem-
onstrate self-care techniques 
and healthy food preparation. 
There will be art, music, dance 
and children’s activities. A $5 donation at the door is request-ed, but no one will be turned 
away for lack of funds. Funds 
raised will benefit local ser-
vice organizations, including 
the Home Van, which assists homeless people. For details, 
go to www.NatureFinder.net.
Got something going on?
And want to post it in this space? Send an e-mail to 
kbjornsen@alligator.org with 
“What’s Happening” in the 
subject line.SUNNY
73/47SUNNY
71/44SUNNY
62/36SUNNY
52/26SUNNY
50/22SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY2, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Nicole Safker, nsafker@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristin Bjornsen, 
  kbjornsen@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / New Media Rachel Roy, rroy@alligator.org
 University Editor Lauren Baker, lbaker@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Brittany Davis, bdavis@alligator.org
 Freelance Editors Emily Blake, eblake@alligator.org
  Christina McGinley, 
  cmcginley@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Evan Drexler, edrexler@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor Adam Berry, aberry@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Dan Seco, dseco@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Nicole Safker, Kristin Bjornsen, 
  Dan Seco
 Photo Editor Harrison Diamond, 
  hdiamond@alligator.org
  Sarah Hsu, shsu@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, lnieset@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Brian Kelley, 
  Katherine Mojena, Stephanie Slade
 Copy Editors Morgan Collins, 
  Cassandra Fellerman, Joe Holzer,
  Rachael Pino, Jennifer Smith,
  Sara Watson
 Staff Phil Kegler, Mike McCall, 
  Brian Steele
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org 
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Daniel Webber
 Intern Coordinator Sarah Buckwald
 Display Advertising Clerks Sarah Buckwald, Kaela Hill
 Sales Representatives Amanda Freilich, Sara Ingebretsen, 
  Shaun O’Connor, Madeline Ross, 
  Lexie Stout, Kaia Tershowski, 
  Ryan Winkler
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario     
MARKETING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4558 (Fax)
 Marketing Director Brad Smith, bsmith@alligator.org
CIRCULATION
 Operations Manager Scott McKearnan,
  smckearnan@alligator.org
 Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Ramona Pelham, 
  businessoffice@alligator.org
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Jennifer Cavasino, Amanda Clifton
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
PRODUCTION/SYSTEMS
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Editorial Production Supervisors Erica Bales, James Hibbs
 Advertising Production Staff Erica Bales, Aki Chang, 
  Shannon Close, Doug Eastman, 
  Brianna O’Sullivan
 Editorial Production Staff Vidhika Agrawal, Erica Ervin, 
  Kevin Hart, Max Weissler
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 3
1
1312111098765432
W  University Ave.NW 8th Ave.NW 16th Ave.NE 23rd Ave.NW 39th Ave.
Archer  Rd.NW 34th St.
13th St.
SW Williston Rd.Main St.NE Waldo Rd.
Paynes Prairie
75InterstateSW
1
35
2SW 23rd Terr
University House
725 NW 13th St.See ad on page 15.Cottage Grove4600 SW 13th St.See ad on page 10. 
Wildﬂ  ower1210 SW 11th Ave.See ad on page 12. The Estates3527 SW 20th Ave.See ad on page 22. University Club2900 SW 23rd Terr.See ad on page 22.
1 2 3
4 5 6
Bellamay Grand
Bus Route 75See ad on page 7.6
SW 75th St.24th
Ave.
7 8 947Depot
Looking Glass
111 NW 16th St.See ad on page 18. Royal Village710 SW Depot Ave.See ad on page 22.Towne Parc2930 SW 23rd Terr.See ad on page 19.8
9 Ave.
4, ALLIGATOR WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009
By MORGAN COLLINS
Alligator Writer
 THE ROAD WORK WILL COST ABOUT $493,000.
The Florida Department of Transportation has temporar-
ily shut down an Interstate 75 rest area for road repairs.
The rest area is on I-75 southbound at Paynes 
Prairie, south of State Route 121 at exit 121, a 
news release stated.
The current exit ramp needs repairs to help 
motorists exit the interstate properly.
Part of the highway’s shoulder near the exit may be closed 
occasionally during construction, the release stated.
The exit will reopen after March 6.Until it reopens, travelers can use the two nearest rest ar-
eas. One stop is south of Ocala, 37 miles south of Gainesville. 
The other is south of Lake City, 30 miles north of Paynes 
Prairie, the release stated.
The road work will cost about $493,000.I-75 rest area 
closed for repairCAMPUS
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligator.org
Three UF faculty members are 
involved in an alleged love trian-
gle that could end in a restraining 
order and a simple battery charge 
against one of them, according to documents filed with the county.
Their names are not being 
printed because no charges have been filed by the State Attorney’s office and a judge has not yet ruled on the merits of a petition for a restraining order.
According to the petition, in 
December, a UF clinical assistant professor walked in on the man she was dating, a UF associate 
professor, while he was having 
sex with another woman, who is a lecturer at UF.
The assistant professor con-
fronted the man and he became 
angry and violent, grabbing her 
in a bear hug and pushing her against the wall, according to court records.
“He was very threatening, very 
intimidating, and blamed me for 
causing all these problems,” the 
woman alleged in the petition.
The two had been dating for 
about two years and he had given her a “promise ring” the day be-
fore, indicating his intention to fi-
nalize his divorce and marry her, she said.
According to the petition, the 
associate professor is married, but 
separated from his wife in 2006.
A sworn complaint was also 
filed with the Gainesville Police Department in January, alleging 
simple battery. The complaint is being investigated by the State Attorney’s Office and no decision 
on whether charges will be filed 
has been made yet, said State Attorney’s Office spokesman Spencer Mann.
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes 
said UF is aware of the dispute, and if the associate professor is charged and convicted, UF could decide to levy a punishment rang-
ing from a reprimand to termina-
tion.
The associate professor’s law-
yer said his client is innocent.
“Allegations can be eas-
ily made. Proving something is a whole lot different. I have no doubt that the truth will come out in court,” he said.
While a temporary restraining 
order was issued in December, a court date has been set for later this month to decide if the order 
will stand.Love triangle may end in firing
NewsLocal“He was very threaten -
ing, very intimidating, and 
blamed me for causing all 
these problems.”
UF clinical assistant professor
quoted in petition NEW LIGHTING WILL SAVE 
ABOUT $44,000 PER YEAR.
 By CHELSEA KEENAN 
 Alligator Writer 
 The Reitz Union will soon 
undergo a makeover to become 
greener and more energy efficient, 
after Tuesday night’s Senate meet-ing. 
After about 30 minutes of de-
bate, senators passed a bill giving 
the Reitz Union $35,000, which 
will be used to replace its current fluorescent bulbs and light fixtures with newer, more energy-efficient 
lighting. 
Chairman for the Reitz Union 
Board of Managers and UF stu-
dent Josh Krivisky stopped by and encouraged senators to pass the 
bill.
“It would decrease the energy 
and utility costs,” he said, add-
ing the board would be able to 
pay back the money in nine to 14 
months. 
“(The bill) had been in the 
works for some time, but it had been put off because of more press-
ing maintenance issues,” Krivisky 
said, referring to the Reitz Union’s aging infrastructure, which has in-cluded broken pipes and a broken 
air chiller.
Independent Party Sen. Cynthia Kan, who presented the bill, said 
renovations would take about two 
months, and the new lights would 
save a projected $44,000 per year.However, some Orange and 
Blue Party members took issue 
with the bill, which did not sepa-
rately address the lighting in the Reitz Union’s art gallery.
Orange and Blue Sen. Sam 
Miorelli, who represents students living in District D, said the gallery 
may need special lighting in order 
for the art to be viewed properly.
“This is no trivial matter,” 
Miorelli said.
After some debate, an amend-
ment was added, saying the art gallery’s director must be con-sulted before any renovations are made. 
After the amendment was add-
ed, the bill passed unanimously. 
Senators also voted on two 
candidates to fill a vacant seat on 
Senate’s Replacement and Agenda 
committee, which sets the agenda for the weekly meetings and in-terviews candidates for unfilled Senate seats. 
The seat became vacant after 
Gator Party Sen. Cecil Duffie was suspended due to too many Senate absences. 
Gator Party Sen. Shire Patel and 
Orange and Blue Party Sen. Stacey Gray both vied for the open seat, each having a turn to state their qualifications and answer ques-
tions from the senators. 
After a vote of 46 to 21, Patel 
was appointed to the seat. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 5
 Sarah Hsu / Alligator Staff 
 Student Sen. Shire Patel discusses his qualifications for filling the budget allocation seat of the Replace-
ment and Agenda Committee, a position he won by majority vote, at the Senate meeting Tuesday.  
 By KATIE EMMETS 
 Alligator Writer 
 Kemmets@alligator.org 
 The University of Florida Police Department 
will pull over lawbreaking motorcycle and 
scooter riders on campus today to talk to them about motorcycle and scooter rules.
From 8:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m., officers will patrol campus to educate motorcycle and 
scooter riders about helmet and eye protection 
laws.
Florida state law requires motorcycle riders 
under the age of 21 to wear a helmet with a shield, according to the UPD release.
Riders over 21 are only required to wear 
some type of eye wear, like glasses.If the rider is not wearing a helmet and 
his or her license plate says they are under 21 
years old, the license plate alone does not give the officers reason enough to pull them over, said GPD Lt. Stacy Ettel.
Ettel said the officers have to wait un-
til there is another reason for the rider to be pulled over, like speeding on campus.
Although a scooter is defined as having an 
engine smaller than 50cc, Florida law treats it like a motorcycle when it’s going over 30 mph on flat land, Ettel said. 
He said there are a lot more rules the rider 
has to abide by because motorcycles have a different set of rules from scooters. UPD to patrol for lawbreaking motorcycles, scooters
Senate passes bill that gives ‘green’ lights to ReitzOnCampu sThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionsEditorial
Nicole Safker
EDITORKristin BjornsenRachel RoyMANAGING EDITORSDan Seco
OPINIONS EDITOR
135 TOTAL VOTESToday’s question: Should Michael Phelps face jail time for smoking pot? 36% YES64% NOTuesday’s question: Would you get it on with vegetables?
Shoe-throwing: The next fad in violence Fashion Police
Here’s a tip from 
Robbery 101: wear-ing “crazy pajama 
bottoms” can hardly be de-scribed as inconspicuous 
criminal attire.
A suspect in a spree of 
stickups in northern Alachua 
County on Tuesday, a Fairbanks man was undeni-ably guilty of committing a fashion faux pas.
After the individual held 
up a La Crosse convenience 
store on Tuesday morning, 
witnesses described him as wearing a peculiar pair of pants with a camouflage pat-tern.
Unfortunately for this 
bandit, local law enforce-ment tracked down his vehi-cle — leading to a chase that 
included gun fire from the 
officers. After losing control of his Geo Tracker, the sus-pect flipped his vehicle and was pronounced dead at the scene.While taking money from 
our moms’ purses may be the biggest crime committed by the Editorial Board, we have a hunch wearing mem-
orable clothing to a robbery 
is like asking for a one-way ticket to prison.
We can’t help but wonder 
why he didn’t take more time in picking out his clothes Tuesday morning. 
The thought of death 
must’ve crossed his mind as 
he scoured his wardrobe for 
the perfect pair of pants.
Granted, if he’s a crook, 
it’s safe to assume his clos-est isn’t exactly The Rail at Nordstrom. 
But if there is a chance the 
Editorial Board might not make it through the day, we 
sure as hell are going to rock 
our Sunday’s best — not some rags from a consign-ment shop.
Rest in peace, “crazy pa-
jama bottoms” man.Column
“Long live democracy. In a size 10.”
So proclaimed a comment left on an online 
news article about a fad that seems to be slowly 
catching on across the globe.
We live in an ever-changing world — one where geese 
hurl themselves towards airplanes and shoes are chucked 
at the heads of dignitaries.
Less than two months ago, an Iraqi broadcast journal-
ist named Muntader al-Zaidi catapulted to fame for this shocking act, launching both of his shoes at then-President Bush during a press conference. On Monday, a nameless 
protester threw his shoe at Chinese Premier Wen Jiabo 
as he gave a speech on the global economy at Cambridge 
University.
What can be done to stop these rogue shoes from leap-
ing at the craniums of our heads of state?
Shall we ban them from political talks and force them to 
wait outside? Is there going to be a need for a loafer and ox-ford shoe-check at speeches throughout the world now?
Maybe Kryptonite should go from making U-locks for 
bicycles to patenting a SHU-lock that will secure footwear to the ankles of its wearer while in the presence of digni-taries. Pumps and wingtips can’t go very far when they’re attached to bodies.
The Cambridge protester’s aim was not nearly as ac-
curate as al-Zaidi’s. Perhaps he can practice for his next shoe-to-skull encounter by playing the online game Sock and Awe, where players can virtually hone their “Bush-shoeing” skills.
To throw a shoe at someone in the Arab world is to in-
sult to the highest degree. To do so in England probably means you left your knife on your bedside table. Either way, with the Cambridge incident being the second such incident in as many months, it seems that the art of shoe-throwing is not just for your dis-gruntled journalists anymore.
For al-Zaidi, going down in 
history as “the guy who threw a shoe at the president’s head” put him in jail for up to 15 years, but it also left him a hero to some. Not only was he given a job offer from a Lebanese tele-vision channel, he has also re-ceived more marriage propos-
als than he can shake a shoehorn at. A Saudi businessman 
even went so far as to offer $10 million to buy the shoes, 
but they were destroyed by Iraqi and American security agents.
A sofa-sized bronze statue replicating one of the de-
stroyed shoes was erected outside an Iraqi orphanage, but 
was later taken down. This brogue effigy was apparently 
going against the law of using government property for a political statement. Yet again, a shoe transcends the rulings of the land.
He is not the only one banking on the event, though. 
The maker of his shoes has seen orders soar over the past few months. This looks like a possible stimulus for the shoe manufacturing industry. It seems that now is a good time to be in that industry, what with people flinging their footwear away left and right.
What’s next for this fad, you may ask? I predict more 
shoe-related violence — drive-by shoe-ings, grand theft sneaker and socketeering, to name a few. 
And perhaps now we will see Maxwell Smart’s shoe 
phone in a whole new light.
Naudia Jawad is journalism graduate student. Her col-
umn appears on Wednesdays.In Hot Water
Phelps shouldn’t be 
prosecuted for pot
For Michael Phelps, one rip of the ROOR could end up 
costing him 30 days of freedom.
According to a report from ESPN.com, the Richland 
County Sheriff’s Office is currently conducting an investiga-tion regarding the highly publicized photo of the Olympic 
champion smoking weed out of a bong.
If charged, Phelps faces up to $700 in fines, not to mention 
a month in the slammer.
While the Editorial Board made clear our stance on 
Phelps’ decision to engage in such behavior, we believe it 
would be ludicrous for the athlete to face a criminal trial in South Carolina.
Normally such an announcement would appear to be a 
publicity stunt by law enforcement, but Richland County 
Sheriff Leon Lott has a reputation for taking a strong stance 
against drugs.
Lott isn’t exactly some doughnut-downing rent-a-cop — 
rather, he has extensive experience cracking down on drug dealers. Working undercover with federal agents á la “Miami Vice,” Lott went as far as to drive around in a Porsche com-plete with snazzy suits and long hair. 
The Editorial Board encourages Lott to take a hint from 
Columbia police who said they will consider the incident 
a nonissue so long as no new information surfaces. We can 
empathize with Lott’s fear of appearing “soft” while in the public eye, but unfairly bringing down Phelps’ star probably isn’t the answer.
If a picture of a random Gamecocks student smoking pot 
in November surfaced today, do you think Lott would care?
Then again, perhaps Speedo should fast-track plans to de-
sign Phelps’ latest swimsuit with pinstripes.
Naudia Jawad
letters@alligator.org
Letters to the Editor
Nothing wrong with Phelps smoking pot
The thought of unjustly demeaning an 
American hero disgusts me. 
Dare I say that Tuesday’s editorial 
“Bongwater” attempted to do just that to 
14-time Olympic gold medalist Michael 
Phelps. 
Luckily, it will take a lot more than 
puffing the magic dragon to take down 
this legend who won a historic eight gold medals in last year’s Beijing Olympics. As far as I’m concerned, this makes Phelps even more of a badass. 
As a symbol of our generation, Phelps 
has, consciously or not, taken a stand 
against the antiquated laws of America’s 
past. But marijuana’s absurd illegality is not the issue here. What is at stake is the reputation of an American hero. To say that Phelps’ image “will be forever marred” is a quantum leap to say the least. Fortunately, the American public is smart enough to know that hitting on some grass won’t cook your ass. 
Marijuana is not dangerous and has 
never killed anyone, unlike so many legal drugs out there like prescriptions, tobacco or alcohol. Just because something is ille-gal does not mean it is wrong. 
Given his swimming record, I think 
Phelps is more than strong enough to re-cover from this debacle concocted by the media.
Brooks Heatherly
4JM
Phelps’ drug use mostly harmless
While reading the editorial about 
Michael Phelps on Tuesday, I was sur-prised to see such a negative reaction. 
The last line, “the...image of Phelps... will 
forever be marred by his immature desire 
to have the best of both worlds,” changed 
my surprise to outrage. Comparing a bong rip to a DUI is irresponsible at best and definitely misleading. One of these things intentionally endangers multiple lives and property; the other is an act that only affects one person and, statistically, has never caused immediate harm. No connection exists between smoking mari-
juana and taking performance-enhancing 
supplements in order to obtain an unfair edge over competition at the world’s high-est level. 
I am disappointed in Phelps for how 
he handled the situation. He should have stood up for his beliefs and used his con-siderable influence to try to make a posi-tive change in this country.
This was an opportunity for the best athlete on the planet to stand up, admit to using marijuana and be the living proof that pot is less destructive than drinking alcohol or smoking legal tobacco prod-
ucts. 
If Michael Phelps can smoke and ac-
complish what he has, what reasons re-
main for keeping marijuana illegal?
Ryan Broderick
4BA
n n n
Columnist misses point of ‘25’ lists
I was disappointed that Michelle Hipps 
decided to utilize her column in Tuesday’s edition of the Alligator to chide an entire category of Facebook users who partici-pated in creating a “25 things about me” 
list, claiming that the act is egotistical and 
selfish.  
Her rationalization is that those people 
are craving attention and ways to make themselves appear more interesting. She asserts that the “45 minutes” each person spent writing his or her list could have been put to better use by such things as volunteering or writing letters thanking 
our firefighters.  However, I have to won-
der how much time and effort she spent on writing that very uninspiring — not to mention insulting — column. Two, three hours? Maybe more? 
To be fair, I’m sure she was giving out 
blankets to the homeless while typing with her other hand. 
The “25 things about me” lists are 
meant to be entertainment, and I think she missed that point entirely. I learned some new things about my friends that probably wouldn’t have come up in typical conver-sations. I reminisced with old coworkers about some of the silly habits they listed. My friends weren’t being conceited; they were being real. 
Maybe Michelle should try writing 
her own list and see how it fares out in Facebook land. Or perhaps she just doesn’t have 25 interesting things to say about herself. 
Either way, she shouldn’t fault the rest 
of us for taking part in a lighthearted and harmless survey between friends.
Allison Myers
UF alumna
Facebook lists not self-absorbed
You know what? Michelle Hipps is 
right. Creating a 25-point list of little quips and jokes about oneself is totally self-ab-sorbed and selfish! As she said, instead of writing your little list, you could have vol-unteered at the St. Francis House.  
I don’t know about y’all, but every 
time I simply log in to Facebook I think, “Taylor, you are such an ass-hat; why aren’t you building a house for Habitat for 
Humanity?” I personally wouldn’t do one 
of these lists because I am too amazing to limit myself to just 25 things, but really, just glancing at some of them I see things like “I stabbed my mom in the head with a fork when I was 2” or “I have some of the most amazing friends.” If that’s not self-absorbed, then I don’t know what is. 
I have a lot more to say, but I am off to 
the soup kitchen to feed the homeless.
Taylor Moore
4LS
Facebook listers not just time-wasters
Michelle Hipps, perhaps you should 
stop taking yourself so seriously and re-alize that Facebook is a form of entertain-ment. 
The “25 things about me” lists are a 
little silly, but where is the real harm in it? I made a 25 list because I wanted to, not because I feel a desperate need for atten-tion or because I think my life should be commented on by the masses. 
Nobody obligates you to respond to 
the lists, and Facebook probably has a set-ting that allows you to remove the notes from your alerts. The assumption that 
everybody who made a list is some self-
absorbed, vapid waste of space is fairly extreme.
For the record, I volunteer every Friday 
from 4 to 7:30 a.m. making breakfast for labor-pool workers on the east side of Gainesville. It’s one of the parts of my week that I enjoy most because I come into contact with people vastly different from 
myself. 
There’s even a Facebook group for it. 
Gabrielle Falconeiri
4JM
n n n 
Greeks deserve respect in Senate
I am getting quite tired of the Orange 
and Blue Party’s claims that because they 
aren’t affiliated with a Greek organization, they are inherently more qualified for SG.
The Greek community is a group of 
driven and organized individuals; they are the driving force behind Gator Growl and Dance Marathon, two events that the 
entire university can take pride in. Those Greeks involved in SG, regardless of party 
affiliation, are the best and the brightest when it comes to doing work for UF as a 
whole. 
The Orange and Blue Party lost half of 
its members to the Progress Party because 
Orange and Blue cannot handle being in a position to help the student body. All Orange and Blue understands is minority-party tactics and political moves, defama-tion of character and self-righteous whin-ing. 
During election time, look at who is ex-
plaining their platform and who is setting the stage for yet another tedious and par-tisan semester in Student Senate. Senators are elected to help the students. Every sen-ator is intelligent and qualified. 
Wasting time looking sideways at each 
other in the Senate chambers hinders you from looking forward for UF. 
Alex Andrade 
2JM
n n n
Krames sells transgender clause short
Despite commission candidate Robert 
Krames’ attempts to attack our current city commissioner, Jeanna Mastrodicasa is not “out of touch.” 
She votes with interests of representing 
students and has stood up against bigotry in Gainesville. 
Krames mislabeled her vote on the gen-
der identity and expression addition to Gainesville’s anti-discrimination clause as a “bathroom ordinance.”
This ordinance bans discrimination 
based on gender expression, the same kind of protection originally afforded to women 
and blacks in the Civil Rights Act of 1964. 
Banning discrimination means no busi-ness or public service can deny you ser-vice based on how you express your gen-der. Could you imagine if you were fired because you came in dressed too “femme” or “butch”? Neither could I. The ordinance is a common-sense reform that merely en-sures equal treatment.
Gender identity and expression is al-
ready protected in 23 states, 80 cities and 230 major corporations. In fact, a majority of UF students voted to add this protection to the SG constitution in 2007. 
While Mastrodicasa stands up to fear-
mongering, Krames is stuck to the same old politics, the tired rhetoric and the mis-leading arguments.
Adam Amir
3LSWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009 n ALLIGATOR, 7
8, ALLIGATOR WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009
STUDENT LIFE
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Gator Motorsports fam-
ily is preparing for a road trip to 
Michigan, where its “baby” will take its first competitive steps.
The baby’s carbon fiber and fi-
berglass body will accelerate from zero to 60 mph in 3.5 seconds — a feat that should give the team an edge in the upcoming competition.
UF’s student organization Gator 
Motorsports is in the process of pre-paring its student-built, single-seat, open-wheel race car for events at the Michigan International Speedway 
from May 13 - 16.
After finishing in the top 10 for the past three years, the team hopes to finish in the top five with this 
year’s car, said Michael Braddock, the faculty adviser for the organiza-tion.
But before the car can hit the 
speedway, the team still has some adjustments to make.
When the driver brakes quick-
ly, for instance, the car shakes and 
shimmies from side to side, said 
Lane Gniewek, a senior mechani-cal engineering major and a team leader.
Team captain and UF mechani-
cal engineering senior Pedro Rivero said after team members make all the necessary tweaks, they will tune the engine and choose the fastest drivers for the competition.
Rivero said the team will take 
about two months to prepare the chosen drivers, who will compete in events such as the skid-pad where the car completes a figure eight, an acceleration run, an autocross event where the car makes a timed lap around the course and a 22-kilome-ter endurance event.
UF junior Lori Harrington, presi-
dent of Gator Motorsports, said the endurance portion of the competi-tion is the most stressful, given its high point value.
“I hold my breath the entire 
time,” she said.
Gniewek said each car must also 
pass a technical inspection, and 
each team has to describe how its 
car could be marketed and sold.
“It’s definitely a nail-biter just 
watching the judges look at your car and question every aspect of it,” Gniewek said.
But students gain more from the 
experience than merely the thrill of competing.Braddock said working on the 
car gives students an experience similar to an internship but one that works well with their schedules, Braddock said.
It also offers lessons in commit-
ment and integrity because if team members do not meet deadlines it sets the whole team back, Braddock said.
Harrington, who is also presi-
dent of the Society of Automotive Engineers, said time management is the hardest part of the prepara-tions.
“It’s like a family, and we’re 
all putting in an effort toward one thing,” Harrington said.
Gator Motorsports to unleash ‘baby’ at races in May
 THE TREATMENT HAS NOT BEEN 
TESTED ON HUMANS YET.
By JESSALYN BERGER
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The version of the herpes virus that can 
result in cold sores and blindness might have 
a cure, thanks to UF researchers who have 
been seeking a healing method since 2000.
UF researchers have developed a special 
enzyme that blocks the herpes virus from replicating.
The HSV-1 strand of herpes is the leading 
cause of infectious blindness in the United States, according to David Bloom, a virolo-gist at the UF College of Medicine and the 
research team’s leader.“The data is very encouraging so far,” 
Bloom said. “It has worked better than I had 
imagined.”
The designed RNA enzymes, called ham-
merhead ribozymes, cleave off strains of the herpes virus to prevent replication, accord-ing to UF’s research report published in the 
Journal of Virology at www.jvi.asm.org in 
August. The enzyme disables a gene that releases a protein to start replication of the herpes virus, causing it to spread and cause eye infections, scarring as well as genital and cold sores.
Genital herpes has not been treated yet by 
the findings, Bloom said. Current treatments keep the virus in check but cannot fully de-
stroy it, said Arthur Lewin, a molecular ge-
neticist on the research team.
The new medication hasn’t been tested on people, Lewin said, adding the team hopes to run clinical trials on adults in at least a year.
Currently, mice and rabbits are used for 
testing.  Lewin said the team hopes to turn the findings into a cure via a topical cream applied weekly to prevent outbreaks.
He said future research 
is in the works to see if the findings will cure genital herpes.
Despite competing with 
researchers working on the same issue, Lewin said coming in first is less important than finding a cure.
“It is not just about the research but about 
training scientists,” he said.
UF’s team has founded the sole existing 
solution to eradicate HSV-1.
Lewin said the team’s budget was smaller than normal, only amounting to hundreds of thousands of dollars over the years. The re-search team, which also includes an ophthal-mologist and a doctor of obstetrics and gyne-cology, gets its funding from the University of Florida Office of Translational Research along with The Burroughs Welcome Fund 
and Research to Prevent Blindness.
Bloom said the widely applicable nature 
of the research drew enough funding.
“They saw it has potential for commercial 
use,” he said.
If the project gets approved to start clinical 
testing on humans, he said, the budget will 
move to the millions. The team has already had people step forward with grant money 
as well as to volunteer for the trial.
“People are anxious for something bet-
ter,” Bloom said.UF researchers develop possible cure for herpes virus
UFResearc h“It’s definitely a nail-biter 
just watching the judges 
look at your car and ques -
tion every aspect of it.” 
Lane Gniewek
UF SeniorBy HUNTER SIZEMORE
Alligator Writer
Less secondhand smoke and smaller deficits 
might go hand- in-hand for Florida voters.
Seventy percent say they would support a $1 flat-
tax increase on the price of cigarettes, according to a 
survey performed by War Room Logistics, a research company based in Gainesville.
The company interviewed 712 registered Florida 
voters over the phone about this and other issues in late January.
An increase would be the first since 1990, when 
the tax was raised to 33.9 cents. The  average cigarette tax amount in the U.S. is 99 cents per pack, according to the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy.
State Rep. Jim Walden proposed the increase in 
November as a way to fight the state’s budget defi-
cit.
“Smoking is one of those things that’s so bad I 
don’t mind that people would have to pay a premi-
um,” said David Digiacomo, a student at UF.
Digiacomo doesn’t smoke and suffers from re-
spiratory infections after being around cigarettes, he said.
Naxim Uddin, owner of Gator’s Tobacco, isn’t 
worried about how the increase would affect his 
business.
“The government might increase the tax. What 
can you do, you know?” he said.
Because the tax is on the customer, it wouldn’t af-
fect him directly.
The tax, if passed, might  lower cigarette sales.  
But Naxim has a niche, he said.
Imported cigarettes make up a large part of 
Naxim’s business. Several brands he offers, such as 
Fortuna from Spain, Dunhill from England and Mild 
Seven from Japan, are available in Gainesville only in 
his shop, he said.
Bill Blackburn, who was out smoking on a bench 
in Bo Diddley Community Plaza on Tuesday after-noon, doesn’t like the idea of an increase.
“I guess if it happens, I’ll be smoking less,” he 
said.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 9
Sarah Hsu / Alligator Staff
Bill Blackburn smokes a cigarette at the Bo Diddley Community Plaza on 
Tuesday afternoon. A proposed bill may raise cigarette taxes by $1.
STATE
Survey: Fla. voters favor cigarette tax
By CORTNEY WHITLOW
Alligator Contributing Writer
Changes are in the works for the 
Reitz Union to keep the facility up-to-
date and stay in line with the needs of 
faculty and students.
After revamping the first-floor lob-
by and creating an expanded lounge 
area in August 2007, the Reitz Union 
is planning renovations of the Rion 
Ballroom and Arredondo Room and 
the addition of Pollo Tropical in the food court.
Construction on the Arredondo 
Room, which offers a hot entrée buf-fet, began in October and is expected 
to be done by the end of February.
Construction on Pollo Tropical, 
which will replace Italian restaurant Capeesh, is expected to begin in April 
and end in July. 
Renovations on the Rion Ballroom 
are expected to begin in early March 
and finish in late July or early August. 
Eddie Daniels, executive director of the J. Wayne 
Reitz Union, said the ballroom is outdated and needs a new look to 
stay current with the times.
“We are trying to provide an at-
tractive atmosphere and comfortable 
atmosphere that meets the expec-
tations of our students and help to 
promote a more rich campus life,” 
Daniels said.
In addition to those projects, the 
Reitz Union will refresh Home Zone, which offers home-style food, in its design. Also, the vacant retail spaces 
on the ground floor will be occupied.
Daniels said they are trying to 
bring in a convenience and food store 
to fill the spots that were once filled 
by STA Travel and Lange Eye Care. 
STA Travel was removed from the Reitz Union in 2008 due to a new na-
tional business model, and UF ended 
its contract with Lange Eye Care in 
2007.
Jill Rodriguez, Gator Dining 
Services Marketing Manager, said Gator Dining is conducting focus 
groups with students and staff to de-termine what food stores they are in-
terested in.
Another prospective change on 
the ground floor would be to re-
place Freshens with Jamba Juice. 
Negotiations are still being worked 
out on the project, but the transforma-tion will hopefully be under way by 
fall 2009, Daniels said. 
He said there will be minimal 
changes, if any, to the prices of food.
“We are trying to provide an edu-
cational environment and satisfy the needs of students,” Daniels said. “We 
are constantly looking at trends and conducting surveys to get informa-
tion from students and determine 
likes and dislikes.”Eateries, 
stores in works for Reitz Union
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
LOS ANGELES — Where is the lifetime 
supply of diapers, formula and baby wipes? 
The free van? The brand-new house?
Women who give birth to six, seven or 
eight babies are often showered with daz-
zling gifts from big corporations, local busi-
nesses and strangers.
But that is not happening with the 
Southern California mother who delivered 
octuplets last week.
The news that she is a single mother with 
six other children — and that all 14 were conceived by having embryos implanted — seems to have turned off many people, and companies are not exactly rushing to get publicity by piling on the freebies.
Nadya Suleman, 33, has been lambasted 
by talk-show hosts, fertility experts, even her own mother, who has her hands full tak-ing care of Suleman’s other children, ages 2 to 7.
A veteran Hollywood publicist said 
Suleman’s handlers have their work cut out for them in trying to win public sympathy for her.
“I think it’s a calamity,” said publicist 
David Brokaw, who has handled crises for celebrities. “I don’t see, the way this is shaped, how you can say much about it in terms of something favorable.”
Makers of diapers, formula and other 
products would probably want to steer clear of her, Brokaw said. He suggested she lie low for now and concentrate on crafting an image as a responsible parent.
Gerber spokesman David Mortazavi said 
that if the baby-food maker was planning to do something for the family, it probably would have done it already, and that the oc-
tuplets’ birth was not on Gerber’s radar. He 
would not elaborate.
Procter & Gamble spokeswoman Tricia 
Higgins said that the maker of Pampers does not actively seek out parents to sponsor, but that the octuplets’ mother can ask for what is typically provided in multiple births: a jumbo pack of diapers for each child, baby wipes and coupons for discounts. That is unlikely to last Suleman a week.
Conservative radio talk show host Bill 
Handel in Los Angeles, who has branded the births “freakish,” said on the air Tuesday that people are ready to boycott any corpora-tions that help the octuplets or their mother.
Suleman’s spokesman, Mike Furtney, 
said that he has received some “fairly nega-tive” comments from the public but that offers to help with the babies have come in from nurses, and some baby stores have 
stepped forward to volunteer their support.
“I don’t remember the brand name, but 
one major disposable diaper company sent 
some diapers,” he said. Furtney said he was confident that once Suleman tells her story, many of her critics will “readjust their think-ing a little.”
Furtney said Suleman has had offers for 
TV and other media deals, but he added it was too early to discuss how much money 
she might receive.
For a single mother, the cost of raising 
14 children through age 17 ranges from $1.3 million to $2.7 million, according to the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture.
The Suleman octuplets’ medical costs 
have not been disclosed, but the average cost for just one cesarean birth in 2006 was $22,762 in California. The Suleman ba-bies were born nine weeks premature. In California, a single premature birth in 2006 
led to an average hospital stay of 25 days 
and cost $164,273. That would amount to a $1.3 million bill for eight.
Suleman’s income is unclear. She was 
employed by a mental hospital from 1997 through 2008.
In 1998, Nkem Chukwu of Houston 
became the first mother to give birth to oc-tuplets in the U.S. The family lives in a do-
nated, six-bedroom suburban home, and 
the stay-at-home mom had a small army of volunteers help feed and care for the seven surviving babies for the first few years.
The parents of the McCaughey septu-
plets — seven babies born in Iowa in 1997 — received a donated 16-room house, a 15-pas-senger van, baby food from Gerber and a lifetime supply of Pampers from Procter & Gamble.
Octuplets’ mother faces public outrageOnCampu s
“I think it’s a calamity.”
David Brokaw
publicist10, ALLIGATOR WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009
By MATT TRIPP
Alligator Contributing Writer 
One UF student’s dream came 
true Tuesday night after he an-
nounced the UF-South Carolina 
basketball game live on ESPNU.
UF telecommunications se-
nior John Hornbuckle, from Vero 
Beach, was chosen to sit along-
side regular play-by-play com-
mentator Rob Stone and fellow 
college student Cory Burkharth, a University of South Carolina broadcast major.
This will be Hornbuckle’s first 
attempt at colorful commentary for a major UF game. He was se-lected based on his prior work for Campus Connection. 
“It’s not going to be regular 
stats and breakdowns. We’re go-ing to be talking about college life and what it means to be at UF,” said Hornbuckle, 22.
Burkharth will be doing the 
same, but from South Carolina’s perspective.
Before the game, Hornbuckle 
shared his secret for calming the 
nerves.  
“I mean, I get nervous, but I 
take a deep breath and zone ev-
erything out,” he said, adding that 
as a Gator fan he is well-prepped 
for the job ahead.
Hornbuckle said he has fol-lowed the team’s progress closely 
and already knows everything about the players and their stats
After discovering he was se-
lected for the spot after the break, Hornbuckle said he immediately called his family to tell them to watch. 
He described commentating 
for the game as the biggest oppor-tunity of his college career.
“It’s pretty big. There could be 
thousands of people watching,” Hornbuckle said.
Of all the classes Hornbuckle 
has taken at UF’s College of Journalism and Communications, 
none of them pre-pared him for com-mentary of a major game, he said.
“There are no classes that teach 
play-by-play commentary, so you have to rely on prior work experi-ence,” Hornbuckle said.
“This is a big resume builder. 
Any time you can say you’ve been on ESPN, it’s a huge confidence boost,” he said.
Hornbuckle has also done 
play-by-play commentary for the Gator softball team since last sea-son, among other things. 
But doing basketball or football 
commentary would be his “dream job.”
While the athletes do their jobs on the court, Hornbuckle said the 
announcer has an important role 
to play, adding the commentator’s style can affect the audience’s ex-perience in a big way.
The audience depends on the 
commentators to interpret the game for them, he said.“People want to be part of 
the show, so I have to make my-self part of the show for them, he said”UF student announcer gets to perform ‘dream job’
on c AMPus
By KATHRYn s ToLARZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Three UF officials are serving on a 
12-person federal committee charged 
with assessing the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s role in ensuring food safety.
“The fact that there are three commit-
tee members from UF is really just a coin-cidence,” Gui Liu, the committee’s senior program assistant, wrote in an e-mail. “But three is the greatest number of offi-
cials from one institution.”
The federal food safety committee  
met for the first time last Thursday in 
Washington.
It plans to submit a two-year report 
examining the gaps in the FDA’s mea-sures for  farm-to-table food safety and public health protection, according to The National Academies’ Web site. 
The committee’s first meeting coincided 
with the nationwide salmonella scare and resulting peanut butter recall, Liu said. 
Although current issues will certainly 
be addressed, the committee is not focus-
ing on any specific food safety recalls.
Douglas Archer, associate dean for re-search at UF’s food science and human 
nutrition department, was chosen along 
with UF’s Emerging Pathogens Institute Director J. Glenn Morris Jr. and Martha Roberts, special assistant to the dean for 
research at UF’s Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences.
Archer, who has been involved with the 
FDA for about 20 years, said in an e-mail that he and his fellow UF committee mem-
bers have extensive past experience with 
food safety research and policy making. UF officials named to federal food safety committeeStudentLife
“The fact that there are three com -
mittee members from UF is really 
just a coincidence. 
Gui Liu
Senior program assistantAndrew s tanfill / Alligator s taff
John Hornbuckle poses during halftime on the court in the O’Connell Center on Tuesday night.  Horn -
buckle was an honorary commentator during the Gators’ 97-93 win against South Carolina.an increase in the overall number of 
homeless.”
While many housed people in 
Gainesville are familiar with the home-less who hang around downtown, these people don’t represent the diversity of the homeless, DeCarmine said.
“Those people who present 100 per-
cent of the public perception make up about 10 percent of the population,” he said.
DeCarmine, who has helped the 
coalition bring over $8 million in state and federal funds to the local homeless assistance network since 2003, said he feels this misperception makes home-
less advocacy more difficult.
“We tend to marginalize and push 
the homeless to the furthest edges of 
society and then question why they can’t get back in,” he said.Census reveals 
large increase in homeless children locallyWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 11
Meghan McMullen / Alligator
Jon DeCarmine, director of the Alachua County Coalition for the Home-less and Hungry, presents census results to a UF class Tuesday.
Increasing 
trend in egg 
donors seen 
at Shands
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON — The Obama 
administration plans to limit pay 
to $500,000 a year for executives of government-assisted financial institutions in a new get-tough ap-proach to bankers and Wall Street, a senior administration official said Tuesday.
Obama plans to announce the 
new limits with Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner at the White House on Wednesday.
“If the taxpayers are helping you, 
then you’ve got certain responsibili-ties to not be living high on the hog,” President Barack Obama said in an “NBC Nightly News” interview.
An administration official famil-
iar with the new restrictions said the most restrictive limits would apply only to struggling large firms that receive “exceptional assistance” in the future. Healthy banks that re-ceive government infusions of capi-tal would have more leeway.
The official, speaking on the con-
dition of anonymity because the plan had not yet been made public, said firms that want to pay executives above the $500,000 threshold would have to compensate them with stock that could not be sold or liquidated until they pay back the government 
funds.
The president 
and members of Congress have been weighing various propos-als to restrict chief executives’ com-pensation as one 
of the conditions of receiving help under the $700 billion financial bail-out fund.
Banks and other financial in-stitutions that receive capital infu-sions, but are considered healthy, could waive the $500,000 salary cap and the stock restrictions. But they would have to disclose the compen-sation and submit the pay plan to shareholders for a nonbinding vote.
The administration will also 
propose long-term compensation restrictions even for companies that don’t receive government assistance, the official said.
Top officials at companies that 
have received money from the gov-ernment’s Troubled Asset Relief Program already face some com-pensation limits. But elected officials want to place more caps, a sentiment reinforced in recent days by rev-elations that Wall Street firms paid more than $18 billion in bonuses in the midst of the economic downturn in 2008.
“I do know this: We can’t just 
say, ‘Please, please,’” said Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., who has proposed that no employee of an institution that receives money un-der the $700 billion federal bailout can receive more than $400,000 in total compensation until it pays the money back.
Obama, Congress plan to curtail financial executive pay By CHELSEA KEENAN
Alligator Writer
As wallets tighten due to economic woes, hos-
pitals around the country have been receiving 
more than just donations of blood and organs. 
Hospitals have seen a rising number of wom-
en interested in donating their eggs in return for 
cash, and this trend has spread to Shands at UF.
Jean Melby, a registered nurse at the hospital, 
said she has seen more of an interest in egg dona-tions over the past year. 
However, she doesn’t know if the increase is 
caused by people looking to make extra money 
in the faltering economy or if it is simply from an 
increase in the general public’s awareness of the 
program.
Dr. Robert Williams, director 
of the Obstetrics and Gynecology 
department at Shands at UF, said 
donors must go through a long process before re-
ceiving the $2,000 compensation for their eggs.
“It involves three months’ worth of medical 
care, injections and an outpatient procedure,” Williams said.
Egg donors must be between the ages of 21 to 
30 and have a clean bill of health. 
There is also a psychological assessment, 
where donors are screened by a psychologist to ensure they are donating for the right reasons and won’t have any regrets 10 years down the road, said Williams. 
Melby agreed.“(Egg donation) is a wonderful gift,” she said. 
“While some financial compensation is nice, it shouldn’t be the most important reason. A sense of altruism should be the driving force. ” 
Although the number of egg donors has risen 
over the past year, Williams said there are still more couples waiting for a donation than the number of available donated eggs.
Melby said only about 10 percent of women 
who consider donating actually make it through to the end of the process.
“People don’t just do it for the money,” 
Williams said. “You can make money easier.”By REBECCA WEISS 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Dead fish floated belly-up on  the 
surface of the Reitz Union’s pond last 
Wednesday.   
The culprit? Freezing temperatures 
combined with the shallowness of the water. 
This is the first time anything like this 
has happened, said Mike Mironack, di-rector of operations at the Reitz Union. “We’re keeping an eye on it to see if it 
was a one-time thing or not,” he said. 
“If not, we’ll call someone with more expertise to have it fixed.”
Two types of fish were found float-
ing in the pond: grass carp and tilapia, according to Marty Werts, landscap-
ing and groundskeeping superinten-
dent for UF’s Grounds Department.
Both are non-native species. 
Werts said the fish were probably used to a warmer climate and unable to survive the  freezing, 20-degree nights Gainesville has been experi-encing recently. 
“Everybody I’ve talked to says that 
it had to do with the low temperature and depth of the pond,” he said.
He explained that the fish were 
probably placed in the pond to eat 
some of the aquatic weeds.
“The grass carp could’ve been put 
in there a long time ago,” he said. “The tilapia are an invasive species – a wa-
ter bird or an osprey can pick one up out of another pond and drop it in.” 
Werts also confirmed that  Aquatic Weed Control had not sprayed any-
thing poisonous into the pond before the fish died.
“During the growing season, they 
will occasionally spray weeds,” he said. “But they didn’t [this time.]”
Mironack said he speculated that 
something detrimental could have been thrown into the water. Since 
anyone has access to the pond, a de-
structive item thrown in could be very harmful to  its environment and  
creatures.  
He said hopes that this will not oc-
cur again anytime soon.
The recently installed Veterans 
Memorial Fountain in the center of 
the pond will hopefully help prevent 
another fish kill.
According to Mironack, the foun-
tain will improve the water quality of the pond by introducing more oxygen 
into the water. The increase in oxygen will ultimately benefit the creatures 
living in the pond, he said.Fish go belly-up due to cold, depth
CENSUS , from page 1“We’re keeping an eye on it 
to. If not, we’ll call someone 
with more expertise to have it 
fixed.” 
Mike Mironack
Director of operations at the Reitz 
Union
NewsLocal
Obama
12, ALLIGATOR WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009
after using it to power their home or busi-
ness.” 
With the feed-in tariff, GRU will buy 
all of the solar energy produced at $0.32 a kilowatt-hour and sell the energy back to the private vendor for $0.12 a kilowatt-hour. 
This way, everyone with solar panels 
will be paid to power their houses or busi-nesses.
Crider said there are currently 60 hous-
es and businesses in Gainesville with so-
lar panels, but he expects that number to drastically increase with the new feed-in 
tariff.
“We have been getting calls every day 
from people who are showing a lot of in-terest in installing solar panels,” he said.
In Europe, 20 out of 27 countries have 
entered into feed-in tariffs that have all 
been successful, said Adel El Gammal, 
secretary-general of the European Photovoltaic Industry Association.
Mayor Pegeen Hanrahan was invited 
by the conference to be the keynote speak-
er on behalf of Gainesville’s renewable en-
ergy success. 
Gainesville, which has a population of 
130,000, is one of the state’s greenest cities, Hanrahan said.
She said that Gainesville has done many 
things to contribute to make the city more 
environmentally sound like planting more trees and installing more effi-cient street lights. 
Hanrahan said that 
Gainesville is a city with 
underlying poverty and disparity.
 The feed-in tariff will 
create more jobs for construction workers and electricians, she said.
The city is also hoping to create a bio-
mass plant, Hanrahan said.The plant will create energy by burn-
ing organic waste like tree thinning waste, urban waste and parts of vegetables and 
fruits that are not used for consumption, 
Crider said. He said it is under negotiation now and if it is built, it will not be finished until 2013.
Mike Antheil, executive director of the 
Florida Alliance for Renewable Energy, said Florida’s status as the Sunshine State makes it the rightful leader of renewable energy in the U.S. 
“Our decision makers and policy mak-
ers need to take advantage of that to allow Florida to create the roadway for the rest 
of the nation,” Antheil said.Gainesville residents first in U.S. to benefit from renewable energy policyBy LINDSEY MARMORSTEIN 
Alligator Contributing Writer
The switch to digital transmis-
sion is supposed to take place Feb. 
17, but it may be pushed back to June 12. 
President Obama wants to give 
people more time to prepare for the switch from analog. 
“We have no idea when we will 
experience the digital transition,” said city spokesman Bob Woods.
Viewers have three ways to pre-
pare for the switch. They can pur-chase a newer TV with a built-in digital tuner, purchase a converter 
or become a Cox Communications customer.
But students living in dorms will 
not be affected by the switch to digi-tal transmission because UF housing 
is a Cox Communications customer, 
said Sharon Blansett, assistant direc-
tor of housing for 
marketing, public re-
lations and research.
Because digital 
signals take up less space, the transi-
tion will provide better quality, reli-ability and additional channels, said 
Bradley Spatz, Cox Communications 
vice president of engineering. 
For more information about the 
digital transition, visit http://www.dtv.org.TV switch date unset
FORUM , from page 1side Orange and Blue Sen. and vice-presi-
dential candidate Stacey Gray as well as for-mer Gator Party Sen. Brandon White, who 
announced he was leaving the Gator Party 
at last week’s Senate meeting.
McShera said the Orange and Blue Party 
looked at four possible candidates before 
choosing the two he thought to be the most 
qualified.“I’m at a place where I’m happy,” White 
said. “There is no reason you should have to stick to one side.”
All three can-
didates said they 
are looking for-
ward to the up-coming election.
“I think this is the year,” Gray said. 
“Students know it’s time for change, and 
I’m ready to go and get it.”Students apply to fill open senate 
seats; executive candidates chosen
SLATING , from page 1
Hanrahan
NewsNational
Student Go vernment
ElectionsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 13
14, ALLIGATOR WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff 
UF gymnast Corey Hartung performs on the balance beam during the Gators’ 
195.925-193.85 win against Kentucky in the O’Connell Center on Friday.
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
After UF’s win against Kentucky on Friday, 
Corey Hartung said one bad balance beam 
performance was fine, but two — referencing the team’s performance against the Wildcats — was unacceptable.
The team hopes the third time’s a charm 
when it travels to Baton Rouge, La., to take on LSU (6-2, 1-2 Southeastern Conference) on Friday night.
UF (3-1, 2-1 SEC) showed improvement on 
beam against Kentucky from its Jan. 23 loss to Arkansas, scoring marginally higher.
Against the Razorbacks, the team scored a 
47.9 on beam, its lowest beam score of the sea-son. Against the Wildcats, the team raised the 
score to a 48.125.
“It’s all mental,” UF coach Rhonda Faehn 
said. “It comes down to the mental prepara-
tion. This team knows that they are a very 
good beam team.”
In the first meet of the season, beam was 
actually the team’s best event. UF tallied an 
event-high 49.25.
Beam woes since then have included occa-
sional falls and wobbles.
“It’s just a matter of knowing that, ‘Hey, if 
someone does go out and make a mistake, it should not affect anyone else.’ You still have a job to do,” Faehn said.
Inconsistencies in the beam lineup have also 
hindered the team.
Faehn said Tuesday the beam lineup should 
be the same as it was for the Kentucky meet, but with one more day of practice, that could change. A different lineup would be the fifth 
different beam lineup in as many meets.
Junior Amanda Castillo, who is nursing bur-
sitis in her ankle, has had a tough go at beam. 
Faehn said she would keep exposing Castillo, 
an All-American, to beam despite recent falls.
“Just to get her confidence back, (Amanda’s) 
going to do a different beam dismount,” Faehn 
said.
Even Hartung, the decorated senior, wasn’t 
immune to beam problems, falling during her beam routine in Fayetteville, Ark. She re-bounded against Kentucky with a 9.9.
“Hartung’s beam was back to the level of 
near perfection, which she’s capable of,” Faehn said.
Because UF is the visiting team against LSU, 
the order of events is different than at home meets, and beam will be the anchoring event.
Against Arkansas, a 0.525-point lead head-
ing into beam vanished after the Gators suf-fered three falls.
Faehn said the struggles on beam against 
Kentucky led to a bit of lost momentum head-ing into the floor exercise.
The different order of events may help since 
the Gators will perform floor before beam. 
Perhaps most importantly, the varying or-
der of events means the gymnasts get to open on uneven bars, their strongest event. The team ranks No. 1 in the country on bars.
“That should be able to help the confidence 
level of our team,” Faehn said. 
She hopes to carry the momentum from 
bars throughout the whole meet.
In the team’s most recent win against 
Kentucky, junior Melanie Sinclair scored a per-
fect 10 on bars.
Her 10 came in the middle of 9.9s posted by 
junior Maranda Smith and Hartung.
Overall on bars, the team scored a 49.5, ty-
ing its Jan.16 performance for the highest-scor-
ing bar performance this season. No gymnast scored lower than a 9.8 against Kentucky.
“Our bar lineup is perhaps one of the stron-
gest in the country,” Faehn said.UF’s beam troubles persist
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ORLANDO — All-Star point guard Jameer 
Nelson could miss the rest of the season for the 
Orlando Magic because of a torn labrum in his right shoulder.
An MRI exam revealed the injury Tuesday, 
the team announced.
Nelson will decide over the next week 
whether he will have surgery or attempt reha-bilitation. If surgery is the option, his season is likely over. If he passes on the surgery, he’ll likely miss several weeks.
“At some point in time, he’s going to have to have surgery. That’s a given. There’s no ifs, ands or buts about it,” Magic general manager 
Otis Smith said Tuesday.
Nelson left the Magic’s 105-95 loss to the 
Mavericks on Monday night in the third quar-
ter after he was fouled by Dallas center Erick Dampier and hit the floor. Nelson came up bent over and clutching his right shoulder be-fore heading to the locker room in pain.
The injury leaves the Southeast Division-
leading Magic (36-11) with a major hole.
Orlando does not have a third point guard 
behind backup Anthony Johnson. The Magic likely will have to sign another point guard, or convert shooting guards J.J. Redick and Courtney Lee.
Smith said he had “zero” regrets about not 
signing an extra point guard earlier. Now, he’s hoping to fill the gap by signing a free agent.
“I don’t think anything’s off the table,” 
Smith said. “We’re actively pursuing (a deal), and have been since last night.”
Nelson was having a career season, av-
eraging 16.7 points and 5.4 assists per game. He was selected to his first All-Star Game and 
was to compete in the skills challenge Feb. 14 
in Phoenix.
The Magic host the Los Angeles Clippers on Wednesday night.
“It’s a big blow for us,” center Dwight 
Howard said after Monday night’s loss. “I’m trying not to even think about it because he had been playing so well for us. It’s a sad day for us all.”
Nelson missed five games earlier this sea-
son with a right hip injury, and Orlando man-aged to go 4-1 behind Johnson.
A longer stretch against significantly better 
competition will provide a tougher test.
“We’ve done it before so we’ll do whatever 
we have to do,” Magic coach Stan Van Gundy said.Magic guard Nelson injured, could miss rest of season
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
PITTSBURGH — More than 300,000 
black-and-gold bedecked Pittsburgh Steelers fans — about the population of the city it-self — packed the streets of “Sixburgh” on Tuesday for a parade celebrating the storied 
franchise’s unprecedented sixth Super Bowl 
title.
From infants to senior citizens, fans 
braved freezing temperatures and crowds so deep that for some, even seeing the parade was impossible.
Not that it mattered. Many just wanted to 
be part of the festive atmosphere and have the chance to revel in the team’s 27-23 vic-tory over the Arizona Cardinals in Sunday’s Super Bowl. Rousing chants of “Here we go Steelers!” pulsed through the crowd as they 
waited for the team to make its way along the 
route.
“We’re going to tell the school we had 
fever — Steeler fever,” 12-year-old Rachel Russell said, excusing her absence from school before leading a Steelers chant.
Renaming the city Sixburgh for the day, 
Pittsburgh Mayor Luke Ravenstahl made his way through the parade alongside quar-
terback Ben Roethlisberger, both filming the 
crowd that painted a gray sky yellow with twirling Terrible Towels.
Fans filled parking ga-
rages, skyscraper windows, balconies and even climbed 
trees to get the best view of 
the team they love and pos-
sibly find shelter from the sporadic flurries and tem-peratures that hovered in 
the mid-20s.
Even police got into the spirit, waving 
Terrible Towels from atop horses as they led the parade. Coach Mike Tomlin followed be-
hind in the back of a red convertible, while 
players holding video cameras cheered and waved from the back of pickup trucks.
Tomlin couldn’t stop smiling as he was 
greeted on stage at the end of the parade route with thunderous applause.
“What do you say to this?” Tomlin asked 
the massive crowd. “Steeler Nation, you leave us all speechless, man, we just appreciate the love. How about the Steelers? How about the greatest fans in the world? How about num-ber six? Thank you, we love you guys.”
Steelers owner Dan Rooney thanked the 
city for its support over the years — and said there is more history to be made.
“Stay with us,” Rooney said. “Maybe we’ll 
get the seventh next year.”
‘Sixburgh’ celebrates Super Bowl victory with paradeNATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCATION
Roethlisberger
“It’s all mental. It comes down to the 
mental preparation. This team knows 
that they are a very good beam 
team.”
Rhonda Faehn
UF gymnastics coachClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$485 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-22-72-1
NEED ROOMMATES? 
One Month Rent Free!
Inclusive 3’s-$535, 4’s-$482;
HUGE 2/2.5 Townhomes at $530/person.
FREE UF Parking, Cable, Water!
FREE Roommate Match, Tanning
FREE Alarms, W/D, 24hr Gym
Sparkling Pool, Tennis, BBall
336-3838 TheLandingsUF.com
Great Bus Route! 2 Miles to UF
4-22-72-1
Take Me Now!
Huge 1,2,&3 Beds& FREE Cable
Waived Move-in Fees!
W/D in unit* Free Tanning
FREE Internet 372-8100 
4-22-72-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-22-72-1
WANT $$$ JUST FOR LIVING HERE?!?
2/2 & 4/4 APTS STARTING AT $509!
MOVE IN FOR ONLY $35!! 
GET $750 OFF YOUR LEASE TODAY!!
CALL NOW: 352.271.3131
GainesvillePlace.com
4-22-72-1
The Crossing at Santa Fe
$484 - $509 Gets you all this!Furnished, Free Ethernet, Free Cable &Utilities, W/D, Events,Roommate Matching!  379-93004-22-72-1WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009
2 Bedroom 2.5 Bath, pet friendly,approximately 15-20 mins to campus. 
Cost - $995 + Utilities. Immediate Move in 
Lease length - negotiable e-mail magatsu0067@yahoo if interested.    2-10-5-1

&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE. 
Rustic 1BR apt. $380/mo.1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 378-9220 or mobile 213-3901. 4-22-08-72-2
LUXURY 2/2 ACROSS FROM UF!
Under 600/person! W/D
Pets welcome! Free Parking!
Open late and weekends!
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-22-08-72-2
LYONS SPECIAL
$99 1st month’s rent 377-8797
4-22-08-72-2
1, 2, &3 BR- Live Life Big!
* Available Today & August!
* HUGE Floorplans! Pets Loved!
*1BR $655 & 2BR $755 * 3BR $889* Bike to UF/Shands * 335-72754-22-08-72-2 
Terrific Two Bedrooms For Fall!
W/D*huge walk-in closets*park free
Downtown location - Close to UF
Steps from everywhere you want to be!
Sign now, don’t miss out - the best location!
No fees & get $350 cash back! 338-0002
4-22-72-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave.  Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF.  Price range $445 to $665.  Includes water, sewer, garbage and pest control.  Sorry no pets al-lowed.  Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri.    4-22-08-72-2
1 & 2 BRs - Now & August!
* Quiet, Convenient, Affordable
* 1 BR $560 ** 2 BR $639* Walk/Bike to UF/Shands
* Pets OK * 372-7555
4-22-08-72-2Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-22-08-72-2
1 Tour & You’re Sure!
Leasing for Now & Fall
1, 2, 3 & 4 brs, 2br Townhomes
W/D, dishwasher, tennis/bball courts
We love pets! Ask about specials!
pinetreegardens.com*376-4002
4-22-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, 
fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term 
available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-
2181. Lv msg   4-22-08-72-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-22-72-2
 ELLIE’S HOUSES 
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990 12-11-171-2 
STUDIOS and 1/1s
ONLY 2 BLOCKS TO UF!
As low as $525, Pets ok
Pool, Open late and weekends
371-0769 CollegeParkUF.com
4-22-08-72-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Shotime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get 1 MONTH FREE*
www.thelaurelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-22-08-72-2
Huge 2 & 3 BR’s
Starting at $730
Pets Welcome * Great location *
Close to UF, Dining
373-1111* SpanishTrace.org
4-22-08-72-2
COBBLESTONE
Luxury Townhomes
Private Dog Park!
Free Cable
Gated, Garages, Gorgeous!
Immediate Move-in
Specials!
(352)377-2801
4-22-72-2
2/3/4 BR’s for Fall From $335/per person
W/D avail, pet friendly, inc water & sewer
1 miile from UF/Bball/Tennis Court
HUGE floorplans, pool, fitness
www.bivenscove.com  352-376-2507
4-22-08-72-2
Beautiful 1,2 & 3 Beds
FREE Cable w/HBO & Internet
LOW Rates starting at $699
W/D in each unit!*Free Tanning!
We love pets: 372-8100
4-22-72-2
$IGN AND GET CA$H BACK!
$400 CA$H OR CREDIT
PRICES START FROM $466
MOVE IN FEES ONLY $99
www.LexingtonCrossingUF.com
CALL NOW!  (352) 373-9009
4-22-72-1
We Have your roommates!
We DON’T have fees....
$ign now and pay $0 fees. Nicely fur-
nished 2/1 or 4/2 condos renting by the 
bedroom starting at only $449 all inclusive.Furniture,cable,pest control,refuse & W/D all
included.GYM,PC LAB, POOL/SPA, AND 
MORE!! Hurry will not last at these rates. $ave $500!!!
352-377-6700 www.Ucommonscondos.com     
4-22-72-1
!HOT SUMMER SPECIALS!
4/4   @   $399
3/3   @   $429
2/2   @   $549
Move in fees ONLY $99
All inclusive w/FREE roommate matching
www.LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373-9009
4-22-72-1
Windsor Park. 2BR/2BA Furnished Unit.
New W/D. Clubhouse, fitness and business/
computer center. Cable/Internet incl. $525/
ea. room obo. 305-788-5681/Windsor515@gmail.com.   2-4-08-38-1
Best All Inclusive Rate In Town!!
We will find you a roommate!
3/3’s start at $536 and 2/2’s start at $633
Incl. Utilities, Cable & Internet
Call Now: 352-374-3866
4-22-72-1
3/2 Beautiful Spacious Home for Rent! Walk 
to campus, huge yard! Available Fall 2009. 
Professional/Graduate students preferred. Call Michelle (561)289-4759   2-6-09-15-1- :: 2 Blocks To UF :: - 
Room in 4br condo incl utils, internet, cable 
TV, pool. Very Nice $375. 283-8777
www.Gainesville-Rooms-4-Rent.com  4-22-
09-68-1
**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect, 
cable tv, & high speed internet. $350/mo 
352-278-9347, www.lamanchacondos.com   
2-13-20-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate 
Matching. ONLY 10 Steps to UF $479-$504/
month* All-Inclusive Rent * Fully-furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557   
4-22-60-1
3BR/3BA avail Jan 08 in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room. Direct bus to UF 
3 mi. Bball, pool, exercise room, nicely furn. 
3rd Flr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-357-9656, Sebastian 352-874-8905  2-27-09-26-1
1/1 in a fully furnished 2/2 1/2. Casablanca 
west condos. All inclusive. Female, non-smoker only. Available now. Close to 4 bus lines. $525/month. Call 352-256-2259.   2-6-10-1
4BR/4BA condo University Terrace. Spacious 
kitchen & living area, newly remodeled. 
Convenient to UF & shopping. Close to 
bus stop. Rent: $450/mo OR QUICK SELL: 
$150k. Call 941-232-1960   2-23-09-20-1
$465-4/4 University Terrace condo; includes 
cable, internet, and utilities. On routes 12 and 35. Immediate occupancy. 352.514.3398   2-12-10-1
ROOM FOR RENT $500/MO
All utils, cable & internet incl. Bedroom set 
& vase included. Near SFC, Oaks Mall & UF  786-325-7941 or after 8pm 352-332-9305    2-13-09-10-1
Woods Edge South Condo
2 years new2 Bdrm. 2 1/2 B. TownhomePerfect for students or familyCall 954-341-4797 for info.   2-6-09-5-1
FREE Feb. Rent- Prvt Bathrms, Pets OK. 
$465/room/month- Single rooms or all 3 avail -
able in 3/3 Townhouse. Furnished Kitchen w/ dishwasher and W/D (cobblestoneuf.com) Call Josh 352-275-2640    2-6-09-3-1ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Available Today!
$0 Move In Fees! 
1/1-from $649*2/2-from $769*3/2-from $899
(352) 377-7401 * www.theboardwalkapt.com
4-22-08-72-2
ALL THE SPACE YOU NEED!
At the price you want
No Move-in Fees! Move in TODAY!
1, 1 w/den & 2 BRs - Reduced Rates!FREE UF parking * FREE GymPets Welcome * 352-332-7401
4-22-72-2
PARKING
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-22-08-72-2
YOUR MOM...
...wants you to live here!
AMAZING DEALS!
1, 2, & 3 bdrms, W/D
Gated, Pet friendly, 
Immediate Move-in Specials
(352)372-0400
4-22-72-2
Three Pools!  Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis!  Business Center!
Billards Room!  Fitness Center w/ Free 
weights!  Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts!  Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, I-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!  
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$779 2/2-$930 3/3-$1115 
Washer/Dryer in ALL UNITS!
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-22-72-2
Affordable, Quiet, Comfortable
1’s from $539 * 2’s from $375/person
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
4-22-08-72-2
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Huge 4BR TH W/D inc.FREE UF Parking*FREE GymCall for specials 332-7401      4-22-72-2
Great Pet Place!
Waived Move-in Fees!
Free Cable w/HBO & Internet
W/D in Unit*Free Tanning!
Huge 1,2,3 Beds: 372-8100!
4-22-08-72-2
LOVE GOING OUT?
Luxury 3/3TH Perfectly Located Downtown!
1 month free for fall &
no move-in fees from $500/person!
W/D*Free Parking*Pets Welcome
Live where you play!! 338-0002
www.arlingtonsquare.org
4-22-72-2
MUSEUM WALK
Gainesville’s Best Kept Secret
Leasing for Fall & NOW!
Luxury 2/2 THs and 3/3 Flats
FREE Cable, FREE Tanning, FREE Alarms
Walk to UF *379-WALK
4-22-72-2
THREE BLOCKS TO UF!
2br/1ba from $700
No Move-in Fees! Water included
Wood floors avail! Pets loved!
FREE Parking! 372-7111
4-22-08-72-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $695
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
4-22-08-72-216, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009
 SPYGLASS 
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages,
Incl Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $485
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 10-5:30, Sat 11-2, Sun 12-4
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
4-22-08-72-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
No Move-in Fees! Pets loved.
Studios - $549, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
372-7111 Collegemanor.org
4-22-08-72-2
* Where in the world is Hidden Lake?
You may want to find these luxury apts!
3/3’s start at $425 person for Immediate
2/2’s are $490 person, Includes Cable & Internet
Call Now 352-374-3866
4-22-08-72-2
3 and 4 BRs STEPS TO UF
From $450/person
Pets loved! W/D avail
Pool, Open late
CollegeParkUF.com 371-7777
4-22-08-72-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $599 - 150 ft from UF!
$0 move-in fees! Move-in Today!
FREE parking! Pets Welcome!
372-7111 CollegeManor.org
4-22-08-72-2
GREAT ODIN’S RAVEN:
Our 4/4’s are classy!!
SIGN TODAY and get $720 off your lease!!
Rates starting at $509!!
CALL: 352.271.3131
GainesvillePlace.com
4-22-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-22-08-72-2
Gator Championship Special
Sign a lease and get up to $1,800 cash
Visit our models and sign for Fall 09
Huge, luxury 1br-4brs with TVs in kitchen
Beach-entry pool*free tanning*pet friendly
*352.376.0696 * www.EnclaveUF.com*
4-22-08-72-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 bed luxury condos for rent.
Granite tops, tall ceilings, private balcony, super quiet construction. $1600/mo.Call Eric Wild at 352-870-94534-22-72-2
4BR/2BA HISTORIC HOUSE
10 blocks to UF. Near downtown. High ceil-ing, wood floor, cent A/C, W/D, tons of char-acter. Avail Now  237 SW 4th Ave. $980/mo  352-214-9270   4-22-08-72-2
WOODLAND VILLAS 
2BR units starting at 
$695. Gated community.
Private courtyards. 
M-F 10-6 Sat. 10-2
5950 SW 20th Ave.
888-803-7678
www.woodlandvillas.com
4-22-08-72-21/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on 
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to 
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824   2-10-09-55-2
WALK TO UF - AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
1BR/$495 to $999/mo
2BR/2.5BA $1499/mo
Gore Rabell Real Estate378-1387  Gore-Rabell.com4-22-08-72-2
RIGHT PLACE, RIGHT PRICE, RIGHT NOW 
Steps from VA, Shands, Vet School & UF.
1 & 2 Bedrooms from $625. Grad student &
VA/Shands discounts Renovated units avail 
Union Properties@Summit House 376-9668
4-22-08-72-2
SUN ISLAND
1BRs from $580  2BRs from $650
Sun Bay  Sun Key  Sun Harbor
352-376-6720
4-22-08-72-2
1 Tour & You’re Sure!
Leasing for Now & Fall
1, 2, 3 & 4 brs, 2br Townhomes
W/D, dishwasher, tennis/bball courts
We love pets! Ask about specials!
pinetreegardens.com*376-4002
4-22-08-72-2
PET’S PARADISE
$375 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-10-
08-37-2
100+ Apts: Walk to UF
On 1 website: www.ForRentNearUF.com
Photos & Virtual Tours for 100 apts near UF
Studios $625+ * 1BR $689+ * 2BR $839+
3BR $650/br+ * 4BR $479/br * 352-376-6223
4-22-72-2
2/1 House w/ Big Yard
4 Blocks to UF, HW Floors
Pet Friendly $1200/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-76-2BRAND NEW FOR AUG 09
CAMPUS VIEW PLACE
2BR/2BA OR 3BR/3BA
Luxury Suites near Shands,Norman Hall, UF Sorority Row1240 SW 9th RoadPlease visit us at the model1185 SW 9th Road 1-5pmUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.campusviewplace.com   4-22-75-2
LEASING FOR AUG 09
Quality Student HousingNear UF, Norman & Shands
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR Properties
List Avail Jan 20th!!
Please call or email us to
Receive a list before they
Are all gone!!!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
info@rentgainesville.com
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
CAMPUS VIEW SOUTH
Now Leasing 2BR/2BALuxury Dual Suites
1185 SW 9th RD $1000/mo
Close to UF, Norman Hall& Sorority Row.
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2WWW.RENTGAINESVILLE.COM
Check out all of our available listings!
1, 2, 3 & 4BR Properties.
Many have been drastically reduced
For immediate occupancy!
Union Properties 352-373-7578   4-22-75-2
NOW LEASING
2BR/1.5BA MidTown Apts
Parking/laundry hkupsWalk to UF $850/mo
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
PET FRIENDLY!
3BR/3BA w room to run
behind Hilton on SW 34th ST
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
Available NOW
1BR/1BA w/laundry hkupsPets OK w/fee close to UFWater, sewer & trash incl.Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
$995/MO 3BR/2BA
NEAR UF!! w/d incl.
2041 NW 7th Place
Large family room w/fireplaceHardwood floors & nice yard
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
University Terrace West
1 Female needed $325/mo
Lease through July 2009
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-72-2
WALK TO SANTA FE
2bd/2ba $750/mo
1 car garage. dw, mw. wd incl
Fenced yard. Avail Now!Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com       4-22-72-2
Mallorca Unit near Royal Park
2BD/2.5BA Avail Now!!Beautiful, luxury townhousew/ garage. $950/mo
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-72-2
2BR/2BA Townhouse, small pets ok! private 
courtyard, icemaker, dishwasher, washer/
dryer hookup. walk to restraunts/ grocery. 
$799. mo. quiet neighbors. 318-0089   2-4-09-21-2
1BR apt. w/pvt gated courtyard located in 
small proffesional complex @ 3320 SW 23d St. Single, mature applicants only. New car-pet. $575.00/mo small pets ok @ $25.00/mo 352 377-2150 Please leave a msg.   2-4-09-20-2
POOL HOUSE AVAILABLE NOW!
Bike to UF 4BR/3BA, over 2000 sf, nice area 
1 mi to UF. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo now 
or $1700/mo in fall. Can divide into 3/2 for $1200/mo. Pool service extra376-6183, 352-
327-2931  2-12-09-25-22BR/2.5BA Twnhouse condo near UF. 2 
Master BRs w/ own BA, Ideal for 2 to share. 
Wired for inet + sec sys, W/D hk-up, appli -
ances, comm pool, 1st & sec dep req. $1000/
mo 954-805-7827  dennismiller@tycoint.com  2-4-09-20-2
1BR/1BA w/lg STUDY - Great Location
1blk to UF/Shands Avail Now! Energy effi-cient, some utils. Very spacious, carpet, de-cal park Prefer grad student/mature. $650. postj@bellsouth.net 376-0080, 284-3873   2-27-09-36-2
Immaculate and newly renovated historic 
home. New hardwood flrs, appliances, paint. 
Walk to campus. 3/1. $800/mo for two occu-
pants through July 31st. 911 NW 10th Ave. 
215-7199   2-6-09-20-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/2BA nice, large house. Hot tub, fenced 
yard, washer/dryer provided, 3413 NW 8th 
Ave. $1625/mo. Screened back porch, other 
houses available. 339-2342 for more info.  
2-6-09-19-2
H2/1 Funky Upstairs AptH
3 Blocks to UF
Pet Friendly $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
H2/1 House w/ Big YardH
4 Blocks to UF, HW Floors
Pet Friendly, Outdoor Kennel
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2H2/1 Apt, 4 Blocks to UF H
Central AC, No Tow Parking,
Pet Friendly, $700/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
H2/1 Apt, 1000 SFH
Island Kitchen, WD hookups
Centr. AC, Pet Friendly $700/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/3BA large house with large bedrooms. House only 4 yrs old. Fireplace, washer/dry -
er provided, vaulted ceilings. 2108 NW 8th 
Court. $1575/mo. 339-2342 for directions.   
2-6-09-17-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/2BA, nice modern house on large pri-
vate lot. Fireplace, washer/dry provided. 
$1425/mo. 2606 NW 34th St. Pets ok. Deck, lots of trees. Call 339-2342   2-6-09-17-2
NO FEES and One Month Free!
On Bivens Arm Nature Preserve
Inclusive 2’s, 3’s, and 4’s
MASSIVE Townhomes!
W/D and Jumbo Microwaves in Every Unit
Free Water, Cable, Tanning, Alarms, Pool
336-3838 TheLandingsUF.com
Great Bus Route! 2 Miles to UF
4-22-63-2
LARGE AFFORDABLE CONVENIENT
Serious students upgrade into private condo 
2BR/2BA vaulted ceilings, breakfast bar, tile, 
carpet, smoke-free, laundryroom, fenced 
backyard. $675. SW. 374-4216 appt.  2-12-
09-20-2
HUGE 2BR 1BA
W/D hookups. Pets OK
Walk to Vet School
$595 mo. Move in today!
866-747-8314 CMC LLLP
Lic. Real Estate Broker
Equal Housing Oppty.
4-22-09-61-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1.
Studio with separate kitchen, fireplace, washer/dryer provided, wd floors. 1 blk from campus, attached to house with separate en-trance. 106 SW 12th St. $525/mo 339-2342  2-6-09-12-2
*Huge 1BR Loft w/Skylight*
3 Blocks to Mid-Town/Univ Ave*Walk to UF
Cathedral Ceilings*Only $799 at Arbor Lofts
www.ForRentNearUF.com * 352-376-6223
4-22-59-2
BRAND NEW Cricket Club
Phase II, 2BR/2BA Condogated,pool,fitness center,W/D$1100/mo,call mario 352-219-4426or jmacmaster@e-techservices.com   2-4-10-2
2BR WALK TO CLASS!
As low as $380/person!
Pets welcome, wood floor avail
Pool, Open late and weekends
371-0769 CollegeParkUF.com
4-22-09-59-2
WALK TO SANTA FE COLLEGE
2BR/2BA $750/mo til 7/31/093108 NW 79th Court 1 car garageUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-59-2
LARGE HOME NEAR UF
Nice home w/many upgradesReady now! 1789 SF GarageUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-59-2
HISTORIC HOMES
1-3BR apts + 2 houses 923 SE 4th St, 18 NE 10th St. High ceilings, porch, wood floors. $500-$1100/mo. No dogs. 1st, last, sec. Call 378-3704, sallygville@aol.com   2-19-20-2
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS OF GREEEN SPACE. 
2BR/1BA house. $650/mo.
Call 352-378-9220 or mobile 213-3901   2-5-
09-10-2
4/2 HOME PLUS STUDY
corner lot, H/D 2385 sq ft for $1800 + $1800 deposit. 3608 NW 22nd Pl. Call 352-214-1956   2-19-09-20-2Summit House 1BR/1BA Available Now
$605 per mouth $250 security Walk to VA or Shands Call 352-672-1482   3-6-09-30-2
** Across From UF ** 
$1150/mo Special!
2br/2ba Limited Time Offer  for Fall Luxury Apts w/ Internet & Parking Incl.www.LookingGlassApartments.com111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-22-09-59-2
One month FREE!
1 & 2 BR single-story villas starting from $529Move in costs starting at $139Close to Oaks Mall and Archer Road.Pine Rush Villas 375-1519          4-22-09-59-2
One month FREE!
1 & 2 BR flats starting from $599Move in costs starting at $139Two blocks south of Archer Rd. & 34th StHomestead Apts. 376-0828     4-22-09-59-2
One month FREE! $189 Moves you in!
HUGE 2 & 3 BR single story villasstarting from $759Close to Oaks Mall & Newberry Rd.
Ashton Square Villas 333-1120    4-22-09-
59-2
3BR/1BA apts. 1 Blk to UF - August 1st. 
Renovated historic building. 1227 SW 4th Ave. Wood flrs, cent H/AC, parking, some utils pd. $1475/mo. Call 352-514-5060 cell.   2-9-10-2
WOODSIDE VILLAS off Tower Rd. 7200 SW 
8th Ave. 2BR/1BA + bonus rm. Flex leasing 
terms. 1072 sq ft. Vaulted ceiling, W/D, DW, 
fans, pool, newer carpet/tile, bus rte, NS, no 
pets. $750/mo. Quiet area 352-339-6502  
2-6-09-8-2
LARGE 2BR DUPLEX NEAR UF. Fenced 
backyard, lots of privacy, W/D, screened porch & extra large utility room. Only $500 deposit & $725/mo. Call 352-372-3131. Location: 1710 SW 38th Terr.    4-22-09-58-2
UNREAL LOCATION ON UNIVERSITY 
AVE/LAW SCHOOL2360 W University Ave4 bed/ 2 bth, w/d, Large Yard, Fireplace. Walking distance to UF, 1 block from law school. Call Bill at 615-400-5178$1000.00 a month through July. $1400.00 Starting Aug 1.  2-10-09-10-2
FIRST MONTH FREE OR $300 CASH! $650/
mo, 1/1, quiet friendly complex,2 miles from reitz union.Grad student, moved up north, I need to rent my place! lreiden@hotmail.com, 973-534-3788 for more details.    2-6-09-7-2
Huge 5/3 MH on 5ac 12 min to UF, w/d, no 
pet fee. $1600 mth. 352-213-3943   2-17-14-2
Spacious POOL home in Keystone Heights
3BR 2Bath, 35 min from G.ville, quiet cul du sac, lots of extras, PET FRIENDLY Call Trevor Water Realty 352-473-7777    2-4-5-2
$445-4/4 University Terrace condo; includes 
cable, internet, and utilities. On routes 12 and 35. Immediate occupancy. 352.514.3398   2-12-10-2
1BR/1BA Next to UF Campus
W/D incl in unit. Small pet ok. Pool/exercise 
room. $800/mo 352-378-5801 x 5   2-12-09-5-2
HURRY HORSE PROPERTY!
Cabin, 20 acres, 7 mi south of Newberry. Paddocks, riding trails. $575/mo + $100 per horse, u-feed. Dogs welcome 330-329-8834 writer777@att.net   2-5-09-5-2
Duckpond
2 bd 1.5 ba 1200 sq ft townhouse in heart of 
historic neighborhood.w/d Blocks to down -
town shops & restaurants. 508 NE 4th A ave 
avail immediately  $695/mo 379-4952
2-13-09-10-2
1BR/1BA apt. Large screened in porch, W/D 
hook-ups, pets ok. Rent $525/mo; sec dep $525. 3300 SW 23rd St. Apt. #2. Call 352-371-3473    2-13-09-10-22BR/1.5BA Townhouse. Fenced in courtyard, 
W/D hook-ups. Newly remodeled kitchen. Monthly rent $700. Pets ok. Sec dep $700. 3935 & 4007 SW 26th Terr. Call 352-371-3473   2-13-09-10-2
Downtown Luxury & Cash Back 4 Fall!
Sign now for studios, 1/1, 2/2, 3/3s! Perfect 
Location-Great Price-No Move-in Fees
W/D*Wood Floors*Bring Your Pets!
Great parking-walk to bars-bike to UF
Reserve now! 338-0002
4-22-09-53-2
1 & 2 BRS Avail NOW! NO MOVE-IN FEES!
1/1 - 750 SQ FT - $699
2/2-1007 sq ft for $799 or $899 for brand new 
& w/d. Water & Sewer Included!Call Today! 352-376-2507      4-22-58-2
HCAMPUS EDGE CONDOH
2/2 Waltk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile floor, W/D 
in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate 239-250-
6149   239-992-2449   2-20-09-14-2
Why Pay More?
Great Apartments at a Great Price!1/1 - From $689;  2/2 - From $759;3/2 - From $899 CALL:  (352) 377-7401www.theboardwalkapt.com   4-22-09-56-2
We have REAL 1/1s for Feb ‘09!
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
300 NW 18 St-Large, 575 sq ft only $585!
Bike to UF - CENTERPOINT
1220 NW 12 St-530 sq ft big, only $475!
No Application Fee, Most Pets OK. For info
call E.F.N. Properties, (352) 371-3636 or
email Rentals@EFNProperties.com
2-20-09-14-2
HLive on UF Lake H
Huge 2/2 with Den - 3/2
Fully Remodeled $1275/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-53-2
HLive on UF Lake H
Large Estate, 5 bedrms
Dock & Pool, $2500/mo
352-870-9453
4-22-53-2
2 bdrm/1 bath, Sun Bay Apts. near UF cam-
pus, bus route, 2 pools, workout room, W/D hookup, $685/mo. (negotiable). Contact for more information: slw@hellokitty.com or (352)870-0010.   2-10-09-5-2
2/1.5 Newly Renovated Townhouse. Avail 
Now or Fall 09. Close to Shands, Park N Ride 2, & Shopping. Incl W/D, A/C, Pvt Patio, & Pool. $745/mth & $500 Dep. No Pets Pls. 772-538-5792 or ltsao12@hotmail.com   2-10-09-5-2
2BR/1BA SPACIOUS 
7209 SW 45th Pl, Gainesville. Cent H/AC, 
W/D hk-up. $600/mo, $500 sec dep. No pets. Call 386-462-0994   2-17-08-10-2
3BR/1BA HOUSE
1 car garage. Biking distance to UF. $900/
mo. $700 sec dep. No pets. 825 NW 10th Ave. 386-462-0994   2-17-09-10-2
AFFORDABLE, COZY AND PRIVATE!!!
2bdrmS/1bath apt and 2bdrmS/2baths/1Loft home for rent. Near UF, SFCC, Shands, Restaurants and Shopping. For more info, please call 352-359-0711.    2-10-09-5-2
GOT LATE NIGHT MUNCHIES?
Tropical Smoothie CafeNOW OPEN 24 HOURSCome study with us - Free WiFi3345 SW 34th Street        2-17-10-2
2BR/2.5BA CONDO
with furnished living room, dining room & kitchen. $550/mo/person. utils included. Great location - near UF. Available immedi -
ately. Call 561-753-6972   2-10-09-5-2WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 17
DON’T WAIT
TO PLACE 
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 22rd.
CALL TODAY!!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT 
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Arlington Square (2b/2ba) -$1025/mo-
UF Campus/Downtown Gainesville. Avail 
12/18/08. Utils not incl. Must be willing to 
take over existing lease. Security dep free. Contact sean6cly@ufl.edu or 239-410-1603   2-9-08-30-3
First month’s rent FREE!
Fully furnished premium apt. at Gateway at 
Glades. $455/mo., all utilities included.
jbreland@ufl.edu   2-11-15-3
1 BR/BTH 1/2 mile from UF. Near Oaks Mall 
& other attractions. On bus 20 & 21 route. $549 a mth. Pet-friendly. Call Vicki at 865-363-7044.   2-9-09-7-3
$400/MONTH SUBLEASE THRU AUGUST
Apt less than a mile from campus & down -
town. Amenities include W/D, dishwasher, oven w/ stovetop, & refrigerator For more 
info call 863-370-9602 or 863-581-4928.   
2-4-09-5-3
Subleasing a 1/1 in a 2/2 at Cabana Beach. 
Available NOW-July 31st. First month FREE. $614/month includes: Utilities, Gym, Pool, Furnished, W/D, Large plasma TV, Balcony, Vaulted ceilings, near Buses. $200 deposit moves you in today, first month FREE! Call 954-682-9738.    2-6-5-3
Subleasing a 1 bedroom/1bath in a 4/4, 
february is paid for on me. Nice apartment, furnished and great amneties $550 a month, everything included: furnisher, utilities. locat-ed on Archer Rd and 23 terrace,contact me at (954)865-6539 or gazouzou18@hotmail.com; don’t miss out!   2-4-09-3-3
ONE BLOCK ACROSS FROM UF/LIBRARY 
WEST!
$410/month for 1BR/1BA in 2/2 at Looking 
Glass Apts. Great location, price great-ly reduced! Can lease through August. 
561.261.2249   2-6-5-3
Furnished 1/1 in 2/2 apt @ Lexington 
Crossing. $557/mo. utilities included. FEB FREE, NEGOTIABLE. Avail today through 
Aug 7. For more info ywpark@ufl.edu or 352-
872-8329   2-6-3-3

2OOMMATES
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-22-72-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
l1br w/pvt entrance available in 2BR condo 
Central air and heat. 2 pools in complex. Walking distance to UF. Rent 375/mo
l1BR hdwd flrs, pvt ba avail in beautiful NW 
house close to UF $395/mo 352-316-3930.    
2-13-09-30-4Very close to campus 4/2 remodeled condo 
opens to lovely courtyard and pool. $425 w/ 
UT cable and internet included.(for sale or 
rent) call 352-870-0291   2-17-09-30-4
Male roommate needed. Share furn 3BR/2BA 
house w/yng prof $400/mo +1/2 util Directv, ph, wireless, Vonage, elec. W/D, ofc space pvt BA (morn) lg yd fenced, pets ok, trees, 
wooddeck, hottub, pond. UF-15 min drive, 
near bus, Lakeview Ests 352-682-6297    
2-10-25-4
2 BRs AVAIL FOR FEMALES ONLY
in 4/2.5 townhouse. $450/mo/room. All in-
cluded: internet, cable, electric, etc. 754-204-1624   2-13-09-27-4
2 Female roommates NS/ND to share a new 
4/2 house in a quiet neighborhood 3 mi. W of I-75. w/ cable, internet & security alarm. $475/mo. util. incl. Call 352 331 8794   2-20-30-4
1BD/1BA avail NOW in 2/2.5 condo near UF. 
Furnished, W/D, pool, open parking, on 4 
bus rts. $400/mo + 1/2 utils. Call Chris 561-
445-9034   2-6-09-17-4
Share 2/2 MH Furn rm $200 N/R dep. $400/
mo; $100/wk incl util.  2wk adv. laun/cook svc 
avail N/S, N/A, N/D. Discount for handyman. 
Car a+ 30 day notice 2 vacate. Nr bus/shops 
Sm caged pet ok 331-0762   2-9-10-4
- :: 2 Blocks To UF :: - 
Room in 4br condo incl utils, internet, cable 
TV, pool. Very Nice $375. 283-8777
www.Gainesville-Rooms-4-Rent.com  4-22-
09-62-4
Master bed w/private bath in 4BR/3BA house 
off NW 16th Ave. DW, W/D, Cox cable w/
networked inernet, new carpet & ceiling fans. 
No cats or dogs. $425/mo incl utils. 328-
4995   2-5-10-4
TWO FEMALE ROOMMATES needed for a 
nice 4/2 house to live with two other gradu -
ate professional women. ONLY $350 & $375. Includes util and swimming pool. Great loca-
tion, quiet neighborhood. Call Mr. Kristoff 
352-332-5030    2-10-09-10-4
1/2 OFF 1st MONTH Rent if in by March!
Seeking 2 roommates-1.5 miles to UFeasy ride2 SFCC off-NW 16th-HUGE house,PoolTable,65”TV Large rooms!sayNo2apts$495/MONTH per room 561-756-5368   2-10-10-4
Looking for male college student (preferred) 
to share 4BR/4BA condo with same. Own bathroom. W/D, high speed internet. Includes utilities $430/mo (available immediately) 863-634-1893   2-4-5-4
1BR/1BA avail march 1st in 2Br/2BA for re-
sponsible mature individual. $425-$450/mo + utils. Barandywine on Archer Rd. yttek@
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566   2-6-
6-09-6-4ENJOY A ROMANTIC OLD HOUSE
Near library downtown. $285-$375/rm + utils. 
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
2-6-5-4
2 female grad nonsmokers seek 3rd F non-
smoker for 3/3 @ new Enclave beg. Aug 1. Clean, quiet, no pets. $510/mo, appliances, pantry, carpet/tile, walk-in closet, 3 bus 
routes. ebisibe@yahoo.com to SIGN ASAP   
2-5-2-4

2EAL %STATE
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD ONLINE AT www.al-
ligator.org.  or please call 373-Find
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551   
4-22-72-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4 
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman, 
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879.  4-22-72-5
Brand new luxury condos starting at $220k. 
Granite tops, tall ceilings, private balcony, 
steel & concrete construction, alarm system. 
Call Eric Wild at 352-870-9453    4-22-72-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL 2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF. Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-35514-22-72-5
CONDOS AT UF
www.CONDOSatUF.com
Matt & Tiffany Thomas, Bosshardt Realty(352) 494-0194 or (352) 316-5556  2-17-
60-5
HUGE 4bd/3.5ba NW home in Walnut Creek 
off 39th Ave! Great location to UF or SantaFe! Tons of upgrades, huge porch off 2nd story, 2 car garage & more. $229,900! Please call Dana Fults @ 352.318.0686!    2-18-15-5
2BR/2BA Unfurnished for $600. 7200 SW 8th 
Ave- Unit B#8 Woodside Villas off of Tower 
road. 1YR Leases. Call: Joanne at 808-779-
0714    2-9-09-5-2BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-22-08-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846       4-22-08-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490       4-22-08-72-6
BED - KING - $170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  4-22-08-72-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost $1500, sacrifice $450     352-333-7516___________________________________Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg     333-75164-22-72-6 
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100 (352) 372-7490     4-22-08-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846   4-22-08-72-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table, 
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New, 
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100. 
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588   4-22-
72-6 
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-22-08-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516. 4-22-72-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846. 4-22-72-6 
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop 
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516. 4-22-72-6 BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard, 
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must 
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.    4-22-08-
72-6
FUTON - $60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With 
plush mattress $140. All brand NEW still in box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516  4-22-72-6 
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. 
New in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
___________________________________
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still 
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516   4-22-72-6 

#OMPUTERS
CASH PAID FOR LAPTOP’S
Buy - Sell - Trade Any Condition
336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz Joel      4-22-
08-72-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-08-72-7
4-22-70-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041. www.GatorlandComputers.com  4-22-70-7
HP PAVILLION 524C
For sale including keyboard, monitor & speakers. $100/OBO.   352-332-2705   2-10-5-7

 "ICYCLES
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)   
4-22-72-918, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009
PARKING :
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-22-08-72-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: 
http://www.surplus.ufl.edu/online/  392-0370
4-22-08-72-10

-OTORCYCLES -OPEDS
●●●●●● SCOOTERS ●●●●●●
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974 
4-22-08-72-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-22-08-72-11
★★★GatorMoto★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit 
shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com  4-22-08-
72-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-22-08-72-11
***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
 Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
 All on one site! Check the website or call 
336-1271 for more info!  4-22-08-72-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   4-22-08-72-11
SWAMP CYCLES
Closest to Campus. Largest selection,
Best Customer Service.
Motorcycles, Scooters, Accessories, and Service.
633 NW 13th Street    www.swampcycles.com4-22-72-11
★★★SOLANO CYCLE★★★
Scooters from $799. Largest selection from 
KYMCO, Daelim, Hyosung, Adly, Genuine, 
Estblished 10 yrs,     2 yr warranties
1024 S Main St 338-8450 solanocycle.com
4-22-08-72-11Sun City Auto
No Credit CheckAll Vehicles $0 DownBuy Here – Pay Here
352-338-1999    4-22-09-62-12
● 2003 Saab 93, 60,000 miles fully loaded in 
excellent condition! $10,000.
●2002 Mitsubishi Eclipse RS, manual trans-mission, $85,000 miles. $4,800. Call (352) 
284-8478 or e-mail jessiesawka@gmail.com   
2-18-20-12
$$ CASH TODAY! $$
For Your Unwanted Cars
Junk!! Trucks, RVs, & Wrecks!!!
TOP DOLLAR PAID!
386-234-0072 & 386-234-0075
2-27-09-24-12

 7ANTED
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243.  4-22-
72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090  4-22-
08-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and for walks and shopping as needed. We’ll have lots of fun! And you will make a new friend!  Contact 219-6948    2-12-09-74-13

 (ELP 7ANTED
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-vertiser before giving out personal informa-tion or arranging meetingsLIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be 
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, perssonal references. www.
carrsmith.com for details.    4-22-72-14
EARN $60 THIS WEEK!
Donate Plasma & Save a Life
$$$$$$$$$$$$
Best part-time job you’ll ever have.
NEW DONORS
Bring this Ad and Earn an
Extra $5 on Your 2nd Donation.
DCI Biologicals 150 NW 6th St.
352-378-9204
4-22-08-72-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  4-22-08-72-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-22-08-72-14
CNA TRAINING CLASS: $250! Work at your 
own time & pace in your own home! To get 
program on DVD’s call 352-597-2559. For 
online program visit  www.lapcnatraining.com Get started right away!   4-22-72-14
Paradigm Properties
Leasing Specialist, PTSales & Customer service exp.EOE, DFWPApply on-line at: www.teamparadigm.com 352-375-2152 ex 301    4-22-67-14
Earn extra money. Students needed ASAP. 
Earn up to $150/day being a mystery shop-per. No experience required. Call 1-800-722-4791   4-22-09-65-14
Busy doctor needs professional executive 
assistant 20-30 hrs/week. Experience is an absolute must. Ideal applicant able to an-ticipate need. Compensation based on exp, email CV to gm@ehsfamily.com   2-16-09-22-14Are you tired of working more for less and less?
Break the cycle & get what you really want: 
1-800-679-7042 Ex.2660   2-16-20-14
Web Designer/Programmer to maintain and 
build web applications. Experienced with 
PHP, ASP, MySQL, Dreamweaver, etc. hr@
alesys.com   2-5-09-11-14
Immediate opening for a
Professional Leasing Agent!Part Time or Full TimeExperience Preferred, Great Pay!
Fax resume to 352-372-0708   4-22-59-14
NO JOBS AVAILABLE,
BUT WE OFFER CASH AND TRADE for 
CDs and DVDs (and we sell them too).
HEAR AGAIN CDs & DVDs
818 W University Ave 32601  2-17-09-20-14
Paralegal/Legal Assistant; Legal office expe-
rience preferred. Energetic, High work ethic, 
good people skills and attention to detail a 
must! Full time, non-smoker. Fax resume 
with cover letter to Law Office of Carl Carrillo 
(352)371-7127.    2-11-09-14-14
Local Webpreneur sold portfolio of 
companys, looking to do it again with a new 
local team. Exciting Oppty --Contract to 
perm pos. MUST know PHP, MYsql, CSS, 
Flash, Web/Ad Creatives. Resume, portfolio 
and rates to resume@gvilleholdings.com
2-5-09-10-14
400+ Counselors/Instructors Jobs!
3 Coed summer camps in PA.
Travel Paid, Top Salary.
Cool Nights & Warm Days!
1-800-488-4321, www.lohikan.com    4-22-
09-59-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-22-
09-59-14
Homework Coach needed for bright disor-
ganized 9th grader. Daily Sun � Thurs. (2 hours). Hours can be flexible. $9.00/hour with .445/mile. Fax or email qualifications, letter(s) of recommendation, and contact info. to Judith Wishin - email wishin@cox.net Fax 846-1287.   2-4-09-7-14
Medical Office Assistant PT. Afternoons & 
evenings, Mon-Fri, 4-6pm. Duties incl: medi-cal billing, dictation & scheduling. Some pa-tient interaction. Mail resume to TRC 6400 Newberr Rd, Ste 301, Gville 32605   2-9-10-14
SELF-MOTIVATED start today and receive 
$500-$3500 per week. Asolutely no selling. 800-242-0363 ext 8852; www.mygoldplan.com/gmgreen (serious inquiries only)   2-4-09-5-14
Toddler Teacher Needed. Imagine Learning 
Center info@imaginelearningcenter.com 371-5450. Taking applications from reliable,creative individuals who enjoy work-ing with children.    2-18-09-15-14
Models needed for photo and film shoots. 18 
to 25, excellent shape (toned, defined, mus-cular), attractive - no experience necessary. Great cash opportunity. Apply at www.asftal-ent.com/alligator    2-6-6-14
Rep/Model wanted to promote local 
Motocross Track. Some local travelinvolved, looking for outgoing,personable, some computer skills,dependable transportation. Salary Negotiable. Email photo and resume to Terri at admin@lcmg.info     2-12-09-10-14
Baby Photographer / Sales Rep
Our365 is currently seeking a sales and 
customer service-oriented individual to 
take photos of newborns at North Florida 
Regional Medical Center. Part-time.
Must be 18. EOE. Apply online at
www.our365.com/opportunities.
2-4-09-4-14
NEED PIANO, GUITAR, VOICE, VIOLIN 
TEACHERS Immediate openings for music teachers to drive to clients’ homes to teach. Best pay of any studio in town. Refs, Exp., Music Degree/pending important. Email through website: www.kaleymusic.com.   2-6-6-14WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 19
2008 Redstreak SuperSport 49cc Blue 
Scooter:
approx. 750 miles, great condition, paid 
$1800, asking for $1050 Please call 352-
672-0328    2-4-5-11
2008 Redstreak MetroRetro 49cc Scooter:
approx. 442 miles, great condition, white with 
teal accents $900 Call 352-514-1116   2-4-
5-11

 !UTOS
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS●Over 15 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-22-08-72-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-22-72-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622 
4-22-72-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas ● Chevys ● Jeeps and more!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
4-22-72-12
★FAST CASH PAID★
For any running cars or trucks. 1995 and up. 
Clean or ugly. Segovia 352-284-8619  4-22-
72-12
★★★★★ATTENTION★★★★★
 ●●●●●SUN CITY AUTO SALES●●●●●
WHY PAY MORE? YOU COULD PAY LESS!
300+ vehicles @ wholesale prices 338-1999      
4-22-08-72-12
All Vehicles Must Go!
Liquidation Sale Special60 Days Payoff on Cash Vehicles(Payoff time negotiable)Sun City Auto 352-338-1999  4-22-09-62-12
Over 250 Vehicles Will Be Sold At 
Wholesale Prices to the PublicIncluding Cars, Trucks, Vans & SUVsSun City Auto 352-338-1999   4-22-09-62-12
Bring Your W-2 and Ride Home Today
Why Wait for Your Refund?File Your Taxes Here andDrive Off in Your VehicleSun City Auto 352-338-1999   4-22-09-62-12
PT tennis ct & gen maintenance/tennis shop 
person at Haile Plantation CC. Early morn-ing hrs req. Must have proven background of reliability & punctuality. Tennis background a+, enjoys customer relations. Bob 335-4105   2-10-09-5-14
DANCE INSTRUCTORS
FOR POLE DANCING LESSONSCall French Addiction 352-373-6628 or stop by 819 W. University Ave.    2-10-09-5-14
TROPICAL SMOOTHIE CAFE
Come Study with Us - Free WiFi
NOW OPEN 24 HOURS
3345 SW 34th Street     379-9988    
2-17-10-14

 3ERVICES
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-22-72-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners. 
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250’ x 
160’ riding ring, round pen  & jump paddock. Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175 
everglade-equestrian.com   4-22-74-15
Want to be a CNA? Don’t want to wait? 
Express Training Services can get you certi-
fied under 3 wks! Hands-on exp, no videos. 
Day/eve/wkend. Class sizes limited. 338-1193 for details expresstrainingservices.com 4-22-08-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-22-72-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762. Greathouse Equestrian Ctr.   4-22-72-15
GATOR MOVING & STORAGE 
Local and long distance moving
One item or a houseful!
10% off with this ad!       FL Reg IM 19  
Call Now! 352-374-4791, 800-797-6766
4-22-08-72-15
HORSE BOARDING
12 x 12 stall - cement block barn. Good grass 
turnout with room to run! Limited # of stalls available. 352-472-2627 for info & directions. 4-22-08-72-15
HYPNOTIST - Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Elminate bad habits. Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis. Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH, 
NGH certified 379-1079     4-22-72-15 MOVING? 
 FREEWAY MOVING 
You’ll love our low rates & references. Student 
Discount. Call 352-256-0999. Lic #IM707
4-22-72-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
4-22-72-15
Perfect Valentines Day Gift!
Turn favorite photos into unique artwork.
Canvas printing, custom framing available.
www.popartworkshop.com   2-6-12-15
Free $10.00 gift Card
coolgiftsbuy.com
Get your Valentines Gift
coolgiftsbuy@comcast.net    2-6-09-9-15
Ivy-League Educated Editors!
Use us to help you produce a powerful, 
well-written and outstanding academic 
paper or personal statement! Find us at 
www.onyxwriting.com.   2-10-09-10-15
HORSE BOARDING
Stalls, pasture available. Turn out or full 
board. For information & directions call 352-
591-1850, if no answer leave message.  
2-12-09-10-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding. Owner  
housing. Dressage, stadium jumping, 
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities. 
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges. 
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie 352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.   2-20-09-15-15
POLE DANCING LESSONS
Call French Addiction 352-373-6628 or stop by 819 W. University Ave.   2-10-09-5-15

(EALTH 3ERVICES
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-22-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-22-72-16Family Chiropractic 
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-22-72-18 
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
4-22-08-72-18
  
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)

 #ONNECTIONS
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
Jack,
Your place, while cozy, was just a little crowd-ed with your roommate sitting in front of the 
TV playing his video game, “Tear Off Their 
Heads and Suck Their Guts Out Their Necks” (or whatever it’s called), the whole time. He scratches a lot doesn’t he?            Kelly
2-4-09-1-19

%VENT .OTICES
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Happy Shlover Day (+ a few), Shlover!
You’re the bestest ever and I really, really like you! You’re my FAVORITE and we’re going to run away together and be together forever and ever (pinky promise and kiss it!) <3 2-4-1-20
NOW OPEN 24 HRS ---- STUDY WITH US!
2-1710-20

%NTERTAINMENT
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-22-08-72-21PT Help Needed imm. Student w/ excel-
lent organizational skills to organize library, mags, ltrs, & lrge house. 5-10 hrs/wk, wknds, hrs flexible. $8/hr. E-mail res and 2 ltrs of ref to kinsbill2000@yahoo.com   2-4-09-3-14
FLORAL EXPRESSIONS FLORIST needs 
Valentine’s Week helpers with florist exper. come join us Top $$.Call E-Beth @ 375-1234.   2-6-09-5-14
DELIVERY DRIVERS with own vehicle for 
Valentine’s Day 13th/14th. TOP $$$
Call Brett 375-1234 @ Floral Expressions 
Florist.   2-6-09-5-14
DANCERS NEEDED
For adult entertainment company. Make 
$1000+/wk. Flex sched 378-3312   2-6-5-14
Survey Takers Needed:
Make $5-$25 per survey.
GetPaidToThink.com   2-27-20-14
FLOWER SHOP HELPERS
for Valentine’s week. Apply 635 NW 13th St.   
2-11-7-14
DELIVERY DRIVERS
Needed for flower shop for Valentine’s week. 
Must have own car. Apply 635 NW 13th St.   
2-11-7-14
An awesome summer job.
If you’re looking to spend this summer out-
doors, have fun while you work, and make 
lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp 
Mataponi, a residential camp in Maine, has 
female/male summertime openings for Land 
Sports, Waterfront (small crafts, skiing, life 
guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, 
Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, 
Cooking, Gymnastics, Dance, Videography, 
Group Leaders & more. Top salaries plus room/board & travel provided. Call us today toll free at 1-561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.   3-19-09-28-14
Summer Jobs
                    $2100                    Co-ed camp                    Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs male and female summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located off of  Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 8 –  July 25. Please contact Krys  Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267   4-22-09-72-14.
Local established rock band seeks drummer 
and bassist. Must be committed to practice 
and shows. This is a serious band having a 
lot of fun. We have a large practice room with full kit and gear. For more info call 352-316-
1199.   2-6-3-1420, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public Wed-Fri-Sat-Sun 1pm-6pm
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-19-09-97-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville  Better Prices
Better Fields  Better Call 371-2092
4-22-08-72-21
 BAHAMAS SPRING BREAK 
$189 5-Days or $239 7-Days. All prices 
include: Round trip luxury cruise with
food. Accommodations on the island at
your choice of thirteen resorts. 
Appalachia Travel 1-800-867-5018.
www.BahamaSun.com #ST35585
3-4-08-86-21
GRADUATION HOTEL HOTLINE
Graduating this May? Wehave rooms! 352-278-1595FL. Seller of  Travel Reg No #12618   2-5-15-21
Spring Break
Caribbean Tour & Cruisehttp://caribtourcruise.com/springbreak.html(800) 955-5594FL Seller of Travel Reg#10098   2-4-10-21

 2IDES
WiFi on buses – New Departures 
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1, 3 & 4:30 
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm – Mon 2 pm -Also 
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra 
charge pay by phone or in person- $35 O/W 
- $45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-22-72-23

 0ETS
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.

 ,OST  &OUND
LARGE HORSE PAINTING by Darien 
Bogart. Predominately black, red. Some horses are skeletons, one’s popping out with open mouth. Given to Goodwill mistakenly. Will pay. 904-434-9320 apc452@yahoo.com   2-10-09-5-25
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law . All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color , religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or VisaThe Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F , 8am - 4pm
Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard
www.alligator.org/classified
By Email:  classifieds@alligator.orgBy Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONL Y . M-F , 8am - 4pm
By Fax: (352) 376-4556When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F , 8am - 4pm. No refunds or cred-
its can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RE-SPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE 
NOON for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
By CHRISTOPHER YAZBEC
Alligator Writer
cyazbec@alligator.org
While the UF women’s basket-
ball team was busy breaking the 
school record for 3-pointers on Sunday against Arkansas, none of the players had any idea how the 
final numbers would crunch.
All they knew was that the 
threes kept falling, and until they 
stopped, the team was not going to let up.
“We were just feeling good 
about ourselves,” Sha Brooks said. “I know earlier in the week, a lot of us came in. We got a lot of shots 
in. We just had one of those nights 
where it just felt like we can’t miss from the 3-point line.”
The No. 11 Gators (20-2, 6-1 
Southeastern Conference) went on to make 13 treys, which broke the previous school mark of 11 and boosted their score to 94, their highest output of the season.
Brooks, who tallied a season-
high four shots from long distance, said she knew what her team was capable of doing.
“On any night, any one of our 
players can go off, even people who come off the bench,” Brooks said. “It’s tough to defend us when we’re playing our best.”
For Arkansas, it was a night-
mare watching UF shoot just shy of 62 percent from beyond the arc.
Junior guard Susan Yenser, 
who added two from long range, saw what making shot after shot did to the Razorbacks.
“When you’re on defense and somebody hits a three, it takes the wind out of you,” Yenser said. “In Arkansas, even when they hit a couple threes, we came back down and answered their threes. So when they’re trying to make a run and we answered with threes, they fell off.”
UF has been a solid, consistent 
3-point shooting team all year.
The Gators are shooting 37.2 
percent from long distance on the season and in SEC play.
They are way ahead of pace 
to break the school record of 179 threes in one season, needing just 
27 more to match that total, set last 
year. 
Not only that, 
but they’re aver-
aging 6.9 treys per game thanks to shooters like Steffi 
Sorensen, who has made a three in 17 straight games. She leads the team with 53 from downtown.
Despite these impressive num-
bers, players and coaches don’t think this team relies on the 3-point shot to win.
“We’re really balanced,” 
Yenser said. “We know that when our shots are hitting, it can get us through a ballgame. But also we know that we can get it inside and 
rely on that, too. So really we’re 
kind of like a double threat.”
UF coach Amanda Butler 
agrees that her team’s shots come in the flow of the game.
“I’d like to think that what we 
rely on the most is our defense, and that leads to a lot of our threes because we’re able to get a steal, get a rebound, push it back down and put them in matchup situations where a lot of times the shooter is who gets left,” Butler 
said.
Making long range shots opens up the rest of the floor and forces 
defenders into a decision.
“You put the opposing defens-
es in really a little bit of a quan-
dary,” Butler said. 
“If you try to take away a 3-point shot, Marshae (Dotson) 
one-on-one on the block is really hard to guard.”
With the way UF’s been shoot-
ing, opponents must choose their fate wisely.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 21
Katie Tschopp / Alligator
UF guard Susan Yenser pauses before passing the ball during the Gators’ 75-54 win against the Rebels 
in the O’Connell Center on Jan. 25.
Gators dial up long-distance record with 13 threes
from junior college. They are the only sure things for UF.
Beside those six, UF enters today with 10 oral commitments, 
but there have been rumors of signing-day switches. 
Andre Debose, a five-star wide receiver from Sanford, com-
mitted to the Gators last month, but took an official visit to 
Florida State last weekend. Nu’Keese Richardson, a wideout from Pahokee, had never visited another school until this past 
weekend, when he went to Tennessee. Both are still expected 
to sign with UF, but their actions over the last week have made fans anxious.
Another potential Gators de-commitment is Marsalis 
Teague, an athlete from Paris, Tenn. Rumors have been cir-
culating that Teague, who is expected to play defensive back 
should he come to UF, would feel nervous about going to col-lege far from his home.
“If (Teague) follows his gut, it’s Florida,” Jamie Newberg 
of Rivals.com said. “If distance plays a factor, it could end up being ‘Bama or Tennessee.”
While some UF commits have been getting cold feet, there 
are a few uncommitted players recruiting analysts think will become Gators.
Jelani Jenkins, a linebacker from Olney, Md., and the na-
tion’s No. 10 overall prospect according to Rivals, is believed to favor UF over Penn State.
Another potential UF linebacker is Jarvis Jones out of 
Columbus, Ga. But Jenkins is believed to be leaning more heav-ily toward than Jones, who has visited Texas and Louisiana State in the past two weeks and is also rumored to like Southern Cal.
Landing Jenkins and Jones would give UF a strong class of 
linebackers that already includes Jon Bostic, a four-star out of Wellington who is already on campus.
“(UF) needed linebackers, and it looks like they’re going to 
get the best three in the country,” Newberg said.
The Gators are also expected to score a commitment from 
safety Joshua Evans of Irvington, N.J.
If UF signs Jenkins, Jones and Evans, as well as its current 
commits, the school will have 19 signees.
But that might not be all.The Gators are believed to have an outside chance at a few 
players: running back Trent Richardson of Pensacola, defensive tackle Brandon Moore of Montgomery, Ala., and wide receiver Marlon Brown of Memphis, Tenn.     
Richardson and Moore look like Alabama commitments and 
Brown is rumored to be Tennessee-bound, but nothing is final until they sign their names to the letter of intent Wednesday.UF’s linebacker class could be best in nation with Jenkins, Jones
of hacky sack then wrap her mind around 
that.
“I don’t know. I don’t believe it,” a red-
faced Nelson said when asked if she ever re-alized she was among the best players in the nation. “If that’s what people think, I guess they’re getting fooled.”
Actually, the fools would be football 
players Dustin Doe, Ahmad Black and Wondy Pierre-Louis, along with a group of baseball players who thought they could hit off Nelson. In Sunday’s Swing for Cancer competition, Nelson struck out athletes from several UF sports and at times made Billy Donovan wish he was playing T-ball.
She’s already UF’s career leader in wins 
(95), saves (15), shutouts (36), complete games (99), innings pitched (856.1) and strikeouts (759). She downed No. 1 Michigan in her freshman year and led UF to its first Women’s College World Series last year.
This is where the competitive side comes 
in – the non-Diet-Coke-sipping, Bob-Marley-listening and hacky-sack-flipping side.
“She does have this driving side of her 
that wants to be a perfectionist,” outfield-er and close friend Kim Waleszonia said. “With homework, she wants to be a perfec-tionist. … From a one-page assignment to a huge 20-page paper. Some people just get it done to be done and turn it in. She gets it done and makes sure it’s done right and looked over 10 times. It doesn’t matter if the teacher’s easy or a hard grader. She makes sure it’s done to perfection.”
Thanks for screwing up that test curve, 
Stacey. Some people depend on those, you know?
It’d be a lot easier for everybody if she 
stayed carefree all the time.
“The deceiving part about it is, when 
she does get in the circle, there is nobody more competitive than she is,” UF coach Tim Walton said. “She’s competitive with strikes. She’s competitive with balls. Those are the things that make her very special.”Even if Nelson doesn’t realize it, she is 
the athlete who has fueled a program for years to come. Walton, in just his fourth year at UF, has been the director, but Nelson has been the performer. 
Ten years from now, when the Gators 
softball program has become one of the best, most consistent programs in the coun-try, Nelson will be the player most talked about. 
If you want to talk to her about it, howev-
er, stand on the side of the road with a case of Diet Coke, a Bob Marley CD and a hacky sack. But good luck talking to her about her-self, because she’d much rather talk about that next bump in the road.Women's
Bask etball
RECRUIT , from page 23
BRIAN , from page 23“(UF) needed linebackers, and it looks like 
they’re going to get the best three in the coun -
try.” 
Jamie Newberg
recruiting analyst for Rivals.com22, ALLIGATOR WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009
Sports
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
POLL QUESTION TODAY IN UF SPORTS HISTORY ON TELEVISION
  NCAA Men’s Basketball: Wake 
Forest vs. Miami
ESPN2, 7:30 p.m.
 NCAA Men’s Basketball: West 
Virginia vs. Syracuse
ESPN, 7 p.m.68 TOTAL VOTES Percent (Votes)
Yes 94% (64)
No 6% (4)
Previous question:  Will UF avenge its loss to South Carolina on Tuesday night? (see right for results)Today’s question: Who is the second-best athlete at UF? 1970: LSU guard Pete Maravich scores 
52 points on 20-of-38 shooting, grabs nine rebounds and dishes out seven as-sists in Florida Gym, leading the Tigers to a 97-75 win over the Gators.Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
UF center Alex Tyus dunks during the Gators’ 97-93 victory against South Carolina on Tuesday night in the O’Connell Center.
By MIKE DiFERDINANDO
Alligator Staff Writer
mdiferdinando@alligator.org
With a hot hand and an icy 
glare, Erving Walker led the 
Gators on the road to redemp-tion.
The freshman, who turned the 
ball over five times during UF’s 
last meeting with South Carolina, 
finished with a career-high 18 
points and four assists while 
knocking down  three shots from 
3-point range as the Gators (19-4, 
6-2 Southeastern Conference) beat 
the Gamecocks (16-5, 5-3 SEC) 97-
93.
“It would have hurt to lose two 
(games) in one week,” Walker 
said. “We didn’t want to lose to these guys again.”
The Gators had six players 
score in double figures, including 
all five starters and Walker. 
The game went was close 
throughout and was tied on 17 
separate occasions.
With the victory and 
Kentucky’s loss to Mississippi 
State on Tuesday night, UF now has sole possession of the lead in the SEC East.
South Carolina had won four 
straight coming into the game.
Forward Chandler Parsons 
cried in the locker room after the Gators loss to the Gamecocks on Jan. 21.
As he walked off the court 
Tuesday night, the sophomore couldn’t help but crack a smile.
Parsons finished the game with 
14 points and 10 rebounds.
“I felt like someone stole some-
thing from me,” Parsons said. 
“That game was a bad memory, 
but I think we’ve learned from 
it.”
Sophomore center Alex Tyus 
stood tall in the paint, scoring 19 points and grabbing seven re-bounds.
The two teams traded baskets 
in a first half that saw UF take a 
49-45 lead into the locker room.
But South Carolina started 
the second half with a 7-2 run in 
which the Gamecocks took a 52-51 lead.
With the scored tied 72-72, UF 
went on a 5-0 run in which the Gators began to separate them-selves for the first time. 
They wouldn’t give up the lead again.
Senior guard Walter Hodge 
made several crucial free throws down the stretch and finished 5 of 7 from the line.
“They made some big shots, 
but we came down and made our 
free throws when it counted,” said 
sophomore guard Nick Calathes, 
who finished with 22 points, six 
rebounds and five assists on the 
night. 
South Carolina turned the ball 
over 17 times, while UF capital-ized on Gamecocks fouls and controlled the game down the 
stretch.
Gamecocks guard Devan 
Downey kept his team alive late 
in the game, scoring 33 points and going 7 of 9 from 3-point range.
“I looked at him and I was in 
awe,” Parsons said.
After coming back into the 
game with 57 seconds remaining, Downey hit three 3-pointers in a 29-second span.
He could not connect on four 
straight shots, however. He 
missed the Gamecocks’ final shot 
with 12 seconds remaining.
Still, his performance im-
pressed the Gators.
When asked after the game to 
describe his effort in one word, 
Tyus knew his answer.
“Lethal,” he said.Walker leads UF to close win
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
For UF coaches, today could not come 
soon enough.
All year, while game-planning week to 
week and hoping to guide their players to 
a national championship, the UF staff has had Feb. 4 in the back of its mind. Today is the reason the staff has spent countless 
hours on phones, in living rooms and in 
the ears of high school coaches, all in the hopes of swaying teenagers to their side in a life-changing decision.
Today, Urban Meyer and company 
find out if it was worth it.
Across the nation, high school stu-
dents will don baseball hats with a dress shirt and tie as they announce where they 
will spend the next three to five years, barring off-the-field setbacks. They will sign a contract that binds them to a foot-
ball program in exchange for a fully paid education, books and housing included.
Until today, little is guaranteed. Some 
players have orally committed, but they 
can change their minds so long as they haven’t signed a letter of 
intent.
The Gators 
enter Wednesday 
with 16 commit-
ments. Of those 
16, six are already on campus. These 
players either graduated high school ear-ly, came from prep school or transferred Recruits to sign today
She cruises around town, car windows 
down, maybe even a foot sticking out 
the window. 
A Diet Coke likely sits in the cup holder 
as thoughts of the next rendezvous with her hacky sack are close by. While the mel-odies of Bob Marley and other oldies mixes relax her until the team arrives at its desti-nation, she has conversations reminiscing about random bumps in the road she and her teammates have encountered.
This is the second-best athlete at UF.Welcome to the world of Stacey Nelson.Other than Tim Tebow, she is 
Gainesville’s top attraction.
She may be the best player in the coun-try, but she doesn’t know it. She could be the player that, years from now, is known as the pitch-er most responsible for starting a soft-ball powerhouse, but she’s blushing at the thought of it. She may be one of the most decorated 
athletes — in all sports — to come to UF, but she would rather get to another game 
Nelson relaxed despite success
Brian Steele
Steele-ing Bases
bsteele@alligator.org
SEE RECRUIT , PAGE 21SEE BRIAN , PAGE 21Freshman guard scores career-high 18
“It would have hurt to lose 
two (games) in one week. 
We didn’t want to lose to 
these guys again.”
Erving Walker
UF freshman guard
Football24, ALLIGATOR WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009
