0the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 64 We Inform. You Decide.-0 tye
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009
FIU 3 fFLORIDA 62
Gators romp, begin preparing for Senior Day
By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kmaistri@alligator org
As the 62-3 score went final on Tim Tebow's second-
to-last home game as a Gator, the quarterback could
feel his time winding down.
Tebow knows it's becoming more and more impor-
tant to make sure his successor, John Brantley, is ready .
to take over the reins once he's gone.
The sophomore showed how far he has come as a -
passer in the second half, going 9 for 13 for 146 yards
and three touchdowns, but Tebow was more concerned g
with something else.
"I was actually trying to get Johnny to -ow
go around shaking hands with me, but he
didn't want to," said Tebow, who takes a
victory lap around The Swamp after ev-Football ery home victory. "But I'll get that tradi-
tion passed on."
Brantley gave Gators fans a short look at the fu-
ture of the team's passing attack against FIU (3-8, 3-4
Sun Belt) with touchdown strikes to redshirt freshmen -
Omarius Hines and Frankie Hammond Jr. -the first
of their careers -but his reluctance to join the former
Heisman Trophy winner on his post-game jog around
Florida Field shows the Tim Tebow era isn't over quite
yet.
"I've been waiting for three years now, but you
know what, I've just learned so much and I've taken it
all in these three years," Brantley said. "To sit behind
one of the greatest players in college football is a bless- Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
ing to me." UF senior quarterback Tim Tebow high-fives fans' outstretched hands as he makes his customary victory lap around
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 15 Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Saturday after Florida's 62-3 win over FIU.
UF FACULTY
Employee arrested for DUI
By MATT HARRINGER
Alligator Contributing Writer
A resident psychiatrist at UF's College of
Medicine was arrested early Sunday morning
for driving drunk and failing to stop after hit-
ting a pedestrian near Ben and Jerry's on Uni-
versity Avenue.
Marcus Anderson, 28, drove onto the side-
walk and hit 27-year-old law student Clay
Hodges as he was leaving 101 Cantina, accord-
ing to a police report.
Hodges said the vehicle hit his elbow and
the side mirror smashed into his ribs.
After hitting Hodges, Anderson hit a stop
sign, put his car in reverse and tried to driveaway, according to the report.
Cameron Pettit, who watched the scene
from his doorman post at
101 Cantina, said if the ac-
cident had happened five
minutes earlier, 10 people
waiting in a line to enter the
~ bar would have been hit.
After being hit, Hodges
said he was sore, but para-
Anderson medics said nothing was
broken.
"I was lucky," Hodges said.
Phone calls to Anderson were not returned
Sunday. He was released without bail.'Twi-hards' flock to
theaters for premiere
By JARED M ISN ER and
ALISON SCHWARTZ
Alligator Writers
They came costumed and Cullen-
crazed. They bypassed bedtimes for
Bella. They were dragged, they were
shameless, they came in secrecy.They reread, they rewatched, they
remembered. They were
Special divided. They stuck with
Report Team Edward. They ral-
lied for the underdog.
They set records.
They, the millions of page-turning,
SEE TWILIGHT, PAGE 5
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersU Setter Kelly
Murphy and Florida
(right) fell 3-1 at
Tennessee on
Friday,
eliminating the
Gators from the
SEC race. UF came
back to win at Ken-
tucky on Sunday.
See Story, Page 14.-day
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
10
13
14Partly
cloudy
79/55
visit www.alligator.org.I I
2, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Engineers Without Borders
General Body meeting
Tuesday, 7:30 p.m.
RNK 110
All majors are welcome. The
group will be having a short pre-
sentation by a guest speaker and
updates on all the recent happen-
ings of the club.
Project Yucatan fundraiser
Nov. 30,6 to 8 p.m.
Gelato Company
Project Yucatan is an interdisci-
plinary health outreach program
that sets up medical clinics in
underserved communities in the
Yucatan Peninsula during Spring
Break. The group is student-run
and self-funded and is trying to
raise money to purchase the medi-
cations it will need for its clinics.
The group needs to raise $20,000
to sustain its trip.
UFSIFE Sustainable
Entrepreneurship Forum
Dec. 1, 6:30 p.m.
Bryan Hall 232
UF Students in Free Enterprise
would like to invite students to
its Sustainable Entrepreneurship
Forum. In this forum, attendees
will have the opportunity to hear
from and network with entrepre-
neurs who have incorporated en-
vironmentally-friendly practices
in their businesses. Students will
also learn about how to turn any
business into a sustainable one.
Spots are limited, so please RSVP
to sife.entrepreneurship@gmail.
com as soon as possible.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this space?
Send an e-mail to bkelley@alliga-
tor.org with "What's Happening"
in the subject line. Please include
a one- to two-sentence synopsis
of the event. Make sure all sub-
missions are formatted properly.
Space in this section is limited.FORECAST
TODAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
79/55THURSDAY
CLOUDY
76/56WEDNESDAY
RAIN
75/55THURSDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
74/45a the Emdependent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 64  ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Flonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)FRIDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
65/42Mana
Managing
Assist
Assist
alligator
Assis
t
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
ging Editor/ Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
g Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@a//igator.org
ant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill,
astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Will Olsen, wo/sen@a//igator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
ant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@a//igator.org
Sports.org Editor Bobby Callovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Brian Kelley,
Jennifer Jenkins, Will Olsen
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
tant Photo Editor Matt Tripp mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
he Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@a//igator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry,
Emily Blake, Joe Holzer,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Sanika Dange,
Ashley Hemmy, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
George Pappas, Paul Runnestrand,
Jennifer Smith, Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Natasha Dykes,
Brittany Fayne, Joaquin Martinez,
Megan Meckstroth,
Samantha Owen, MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, e//ight@a//igator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
Assistant Bookkeeper Amanda Miller
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , PO Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
ON CAMPUS
WUFT-FM to play live
music for the holidays
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Contributing Writer
This holiday season WUFT-FM will
spread some cheer by broadcasting live
and recorded local music on its Hybrid
Digital 2 channel.
The UF radio channel will also stream
the performances on its Web site, wuft-
fm.org.
Performances include the Gainesville
Chamber Orchestra and the UF Sym-
phony Orchestra, HD2 program director
Richard Drake wrote in an e-mail.
The Symphony Orchestra was al-
ready recorded during a performance
on Nov. 12, orchestra music director and
conductor Raymond Chobaz wrote in an
e-mail.
The Gainesville Chamber Orchestra
was recorded by WUFT-FM during its
performance Friday at the University
Auditorium. The orchestra performed its"The public should be excited
about this series because it's
us -people who live here and
perform in this area."
Richard Drake
HD2 program director
eighth annual "Got Beethoven?" concert,
a tribute to the famous composer.
Drake said the channel plans to turn
the program into an ongoing series that
runs throughout the year.
Drake, who has been working with
the local music community for the past
25 years, said he wanted to showcase
some of the area's talent through this
holiday program.
"The public should be excited about
this series because it's us -people who
live here and perform in this area,"
Drake said.By MELISSA QUINN
Alligator Contributing Writer
When 12-year-old Hussein Muham-
mad felt pain in his molar, his mother
knew how to fix it. She tied a piece of
string to his tooth and yanked, hard.
She couldn't afford to take him to the
dentist, so instead she performed the
extraction herself.
His story prompted UF sophomore
Rahma Mkuu, who was born in Kenya,
to collect toothbrushes to send to the
country's residents.
Muhammad is one of the millions of
Kenyan residents who can't afford ad-
equate dental care, Mkuu said. She said
a majority of the population makes less
than $1 a day, making it near impossible
to buy even a toothbrush.
Mkuu started the project last month
and will continue to collect the tooth-
brushes until Dec. 7.On Dec. 15, she will travel to Kenya
and distribute the toothbrushes to chil-
dren in Mombasa.
Her goal is to collect 200 toothbrush-
es, and so far she has 25.
She is receiving toothbrushes from
Health Occupation Students of Ameri-
ca, the Florida State Nursing School and
friends.
On Mkuu said she created
CampUS a Facebook group that en-
courages students to do-
nate as well.
When families can buy toothbrush-
es, they use them for multiple years,
she said. While most Americans pur-
chase more than two toothbrushes per
year, most Kenyans can afford only one
toothbrush every three years. Providing
their families with food takes priority,
she said.
Those interested in donating can con-
tact Mkuu by e-mail at rmkuu@ufl.edu.
$ 8 FFJiffy Lube
Signature Service'I Oil Change
No Coupon Needed! No expiration date to remember!
Just bring in a valid student ID to any Gainesville Jiffy Lube.
S area locations.
For the Jiffy Lube nearest you please visit jiffylubesoutheast.com
Seestore for more details. Notvalidwithany otheroffer Restnctionsmay apply. Jiffy Lube, the Jiffy Lube design mark
and Jiffy Lube Signature Service' are registered trademarks ofJi Lube International, Inc
(C2009 Jiffy Lube I international, Inc. All rights reservd.GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF any one GNC Product
*IC annotbecombined.OneCouponpercustomer A
39148SW Archer Rd rIny va a Butler Plaza loation
i Secai s 377-6020 Exp 11/31/09
Dyslexia
-Slow Reading?
-Poor Comprehension?
-Poor Spelling?
Years of gain inweeks of treatment!
Serving Gainesvillefor over 22 years.
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.262915930 SW Archer Rd
infnno mnrricrontnrq enmMONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
200 toothbrushes wanted
4, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009
ON CAMPUS
Students discourage smoking
By ERICA JOHNSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students took a stand against smoking Friday
when they celebrated the Great American Smoke-
out on Turlington Plaza to raise awareness of the
dangers of smoking.
The Great American Smokeout is a national, an-
nual event put on by the American Cancer Society
the Thursday before Thanksgiving and challenges
smokers to not smoke for 24 hours.
Colleges Against Cancer, the group that coordi-
nates Relay for Life, held the event on Turlington
Plaza from 11:30 a.m. to 2 p.m., said Michaela Val-
enti, the group's mission education chairwoman.
"We know that it's hard to quit smoking, so we
want people to know that it is getting easier," Val-
enti, a junior anthropology major, said. "There are
more medications out now, more counseling and it
is becoming more affordable."
Valenti said 13 percent of UF students smoke, so
one goal of the event was to ensure students were
reminded of the dangers of smoking.
In order to get the message out, students wereasked to spin a giant wheel to learn the disadvan-
tages of smoking and ways to quit.
Club members also gave students fliers with in-
formation on how to quit smoking.
But knowing the dangers isn't always enough.
"We know that it's hard to quit smok-
ing, so we want people to know that it is
getting easier."
Michaela Valenti
UF junior anthropology major
Colleges Against Cancer member Alyssa San-
dler, a junior education major, was dressed as a gi-
ant cigarette that read, "Put a Chomp on Tobacco."
She said it is extremely frustrating for her when
she sees people who know the harm they're doing
to their bodies but still continue to smoke.
"I had a grandma die of cancer, and I had can-
cer myself twice when I was younger," she said. "I
want people to quit so they don't have to go through
what my grandma and I went through."
Gator creates networking site
0 USERS CAN POST AND cebook statuses to get their friends and said he spent a few thousand
BROWSE LISTINGS. involved, he said. dollars to get it running.
Joseph said his biggest regret as He graduated Spring 2008 with
an undergraduate student was not a degree in biochemistry, and he
By GAIA BONINI taking advantage of all the events has a strong background in com-
Alligator Contributing Writer UF has to offer. puter science.
"This place is a gold mine for He worked for a year and a half
IShawn Joseph is looking for
buddies.
Not just for himself but for ev-
ery student at UF and colleges na-
tionwide.
Joseph, 25, a recent UF graduate,
is the founder of BuddySurfing.
com, an interactive social network-
ing Web site that allows users to
post and browse events happening
at their school and community.
Joseph said it's a sort of Face-
book-meets-Craigslist idea that he
thought of in January and debuted
at UF two weeks ago.
While anyone can join Buddy-
Surfing, Joseph divided the site
into collegiate users and other
users for safety and security pur-
poses.
Social networking among col-
lege students is different than net-
working among other groups of
people, he said, and their events
should be kept separate, as well.
Joseph said bulletin boards
plastered with fliers are an incom-
prehensible mess, and handouts
from the Reitz Union Colonnade
and Turlington Plaza most likely
end up in the trash. But Buddy-
Surfing allows organizations and
individuals to promote events on a
well-organized site.
Users simply choose their net-
works from a list of nearly every
college and university in the coun-
try, much like choosing a city on
Craigslist.
Then the users can browse
through events that are separated
into two categories -work and
play -which Joseph said is how
college students define their lives.
Work listings may be Student
Government events, job opportu-
nities or tutoring sessions, while
play events could be anything
from parties and nightlife to per-
sonal ads.
Users can link events to their Fa-social activities, and you don t re- in stem-cell resac tDinsa
alize that until you're gone," he UF and will start a graduate pro-
said. gram this Spring in pharmaceuti-
Joseph is the site's only investor cal chemistry at UF.
I-
/14
Ana Goni-Lessan /Alligator Staff
BuddySurfing.com founder Shawn Joseph, 25, poses for a photo at
his apartment on Sunday night.Center makes up
for missed Mitzvahs
By DAVID TINTNER
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Taylor Newman
saw the red carpet, the DJ,
the photo booth and all of
her relatives, she finally
felt complete.
Last February, New-
man, a pre-dental senior at
UF, took advantage of an
opportunity she missed out
on more than seven years
before -her Bat Mitzvah.
Usually, the event is
celebrated with a religious
ceremony and party and
marks when a child turns
13 and becomes a man or a
woman under Judaism.
However, growing up,
Newman was less con-
nected to Judaism than she
is now and didn't have a
celebration.
But fortunately for her,
Rabbi Berl Goldman and
his wife, Chanie, directors
of the Lubavitch-Chabad
Jewish Student and Com-
munity Center, started the
Bar and Bat Mitzvah pro-
gram last year to give stu-
dents who never had a Bar
or Bat Mitzvah a second
chance.
Newman was one of five
students to participate in
the first Bar/Bat Mitzvah
Bash, which was funded by
donations to the center.
"I never thought in a
million years I would have
a chance like this again af-
ter I missed it when I was
13," Newman said. "I'm so
grateful that I have."
The Goldmans are look-
ing for their next group of
students, and will begin
working with them in Jan-
uary. The program is free,
so anyone who is interested
can have the opportunity.
"The reality is there are
hundreds among the Jew-
ish student population
here that have not celebrat-
ed their Bar or Bat Mitzvah
yet, and it bothers them,"
Berl Goldman said.
To participate in the
program, students have to
attend a series of classes at
the center, where they dis-
cuss Jewish history and tra-
ditions, Hebrew and mod-
ern Jewish issues.
Berl Goldman said one
of the main reasons many
children don't have a Bar
or Bat Mitzvah when they
grow up is because they
didn't enjoy their Jewisheducation.
He wants to change that
with his students.
"Don't forget these are
college students," he said.
"They're being offered sex,
rock 'n' roll and drugs. Ev-
ery other element of soci-
ety is vying for their atten-
tion."
Julie Kaufman, a UF
student who also partici-
pated in the program, said
her Bat Mitzvah was more
meaningful to her because
she had it when she was 21
-not 13.
"You don't under-
stand the significance of a
Bat Mitzvah when you're
younger," she said. "Reli-
gion wasn't really my pri-
ority then."
Kaufman didn't have a
Bat Mitzvah when she was
13 because she
Local was too busy
News and was not
really inter-
ested, she said.
But as she grew up, Ju-
daism became more im-
portant to her, and she was
embarrassed not to have
had a Bat Mitzvah.
"I just felt like there was
something missing," she
said. "It was something I
really wished I could go
back and do."
After Newman had her
Bat Mitzvah, she changed
her entire lifestyle, she
said.
She started following
the strict kosher dietary
laws.
"It's hard in
Gainesville," Newman
said. "I don't eat out or
anything anymore. I don't
know why I chose to do it. I
just know it feels right."
Newman also said she
noticed the Bar and Bat
Mitzvahs have changed
some of the students and
help them grow.
Many of the students
have also become more re-
ligious. Berl Goldman said
if students are motivated to
study and learn, they can
have the opportunity to
have their Bar or Bat Mitz-
vah at any age.
"By offering this pro-
gram, we want to tell stu-
dents it's never too late,"
he said. "You are Jewish,
you are important and your
Bar or Bat Mitzvah means
something."
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
UF study shows
religious left
more active
0 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, UNIVERSITY
OF CINCINNATI COLLABORATED WITH UF.
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Religion plus politics doesn't necessarily equal
right-wing.
A new UF study conducted in collaboration with
the University of Notre Dame and the University of
Cincinnati reveals a diversity in political leanings
among religious voters that might not have been as
obvious before.
Kenneth Wald, UF political science professor and
collaborator on the study, said a religious left has be-
come more prominent over the recent years.
According to the study, voting trends among Chris-
tians have shifted more left than in the past.
"We're at a point in history where
U F the opportunities for the religious left
Research are better than before," he said.
However, he noted there has been
political diversity among those who practice a religion
for a long time.
"We're not claiming that we've found something
new," he said.
UF Levin College of Law student and Christian Le-
gal Society president Christine Pratt said she has no-
ticed a movement of Christians trying to work against
a stereotype that pegs them all down as hard-line con-
servatives.
"There are issues to the left of center that are val-
id," she said.
Even though her political views are mostly conser-
vative, she identifies with issues commonly touted by
liberals like social welfare and taking care of the en-
vironment.
Wald attributed some of the shifts in attitudes to
the younger members of evangelical groups, as they
have criticized their leadership more.Ticket presales break Fandango's record
TW ILIGHT, from page 1
faux-fang-flaunting, "Twilight"-obsessed fans, made
"The Twilight Saga: New Moon" the No. 1 advance tick-
et-selling movie in Fandango.com history shortly after 8
p.m. Nov. 14 -more than five days before the movie
was released.
They have since surpassed all presale ticket records,
according to Harry Medved, Fandango.com spokesman.
06 N1 M
Meagan Duff, 25, walks to her theater after buying
snacks at the concession stand at the Regal Butler
Plaza Cinemas 14 late Thursday night for the show-
ing of "The Twilight Saga: New Moon.""The fan base has exploded," Medved said.
Two hours before the 12:01 a.m. showing Friday, Re-
gal Gainesville Cinema 14 sold out 15 showings of the
latest cinema installment of the "Twilight" saga.
Medved attributed the increase in popularity to mov-
iegoers who found love at first bite last November with
the cinema debut of Edward Cullen, a golden-eyed, Vol-
vo-driving, vegetarian vampire.
But in round two, Bella, the love-struck mortal, may
find herself a new beau as she lands herself in a monster
love triangle between Robert Pattinson, her brooding
vampire boyfriend, and Taylor Lautner, the suddenly
sultry werewolf next door.
"Instead of one guy Bella's crazy about, there's two
hunky guys that are crazy about her," Medved said. "I
guess you could say there's more eye candy for the wom-
en this time."
And for Megan Barthle, who attended one of the 15
sold-out showings early Friday morning, there was too
much eye candy to choose from.
"You can't choose," the UF psychology senior said. "I
want them both."
Barthle donned a handmade T-shirt professing her
uncertainty with the word "3some" splattered across her
chest in paint.
And vampires weren't the only ones with blood on
the brain Friday morning.
Clay Gibbons, community development coordinator
with LifeSouth Community Blood Centers, estimated
the "New Moon"-themed blood drive attracted about
60 blood donations in the theater's parking lot with its
"Team Edward" and "Team Jacob" Blood Mobiles.
Andrea Andrews, a 22-year-old UF student and "Team
Edward" member, wore a black T-shirt with Pattinson's
pale face emblazoned on the front. She said she felt more
like a 13-year-old girl as she stood in a line 17 people long
to donate blood just more than an hour before her 12:40
a.m. show.
"Read the books, and then you'll understand [the ob-
session]," Andrews said, as she bent her knees, folded
her hands and squealed in anticipation for the movie she
had been waiting to see since she bought her ticket more
than three weeks ago. "Personally, as college students,
you don't read for pleasure, and this is the first time I've
read for pleasure since middle school."
UF vs. FSU
Call your
sales rep today:
376-4482
Deadline:
TODAY, 4PMWE P9IVER
jd.~bie
SUN-WED 11AM-3AM 672-611
THURS, FRI & SAT FREE WIN
IAM-4AM NEXT TO SWEETBAY
WWW.JDOOBIES.COM 34TH ST. PLAZANow ISMon-SatOpen 11amn-9pmn
Sun 12pm-9pm
Grocery
just Around the4, Corner~ Kielbasa -Ham
-Deli Meat- Cheese -Salads
-Fish -Cakes -Candy- Pierogi
& More
3312 SW 35th Blvd
Next to Kohl's entrance
The Alligator has sales intern positions available for
the Spring semesters.You will receive classroom
training, firsthand sales experience, and an
opportunity to improve your communication skills.
This resume builder offers a flexible schedule with
a minimum of 10 hours per week.
alligator
6, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009
Poison the Well
Lobbyists do more harm than
good by opposing regulations
ast week, a federal judge in Tallahassee approved a
settlement in an environmental suit that requires the
EPA to set nutrient limits for lakes, streams and creeks
in Florida.
For the first time, there would be strict limits on the out-
put of these chemicals, common byproducts of lawn fertiliza-
tion, sewage treatment, farming and cattle production.
We were surprised to find that Florida, unlike most other
states, does not already have limits on these chemicals. Rath-
er, the state has adopted "narrative" standards, allowing for
flexibility -or total neglect -when the situation calls for
it. Opponents of the new regulations, a coalition of lobbying
groups representing business and farming interests, argue
that the weak economy means now is not the time to increase
costs for business and government.
But for more than a decade, as Florida's economy and
housing market boomed, these same lobbying groups argued
against regulations, claiming they would hamper growth.
It is precisely this growth, bringing with it the endless
suburbs now synonymous with Florida, that has created an
environmental mess in Lake Okeechobee, major rivers and
the beaches of Southwest Florida. Lawn fertilizer runoff
causes algae blooms that kill fish, leave waters too unhealthy
to swim in and cause respiratory problems for residents and
tourists.
We believe that the real threat to Florida's economic fu-
ture (not to mention the well-being of its residents) is not
new regulations, but these lobbying groups themselves, who
have been all-too effective up to this point.
Because a wheezing stroll down an algae covered beach
won't appeal to most tourists.
Party Poopers
On Saturday night,the Senate voted to
move health care
legislation to the floor for de-
bate in a close party-line vote
of 60 to 39.
But two key centrist sena-
tors who voted to move the
bill to debate, Ben Nelson,
D -Neb., and Joseph Lieber-
man, who-knows-what-party
-Conn., have vowed to vote
against it if the "public op-
tion" remains, according to
The New York Times.
Lieberman, who admits
"we have a health care system
that's in trouble" (understate-
ment of the week), follows
by saying that "we have an
economic crisis," which he
does not want to aggravate
by passing a public option.
He argues this plan could cost
billions.
But the Congressional
Budget Office, the non-par-
tisan research agency within
Congress, estimated that thebill would save $130 billion
in the first 10 years, and $650
billion in the next 10 years 
-
public option and all.
While Lieberman has a his-
tory of divisive splits from the
Democratic majority, Nelson
and other reluctant Democrats
are alienating themselves by
vocally criticizing the Demo-
cratic majority.
We say let them.
If senators like Nelson
want to latch on to arguments
straight out of Republican
talking-point memos, like the
notion that a public option
would mean bureaucrats will
invade doctor-patient rela-
tionships (citing recent mam-
mogram guidelines), maybe
the Democratic majority isn't
the best place for them.
The Democrats need to
consolidate support for up-
coming legislation, but some
dissenters might need to be
abandoned -in health care
efforts and in their next re-
election campaigns.
all e independent ftorida
aliigato
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORSWill Olsen
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150words (about one letter-sized page) They must be typed, doubie-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names wil be withheld if the writer showsjust cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University A , or send them to PO Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions
) C
YV\ 500C dz(-c-ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/opinions
kjvA T6e ITH
\A s pW-r oFF/
-W
\ 4 It\
" S I.
US keeps moral high ground with trials
ast week, the Alligator published contradictoryviews on whether trying Khalid Sheikh Muham-
mad in New York is the right move. Unfortunately,
both pieces missed some of the most pertinent questions.
Before addressing these, it must be said that I feel trying
Muhammad in New York is the right decision. Don't get
me wrong, he in no way deserves the protections we are
providing him.
He deserves little more than to be released in the middle
of Times Square, after making sure everyone knows when
and where. But trying him in open court is the right deci-
sion not only because it allows us to keep the moral high
ground but because it sets a precedent for how to treat the
remaining prisoners in American custody.
There is little doubt that Muhammad is guilty and de-
serves life in prison, at a minimum. But what about the re-
maining prisoners at Guantanamo Bay and other military
prisons like Bagram? It is true that some of these prisoners
are terrorists who are committed to destroying the United
States, but not all of them. There is a difference between
Taliban and al-Qaida. Even Gen. Stanley McChrystal, the
top U.S. commander in Afghanistan, admits that there
are no major al-Qaida factions remaining in Afghanistan.
Should the United States be allowed to detain and impris-
on enemy combatants indefinitely without ever bringing
charges against them?
No. But one major problem is that the CIA was allowed
to take the lead in interrogations. Being much more restric-
tive in its definition of torture, the CIA uses techniques that
are illegal in the U.S. This means it is very difficult to bring
prisoners to trial because any evidence given under duress
is inadmissible.
Some are also making the argument that we should not
bring detainees to the U.S. because of the difficulty in ob-
taining guilty verdicts. This is a ridiculous argument. If we
can't prove these people are guilty, especially when con-Nick Miner sidering the death sentence, we have
Speaking Out no right to imprison them. There
have already been several docu-
mented cases of imprisoning foreign
nationals because of mistaken identity. These people were
arrested, flown halfway around the world and imprisoned
for months.
It's been shown that there were innocent people held at
Guantanamo, a place that President George W. Bush de-
scribed as holding only the "worst of the worst." One of
these men, Akhtiar Mohammad, was arrested on informa-
tion given to authorities by insurgents because he worked
for the government. Given this history of imprisoning the
innocent, we must ensure those in our custody are actually
guilty.
Not everyone who opposes the United States is evil. In
fact, very few are. We mock Muslims for calling us "The
Great Satan," but aren't we guilty of similar demonization?
We cannot treat all prisoners of the "War on Terror" as im-
minent threats to our security. We cannot imprison people
indefinitely without ever bringing charges. We cannot steal
people's lives. If we do, we are no better than the petty dic-
tators who we condemn for political prosecutions. If we
cannot prove someone has committed the crimes he or she
is accused of, we have no right to imprison him or her.
And for those who claim we can't bring these people to
trial because most of the evidence is inadmissible, here's
an idea: Don't use illegal interrogation methods. This is
the United States of America; we are better than that. Yes,
it might mean letting an enemy soldier return to the fray,
but abandoning our values and tarnishing our prestige
will lead to the deaths of far more Americans in the long
run. Plus if they do acquit Khalid Sheikh Muhammad then
maybe we can get our wish, and they will release him onto
the streets of New York.
Nick Miner is a UF political science graduate student.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Do you think UF should cancel classes Monday's question: Would you 45% YES
on Wednesday in order to prevent traffic accidents and play on UF's Quidditch club team? 55% NO
allow students to spend more time with their families? 67 O67 TOTAL VOTES
Vote or post a message at vvWW.Igatororg
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
RTS is concerned with rider safety
The RTS family joins the Alligator in of-
fering the sincerest condolences to the family
of Erin Pelton. No words can express the loss
of such a bright young person on the cusp of
a promising future.
It is with this in mind that we, the board
of Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1579,
must strenuously object to both the tone and
contents of the Nov. 4 editorial "RTS must
act to make crossing streets safer."
The saddest thing about this tragedy,
which shattered two lives, is that it could
have been prevented. We feel it is irrespon-
sible and inflammatory for the Alligator Edi-
torial Board to place the onus on RTS.
RTS operators consider their passengers'
safety to be of the utmost importance. When
an operator asks you to exit via the rear door
or the talking bus reminds you to cross be-
hind the bus, where you will be most vis-
ible to traffic, this is done with your safety
in mind. Operator concern about passen-
ger safety has also led to RTS management
adopting a policy that discourages passen-
gers from running across the street to catch
the bus.
The Alligator has suggested that RTS is
not alert to locations where passengers make
high-risk crossings. On the contrary, this fall,
with the support of the Student Senate, RTS
launched a new Route 22 that uses Old Ar-
cher Road -a routing suggested by an op-
erator -to give residents of Oxford Manor
and Brandywine Apartments an alternative
to crossing Archer Road midblock.
Furthermore, we would like to address
the Alligator's recommendation that RTS
remove all midblock stops to discourage
high-risk crossings. On Archer Road from
23rd Drive to 34th Street there are bus stops
at crosswalks, apartment complexes and
places of business. The stop where Erin Pel-
ton most likely got off is located adjacent to
a driveway that leads to the UF entomology
and nematology departments. There are le-
gitimate reasons for a person to wish to use
these stops that do not involve a high-risk
crossing. If the Alligator Editorial Board
were to carry its arguments to their logical
conclusions, it might not find the results to
its liking.
RTS Executive Board
Pride in UF doesn't come from buildings
This is in response to Zach Faza's letter to
the editor about his support for the renova-
tion of the Reitz Union. It is ignorant to ar-
gue that the pride Florida students have isderived from the quality and beauty of their
campus. This is not a resort, but a university
that students attend for a reputable educa-
tion. What separates UF students from ev-
eryone else? Certainly not an addition onto
an already over-glorified building. Suggest-
ing that our "premier" university status is
dependent on such materialism is insulting.
In a true Randian sense, "A building
has integrity just like a man. And just as
seldom." Putting such emphasis on such
an arbitrary structure leads me to question
whether you're here for the right reasons. I
know I'll define my college experiences by
more than just where I pick up lunch or grab
money from the ATM. Let me bring you back
to the real world where the down economy
has smacked our university with immense
budget and faculty cuts. How about this time
we refrain from expanding our expensive
indulgences and remind ourselves of what
we're really here for.
Lauren Parater
UF political science sophomore
U U U
Embargo gives Castro regime
leverage over citizens
I used to feel the exact same way as Dayme
Sanchez does about the Cuban embargo, but
last time I went to Cuba I changed my mind.
As I flew into the Havana airport I saw a
billboard with a picture of President George
W. Bush on it that read, "America is full of
assholes."
When I got into a cab, the driver saw
my newspaper and told me there's no way
America would ever elect Barack Obama be-
cause it's a racist country.
When I got to my friend Ernesto's house,
he told me that he trusts the results of Cuban
elections more than American ones because
our politicians can pay for a win.
When I was traveling to Holguin, an
18-year-old in military uniform told me he
felt secure knowing Castro wouldn't send
him off to die a needless death like America
does to its troops.
When I was telling my friend Ariel good-
bye, an elderly woman asked me to bring her
some glasses next time since America won't
sell Cuba enough lens grinders because it
wants the people to suffer.
And when my plane took off from Hol-
guin I saw Bush again, this time alongside
Hitler as the ace of spades in the Cuban ver-
sion of the terrorist card deck.
So let's get one thing straight, the Cuban
embargo was about Castro seizing and sell-
ing American property in 1959, but now it'sthe best tool the regime has t
ple's perception of America a
complacent.
U U Uo control peo-
nd keep them
Andrew Wilson
UF student
Undergrads have right to protest fee
I would like to give a response to Mat-
thew Powers and all those others who have
stated, "Undergraduates haven't the right
to complain about the fee." To all of those,
I return your "Shut up, undergrads," with a
"Shut up, graduates, and think about it."
Maybe Bright Futures worked differently
back in your day, but things have changed
recently. Now, they don't pay full tuition but
a set by-the-credit-hour rate. And I am pretty
sure that set rate will not be adjusted to ac-
commodate this Reitz Union fee. Rather, un-
dergrads will have to pay out of pocket, just
like you. No, we don't have massive amounts
of spending money, as you seem to think. I
have both Bright Futures and Prepaid; but if
not for the federal loan I took out this semes-
ter, I would not be able to pay my rent right
now, and my rent is not very expensive. We
are all broke, not just you.
And then there is the ignorance of placing
us all into one category. Many of us are like
you once were, undergrad juniors and se-
niors, enjoying only one year or less of Bright
Futures funding. Soon, we will join you in
these woes. And then there are the fifth-year
seniors, whom Bright Futures does not even
support. Not all undergrads are financially
equal. So we have just as much a right as
graduates to protest this ridiculous fee.
Frank Coxon IV
UFstudent
Anyone can be a drunken driver
Friday night I received text messages from
several friends and students at UF regarding
a DUI featured on the front page of the Alli-
gator. Kristen Gillis, an avid supporter of my
personal campaign against drunken driv-
ing and a friend of mine, made a mistake, a
big one. I was worried, personally hurt, and
pretty heartbroken.
Two things to take from this: Anyone can
be a drunken driver, and anyone can be his
or her victim; don't drink and drive, ever.
Second, if posting names in the Alligator is
intended to be a deterrent for others against
drunken driving then every single student
who drives drunk should have his or her
name listed on the front page. That's not anattack against the Alligator. Rather, that's a
personal shove at you, my fellow students.
Hundreds of students at UF have made
and will make the same mistake Gillis made
on Thursday; trust me, I learned that the
hard way when my car was hit head-on by
another student driving drunk in 2006. One
thing UF does not have enough of, however,
is amazing people like Gillis. She makes mis-
takes, but I know she is much better at mak-
ing people smile.
Don't want to have your name listed on
front page? Then how about everyone sticks
to making people smile.
Nicole Martingano
UF alum 2009
U U U
SG, administration have bad timing with
renovation and expansion plans
The issue about the Reitz Union expan-
sion raises fundamental and core problems
surrounding the attitudes of this university,
its administration, its Student Government
and the complete lack of distinction between
any and all of these categories.
We know that SG will operate under any
and all modes of self-interest. SG is, like the
administration, interested in ideas fit for
a brochure with attractive buildings and
boundless ideas of "excellence." But what
we need, as concerned graduate employees,
undergraduate employees, and students all,
is to use this moment of absolute disrespect
to put this attitude in check.
Unfortunately it is poor timing for UF
and SG to attempt to pull this one off: we
simply cannot afford to accept the decision
of a multi-million dollar expansion at a time
when faculty are leaving this university,
when graduate students are leaving this uni-
versity, and when a host of undergraduates
would rather see their money well spent in
holding onto the value of their already di-
minishing degrees.
The Board of Regents for the University of
California system recently approved a state-
wide fee increase of 32 percent, leaving stu-
dents upset, active and organizing against
this decision. This is our educational context.
Expanding a student union for more elbow
room for eating pizza and "activities" is in-
sulting. Renovations are the administration's
fiscal responsibility. We are not going to be
passed the buck.
Figure out something else. This is why
you are paid three-fourths of a million dol-
lars, Bernie.
Patrick McHenry
UFgraduate employee, English department
GET YOUR BEAT SHIRT
FOR THE SWAMP!
Get yours tomorrow at
Emerson Alumni Hall
1OAM until gone!
FREE for the first 1500
SAA members with
Sponsored by
wHERFFJONES®
* www.herffjones.com/ufmembership card.
352-392-9533 -www.ufalumni.ufl.eduIt's Never Too Late
For The Perfect Gift!
Spa Rogale Now Does
INSTANT Online
Gift Certicates!
Las online appointments
avatile angtime gou wish!
Mention This Ad And Receive
10% Otfany Prchase of $50 Or More
618 NW 60th Street, Site B
N-a the Oa alNe" Do,, ,o M, Ali-,> Deh
352.333.5800 faox 52.333.3984
www.sparoyale.netSchool Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 1 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.com
Don't be chicken.
Stop your friends from
driving drunk.
8, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009
Transgender victims honored in Day of Remembrance
143 transgenders were killed this year
By BEATRICE DEAHL
Alligator Contributing Writer
Wearing black arm bands em-
blazoned with the transgender
symbol and holding flickering
candles in the cool November air,
more than 40 people gathered Fri-
day on the Plaza of Americas to
remember.
Young and old stood together in
to remember people they've known
and hundreds they've never met.
They bowed their heads as they
remembered the lives of trans-
gender people and mourned the
LOCALdeaths of hundreds of others killed
in hate crimes. The gathering was
part of the Transgender Day of Re-
membrance memorial at UF.
This year marks the 11th year
that UF has observed the Transgen-
der Day of Remembrance.
The number of transgender
deaths this year is also the highest
since the Day of Remembrance be-
gan.
The event also celebrated a vic-
tory for the transgender commu-
nity. The Local Law Enforcement
Hate Crimes Prevention Act was
passed in the House of Representa-tives on Oct. 29, providing money
to law enforcement to prosecute
hate crimes wherein the victim was
selected because of race, gender,
sexual orientation or
Local disability.
News Speeches focused
not only on violent
crimes of the past but also looked
forward to the hope this act will
bring.
UF's memorial service included
several speeches, a reading of the
names of those who were killed
this year in transgender-related
hate crimes, a candlelight vigil anda meditation circle.
Donna Lee, a transgender activ-
ist and ordained minister, led ev-
eryone in a time of meditation.
"Let us believe that justice and
love will prevail, hopefully sooner
than later," Lee said.
According to the Transgender
Day of Remembrance Web site,
there have been 143 transgender
homicides in 2009, and it is estimat-
ed that an anti-transgender murder
occurs every three days.
Alexia Vandeventer spoke of
the crimes against transgender
people and why these crimes have
been seen as almost acceptable in
today's society.Vandeventer said that for crimes
to stop, transgender people need to
be seen as humans rather than ob-
jects of curiosity.
Bothnon-transgender and trans-
gender people attended.
Patricia Sullivan, a 65-year-old
transgender, read about the event
online and said it meant a lot.
"I lived all my life as someone
I wasn't, and as of last May, I was
finally able to be myself. It's been
wonderful," Sullivan said.
The vigil was sponsored by the
UF LGBT Affairs Office, the Of-
fice of Multicultural and Diversity
Affairs, Student Government and
Pride Student Union.
Online churches offer support to members from afar
By JU'LIA SAMUELS
Alligator Contributing Writer
It has been said that the Internet can take
a person anywhere. However, for someone
like Anesia Burns, an engineering major, the
Internet offers a direct link to heaven.
Burns is a member of an online church,
Christ Fellowship, which began offering its
sermons online in 2008.
Burns attended the church when she
lived at home in Palm Beach, and its online
sermons allow her to still be a member.
"When I left for college, the church had
like 100 members, but now there are like
5,000 members," Burns said.
The online service allows members who
are out of town to stay connected with their
church, and for Burns, it also offers a more
personal relationship."When I was there, I never had a person-
al conversation with the pastor, but now I
do. It's much easier to be open and tell them
your problems over a Web interface than
telling them your problems face to face,"
Burns said.
Viewers of the church's online sermons
log onto a group that allows them to chat
with the pastor and ask questions.
Online ministry has become so popular
that other churches are beginning to follow
the trend by posting their sermons online as
well.
"When new technology appears and, es-
pecially, becomes accessible to multitudes of
people, it seems irresponsible to not take ad-
vantage of such technology for the Gospel,"
said Michael Robertson, the technical direc-
tor of Gainesville's First Assembly of God.
Taking advantage of the changing timeshas benefited students like English major
Anita John, who had little time to attend
church over the summer.
According to Robertson, the response to
online sermons has been met with very few
complaints.
"It's much easier to be open and
tell them your problems over a
Web interface than telling them
your problems face to face."
Anesia Burns
member of online church
"I hear stories and [am] told specifically
about people literally around the world that
have and are keeping up with our online
media. I have not heard any bad feedback,
unless [the post] gets up late or it's a Sun-day where we don't put it up, which is very
rare," Robertson said.
While online sermons offer a sense of
convenience and intimacy, online church
media have yet to offer a feature that allows
the online members to connect with all the
members in the church, an advantage that
can still be found exclusively within the
walls of a church.
"We want everyone to come to a service.
It is a chance to rub shoulders with the Body
of Christ and to be encouraged and spurned
to live for Jesus," Robertson said. "This is
hard to do just through a screen."
It still boils down to fellowship for proud
online members like Burns.
"There is nothing like being able to go
to church and fellowship with the members
and have someone hold your hand when
they pray with you," she said.
ATTENTION
ADVERTISERS
DEADLINES
The Alligator will not publish on
Thursday, November 26 and Friday, November 27,
due to the Thanksgiving holiday.
The deadline for Monday, November 30
is Tuesday, November 24 at 4 p.m.
The deadline for Tuesday December 1
is Wednesday, November 25 at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both
Display and Classified advertising.
Display Advertising Classified Advertising
376-4482 376-4446
alligaitrSmile.
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel goad too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us hep those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
ABiotest
From Nature for Lfe
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431352-378-7033
The 1718 W. Univ. Ave.
Bar & Grill 4
HOUSE MONDAYS
. $10 All you Can drink
Wells & Drafts 
(
D JJ
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 9
UF RESEARCH
Study: Bullies act
on assumptions
By JIMMIE PAUL
Alligator Writer
Bully see, bully do.
A UF study shows that the more bullies think their peers are
harassing others, the more likely they are to tease others.
The experiment, which surveyed nearly 10,700 anonymous
middle school students from 2006 to 2008, was designed to moni-
tor bullying behaviors. About 20 middle schools from New Jersey
and New York participated in the study.
The research found that 66 percent of students said they've
been the victim of bullying more than once in the last month.
Twenty-five percent of those surveyed avoided recess, class
and lunch to keep clear of trouble. Eight percent of the teenagers
also reported that they skipped school for the same reason.
Jason Grindstaff, who works at UF's counseling center and
deals with student depression and anxiety, said menacing stu-
dents were often ridiculed and ostracized, so they tend to join
"jock" groups to appear popular and exert power, he said.
David W. Craig, one of the researchers, said easily influenced
students usually become quarrelsome and troubled, which is why
they tend to pick on others. He said people think bullying happens
much more than it actually does.
"We've been looking at the frequency between behavior and
the perceived behavior for two years," he said. "The higher the
grade level, the less influenced students are to becoming bullies."
The study also found that the classroom, lunchroom and hall-
ways at schools were the places where victimization was most
prevalent. Craig also said bullying is down about 15 percent since
the study at the schools where students were surveyed.
Researchers from Hobart and William Smith colleges and Har-
vard University also participated in the study.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
*3801 SW 13th St
12-9-75-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$399 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
24hr Fitness Center * 2 Pools
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$299/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Rms avail in 4BR Call Eric, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Apartment in Windsor
Park. $450/ea. room. FREE Internet and
cable! New W/D. On bus route to UF. 305-
788-5681/windsor515@gmail.com. 11-23-
09-45-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $800/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432
12-3-09-35-1
Cmrssing
Tradition of Student Living
Fully furnished student suites
Starting @ $399 all inclusive
3700 SW 27th St 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.Com
12-9-09-40-1Walk to Campus. Indiv. leases available at
Oxford Terrace. Private bedroom and bath.
Washer/Dryer, Dishwasher, cable, internet
and utilities included. Campus Realty 352-
692-3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com
12-9-09-20-1
Walk to Campus. $380 per month, cable in-
ternet, utilities included. Indiv. lease, short
term, furnished. Campus Realty 352-692-
3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 12-
9-09-20-1
$385-3 bed/3 baths open in 4/4 Countryside
condo. Rent alone or with friends! On routes
9 and 35, all utilities included, for Spring or
longer. Call Nalini @ 352.514.3398. 11-23-
10-1
All u need to move in is your computor.Room
for rent $425/Mo incl all util and internet.
Treehouse Villiage apt. 2BR-2BA 4 blk fm
campus. 904-210-7203 11-24-09-5-1
1 bedroom in a nice quiet NW 3/2 house, on
bus route to UF, parking. $500 utilities incl,
fenced backyard, wood floor, internet, W/D,
flexible term, visiting scholars or grads. 352-
281-4229 12-9-09-14-1
2bed/2.5bath twnhome> Casablanca
675/month, new appliances
great bus route to campus
5 mi from campus, pets welcome
call Igor (954) 6830009 12-8-12-1
Will Consider Semester Lease! Oxford
Terrace-short walk to UF. Private room/bath
in 4/4, clean and ready to move-in. Includes
furnishings, utilities, wi-fi, cable and W/D. M
or F okay, No smoking or pets.
beweiss59@hotmail.com or 321-228-3379
1-6-09-10-1
For FRentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
Amazing Values @ Arbor Park!
1 brs from $539 732+ sq ft
2brs from $599 1015+ sq ft
3brs from $750 1223+ sq ft
Water Included Pet-friendly
335-7275 * www.arborpark.com
12-9-09-75-2
Tired of Roommates?
Hate Living Far From Everything?
Downtown One Bedrooms Now Leasing!
Move-in TODAY for only $699!
Pool*Free Parking*Blocks to Campus
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR/1 BR $465 * 2BR/1 BA $569
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 Iv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
GateAnAlarmset Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now or Fall 2010.
2 & 3 Bedroom Townhomes.
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
A SPECIAL PLACE TO CALL HOME
1 BR from $585
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $755
Tanning*Fitness*Tennis*Pool*Playground
Washer/Dryer*Fireplaces*Pools
Call us for a tour! 376-2507
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
1, 2, 3's! madisonpointe.org
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
12-9-75-2*POLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0*SPYGLASS*0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$465, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2BRAND NEW REDUCED RATES!
1's, 2's, 3's
Inclusive Pkgs Available
* Pet Friendly!
Immediate or Fall Move In
352-374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 12-9-
09-75-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921 352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $775/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
12-2-09-86-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Pine Rush Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1 bdr. from $459 2bdr. from $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 11
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
u n un Roommates O F nfurnishe~d j unfurnished ]a l unfurnished unfurnished ] l
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Homestead Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
2/1 from $629 2/2 from $749
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Gator Village Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1 bdr. from $489
Near Downtown and 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Sunrise Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1bdr. from $363 $300 Amex card
Near UF, Schands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Summer Place Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1 bdr. from $363 $300 Amex card.
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/i BA $425
1 2BR $450-$620 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
by Chris ricceek
I. How many consecutive seasons
has first baseman Mark Teixeira had
at least 30 homers and 105 RBIs?
2. Who was the Baltimore Orioles'
last 20-game winner?
3. When was the last time a current
football member of the Big East Con-
ference won a national champi-
onship?
4. The first two teams to sweep the
NBA Finals were Boston (1959) and
Milwaukee (1971). Who was the
third?
5. Glenn Anderson tallied the most
career NHL postseason Game Seven
goals, with seven. Four other players
had six. Name two of them.
6. Which two countries have won
the most gold medals in men's
Olympic soccer?
7. After Muhammad Ali (as Cassius
Clay) defeated Sonny Liston in 1964
to become the heavyweight boxing
champion, the WBA had its own
heavyweight champ until Ali defeated
him in 1967. Name him.
u -pt w PL &"1V N 6,()OZ 0
Il133 OU9 'L
(89, t9 yZ),JL?UnH
P1? (QI '80. '0061) pH10A11 -9
'p AUofktaf pu'U4Uigal .LS
' [ZPJD 9u~r& '3ivi PPLIm -9
-gL61 U!
uolvurqsvM idoms orlis uzp{oD -t,
9L6 Ut Lj&nIfld~l "E
-! 861
ul I 1-Or tuaM J3aippos ag[ -ZN
S.JmsuThe Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172 888-373-0849
12-9-09-50-2
ONE BLOCK TO UF (WALK TO CLASS)
3 bed 1 1/2 bath House- $1725
3 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utilities)- $1575
1 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utlities)- $645
Near SW 1st & 2nd Ave and SW 12th St.
No dogs (available now or spring semester)
Negotiable lease terms
call 352.337.9600 for more info 11-30-55-2
LARGE 2BR/1BA
Tile floors, except BRs. Covered patio. Close
to Shands 2336 SW 34th PI Apt D. $600/
mo w/stacking W/D. 1yr lease 352-372-3131
12-9-09-41-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1 BR $560
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
HOUSE avail Dec 1st. 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles to
UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace, cent
H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo. Call 327-
2931 or 376-6183 11-25-09-36-2
1BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St.
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <50ibs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 11-
30-09-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 11-24-
09-30-2
www.AndreeRealty.com
We specialize in rentals, sales & property
management. Try us. 352-375-2900 11-30-
09-30-2
HISTORIC DUCKPOND
1BR/1BA apt in vintage house. Hardwood
floorstile, renovated kitchen, quiet, blocks to
downtown $575 per mo. STUDIO $475/mo.
306 NE 6th St. 379-4952 11-23-09-24-2
Working at Shands or VA- nice 2/1 @
Summit House across the street. $700/mo +
$200 dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 11-
25-21-2
Baxter Cottage
2 biks to UF campus, 1013 SW 4 Ave
2BR/1 BA, Bright, clean, completely remod-
eled, Cent AC/Ht,wood firs, DW, W/D, NS,
NPets. $650+util. ATucker458@aol.com
11-30-21-2
WWW.BIKETOUF .COM
1 BIR from $575
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $745
Tan ning*Fitness*Ten nis*Pool
Washer/Dryer*Pets Welcome!
Call us for a tour! 377-7401
12-9-09-40-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Sundowne Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Studio from $439 1bdr. from $479
Walk to Butler Plaza
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Totally Renovated 1 bdr. from $599
1 MONTH FREE! Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Ashton Square Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
2/2 from $739 3/2 from $799
1 MONTH FREE! Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-21 Block to UF! GREAT LOCATIONS
1 BR and 2BR Apts. See our list at
www.merrillmanagement.net
or call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 11-25-09-13-2
3BR 1.5 BA with family Room
Tile Floors, Laundry Room,
Central H & Air, Carport
319 NW 16th Avenue
$800/Mo. Call Merrill Management
Inc 352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
2BR 1BA Apt 1BLK TO UF!
Grad II Apts Special: $675/Mo
Central H & Air, Dishwasher
1236 Sw 4th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 11-25-09-13-2
1BR 1BA, Grad II Apts
1BIkto UF! Central H & Air,
Carpet, Laundry Fac. On site,
IncIds Wtr, Swg, Pst Cntrl &
Garbage. $500/Mo. 1236 SW
4th Avenue. Call Merrill
Management Inc 352-372-1494 11-25-09-
13-2
1 BR 1 BA Apt, Central H & Air
2 Blks to UF, Carpet, xtra room
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue $500/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 11-25-09-13-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. IncIds Wtr, Swg,
pst control and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
Move In Ready. Close to Campus and
Shands 1,2,3,& 4 bedrooms & individual
leases. Campus Realty 352-692-3800 rent-
als.campusrealtygroup.com 12-9-09-20-2
Two bedroom one bath condo for only $450
per month. Move in ready. On busline.
Washer/Dryer and Dishwasher. Will not last
long. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealty.org 12-9-09-20-2
$475-Female only for 1/1 in 3/3 Campus
View Condos. Furnished living/dining,
W/D,3rd Floor Unit, Newly built. Bedroom
furn available. Lease ends July 2010. Walk
to campus, shands, VA. 727-776-7098 11-
24-10-2
2 BR / 2.5 BTH Townhouse
Kensington North -3870 SW 20th Ave.
BRAND NEW tile & carpet, W/D, D/W,
INCLUDES utils & ethernet, pets welcome
Only $800/mo. Call 561.251.5425 11-23-
09-8-2
* 3BR/1BA HOUSE
819 NW 10th Ave $850/mo
* 2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE
7209 SW 45th Pl. $600/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 11-30-09-
10-2
Dramatically reduced rent of $350 for 1 BR
downtown townhouse. Sublease could start
anytime after mid December. Vaulted ceil-
ings, huge bedroom with private bathroom.
Call 352-870-5004 11-30-10-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 12-9-09-17-2
Lowest Prices in Town!!!
Efficiencies starting at $325.00(walk to
Law School), 4 bedroom houses(Close to
Campus)from $795.00, Pay no rent until
Jan. 2010. Associates Realty 352-372-7755
12-1-09-10-2CHOICE LOCATION
*2BR/1 BA apt W/D, 530 NE 2nd St.
$750/mo
OFurnished room in house for grad student.
$450 & 425. 376-3195 11-23-09-5-2
Custom 2BR/1BA in pvt 4 Unit complx. Tiled
fir in Liv rm, Carpet in BRs w/ceiling fans. All
new BA. New Kit w/stainless appl, W/D, Cent
H/A, i-net/cable avail. Mgr pays water, pest
contrl, lawn main, security lites. Near bus rte.
Sorry no pets $685/mo Call 727-423-9463
SAlso avail: Fully furn 2BR/1BA $735/mo.
12-9-09-13-2
WALK TO UF. Avail in Jan:
* 2BR/2.5BA $800 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S Studio $475
1 yr lease, SD & NS. Call/Text: 352-870-7256
or gv1132601@gmail.com 12-9-09-14-2
Univ. Terr. Gainesville, 3921 SW 34th st., 1st
fIr., 4 bdrm., 4 bath, cent A/C, cable, wash.,
dry., full kitch., $280/mo.ea., owner/manager/
gainesville 352-472-9778 11-24-09-5-2
MUST SEE TO BELIEVE!
2BR/1BA off of Newberry Rd. $500/mo for
both rooms & incl all utils and satellite. Newer
house with large fenced backyard. Pets ok.
Call 472-1514 11-25-09-5-2
2/2 with loft aviail. immediately. Utitilities
included. w/d in unit. Tower Rd 450/month
352-246-3975 12-1-09-7-2
MIDTOWN WALK TO CLASS
* 1BR/1BA $475
* 2BR/1BA $350 ea.
* 1BR/1BA duplex $600
* 2BR/2.SBA town home $525 ea.
Call 352-335-4790 or 352-214-3369
11-25-5-2
MOVE IN NOW!
Sweet studio w/large porch, deck, on creek.
Safe area. On busline. Tiled, laundry priv.
$425/mo, 1/3 utils, lst/last/$400 sec. 352-
384-0111. 24/7 apt326@yahoo.com 11-30-
09-5-2
$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1.5 Bath
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands
on bus route. W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500
security, $550/month. 2640 SW 31st Place
Unit B. 562-2782 or 514-6869 if interested.
1-6-14-2
1st MONTH'S RENT FREE! Lovely, spa-
cious 3/2 condo. Quiet, yet centrally located
just 1.5 mi. from law center. Very low utili-
ties! Partially furnished.W/D,pool. $975. Exit
Realty Producers 352-316-6842 12-8-09-
10-2
SMALL CABIN 2/1, 20 ACRES
Watermelon Pond views. 27802 SW 120th
Lane, Newberry. Horse pens, dog door.
Needs work. $575/mo. $750 move-in 330-
329-8834 12-1-5-2
r -ubleases
Rent huge master bedroom at Sabal Palms!
2 blocks from UF!
Private bath, granite countertops,
washer and dryer. $710.
Available Spring and Summer 407-496-4610
11-23-10-3
Large 1 Bedroom in 4/2. Spring/Summer
2010. 1.5 miles to campus and on the bus
route. Clean house, quiet roommates, wash-
er/dryer, dishwasher, new carpet. Pets ok.
$305/month. call 850-525-4532 11-23-09-
6-3
Canopy Apartment 1 br/1 ba
4 bed unit w/3 male roommates
Jan 1 2010- May4 2010
Save! Current rate $625/mth
Now $400/mth call 239-634-3130 11-25-
09-5-3
FRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 11-30-09-55-4
Enjoy A Romatic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
11-23-09-30-4
1 monthfree-Share2B/2B MH in Cornerstone.
Furn rm avail now. $200 N/R dep. $400/mo
or $100/wk util incl. Laundry/cook/clean svc
avail. Near bus/shops. 30 day notice to va-
cate. Some pets ok. Call 331-0762 11-23-
25-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail Jan 1st.
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 12-4-
09-28-4
Walk or bike to UF, Shands orVA. Roommate
needed for nice 2/1, $350/mo + half utilities
at Summit House on SW 16th Ave. Recently
renovated. $200 dep. Call 352-843-0220 to
see. 11-25-21-4
Female roommates needed. Live in a big new
house w/ bus stop to UF, quiet/relax area,
fenced yard,private pool. 520/month all inclu-
sive. Joyce 941-724-0961. Must see House
Pics: tinyurl.com/mbs77r 11-25-15-4
A clean, preprofessional, non-smoking femal
roommate for a 2/2.5 townhome close to
UF and Santa Fe. $350 + 1/2 of the utilities
and internet included, W/D, Bdr unfurnished.
Contact Madgene at 561-827-4970. 12-1-
09-15-4
Female roommate needed, 4/2.5 townhouse,
1-75 and Newberry, all included, gated, $400
baezwpa@belIsouth.net 954-557-4769
1-19-09-30-4
$385-Female roommate needed for 1/1 in
4/4 Univ. Terrace condo with all utilities in-
cluded, fully furnished, on routes 12 and 35,
very clean, for Spring or longer. Call Anu @
352-262-0628. 11-23-10-4
Female UF roommate needed for 3 bed-
room house walking distance to UF. Share
with 2 UF students. Private yard and park-
ing. $450.00 month plus util. email Lauren at
ciba123@ao.com 11-24-09-5-4
2 bedrooms available now in a GREAT 4 BR
house near campus. Easy walk to law school,
bike to main campus. Live with one student,
one professional. $450/mo. Nice neighbor-
hood, sunny porch, great place to live. Call
David, (321) 303-2214. 12-4-09-10-4
F Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
12, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009
Real Estate Furnishings Motorcycles, Mopeds Autos Help Wanted
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Gator Getaway -Exp old Florida. 20 acre lot 4
miles south of Archer. Century old live oaks,
high & dry, beer & turkey. 15 mins from Gville.
Investment priced $6500/acre. Certified ap-
praisal as of 9/8/09. 352-528-2406 Ten
11-30-09-30-5
130 FEET RIVER FRONTAGE! 1.5 ACRES,
BUILDABLE LOT WITH LARGE SELECTION
OF HUGE TREES ON PEACEFUL SECTION
OF RIVER. GREAT INVESTMENT! ONLY
25K. (352)665-8067 1-13-09-20-5
Great for Students 1 BR/1 BA.
Walk to Campus. Only $49,900
Gore-Rabell Realty 378-1387 4-21-75-5
F Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/un-
plugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/ID.
Certified MCSE Technicians. 352-338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
*KALEV ON KALLOI come to your location
All PC and Networking Problems
@ 352-262-6704 0 Only $25 per hour s
12-4-09-10-7
Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
ErFo r Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
THE ORIGINAL RALLY TOWEL. YOU'VE
SEEN THEM IN THE STADIUM, NOW
GET YOUR OWN. THE ORIGINAL RALLY
TOWEL. JUST HOW BIG OF A FAN ARE
YOU? www.therallytowel.com 11-24-09-
14-10
%Ftorcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***www.B~uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
000000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
W IAtos
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
11-30-09-50-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 12-9-49-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 12-9-49-12
96 Plymouth Minivan $699 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $999 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999 cash
96 Kia Sephia $999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1499
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 12-9-48-1295 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900 SOLD
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
CALL US! TOP DOLLAR PAID!
Fash Cash -Free Towing
Cars, Trucks, RVs, Motorcycles
386-365-1855 12-9-09-12-12
W FWanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgoldjewelry, scrapgold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 12-4-09-74-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 12-
4-09-74-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings0 the independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
Graduate debt-free. Earn cash while attend-
ing college. For a confidential interview call
1-800-577-2021 & please leave your name &
number TWICE 12-9-68-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
J Help Wanted Help Wanted f Help Wanted Services Typing S
Telecommunications--Software Engineers/
Programmers C/C++ programmers for
Embedded digital TV software (Cable,
Satellite, Video over IP). Nagravision has
openings in our Atlanta and Gainesville, FL
offices. 2-7 years experience. Competitive
salaries, benefits, relocation. Send resume
or questions to: resumes.atlanta@lw.net
11-25-09-28-14
Hair models wanted for long hair in motion
studies. Hip-length or longer only. No experi-
ence necessary. $70 to $120 and hour. Call
352 792-1824 modelslh@yahoo.com
1-14-09-32-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
408 W University Ave. suite 106
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$8/hr + BONUS + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES 12-9-
09-20-14
Sales rep for Internet finance company.
Must work independently & meet deadlines.
Strong attention to detail & organization.
Research skills required. Sales experience
a plus. Salary starts at $24k/year + commis-
sion. Send resume to jobs@nationaltech-
mark.com or fax 1-866-728-4579 w/Financial
Sales in subject. 11-23-09-10-14Programmer needed w/experience in ASP
&/or ASP.net, Javascript programming, re-
lational databases, Perl &/or PHP, Ajax,
JSON, & semantic web development w/
CSS. $32,000/yr commensurate w/exp. Fax
1-866-728-4579 or jobs@nationaltechmark.
com w/"Programmer" in Subject. 11-23-
09-10-14
PRC NOW HIRING
Find a job you'll love. Immediate Openings
for Customer Care Representatives. $10.00
to $10.50 per hour. Paid Training and mul-
tiple schedules available. For more informa-
tion contact us at 386-326-5030 or 386-326-
5008 or apply online at www.prcnet.com
1-5-09-20-14
Marketing Intern:Input/analyze
marketing & financial data for College of Vet
Med. Knowledge of MS Excel/Access req.
Apply at: jobs.ufl.edu REQ. #0803249 11-
23-09-5-14
Busy young professional (gator alum) look-
ing for part time cooking and cleaning help
around the house. Within 1 mile to UF. 1-2
hours per day. Email builds4fun@gmail.com
11-30-7-14
Babysitter needed for 3 kids (ages 1,3,4)
from 2-6pm M/W/F starting in Dec. Submit
resume, references and class schedule to
ejbray74@gmail.com 11-25-09-5-14
* 6 we r * .e e , 0
IQ ICopyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers1
I8
I.EChef/Cook -needed for Fraternity Part-time
to fill in until Dec. 11th with posibility of con-
tinuing on to full time employment in January.
Experience required. Must be able to order
food in quantities needed, plan meals, pre-
pare and cook lunch and dinner. Pay is 10/hr
Send resume to fratmgmt@gmail.com or call
352-375-3676 11-25-09-4-14
Office Manager, full time, pay based on ex-
pirence. No weekends! Piccadilly Apts. Apply
in person. E-mail questions to
office@piccadillyapts.com No phone calls
please. 11-30-5-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Evenings &
weekends. Fax resume to 373-2230 12-8-
09-10-14
Like to read & want to make extra
cash? Atlantic Publishing needs
people to write honest book reviews
(1-3 paragraphs). $50 for 3.
E-mail dbrown@atlantic-pub.com. 12-8-
09-10-14
OF Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 1-7-09-
120-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* *GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS*
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityelFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 12-9-
57-15
FLOOR COVERING
James R. Langford Inc.
Carpet Vinyl Repairs
Restretches Installs
Call Jim 352-222-8827
12-1-14-15
GOT A TICKET?
TAKE TRAFFIC SCHOOL 100% ONLINE
STATE OF FLORIDA APPROVED
NO POINTS ON LICENSE
www.EasyTrafficSchoolNow.com 1-8-20-
15
Green cards -permanent resident status -
for postdoc researchers and new faculty.
Self-petition through national interest waiver.
Email robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com or
call 352-335-2699 for consultation. Robert
Jacobs, PA -Limited to Imm & Nat Law 12-
3-09-10-15
FHealth Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Oly~ $119TIMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards
Employment Visas & Naturalization
www.ruthlaw.com (352) 335-6748
2-2-40-18
S3 Connetions
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
E nt v ntices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NATIVE AMERICAN POW WOW
Nov. 27, 28 & 29.
Crafts, Storytelling, Flutes, Drumming,
Dancing and Demos. Alachua County Fair
Grounds. gainesvillepowwow@live.com
11-25-4-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
WJl Tickets
LOYAL GATOR ALUMNI NEEDS SEC TIX,
WILLING TO PAY GOOD MONEY $$$ FOR
TIX. 352-283-2495. CASH PAID 12-9-09-
12-22WlZRieZ
Gain muscle while you lose fat aiU
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
GMG TRANSPORT
Think you're pregnant? FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Free pregnancy tests & referrals Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Free, confidential advising Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
For appt., call 352-367-2716 Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
A Woman's Answer Medical Center 12-8- charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
38-16 -$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
F PersonalsWLII3e
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee) mate .pets. Find or advertise your pets or
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
WFLost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
Sports
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009
Florida eliminated from SEC race
* THE GATORS BREAK AN 18-YEAR
STREAK OF CONFERENCE TITLES.
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Writer
achiang@a Iligator org
The Gators will not win the Southeastern
Conference for the first time in 19 years, but
on Sunday, Florida prevented Kentucky from
claiming a share of the title.
After being eliminated from the conference
race Friday with a loss against Tennessee (22-7,
15-4 SEC) in four sets 3-1 (22-25, 25-23, 25-15,
25-22), No. 13 Florida (21-5, 15-4 SEC) didn't
have much time to regroup.
On Sunday, UF traveled to face Kentucky
(27-3, 17-2 SEC), which could clinch at least a
share of the SEC with a victory over the Gators.
But UF implemented some new wrinkles and
delayed the celebration with an impressive
3-1 victory (31-29, 25-23, 24-26, 25-21) over the
Wildcats.
"This group is a special group and I know
that some of our alumni are disappointed that
our streak ended, but there are very few teams
that I have ever been as proud of as I am of this
team at this moment," coach Mary Wise said.
Despite playing in a two-setter offense for
most of the season, the Gators switched to us-
ing only one setter for most of the match against
Kentucky and benched struggling senior mid-
dle blocker Kristina Johnson for junior Lauren
Bledsoe.
The results of the changes were encouraging
to say the least.
Sophomore setter Kelly Murphy thrived in
the new offense as she finished with 43 assists
and helped four players reach double-digit
kills.
"The first person I told we were going to do
this was Kelly, and she looked me right in the
eye and it was like a sense of excitement -she
was all over it," Wise said.
SEE VOLLEY, PAGE 16Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF sophomore Kelly Murphy took over as the Gators' lone setter for
the majority of Florida's 3-1 win over Kentucky on Sunday.
Gators snap out of shooting slump to rout Trojans
Walker went 76 mins without field goal missing and missing. key during the second half to set up Walker.
That was just a slump, but hopefully I'm Boynton said the backcourt role reversal is
By ADAM BERRY 0) to an 80-58 victory against Troy (2-1) in the out of it" something the two will look to do more often
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
When Erving Walker's 3-pointer found the
bottom of the net a little more than three min-
utes into the second half Friday night, he said
two words immediately came to his mind.
"Thank God."
Walker hit his first three of the season after
going 0 for his last 17 shots from the field, and
the rest of the Gators' outside shooters finally
found their touch as well, leading Florida (3-O'Connell Center.
After shooting 3 for 29 through its first
two games, UF hit 12 shots from beyond the
arc Friday, including seven that came in a
dominant second-half performance in which
the Gators outscored the Trojans 49-26.
Walker, a 41.9 percent 3-point shooter last
year, was 0 for 6 from long range and just 4
for 19 from the field entering Friday's game.
"I'm not going to lie, I was very frustrated,
but you can't dwell on that," Walker said.
"That's so frustrating when you just keepKenny Boynton, Walker's partner in the
starting backcourt, led UF
in scoring for the second
straight game. The fresh-
man guard poured in 23
Men's points on 8-of-16 shooting,
Basketball including three 3-pointers.
To ease some of the ten-
sion on Walker, who has
run the point and led the team in minutes
played through the first three games, Boyn-
ton occasionally took the ball at the top of theas the season progresses to make it easier for
Walker to find his shot from the wing.
"Both those guys look for each other when
they're playing," UF coach Billy Donovan
said. "They need to continue to have that
kind of relationship because when both those
guys are playing like that, it really creates a
lot for our team."
Walker and Boynton weren't the only
shooters who found their rhythm Friday
night, though. Forwards Chandler Parsons
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 16
U ESPN's College GameDay will be
in Gainesville on Saturday as part of
the Florida State-Florida festivities.
The show will broadcast from the
grass outside the north end zone.alligatOrSports.org
E The No. 5 UF women's swim team finished
second to Florida State in the seven-team
Georgia Tech Invitational. The No. 4 men's
squad also finished second to the
Seminoles. Check out our Web site.ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
FlU game gives
glimpse of future
im Tebow only has three games left as a
Gator, raising plenty of questions about what
the offense will look like when he's gone.
Saturday gave Gators fans a glimpse into the
post-Tebow era, and it did not look so bad.
When Tebow did not return to field for the
Gators' second drive in the third quarter, most of
the starters joined him on the sidelines, but a few
key starters were left on.
Running backs Jeff Demps and Chris Rainey
along with wide receiver Deonte Thompson all
went back out for one drive with Tebow's succes-
sor, John Brantley, beforeA being taken out.
They are the only three
.b .starting skill players that are
definitely returning. Wide-
outs Riley Cooper, David
Nelson and Brandon James
Bobby Callovi will all be out of eligibility
Bobby's World after the year, and tight end
Bbbys World r Aaron Hernandez will draw
plenty of attention from the
NFL and could decide to
leave early.
But Demps, Rainey and Thompson will be back
next season as Brantley's biggest weapons.
Although it was against FIU and it was just
nine plays, the drive they all played together still
showed what next year is likely to resemble.
The Gators still ran their read-option play with
their speedy backs. The main difference was Brant-
ley seemed more willing to hand the ball off in-
stead of tucking it and running with it on his own
like Tebow does.
That is no surprise considering Brantley is no-
where near the runner Tebow is.
But Brantley proved he can run when needed.
Although the play was called back because of a
holding penalty, the redshirt sophomore showed
SEE BOBBY, PAGE 16
TEEINGOFF WITH PHIL KEGLER
U Cal fans rushing the end zone after a 34-28 win at Stanford was absolutely ab-
surd. You're a ranked team, on the road and playing against the Cardinal. You've
gotta be kidding me. .Can't help but revisit a Charlie Weis quote from his first
press conference at ND: "If you think they hired me to go .500, you've got the
wrong guy." The Irish are 6-5 and likely will be 6-6 after going to Stanford.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
Meyer, seniors undefeated against FSU
FOOTBALL, from page 1
With the win against the Golden Panthers, the
Gators (11-0, 8-0 Southeastern Conference) extend-
ed their nation-best win streak to 21 games -the
fourth-longest in SEC history.
Perhaps more impressively, the win made
Tebow and the rest of the seniors the winningest
class in conference history, running their record to
46-6.
The senior class has accomplished a lot together,
but there's still plenty of unfinished business for
this group.
Brantley and the next generation's time is edging
closer by the week, but it will be on Tebow, senior
linebacker Brandon Spikes and the rest of the cur-
rent starters to close out the regular season with a
victory on Senior Day against Florida State on Sat-
urday.
A win against the Seminoles gives the Gators
their first undefeated regular season since 1995
and the third in school history -UF went 5-0-1 in
1911.
Coach Urban Meyer and his senior quarterback
have never lost to FSU in their time as Gators, and
Tebow has dominated the Seminoles in his two sea-
sons as a starter.
In the last two years, Tebow passed for 447 yards
and six touchdowns and added 169 yards and three
scores on the ground.
The Gators have won by a combined margin of
90-27.
The lefty grew up cheering for Florida in Jack-
sonville, and no one knows the significance of therivalry better than him.
"Since I can remember watching football, I can
remember watching that game," Tebow said.
After the game against FIU, he told an anecdote
about watching the game in 1996 -a 24-21 loss -
as a 9-year-old.
"I've been waiting for three years now, but
you know what, I've just learned so much
and I've taken it all in these three years.
To sit behind one of the greatest players in
college football is a blessing to me."
John Brantley
UF sophomore quarterback
His father had him go out into the yard and rake
the leaves when the contest ended, and Tebow said
he cried the entire time because he knew the Gators
had lost and wouldn't be able to win a national
championship.
The young Tebow was wrong, of course.
Quarterback Danny Wuerffel and Florida went
on to defeat FSU 52-20 in a rematch at the Sugar
Bowl, giving the Gators their first-ever national
championship.
The members of the senior class will take their
third national championship in four years any way
they can get it, but stomaching a loss in their final
game in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium would be less than
a storybook ending.
In that scenario, Tebow would be deprived of his
final victory lap, with or without Brantley.Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF defensive end Jermaine Cunningham is part of the winningest
senior class in SEC history, going 46-6 over a four-year span.
FIU :3, Florida 032
Urban Meyer said after the game that he let Rainey
know he wouldn't mind if his shifty back turned in similar
performances against top-tier SEC foes. We can't help
but agree. No. 3 had an elusiveness Saturday that was
impressive even against an overmatched FlU defense.
Maybe his 13 yards per touch will entice Steve Addazio to
Chris Rainey get his playmakers the ball in space a little more often.
RB, R-So. 4 rush, 30 yds, TD; 3 re, 61 yds, TD
.Brantley gave Florida fans a glimpse of the future after takir
over for Tebow midway through the third quarter. He threw
a touchdown pass on all three of the drives he led, and each
one went to a different receiver of the future -Omarius Hine
Frankie Hammond Jr. and Justin Williams. He may not run
over people like Tebow, but Brantley's got a much sweeter
arm.
9-of-13 passing, 146 yds, 3 TDs; 3 rush, 23 yds
U
Tim Tebow
QB, Sr.Brantley
QB, R-So.
Leave it to the annual nonconference blowout before FSU
to return Tebow to form. His 55-yd touchdown scamper
was the longest run of his career, and UF's offensive line
gave him plenty of time to throw the ball. It was the first
time he hasn't been sacked since the LSU game, a span
of six games. The Gators will need Tebow at his best if
they want to repeat as national champs.
17-of-25 passing, 215 yds, 2 TDs; 7 rush, 102 yds,CL
CL
CI-T. Tebow -13 J. Brantley -2
C. Rainey -7 D. Doe -2
J. Cunningham -6 C. Dunlap -2
R. Cooper -5 A. Hernandez -2
J. Demps -5 A. Jones -2
R. Stamper -5 C. Sturgis -2
J. Haden -4 D. Thompson -2
A. Black -3 Ja. Jenkins -1
B. Spikes -3
Omarius Hines' 20-yard touchdown
reception in the third quarter, in which
he dragged FlU safety Jeremiah
Weatherspoon five yards into the end
zone.
Brandon Spikes' interception and 41-
yard return for a touchdown on FlU's
first drive.
John Brantley's 31-yard touchdown
pass to Frankie Hammond Jr. on fourth
and 11, hitting Hammond Jr. in stride
down the right sideline.I ITURNING POINT
On FIU's opening drive, Brandon
Spikes picked off Golden Panthers
quarterback Paul McCall one play
after a UF roughing-the-kicker
penalty negated an FlU punt. Spikes
returned it 41 yards untouched for
a touchdown, giving him four pick-
sixes in the last two years, which
leads the nation.
SCORE BY QUARTERS
GrrdoeeinhisHsgf proved shelterfo
Support the Red Cross and change a life, American
starting with your own. T Red Cross
Call 1-800-RED CROSS or visit redcross.org.STE
e s easy as~
a
Pam Carpenter
Alachua County Supervisor of Elections
www.VoteAlachua.com
(352) 374-5252Punts by Florida
1 2 3 4 Final
FIU 0 3 0 0
UF 14 21 14 13
JI W h All! d- Stf
SPECIAL!
10 MEALS FOR
$60
Save $2.00 off the door price!
Offer expires at the end of the Fall Semester
Meals are redeemable until the end of Spring Semester.
Available for purchase at the cafe only
Monday -Friday
11:00AM -2:00PM
392-3463w~garadnigcllsIess ca ars aver / ga ora
16, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2009
UF WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY
Lowe leads Gators in attempt for first NCAA title
By JESSICA ETTER
Alligator Writer
The Florida women's cross coun-
try team has a chance to do some-
thing today its never done before in
its 30-year history -win a national
title.
The No. 5 Gators will compete in
the NCAA Championships with 30
other teams today at 12:58 p.m. in
Terre Haute, Ind. The 6K race will
be televised live on Versus as well as
being streamed on NCAA.com
UF has finished no lower thanfourth in any of its six races in 2009
and is coming off back-to-back
wins in the Southeastern Confer-
ence Championship and the NCAA
South Regional.
Florida, the SEC's lone qualifier,
finished second among 37 teams in
the Pre-NCAA Invitational on Oct.
17, which is run on the same course
as today's race.
"This is a program that has never
finished in the top 10 before and that
was one of our goals at the begin-
ning of the season," said coach Todd
Morgan, recently named South Re-
gion Women's Coach of the Year."Things have gone so well and we
want to set our sights a little higher.
We want to see how high we can fin-
ish and that's kind
of the new goal."
This is the
fourth consecu-
tive year the
' Gators have
qualified for the
NCAA Champi-
Lowe onships, althoughthey have never
finished in the top 10. Their previous
best finish was 11th in 2007.
UF is coming on strong of late,however.
Three of Florida's five scoring
runners at the NCAA South Re-
gional placed in the top five, led by
the race's individual winner, red-
shirt sophomore Rebecca Lowe. The
South Regional Female Athlete of
the Year has paced the Gators' last
two victories, winning both individ-
ual titles after not even leading the
team in her first two competitions of
the year (Notre Dame Invitational
and Pre-NCAA Invitational).
The Gators' biggest competition
will likely come from the only team
to beat them on this course earlierin the year -defending national
champion and top-ranked Wash-
ington. The Huskies returned their
entire squad from the 2008 title-win-
ning team.
Florida hopes to get some re-
venge today.
"We've been waiting for this for
so long," junior Charlotte Brown-
ing said. "This is the weekend that
counts. I think we are in the best
shape we have been in all season."
Lowe and Browning will be com-
peting along with Stacey Johnson,
Laura Garrow, Genevieve LaCaze,
Julie Northrup and Kaitlin Shiver.
Cold shooting lets Pitt pull away early
* THE PANTHERS USED A 12-0 RUN.
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Staff Writer
etorrens@a Iligator org
The shots didn't fall for the Florida wom-
en's basketball team against FSU and it lost
by four.
Poor shooting doomed UF(1-2) once again
Friday as it fell 81-58 at Pittsburgh (2-0) in
the Petersen Events Cenler.
"Clearly, there were a lot of problems.
Disappointing from the beginning, disap-
pointed with the way we started the game,
shots didn't fall. We didn't prepare well
enough and let down on all fronts," coach
Amanda Butler said. "Pitt kicked our butt."
The teams were tied at 14 with 10:34 left in
the first half, but the Panthers ran away with
the game after that, going on a 12-0 run.
Pittsburgh's Taneisha Harrison was a
one-woman wrecking crew. The junior guard
carved up the Gators for 20 points in the first
half and scored a career-high 25 points to go
along with five rebounds and four assists.
While UF shot and missed, the Pantherswere making buckets thanks to open looks
with a larger, and more experienced, lineup.
Pittsburgh outscored UF 38-14 in the paint,
and no combination of speed and size Flori-
da threw out seemed to work.
Ndidi Madu was the only semi-bright
spot on an otherwise dull post night. The
6-foot-i forward only tallied 7 points, but she
led the team with five rebounds.
The game got out of hand by the end of the
first half, as the Panthers
pounced on the Gators' in-
effective shooting and post
game to establish a 43-20
Women's halftime lead.
Pittsburgh outscoredBasketball the Gators in every way
possible, shooting 50 per-
cent from the field, including 7 of 13 from be-
yond the arc, and dominating the paint with
20 points in the first half.
"They hit shots," said starting guard Steffi
Sorensen, who finished scoreless on 0-for-7
shooting. "They came out firing. The score
doesn't even indicate how opposite the game
felt as far as how they dominated us."
Florida's weaker post game forced the
ball to the perimeter and missed shot aftermissed shot built frustration -and the Pan-
thers' lead.
"The missed shots were certainly a prob-
lem," Butler said. "But when you allow a
team to score 43 points on you in 20 minutes
of play, I think that's a bigger problem."
The Gators didn't make their first three-
pointer until the 18:49 mark in the second
half when Susan Yenser finally dialed one in
from downtown after the team was unsuc-
cessful in its first 12 attempts.
"I don't think we were mentally ready
to come in here and battle and compete on
someone else's home floor," Butler said.
Offensive ineptitude wasn't helped by
lapses in defense. The Gators forced four
turnovers in the first half but couldn't score
off any of them. By comparison, Pittsburgh
scored 11 points off Florida's turnovers in
the decisive first half.
"The only thing you can really control is
your defensive effort and your rebounding
effort," Butler said. "We weren't good in any
aspect. You have to give Pitt a lot of credit,
they were ready to whip our butts and that's
exactly what they did. They embarrassed us
tonight."
A radio broadcast contributed to this report.
Tyus, Parsons banged up
HOOPS, from page 14_
and Dan Werner combined for
27 points and six threes.
Werner, who led the team
with four 3-pointers, said dur-
ing warmups the coaches in-
sisted on getting the ball back
to players who were missing
their shots before the game
-and odd twist on the usual
shootaround practice of getting
the ball back to players hitting
their shots.
"They told us just to keep
shooting, keep our confidence
up," Boynton said. "(Parsons)
came in hot, so we knew some-
body else had to get hot. Erv got
it going, then I got it going."
TYUS SPRAINS ANKLE: Juniorpower forward Alex Tyus
went down with a sprained
right ankle with a little more
than two minutes remaining
in the second half against the
Trojans.
Tyus was tangled up with
Troy's Bernard Toombs and hit
the floor in obvious pain, winc-
ing as he walked off the court
onhis own. Donovan said Tyus'
ankle was tender and sore after
the game, but he won't know
anything more until he meets
with team doctors.
"I am concerned about Tyus'
ankle," Donovan said. "I don't
know where that's at."
Parsons was also a little
banged up after the game, nurs-
ing a hip flexor he said was "a
little tender."I j 
eAndrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
UF power forward Alex Tyus is picked up after spraining his ankle
during a 80-58 win over Troy in the O'Connell Center on Friday.
BOBBY, from page 14
some running ability, getting around the edge
for a 13-yard scramble.
Even though Brantley can run, it will be on
Demps, Rainey and Emmanuel Moody, who
was not involved in the 2010 preview because
of an ankle sprain, to drive Florida's rushing
attack without much help from the quarter-
back.Brantley did show a skill that Tebow has
struggled with for most of this season -the
ability to spread the ball out.
Tebow has of ten looked locked in on Coo-
per and Hernandez, but on Brantley's first
drive with some of the starters, he threw six
passes, spreading them out to five different
targets. Of the four he completed, he hit three
different receivers.
Other than Thompson, the receiving unit
next year is unknown. Urban Meyer has saidall season he was looking for Omarius Hines,
Frankie Hammond Jr. and T.J. Lawrence, who
has been out recently with a knee injury, to
step up and provide depth at the position, but
none of them have been able to give the Gators
much meaningful time in games.
On Saturday, Hines and Hammond Jr.
showed they have the ability to make plays in
the passing game, especially Hines.
Four of Brantley's nine completions were
caught by Hines including a 20-yard scorewhere he caught a short pass and made a de-
fender miss before dragging another into the
end zone.
Hammond's lone reception from Brantley
was a 31-yard touchdown on a throw that hit
him right in stride, displaying the connection
the pair has been building in practice.
It will certainly be weird seeing the Gators
play without Tebow, but Brantley and com-
pany showed Saturday that change doesn't
always have to be a bad thing.Cusack
second in
SEC in digs
VOLLEY, from page 14
The other change to Bled-
soe not only led to increased
offensive production from the
middle blocker position, it also
led to improved defense.
Before the switch was
made, Johnson was averag-
ing four kills a match, but
Bledsoe more than tripled that
amount with 13 kills against
Kentucky. She even recorded
three blocks as her and middle
blocker Cassandra Anderson
made it tough for the Ken-
tucky hitters.
The Gators got off to a
quick slart early in the match
thanks to the play of junior
opposite hitter Callie Rivers,
who finished with 11 kills and
eight digs. She tallied up five
of those kills in the first set,
but the emotion displayed
after each point helped jump
start the team was equally as
important.
"It all starts with Callie
Rivers," Wise said. "She is the
most competitive player that
I have ever had the pleasure
of coaching, and the team just
fed off her emotion."
The match marked another
milestone for senior libero
Else Cusack as she finished
with a season-high 33 digs to
give her sole-possession of
second-place on the all-time
SEC digs list.
