0 the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 62 We Inform. You Decide.-0
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009
Students, SG take sides over expansion fee
USF, FSU have enacted similar fees
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Staff Writer
At the Reitz Union students can
gather together, but discussions of
a proposed student fee to fund its
renovation, repairs and expansion
are dividing students and Student
Government senators.
The proposed fee would includea $20 flat fee for each student in ad-
dition to a $3 fee per credit hour, ac-
cording to Student Body President
Jordan Johnson. He said the estimat-
ed cost of the renovation and expan-
sion would be about $70 million to
$80 million.
About $56 million would come
from student fees, while the remain-
der would be paid through Capi-tal Improvement Trust Funds and
alumni donations, Johnson said.
Out of the $56 million from stu-
dent fees, about $42.5 million would
help fund Reitz Union repairs while
the remainder would fund the ex-
pansion, Johnson said.
Some suggestions for the renova-
tion and expansion include making
the building Leadership in Energyand Environmental Design certified,
expanding student organization
space and adding a 1,500-seat the-
ater for dances and events, accord-
ing to a presentation by Johnson.
Johnson said other state schools,
including University of South Flor-
ida and Florida State University,
have used a similar student fee to
fund their student unions.
Eddie Daniels, the executive
director of the Reitz Union, said
repairs are necessary regardless ofhow they are funded.
He said the Reitz Union requires
$42.5 million over the next 15 years
for repairs involving air handling
units, plumbing and electrical sys-
tems.
Daniels said architects met with
students, organizations, faculty and
staff Nov. 2 through Nov. 5 to take
suggestions about what they would
like to see added to the union, but
SEE REITZ, PAGE 5
ON CAMPUS
Improve group will
compete in Chicago
By NICOLE LYNN GREINER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Theatre Strike Force doesn't need
scripts to get a laugh.
About 250 people attended the
group's performance of "Unscript-
ed" Wednesday. The show was a
celebration of the group's first-place
win in the southeastern regional
round of the third annual College
Improve Tournament.
Another performance of "Un-
scripted" will be held today at 9 p.m.
in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom.
The tournament took place in
Atlanta on Saturday. Theatre Strike
Force sent five of its members,
known as the Sunday Group, to
compete against eight other south-
eastern colleges. The group will go
to Chicago for the tournament finals
on Feb. 6.
"I want a national champion-
ship for UF in improv," said Jennifer
Francis, a senior telecommunicationmajor and member of Theatre Strike
Force.
In the competition, the group
performed two 25-minute improvi-
sation sessions. The group won the
first session and went to the final
round.
Last year the Sunday Group
placed second in the regional
round.
Saturday's performance was
similar to the show "Unscripted."
The show includes a cast of nine
members, three of whom were also
members of the Sunday Group.
Guest speakers in "Unscripted"
were asked random questions about
their lives, experiences and dreams.
Among the speakers were en-
tomology professor Carl Barfield,
former UF track star and Olympic
gold medalist Bernard Williams,
and Student Body President Jordan
Johnson.
The show was sponsored by The-
atre Strike Force, Reitz Union Board
Entertainment and SG.
Political science office closes after professor's arrest
0 HE WAS ARRESTED ON
DOMESTIC BATTERY CHARGES.
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewa rt@a IIigator org
The office of UF's political science depart-
ment was closed for about three hours Fri-day due to safety concerns after a political day night after an argument with his wife,
science professor was arrested on a domestic according to a police report.
battery charge the day before. Conley grabbed his wife's wrist while try-
"Because this individual has threatened ing to take their son away from
violence in the past, it was decided that the Local her, according to the report. He
best thing would be for the political science NewS also threw a wine rack to the
office to close early -which it did, shortly floor and challenged his wife to
after 2 p.m.," an e-mail from department call 911.
chairman Stephen Craig reads. Conley's wife was not injured, and she
Richard Conley, 42, was arrested Thurs- demanded the police leave, according to thereport.
Conley, reached by phone, said his lawyer
advised him not to comment on the arrest.
Paul D'Anieri, dean of the College of
Liberal Arts and Sciences, said Conley was
placed on paid leave Friday afternoon until
UF has assessed the situation.
"We're in an environment where one is
SEE ARREST, PAGE 5
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers* IRHA hosted an
urban art exhibit
that showcased
graffiti from
student artists
and artists from
around Florida.
See story at
alligator.orgTOday
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD 17
SPORTS 19Secret Smackdown
Jarrod Carmody, top and Trey Tucker grapple with each other on a mat in their garage
Wednesday. The duo started an open fighting gym as a way to train and meet both of their
schedules. See Story, Page 3.
0 Freshman Kenny
Boynton (right)
scared a team-high
22 points, including
15 in the second
half, to help Florida
pull away from
Georgia Southern.
The Gators shot
just 33.9 percent.
See Story, Page 19.Sunny
79/54
visit www.alligator.org"7
7 Re 8
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009
News Today
JAMSA "Temptation Island"
JAMSA Fall Week 2009
Today through Nov. 23
Come join UF's Jamaican-
American Student Association
and experience the wonders of
Jamaica. Enjoy events of free food,
games, parties and community
service. For more information vis-
it our JAMSA group on Facebook
and join our JAMSA Fall Week
2009 event page.
School of business faculty lunch
Today, 11:30 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Stuzin Hall, Room 200
Come for a great opportunity to
talk to professors and advisers in
the business school and get advice
on classes for next semester. All
business and accounting majors
welcome. There will be free food.
"Church and State since 1989"
Today, 7 p.m.
Pugh Hall Ocora
Talk by Anna Grzymala-Busse,
of the University of Michigan, for
the Center for European Studies
series "From the Iron Curtain to
the EU." The speaker argues that
churches rely on indirect political
influence and the historical reso-
nance they have cultivated from
the communist era.
Miss UF contestant's meeting
Today, 7p.m.
Alpha Delta Pi Sorority house
The first contestant's meet-
ing for the Miss University of
Florida Pageant will be held
Thursday. Please e-mail missuf-
director@gmail.com or join the
Miss University of Florida 2010
Facebook group for more info.
Great American Smoke-Out
Friday, 10:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
Turlington Plaza
Colleges Against Cancer,
the Alachua County Health
Department and GatorWell will
be providing you with the neces-
sary materials to stop smoking.
For more information, visit relay-
forlife.org/uffl.
Free Concert at
Pascal's Coffeehouse
Friday, 7:30 p.m.TODAY
SUNNY
79/54FRIDAY
SUNNY
79/57
Pascal's Coffeehouse and
Gallery 112 NW 16th St.
(inside the Christian Study
Center)
Join us for our first Friday con-
cert series featuring local artists
Andrew Duran, Sally Privette
and Nathan Beam. Music starts
at 7:30. This event is free and
open to the public.
Start and end Shabbat at
Hillel
2020 W University Ave.
Friday, 7 p.m.
Saturday, 5 p.m.
Hillel will have Shabbat services
on Friday at 7 p.m., followed by
free Kosher dinner at 8:30 p.m.
On Saturday at 5 p.m., students
can choose between a yoga class
or a learning discussion and
Ma'ariv service. A community
Havdallah service and song ses-
sion will follow at 6:15 p.m.
AEPhi Afterdark
Friday night, 1 a.m. to 4 a.m.
Party and philanthropy at
the AEPhi house. Enjoy DJ
Red Alert and food. Tickets
are $5 presale and $7 at the
door. All proceeds go to the
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS
Foundation. Check AEPhi
Afterdark Facebook group for
more info.
Alpha Zeta Pancake Breakfast
Saturday, 8 a.m. to 10 a.m.
Applebee's, 1005 NW 13th St.
Enjoy a pregame breakfast at
Applebee's while supporting
the College of Agricultural and
Life Sciences' co-ed honors fra-
ternity. Tickets are $6 and can
be purchased presale or at the
door.
RUB Entertainment presents
"Julie & Julia"
Saturday, Reitz Union
Auditorium
Meryl Streep stars as JuliaSATURDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
78/61SUNDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
79/58MONDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
78/55
Child, and Amy Adams stars as
Julie Powell. The film, directed
by Nora Ephron, brings to life
Child's novel, "My Life in France"
and Powell's novel, "Julie and
Julia: 365 Days, 524 Recipes, 1
Tiny Apartment Kitchen." For
more information, visit union.ufl.
edu/rub.
Lakeside's First-Ever
Culture Clash
Sunday, 1 p.m. to 7 p.m.
Come out and enjoy perfor-
mances, games and free food
as Lakeside Residence Hall and
Graduate & Family Housing take
you on a journey through the
countries of the world.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this space?
Send an e-mail to bkelley@alliga-
tor.org with "What's Happening"
in the subject line. Please include
a one- to two-sentence synopsis
of the event. Make sure all sub-
missions are formatted properly.
Space in this section is limited,
and inclusion of event postings
is up to the discretion of the
Editorial Department.
In Wednesday's Alligator, an
article incorrectly reported that
a student fee to help fund Reitz
Union renovations would include
a $1.50 fee per credit hour. The fee
would actually be $3 per credit
hour.
An article in Tuesday's Alliga-
tor misspelled the name of Accent
Speakers Bureau chairman Jason
Attermann.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the independent florida
Not officialsVOLUME 103 ISSUE 62 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill,
astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligatororg
Opinions Editor Will Olsen, wolsen@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Brian Kelley,
Jennifer Jenkins, Will Olsen
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor Matt Tripp mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry,
Emily Blake, Joe Holzer,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Sanika Dange,
Ashley Hemmy, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
George Pappas, Paul Runnestrand,
Jennifer Smith, Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Natasha Dykes,
Brittany Fayne, Joaquin Martinez,
Megan Meckstroth,
Samantha Owen, MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
Assistant Bookkeeper Amanda Miller
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , PO Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
Santa Fe College students create amateur fight club
0 MEMBERSHIP IN THE
CLUB IS FREE.
By JOHN J. BOOTHE
Alligator Contributing Writer
The first rule about fight club is
you do talk about fight club.
As mixed martial arts -MMA
-continues its fight to become
America's No. 1 televised violence
supplier, so does the desire of its
viewers to learn the secrets and
techniques behind every guillotine
choke and armbar submission.But the increase in popularity
also comes with an increase in de-
mand for training.
So, two Santa Fe Community
College students are offering an af-
fordable training price for even the
tightest budget: free.
Amateur kickboxers Trey Tuck-
er, 20, and Jarrod Carmody, 19,
started Gainesville Fight Club as
a way to teach each others MMA
style combat in between their full-
time school and work schedules.
The two of them meet several times
a week in Carmody's garage where
Tucker has $500 worth of mats,gloves, bags and Thai pads.
Both fighters describe the club
as a cooperative, where each fight-
er contributes something, whether
it is equipment or training tech-
niques, to the group.
"If you're poor, we don't care,"
Tucker said. "Come
Local in, man. You can use
News our gloves, and we
can work something
out. We can do car washes or sell
GFC T-shirts. The whole point is to
show there are other ways to do this
than having to charge money."
Tucker said his training suitsthe college lifestyle more than a
professional system. Most profes-
sional training is geared for people
who want to make a career out of
MMA.
Jason Dolder, head trainer of
the F2 Fight Team in Gainesville,
said that while it's admirable that
Gainesville Fight Club is trying to
offer free MMA training, his gym is
far from ripping people off.
"There's a reason why you pay
professionals to teach you this
stuff," he said.
F2 Fight Team offers training
for $55 a month, which, accordingto Dolder, is very affordable when
compared with other MMA gyms.
Tucker thinks that even though
he and Carmody are relatively new
to MMA -their first organized
fights in the discipline will be Jan-
uary -the training necessary to
start out isn't complicated.
Ninety percent of MMA train-
ing is relatively simple, he said. For
the other 10 percent, such as Brazil-
ian Jiu-Jitsu and boxing technique,
he said the group will pitch in
money to hire a professional to lay
the groundwork for that month's
training.
T3O-LQ THROUGH
-THE
YEARS
PGO'Vt1972
Sam Taylor is elected the first
black president, and Linda
Gloeckner is the first female VP
19701
SG suggests UF use
course evaluations
when considering tenure1986
amela Bingham
becomes the first female
black president1989
SG President Edward Scales, who
pledged never to raise the activities
and service fee unless God came
to him, is approached at a budged
meeting by a man dressed as God.
Scales raised the fee.
1947 1953 1983
Gator Party started Charlotte Mather
UF is co-ed Gbecomes the first woman
1971 to be elected president
The Athletic Association
begins to charge students
for going to games-$51996
SG lobbies in
1990 Tallahassee
SG brings Tom to maintain
Petty and the autonomy and
Heartbreakers control over
to UF budget
Jessica Warshaver / Alligator Staff
Information compiled by Jennifer Bate / Alligator
HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShield
of Florida
Form Number: 18533-599SU 3669 S.W. 2nd AvenueChip Williams
A Contracted General Agency For:FL vs. FSU
Call your
Deadline: sales rep today
Monday 376-4482 alligatrNwARr GARANf ar
Butler Plaza Newberry Square
335-1232 332-3937
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009
Group calls for 'Vagina' roles
Auditions continue tonight
I Lre:w n t auma n r n " j
Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator Staff
Alicia Marie Rodriguez, an advertising and theater major, auditions for "The Va-
gina Monologues" in the basement of the Reitz Union on Tuesday night.By JULIE UNGER
Alligator Contributing Writer
When she was 11 years
old, Lorraine Wheat stood
in the middle of a bookstore
and said, "Guess what, Mom.
My vagina is angry."
Wheat's mother was famil-
iar with the book her daugh-
ter was imitating and calmly
explained to her daughter a
little bit about the play.
Eight years later, Wheat
once again announced that
her vagina was angry -this
time during a play called
"The Vagina Monologues"
by Eve Ensler.
This year, Victory Over
Violence, a UF anti-domestic
violence organization, will
put on its fourth annual
production of "The Vagina
Monologues" as a fundraiser
for organizations like local
domestic violence victim
shelter Peaceful Paths.
"Any woman who wants
to be proactive and to fight
for human rights, who wants
to do great things, wants to
be like [Ensler]," said Wheat,
an advertising senior and
Victory Over Violence publicrelations officer at UF.
Auditions for the 2010
performance began on Tues-
day and will continue from
8:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. tonight
in the Reitz Union basement,
Room 60.
"I don't think this is
something you can get
involved in and it not
become your heart."
Lorraine Wheat
UF student
Twenty-eight women au-
ditioned Tuesday, and more
are expected to audition to-
night.
"There are 33 mono-
logues, and we offer anyone
that auditions that doesn't
get a monologue a spot in
public relations, advertising
or something else so they can
still be involved in the pro-
duction," said Jenna Calton,
Victory Over Violence presi-
dent and a psychology junior
at UF.
During the 2008-2009 fis-
cal year, Peaceful Paths pro-
vided services for 1,260 newclients, helped house 128
adults and 90 children and
provided 11,701 services, ac-
cording to the Peaceful Paths
2009 fact sheet.
The monologues deal
with the pain and shame that
women face, whether it's be-
cause of their bodies, experi-
ences or surviving abuse.
"Eve Ensler uses the work
to inspire a grassroots move-
ment which started anti-vi-
olence and abuse networks.
Vday.org showcases all of
the movements and all of
the things they're doing. It
shows that she's using her
work and art to give women
who wouldn't be able to ex-
press themselves a medium
to talk about their pain,"
Wheat said.
She added that her part in
the play inspired deep con-
versations with women who
sought her out afterward to
say they wished they could
express themselves.
"After you do this play
you feel, 'Why not? Why
should I feel ashamed for be-
ing a woman?"' Wheat said.
"I don't think this is some-
thing you can get involved
in and it not become your
heart."
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
1,500 students signed petition in support
R EITZ, from page 1
design drawings based on these
needs will not be available until Feb-
ruary.
He said some suggestions in-
cluded adding more student orga-
nization office space, more perform-
ing space and more meeting rooms.
Daniels said UF has outgrown the
union.
"So, my hope is we'll be able to
somehow get a facility that will bet-
ter meet the needs of our current
student population," Daniels said.
Senators passed a resolution sup-
porting the Reitz Union expansion
and student fee at Tuesday night'sSenate meeting.
But some senators and graduate
students at the meeting said stu-
dents should have a chance to vote
on the student fee in the spring SG
elections.
Orange and Blue Party Sen. Jon
Ossip said he was not
On against the fee or the
expansion but wanted
to make sure the ma-
jority of students approved of the
ideas.
"I would support whatever the
students choose on the ballot," Os-
sip said.
But according to Johnson, hav-
ing students vote on the fee woulddelay its journey to the Florida leg-
islature and Gov. Charlie Crist, who
would ultimately decide whether it
would be put into effect. If it were
approved, Johnson said UF would
then lobby for capital improvement
trust funds and private donations as
well.
He said about 1,500 students
have signed a petition supporting
the expansion. In addition, about
3,600 students were surveyed, and
Johnson said he plans to have a town
hall forum in early December to con-
tinue discussions with students.
For more student opinions
expressed at Tuesday's meeting, visit
alligator.org.
$70 million to $80 millionPROPOSE D Total cost of necessary repairs.
Reitz Union
Repairs and ExpansionsThe payments would be spread over 15 years.
inefficient lighting system
aging air-handling units
bat infestation
problems with plumbing
and electrical systemsLEED certified
student organization space
multicultural space
retail/restaurants
meeting space
possible new building across
from Reitz on Museum Road
Jessica Warshaver / Alligator Staff
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
the independent floridaalligator and@ I'I gatororg
announces the openings for the positions
Editor,
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
AND
Managing Editor/Online,
Paid positions. Unpaid member of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the reception desk
at the entrance of the first floor of The Alligator Building at 1105 W.
University Ave., each weekday between 1:00 and 4:00pm from now
until November 20. Please do not call. Further written information
is available at the time an application is picked up. Please allow up
to 15 minutes at that time to read information you will need for the
application process. The application must be returned to the same desk
by 4:00 pm, November 23. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at The
Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public beginning at 4:00 pm,
Sunday, December 13. Applicants must be present at that meeting to
be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience at The
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity EmployerQuitting Time
Wish you
never started
smoking? Now
is the time to stop.
People quit all the
time and so can you.
392-1161, ext. 4281http://www.shcc.ufl.edu/gatorwell I
Mk Yur P lans Today.Dean: Closure justified
ARREST, from page 1
expected to .take any possible indication that something is
out of order very seriously, and that's what the chair did,"
D'Anieri said.
"I actually don't think it's that big a deal," he said of clos-
ing the office. "I don't think it caused a big disruption and if
it helped people feel better, then that's fine."
Conley's lawyer, Thomas Edwards, said
the closure of the office was unwarranted.
Edwards said Conley had made no threats
to anyone at UF and that the closing was
likely influenced by a strained relationship
between Conley and Craig.
"There was no connection between
what took place between he and his wife
and the department chair closing down theConley department," he said.
He said the reference to past violent threats in Craig's e-
mail likely alluded to allegations made by Conley's ex-wife
during divorce proceedings that began in 2006.
According to Edwards, the allegations, which Conley said
are untrue, were made to gain leverage in a custody battle.
Craig referred comment to UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes,
who said her ability to comment was limited because the is-
sue was a personnel matter.
Gerar dc,-ted r, h, , t- ie shelter for
Support the Red Cross and change a life, American
starting with your own. + Red Cross
Call 1 -800-RED CROSS or visit redcross.org.
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009
Fee-for-All
SG should get student
input on new Reitz fee
uesday's Student Government vote on the proposed Re-
itz Union expansion has stirred up almost as much inter-
est (and as many impassioned letters and Web site com-
ments) as SG's pending decision on a resolution denouncing the
Goldstone report, the controversial UN report alleging Israeli
war crimes.
For those of you somehow not already offended by the Al-
ligator's coverage of this report -and we know there must be a
few of you left out there -look to future issues.
But this week, rather than grandiose matters of war and
peace in the Middle East, SG tackled a subject that it may actu-
ally hold some influence over. unfortunately.
This resolution, which supports a student fee for the renova-
tion and expansion of the Reitz Union (and effectively endorses
the expansion itself), passed 67- 10, despite fierce debate.
The fact that letters to the Alligator describe this debate as
"grad-student whining" underscores how differently some
parties view the proposed fees. A $20 dollar flat fee plus $3
per credit hour might sound like chump change. But if it does,
you're likely not one of about 75 students who appeared to
voice concerns about rising student fees.
These whiners, many of whom are grad students without
Bright Futures or Florida Prepaid to help ease costs, pay signifi-
cant amounts out of pocket toward student fees. One graduate
assistant in the English department says her student fees ac-
count for up to 10 percent of her salary.
Another $100 dollars a year might not mean much for SG
senators or persistent, anonymous letter writers, but to some-
one on a razor thin budget, it can make a difference.
The fact that SG is voting on how to pay for a renovation and
expansion before it determines whether the Student Body even
wants -or needs -these changes leaves us with the same look
of shock and bewilderment that uninformed students will have
if slapped with new fees.
SG members cite a petition signed by 1,500 students as evi-
dence that UF wants (and needs?) a new and improved Reitz
Union. We can picture how that went down almost like we
were badgered outside of Library West ourselves: grand prom-
ises without a complete explanation of the financial impact on
all students.
As for the argument that student organizations desperately
need more office and meeting space, we still wonder how the
empty halls and meeting rooms that make the Reitz look like
a ghost town factor into SG's assessment. If the Reitz wants to
"better meet the needs of our current student population," as
its executive director Eddie Daniels described the expansion's
goal, why not first focus on making maximum use of the cur-
rent facilities.
UF can accomplish this goal by involving students (other
than a few SG members) in the process, receiving feedback
along the way to make better informed decisions. Daniels said
that architects tasked with planning the proposed expansion
met with students, organizations, faculty and staff earlier this
month; we wonder what limited group of students these archi-
tects met with. We didn't receive an invitation. (Go figure.)
UF and SG's lack of transparency in planning Reitz changes
merely aggravates all of these issues. Student fees, determining
critical needs. whether changes are necessary at all; we need
public discussion on these key points.
UF is a learning institution; it is ironic that we simultaneous-
ly cut dozens of faculty and staff members while constructing
new and possibly unnecessary buildings. Students need a voice
in this decision, especially if millions of dollars are involved.
Fortunately this resolution does not take any ac Lion. It mere-
ly reflects the opinion of the Senate. We're not quite sure that it
reflects the opinion of the UF Student Body, though.
a l l e independent fo rida
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORSWill Olsen
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must includethe
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Aye, or send them to P0 Box 14257,
Gainesvi Iie, FL 32604-2257 i umns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigato r.org/opinions
0 \r
C
MJ, C --
P ray fo r l ess for tun ate at Th an ksgiving
hile driving Oprah to her highest ratings in twoyears, Sarah Palin asked that we cast aside our
petty sociopolitical differences and as a united
country pray for the everliving soul of Levi Johnston.
Pray for Levi.
While my main gripe with Sarah Palin is her wanton dis-
regard for the tradition of giving children sensible names,
her advocacy of Levi Johnston as worthy of prayerful wor-
ship seems a negligent reading of Heavenly duties. Prayers
showered upon the healthy, virile white teenager swim-
ming in pistachio money surely fall upon deaf ears.
Perhaps she is emboldened by a reading of some more
vengeful God, more of an Old Testament deity. This God
surely would read our prayers as time to test the faith of
young Levi and arrange a severe comeuppance full of
wrath and afflictions.
This same God has infected the mind of Goldman Sachs
Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein, who in a long
London Times interview snidely remarked that earth-shat-
teringly horrible banking of the last derivative decade is
"God's work."
Pray for Levi. Pray for Lloyd, too.
Pray that we get some follow-through of good Ole' Tes-
tament rocket sauce from these mournful missives. Lloyd
and his like-minded accomplices surely do their bidding
tempting the good graces of Genesis god, a holy figure
always ready with a good hard smiting. Some bloodfire,
maybe a few public stonings -our prayers do not ask for
much.
We should keep optimism up that our prayers shall not
be in vain once sent to the correct sacred source. Based on
their conscienceless money grubbing, our economy got cir-
cumsized last fall with no anesthesia. Old Testament Godmust appreciate this surprise bris
and may recognize our rightfully
embattled banking sector as true be-
lievers.
Americans were certainly com-
plicit in conjuring up the subprime
Tommy Ma pie bomb that inflated our net worth and
letters@alligator org our sense of ideological impervious-
ness, but the capitalist class raging
out ahead of us deserves scorn and scrutiny for this nuclear
economic winter. We fought the battles and lost much of
our livelihoods, but they seem to have somehow won the
war and rocketed off in a billion-dollar escape pod.
Pray for Lloyd. Don't forget to pray for Levi, though.
I prayed for Britney back in the day, and she got through
her bald tribulations relatively unscathed. Britney Spears is
a hard-working girl who loved that spotlight so badly that
she sacrificed a few sham marriages to the fame game. Levi
may not be able to sing as of now, but even the least-accom-
plished fame whore knows a good vocal coach.
My own prayers for Levi are centered around his inevi-
table marriage to Britney Spears and the creation of a band
starring his kids and Britney's kids. Made for MTV and the
accompanying decades of televised group therapy, this su-
perband could single-handedly rewrite the scale for total
awesomeness.
Levi won't stop at just one illegitimate child, mind you
-but the Partridge family wasn't created in a day. Be pa-
tient, my fellow terrestrial transgressors, and just send your
prayers out to Lloyd and Levi this Thanksgiving.
Pray for Levi.
Tommy Maple is a graduate student in international com-
munications. His column appears on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Should UF Monday's question: Do you think
implement a student fee to pay people share too much on the
for Reitz Union renovations? Internet?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org88% YES
.12% NO
86 TOTAL VOTES
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Senators disregarded students' wishes
I'd like to express my utter disgust at the
student senators who completely disregard-
ed their student constituents last night. More
than 70 students attended the Senate meeting
in opposition of a resolution that would sup-
port UF administration charging all students
a fee for the expansion and renovation of
the Reitz Union. Majority party senators ap-
proved this bill while simultaneously reject-
ing a proposed amendment that would bring
it to a Student Body referendum. It is under-
stood that the repairs are necessary. The ex-
pansion, however, is debatable pork.
Although the majority party senators
were quick to vote for this resolution, they
were not so quick to provide us with concrete
estimates of the costs students would have to
shoulder.
In fact, many of the estimates completely
ignored the additional millions of dollars in
costs that would be the responsibility of the
Student Body (more than $120 million). Yes,
everybody wants the luxury of a beautiful
union, but should it be at the expense of other
students' groceries, gas and ability to contin-
ue their education at UF? With such a con-
troversial issue, students should have spoken
out, and they did -only to be told their opin-
ion was irrelevant. Instead of participating in
debate, most senators were busy texting on
their BlackBerrys and iPhones. Senators, it
would be nice if you considered the people
who originally gave you authority.
Karla Rowe
UF student
Reitz Union needs renovations
The Alligator never seems to disappoint.
Wednesday's article "Senate approves Reitz
Union student expansion fee" left out some
important facts in the case for the Reitz Union
renovation and expansion. For instance, a pe-
tition was signed by about 1,500 students in
less than 24 hours in support of the renova-
tion and the student fee to pay for it. That
would seem to outweigh the 70 or so gradu-
ate students who attended Tuesday night's
Senate meeting.
The Reitz Union is in dire need of reno-
vation and expansion. It was built in 1967for 19,000 students, and UF now has more
than 50,000. Many of the systems, including
the electrical and air conditioning systems,
are original to the building's construction. If
those systems fail there is not nearly enough
money in reserve to fix even one of them.
Not to mention the asbestos in the walls
and ceilings and the energy inefficiencies of
the 1960s-era equipment. If we delay further,
the cost of the project will increase, leading to
a further increase in the student fee.
This would place even more of a burden
on students, undergraduate and graduate
alike. The question has never been should we
renovate and expand the Reitz Union, it's just
when. That time is now.
Severin Waistad
UF freshman and Springs Area Senator
Current students won't see benefits of
Reitz Union expansion, renovation
The Student Senate should not have ap-
proved the resolution favoring the imple-
mentation of a new fee to pay for the pro-
posed expansion of the Reitz Union.
The proposed fees would (I believe) take
effect before the completion of renovation of
the Reitz Union. Few, if any, current UF stu-
dents would still be here when the renova-
tion is complete, yet we would not only have
to put up with the inconvenience of dealing
with the construction work on the union, but
also have to pay fees for a renovation that
doesn't benefit us. I frequently attend the free
movies at the union (yea, RUB).
There might be a period where we have
to go without free movies while the cinema
is renovated -and Senate wants us to pay
a fee for that inconvenience. Eating at the
food court will be more difficult while the
renovation takes place -and Senate wants
us to pay a fee for that inconvenience. If the
union must be renovated, and if the renova-
tion must be paid for with student fees, then
those fees should not be implemented until
the renovation is complete. The students who
actually get to enjoy the (supposed) benefits
of the expanded union should be the ones to
pay for it.
Finally, I don't even think the union needs
to be expanded. I can see that the asbestosneeds to be removed. By all means, please
remove the asbestos from the union. That
shouldn't cost enough to warrant a new fee,
though. The Senate bill repeatedly mentions
UF's more than 900 student organizations,
many of which do not have office space in the
union.
But how many of them really need office
space? I've held three different officer posi-
tions in the Linguistics Society in my time at
UF, and we have never had or needed any
office space. I can say confidently that no
more than 10 percent -and quite possibly
no more than 5 percent -of UF's student or-
ganizations would actually use office space.
I say, just remove the asbestos and leave the
rest of the union as it is.
Zoe Ziliak
UF PhD candidate in linguistics
Renovations will improve quality of UF
In response to the expansion and renova-
tion of the Reitz Union, I would like to ex-
press support, despite the objections raised
concerning extra fees. Another beautiful and
utilitarian building on the UF campus further
fortifies the quality and progress that distin-
guishes Florida from other higher learning
institutions.
In a true Burkean sense, the pride and use-
fulness from the expansion will far outweigh
the cost. So while we may be a bit lighter in
the pocket, we will have another quality ad-
dition to our already noble campus. Florida's
rise to a premier university has always had
costs. This is no different.
Zack Faza
UFstudent
US efforts against terrorism are war
This is in response to Wednesday's letter
to the editor "'War on terror' not a war." I
must disagree with Patrick Poage's position
that calling our "global effort to eliminate ter-
rorists" a war allows al-Qaida and others to
justify their actions against our country and
our soldiers.
Poage, like many others, seems to have
forgotten the terrorist attacks happened priorto our terming of the effort to prevent them a
"war." In the cases of the 1993 World Trade
Center bombing, the bombing of the U.SS.
Cole and the Sept. 11 attacks, among other
incidents, the terrorists didn't wait for us to
"justify" them before attacking us.
Poage also noted that the Obama adminis-
tration dropped the term "war on terror." In
response, I ask: If our leaders are unwilling to
use strong language to describe this "global
effort," how can we assume that they will
take strong action to succeed in this conflict?
John Colby
UFstudent
U U U
Preachers shouldn't mask messages
This morning, while I strolled through
Turlington Plaza, I was delighted to see that
people were handing out copies of "The
Origin of Species" by Charles Darwin. This
seemed a vast improvement over coupons
and fliers. Then I opened the book and found
the "special introduction" urging me to ac-
cept an intelligent designer and "receive the
gift of eternal life."
Like any article wishing to spread doubt,
it did not state its true intentions up front.
Gradually, selective quotations were used
and unscientific (but reasonable-sounding)
arguments were made against evolution un-
til the reader reached the Living Waters' true
message: Jesus.
Evolution is a fascinating process that ties
together and enforces every biology course
I've taken at UF. As it says on a door in Bar-
tram Hall, it's very gradual change that you
can believe in. I urge any students genuinely
interested in evolution to either ignore the
slander against Darwin and evolution or,
even better, to find out for themselves.
This isn't a matter of Christianity versus
evolution, as if people can't believe both.
It's possible. However, if you're going to
try to convert people, Ray Comfort, you
shouldn't hide your religious tract behind a
book praised by scientists all over the world.
Preach out in the open or don't preach at all.
Rebecca Theobald
UFstudent
MASTERWORKS CONCERTS
8'Annual "Got Beethoven?" Concert
NOVEMBER 20, 2009 UNIVERSITY AUDITORIUM AT 7:30PM
Our annual tribute to the great Romantic composer.
International Valentine Concert
FEBRUARY 5, 2010 1 UNIVERSITY AUDITORIUM AT 7:30PM
An evening filled with music for lovers and an encore visit
from Eleanor Blair painting live to Bokiro and Scheherazade
CHAMBER CONCERTS
CHAMBER CONCERTS ARE HELD
AT THE HISTORIC THOMAS CENTER AT 7 PM
Holiday Concert
DECEMBER 10, 2009
Concert for the New Year
JANUARY 15, 2010
TO BUY TICKETS:
BY PHONE:
GCO OFFICE: 352.336.5448
UFPA Box OFFICE: 352.392.ARTS
OR ONLINE:
GCOMUSIC.ORG OR TICKETMASTER.COM
Visit GCOmusic.org for the most un-to-date event information.Support the Red
Cross Services to
Armed Forces and
change a life,
starting with your
own.
Call 1-800-RED CROSS
.t- or visit redcross.org
Jessica is there for Tom's That way, Tom can be there
wife and kids. for oar country. American
T Red Cross
Friends don't let friends drive drunk.
Do whatever it takes.GET DRESSED
BEFORE YOU
HIT THE ROAD
Gloves help your grip. Leathers
help prevent hypothermia. And all
gear protects against flying objects.
Which is vital if you ever
become the flying object
MOTORCYCLE SAFETY FOUNDATION
----
Thursday
College football night
$5 wine tasting, $6 Buckets,
$4 House wines
from 4-close
Vespa Giveaway
fl-I .-.~ -w1f42Pw inf ultt~ nlWr lt a tW#MZ3 IPIS2A
www.swamprestaurant.comI
theAvenue thursday, november 19, 2009
Music: Hawthorne Heights
Hawthorne Heights will
perform at Common
Grounds during the
Never Sleep Again
Tour Sunday with Just
Surrender, Punchline,
Monty Are I and
Night Beast. Tickets
* *are $13 in advance
and $15 the day of.
Doors open at 5 p.m.
The band is reviving
with its fourth album
"Skeletons," which will
be released early
next year.
page 9(n
'E0
00
0THIS WEEK:
PG 9: Bayside, Hawthorne
Heights and The Revival Tour
PG 12: Theory of a Deadman
and column on Facebook
privacy
ONLINE: Check out reviews of
Art Bash and the Downtown
Festival & Art Show
www.alligator.org/avenue
REGULARS:
SEX: Reality TV shows and match-
making, online
FASHION: Profile on aspiring
purse designer Laura Vela, page
COMING UP:
Don't miss the last issue of The
Avenue coming out Dec. 3. We
will speak with the cast of "The
Lovely Bones," members of
Cursive and Common.
As the semester finishes, check
out these events before the holi-
days: Common and Kid Cuddi
will perform for free at Flavet
on Dec. 4, and Cursive will play
at Common Ground on Dec. 6.
MtvU Woodie Awards recognizes popular, new artists
By ALEX ORLANDO
avenue writer
What does ittake to gain Woodie
status?
Bands will compete at the 2009
mtvU Woodie Awards, a showcase
of performers made popular on
college campuses. Performers will
include Asher Roth, Death Cab for
Cutie, Matt and Kim, The Dead
Weather and 30H!3 this year.
The awards show, now in its
sixth year, aired live Wednesday at
the Roseland Ballroom and will air
on MTV on Dec. 4 at 10 p.m. EST.
The Avenue participated in a col-
lege conference call on Nov. 10 with
artists who are nominated for the
award.
"We think it's a way for us to
call our artists that are having a
huge impact in college campuses
and respond to the attention thatthe artists are getting from the col-
lege audience," said Eric Conte, the
executive producer of the Woodie
Awards, during the conference call.
Conte also said he sees college
audiences as a "crystal ball as far
as music prediction."
Bands such as Fall Out Boy and
The Academy Is have been nomi-
nated for Woodies in years past, on
their way to larger crowds and more
recognition. Newer musicians note
the Woodies as a landmark on their
music careers.
"It's really been a journey," said
Asher Roth, known on college cam-
puses for his song "I Love College."
"Being nominated for Woodie of the
Year-it's really kind of remarkable
to see and step back and watch it
all happen."
Some of the artists say putting
on a better live show has helped
them gain a solid college fan base."We try to adjust the show and
make it a little bit more epic for a
bigger crowd and have fun in differ-
ent ways," said Nathaniel Motte of
30H!3, nominated for Best Perform-
ing Woodie.
"It's really been a journey.
Being nominated for Woodie
of tha 9 zar-it's really kind of
remarkable to see and step
back and watch it all happen."
ASHER ROTH
musician
Other artists attribute their stun-
ning and relatable videos to their
success on college campuses.
"It's more about everybody, you
know?" said Roth, who noted the
importance of relating to all crowds
on campus with his music."I think it forces you to think a
little harder," said Matt Johnson,
of Matt and Kim, who said he had
to beg his bandmate, Kim Schifino,
to appear naked with him in Times
Square to shoot a music video for
their song "Lessons Learned." The
video is nominated for Best Video
Woodie this year.
The video is relevant to college
students who are generally "more
open to doing wild things" at that
time of their lives, according to
Johnson, who refers to American
colleges as "communities of taste."
Matt and Kim will likely be per-
forming a clothed version of "Les-
sons Learned" at the Woodies.
Other performers include The Dead
Weather, also up for Best Video
Woodie, and Death Cab For Cutie.
Death Cab For Cutie is scheduled
to perform "Meet Me on the Equi-
nox" at the Woodies, which appearson the "New Moon" soundtrack.
The Dead Weather has not released
which song they will perform.
However, the Woodies are not
meant to be a "march to the main-
stream," Conte said.
Still, Conte said he doesn't think
artists should limit themselves just
to stay out of the limelight.
"[The artists] want to continue
making music for themselves," he
said. "As long as there's an appre-
ciation going back and forth, I think
that's what the ultimate goal is for
someone."
Even artists who have gained
mainstream recognition see the
Woodies as an easier alternative to
winning the music industry's more
prestigious awards.
"Tony Bennett wins Grammys,"
said Chris Walla, guitarist for Death
Cab For Cutie. "It just doesn't seem
like it's our job to win Grammys."
Hawthorne
Heights reborn
By NICOLE LA HOZ
avenue writer
The members of Hawthorne Heights have always been
driven to form a solid band. It doesn't stem from a hunger
for success, though. To the Dayton, Ohio, rock band, playing
music is a therapeutic escape.
While the band battled lawsuits and countersuits with Vic-
tory Records Inc., the ultimate tragedy struck them in 2007:
Guitarist and longtime friend Casey Calvert was found dead
on the band's tour bus from accidental mixture of prescribed
medication.
"The one thing that got us through was music," drummer
Eron Bucciarelli said. "That was the one thing that wasn't
dependent on waiting on a lawyer's phone call or anything
else."
The band members penned down thoughts, strummed
out emotions and pounded out troubles. Bucciarelli said mu-
sic "was one sort of safe place we could all go and meet up."
Through instrumental remedy, Hawthorne Heights rose
above its adversities. "Skeletons" is the fourth release from
the band due early next year.
During the Never Sleep Again Tour,
Hawthorne Heights will stop at Common
Grounds on Nov. 22 with Just Surrender,
Punchline, Monty Are I and Night Beast.
Tickets are $13 in advance and $15 the
day of. Doors open at 6 p.m.
The band sees smaller venues as a re-
vival because fans get a chance to recon-
nect with members as they preview the album. The shows
on Never Sleep Again are "way more intimate" and consist of
high energy performance from every band, ideal for fans who
haven't seen them live in four to six years, Bucciarelli said.
"This is all new to us again. It's great," he said.
"Skeletons" places the band in a delicate predicament,
however. While its 2004 platinum debut, "The Silence in Black
and White," and follow-up success, "If Only You Were Lonely,"
boom with catchy screamo rock tracks, lastyear's "Fragile Fu-
ture" was Hawthorne Heights' outlet for dealingwith Calvert's
passing. The sudden reconciliation with Victory Records led to
a rushed release, and many fans were unaware of it.
Bucciarelli said he and the band worry about "die-hard"
fans' reactions to "Skeletons." Their tastes and influences
might have changed since "If Only You Were Lonely," he said.
"To maintain relevance you have to continuously evolve
and change your music," Bucciarelli said. "A lot of fans have
grown since then, so hopefully their tastes evolved too."
The band spent months working on a song, Bucciarelli
said, and each is unique.
"You have different vibes going on in this album, some
heavier and darker vibes," Bucciarelli said.
"Skeletons" remains a secret until the show. Bucciarelli
said he does not want to give too much away and humbly
mentioned that the band has expanded its sound and tried
new things.THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009 +ALLIGATOR, 9
Musician creates acoustic tour
By JOEY FLECHAS
avenue writer
Sometimes, simplicity can feel startlingly fresh.
Hot Water Music veteran Chuck Ragan has run away with
the idea, organizingthe second year of The Revival Tour, a group
of more than 20 artists collaborating on acoustic music.
The tour will stop in Gainesville Friday night at the Common
Grounds. Doors open at 9 p.m.
The show will feature artists like Ragan, Jon Snodgrass, Jim
Ward and Gainesville native Jon Gaunt sharingthe stage in vari-
ous combinations, singing and playing on one another's tunes
freely.
"It's super simple, nothing that's never been done before,"
Ragan said.
Harking back to a Rolling Thunder Revue-style spirit, this
year's lineup features a disparate group of musicians, from folk-
sters to bluegrass players to Americana crooners.
With an average of 10 musicians on the bus on any given
stretch of the tour, Ragan has found that putting it all together
is as rewarding as it is difficult.
"I must say, as a musician, it has been probably the most
enjoyable way of touring I've done in my life and probably the
most challenging," he said.A goal for the musicians is to forsake the traditional struc-
ture of shows, with the predictable opening acts, breaks and
headliners. Ragan wants to leave behind all of that monotony.
"When the show starts, we present everyone from the begin-
ning. There's no ego on this run. We don't care who's going to
play first or who's goingto play last," he said.
With all of the players throwing caution to the wind, new col-
laborations spring up every night, and newcomers get to show
off their chops.
One of those newcomers is the first and only woman to join
The Revival Tour, Audra Mae. Ragan invited Mae to join after he
heard her music on her MySpace page. He eventually proved
instrumental in her getting a record deal.
At 25 years old, the gentle-voiced singer and songwriter is
glad to bring well-roundedness to the tour as a woman and as
the youngest performer, and she's thankful that the guys have
been nurturing, she said.
"The guys have been super protective," she said.
Friday's show is a sort of homecomingfor Ragan, who spent
10 years living here while playing in Hot Water Music. He loves
coming back to the scene that nurtured his musical ambitions
for years, he said.
"We have a lot of dear friends there. There's normally never
enough time to do all the fishing I want to do," he chuckled.
Photo courtesy of Jill Ragan
Chuck Ragan, the co-frontman of Hot Water Music, founded The Revival Tour, which features new and young musicians who change
throughout the tour, adding variety and teaming up with other performers for a different set each night The tour will be in Gainesville
Friday at Common Grounds at 9 p m
Bayside rocks out, but doesn't lead rockstar lifestyle
Editor's note: The writer spent twelve
hours shadowing Anthony Raneri of
Bayside to write this story.
By GABRIELA IZARRA
avenue contributing writer
It's 2:20 a.m. Saturday and I'm
sitting in a booth at the Waffle House
on Archer Road with Anthony Raneri,
lead singer and rhythm guitarist of
Bayside, and Brian Diaz, the band's
guitar tech.
Anthony is on his second $2
chicken biscuit.
In the booth adjacent to us, bass-
ist Nick Ghanbarian, lead guitarist
Jack O'Shea and Dylan Gibson, the
band's merchandiser, are finishingup their midnight meals. putting chicken in buckets? with All Your Friends Are Dead and
Waffle House was the finale of my The backstage area didn'tscream Away With You, two Florida bands,
12-hour shadow session of Anthony punk rock. It barelywhispered it. Vita- warming up the audience for the
Raneri.
Bayside is an alternative punk
band from Queens, N.Y., and I hadin the trunk of my Jeep Liberty and
headed downtown for some cheap
celebratory brews.
minwater, hummus and Spicy-sweet headliner. As the bars closed in Gainesville,
Chili Doritos. No booze. No drugs. Bayside finally hit the stage at the guys demanded Waffle House.
In fact, Anthony stays sober. Even 9:45 p.m. After indulging in a fatty midnight
the privilege of hanging with them at Common Grounds downtown, he
before and after their free show at
the Reitz Union on Friday.
The Reitz Union Board Entertain-
ment paid the band $5,000 to play
in the Rion Ballroom, said Bailey
Parke, RUB bands director.
Flashback to earlier in the day assat empty handed as
Local the rest of us sipped
on beers. Though-w he's never empty
handed for very
long-cigarette and coffee breaks
are standard.Music ripped from the speakers breakfast, they had only 2 hours be-
as the band members pounded away
at their instruments. Fans belted out
lyrics, and the occasional crowd-surf-
er landed on the stage.
Chants of "one more song" raved
after Bayside had said its good-bye.
In what looked like a plotted en-fore departing to Pensacola for their
next show. I dropped them back off
at their tour bus on campus, and
headed home with mixed feelings-
thrilled to have spent the day with
one of my favorite bands but disap-
pointed that it was over.
the band waited to play their set. More than 500 showgoers crowd- core, the band finished off with its This was not the first show Bay-
Blackberries in hand, Anthony ed the ballroom, some lining up out- most popular song, "Devotion and side has played in Gainesville, and
and Brian updated their Twitter ac- side the venue as early as 4 p.m. to Desire." I'm sure it wasn't their last. They'll be
counts and checked useless facts ensure entry in the show. Once the equipment was loaded back. If not for the fans, then for the
on Wikepedia. Who ever thought of The performance began at 8 p.m. back on the bus, we squeezed Jack $2 chicken biscuits at Waffle House.
10, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009
Cafe Gardens
For over a third of a century,
the Original World Famous Cafe
Gardens has been serving Gators
with delicious food and a large
selection of beers and wines.
Located just across from campus
near the Florida Book Store, this
quaint landmark establishment
with award winning courtyard
dining is perfect for any date
or gathering. For live music
schedule, call 376-2233. Hours:
Mon-Wed 11am-10pm, Thurs-Sat
llam-llpm, Sun Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave
Gator Dawgs
We have 26 styles of hot dogs
to choose from. Chicago, Heart
attack, Frito, Colombia, etc. Even
create your own. Our burgers
are prepared daily and cooked to
order. Our fresh deli sandwiches
come with over 1/4 lb of meat.
Check out our full menu at
GatorDawgs.com. Several
delicious vegetarian & vegan
options. We are located at 1023
W University Ave.
378-4353
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and Stacks.
The only way to describe the
Stack is that is outrageously
delicious! Its uniquely different
presentation- three 6 inch flour
tortillas stacked high with fresh
grilled ingredients and just
the right accent of cheese- is
strangely inviting to one's palate.
Come out & try our 1/3 lb
Burgers, steak seasoned Panchos,
& Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the Home Grown and
Homemade Black Bean Hummus!
Now serving draft and Red Stripe
beers! We deliver! Open late to
serve your late night cravings!
Sun-Wed: 1 am-3am. Thurs-
Sat: 1lam-4am. 34th St Plaza
(Sweetbay)@ 2124 SW 34th St
672-6111
www.jdoobies.com
Peach Valley Cafe
Experience the freshness in
everything we do. Open daily
from 7a.m. to 8p.m. We have a
full menu ranging from Orchard
fresh Apple Fritters to fried
artichokes and Lobster bites.
Breakfast is served all day here
at Peach Valley Cafe including
Gainesville's best fresh Omelets
and Benedicts; mouth watering
Sausage Gravy and Biscuits,
and yes, Mammoth Pancakes
and waffles. Lunch and dinner
are also available any time
with bountiful salads, fresh
sandwiches, Pot Roast and don't
forget to ask your server about
our shrimp-n-grits (wonderful).
We are located at 3275 SW 34th
Street directly behind Hooter's
(352) 376-1834.
LiquidGinger Asian Grille &
Teahouse
101 SE 2nd Pl. (Behind
Hippodrome Theater Downtown)
Offering Asian Fusion Cuisine in
a relaxing atmosphere.
Wed and Thurs night $5 martinis.
Open for lunch: Mon-Fri 11:30-
2:30 Sun 12-5 and dinner Sun-
Thurs 5-10pm Fri-Sat 5-10:30pm
Call 371-2323 for a reservation.
David's BBQ
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, Eat-in,
Takeout, Drive-thru, Catering,
or Tailgaiting. Everyone loves
David's BBQ because, unlike or-
dinary BBQ places, David's cooks
over a real wood fire! Eat where
the locals eat! Voted #1 BBQ in
Gainesville! Approved caterer
for UF's Emerson Alumni Hall.
Mon-Sat 7am -9pm. Sundays
open at Sam. Drive Thru until
9:30pm 7 days! 352-373-2002.
Have David's BBQ delivered by
Gatorfood.com. FREE WIFI. 5121
NW 39th Ave
www.davidsBBQ.com
43rd Street Deli and
Breakfast House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to for
over 25 years-we probably served
your parents! Biggest 4-egg
omelette, French toast, and daily
specials. Not full yet? Have lunch
with us & enjoy a large selection
of sandwiches, the best Reuben,
gyros & soup all at a reasonable
price. Vegetarianl? Not a problem.
We have a selection that is sure
to fulfill your needs. We now
offer free WiFi! Open Monday-
Sunday 7am-3pm.
4401 NW 25th Place 373-2927.
3483 Williston Rd 373-5656
conveniently located off 1-75.
Bagels Unlimited
Serving Gainesville for over 25
years. BU is a tradition of sorts.
We offer many breakfast platters
cooked fresh, featuring omelettes,
eggs any style, large pancakes,
French Toast, Knishes, 17 varieties
of bagels and a large assortment
of spreads. Also available are tofu
and tenpeh. Over 100 bottles
of hot sauces are available forsampling.
1222 West University Ave.
Open everyday from 6:30am-3pm.
Donut Connection
Breakfast sandwiches, bagels w/
cream cheese, fritters, cinn rolls,
and 30 varieties of donuts.
Coffee by the lb. Best coffee in
town. Enjoy our outdoor tables.
Open every day 5a-8p 375-0376
5205 NW 39th Ave, Timber
Village. Wholesale prices available.
Golden Buddha
Where eating well means eating
healthy.Gainesville's best Chinese
food. Now with more sizes
available with more vegan options.
As always, generous portions,
fast service & super lunch/dinner
combos. FREE DELIVERY.
613 NW 16th Ave. 372-4282 or
380-9076. Full menu and specials
@ GoldenBuddhaSpecial.com
The Yearling
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog legs,
and alligator, as well as USDA
Prime beef, seafood, grits, greens
& hush puppies. Open Thursday &
Friday 5pm-10pm, Saturday 12pm-
10pm & Sunday 12pm-8:30pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999
www .theyearlingrestaurant.com
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban, Italian,
and Mexican Cuisine. New menu
items prepared daily! Come try
our famous Cuban sandwiches
and slow roasted pork. We cater 7
days a week! Visit us in the Tower
Square 2 miles from Butler Plaza at
5729 SW 75th Street.
373-0301
DLMites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-and
is the only low-calorie soft serve
with NO artificial sweeteners. We
rotate over 100 delicious creamy
flavors (see this week's at www.gatordlites.com) that are diet-
friendly without the diet taste.
We also feature a whole array
of cookies, chips, and various
grocery treats that appeal to
Atkins5, Weight Watchers, and
other dieters. Our every day daily
specials make shopping at D'Lites
a special value! Come weigh your
options at the Marketplace Plaza at
NW 16th Blvd. and 43rd St. (next
to the Hollywood Video) or at the
Shoppes of Williston at S.W. 34th
Street and Williston Rd. (next to
Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!
Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts, loose
leaf teas, and beer, with lots
of vegan options. Now open
24 hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
blocks east of campus at 1025 W.
University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve
frozen yogurt as a healthy dessert
alternative. Our yogurt has 0%
fat and contains live and active
cultures. Choose any combination
of 8 different flavors and over 30
toppings. Everything for just 45
cents an ounce. 3841 SW Archer
Rd (next to Bento Red) Open from
noon to midnight daily!
TCBY
Please visit one of our 3 locations
to enjoy real frozen yogurt
products. Our low calorie and
low-fat soft serve is your healthiest
choice in Gainesville, and it
tastes great too. Waffle Cone
Wednesday from 5-8p.m. and half-
off smoothies from 5-6p.m. every
day! Locations at 34th Street next
to Crispers, Thornebrook Village
at 43rd Street and Town of Tioga.
Find us one Facebook and follow
us on Twitter at "TCBYgainesville"
Yogaberry
OPEN LATE-ACROSS FROM THE
UNIVERSITY IN TARGET COPY!
Come build your healthy treat at
Yogaberry! Our yogurt is 100%
fat free and the only yogurt that
is made with real organic milk.
Choose from an array of fresh
fruit toppings cut daily, candies
and fun cereal. New flavors for
you to try daily, and always free
samples! In addition,awe have
the finest organic, free-tradeG DHTo
coffee. Our coffee bar features
lattes, cappuccino's, espresso,
cuban coffee's, yoga mocha's and
much more!
Let's Eat Diner
The best kept secret inGainesville,
Let's Eat Diner is a small diner
just off the beaten path on 39 Ave
at NW 22 Dr. Open Mon-Sat 7am
till Spi serving breakfast, lunch,
and supper and Sunday 11am
till 2pm with a lunch buffet. We
serve home style cookin'. "Just
like Momma used to fix." 352-
378-0738 www.letseatdiner.con
Oh yeah, we also do catering!
Green Mango
The best Indian food in
Gainesville. Serving Gainesville
since 1991. The best Samosas
in Florida. Offering many vegan
dishes. We are specialized in
catering any group size. Delivery
available-free delivery on any
purchase over $25! Open 7 days
Mon-Sat 11:30am-9pm, Sunday
1pm-8pm. Call 352-505-6200.
7625 W Newberry Rd
Luca's Pasta
Customize your own pasta. Over
100 combinations, starting @
$2.99! Choose your pasta, sauce,
& topping. All made fresh & quick.
Vegan & Gluten-free options too.
Open Mon-Sat 11-9. Delivery/
take out/dine in. See menu online
www.lucaspasta.com.
607 W. University Ave.
352-338-1700
Manuel's Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant
is perfect for dinner any day of
the week. Come in and check
out one of the best wine lists in
town. Ask questions and learn
while you wait for the chef to put
out nothing but goodness from
the kitchen using fresh, simple,
and local ingredients. Try the
Early Dinner Sunday, Tuesday-
Thursday 5-7pm. $3 wines/$10
bottles. $10 Menu. Ask about our
Monday Wine Dinners and private
parties for lunch or dinner. 6
South Main St. (352)375-7372Caribbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
and oxtail. Opened Mon thru
Thurs IIam-7:30pm, Fri and Sat
Ilam-11:45pm.
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
352-374-8111
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bentosboxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a hip,
trendy atmosphere. Two great
locations with outside eating. Open
every day for carry-out or dine-in.
Call our Newberry Rd. location
at 377- 8686 oour Arch e Rd
location at224512
Cabana Cove
Key West Grille
Now offering a new bistro
inspired menu.
Open for lunch and dinner.
Full martini and mojito bar.
Voted nicest outdoor dining.
COUPON -DATE NIGHT -COUPON
Choose 1 appetizer,s2 entrees, a
bottle of wine, and share a slice of
Key Lime Pie.
All for only $39.99 (expires
12/1/09)
2410 NW 43rd Street
Gainesville
352-377-3278
Please visit us online at
www.cabanacove.net for
additional savings and coupons.
The Olam Cafe
Mouthwatering, healthy Kosher
cuisine at affordable prices!
Daily $10 All-You-Can-Eat
Dinner Specials. Mexican, Pan-
Asian, Italian, Mediterranean
& American Deli! SUSHI night
every Wednesday at the low
price of $10! NEW this semester-
Schwarma & Falafel Station!
Fresh Salad Bar daily with over
50 + items! Take-out available.
Lunch Specials starting at $5
11:30-2:30 M-F. Dinner 5:30-8:30
M-Th. Located inside the Hillel
building across from O'Dome. 202
W University Ave. 352-248-2606
www.theolamcafe.com
For event info:
www.myolamcafe.comthe indelw dent ridaalligatorAspiring designer
starts purse collectionGreen Plantains
Happy Hour $2.75
Drink +Appetizer from 3-7pm.
$5 To-Go Dinners. Mon-Sat from
4pm. Don't miss out $4.95 dinner
+ soda on Thursday, student
night from 4pm-lOpm. Visit us at
5150 SW 34th Street at the new
Publix Shopping Center 7 days a
week.
We cater. Check us out on
GatorFood.com 352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.com
THE JONES
Gainesville's own independently
owned community restaurant
dedicated to bringing sustain-
able, local, and organic food
to the table. Oh, and it's really
yummy. Herbivores, carnivores,
& omnivores welcome! *Break-
fast & Lunch: 8am to 3pm every
day. Dinner: Friday thru Monday
nights 5pm to l0pm.* Check out
our Facebook page for specials
and events. 401 NE 23rd Avenue
352.373.6777
Mildred's Big City Food
Eat Gainesville's Best Food at
Mildred's. We support LOCAL
and SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh Dishes
Made From Scratch!
OPEN SUNDAYS!
CONVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371-1711
MildredsBigCityFood.com
New Deal Cafe
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local Beef
Burgers! This 12oz. Goliath
is Naturally Aged and Fresh
Ground. MONSTROUS Desserts.
HUGE Martinis. A Diamond in
the Ruff!
Mon-Thurs. 11am-10pm
Fri-Sat. llam-Ilpm
371-4418
Located next door to Mildred s
Ti Amol
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine agrees,
"[the chef] adds visual flair to
every dish to make it as good-
looking as it is flavorful." NEW
Happy Hour Specials! Every day
from 4pm-7pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices & terrific
service.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.com
12 SE 2nd Ave. 378-6307Boca Fiesta
Best Margaritas in Town!
Fresh-squeezed + all natural!
Tasty tacos, burritos, nachos!
Cheap beer, full bar, open late!
232 SE 1st St Downtown
336-TACO!
Kickin Devil Cafe
Restaurant
Gainesville's newest treasure.
Locally owned restaurant with
great Cajun and Caribbean
vegetarian food! Enjoy jambalaya,
gumbo, French crepes, delicious
salads and much more! Groove
to a selection of eclectic music
while you settle in for an evening
of delicious food. Live music most
nights after dinner. It's 4 blocks
from Satchels in the industrial park,
2 blocks west of Sonnys. Five dollar
lunches, buy 2 get 1 free drinks,
4 course dinners for 2 for $29.95
Open Tues-Sat 352-505-6660
Book your party here or let us
cater your event!
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads, pasta,
& desserts. All you can eat buffet
available! Outdoor dining. Visit
www.newyorkpizzaplus.com for
coupons. We Deliver!
490 NE 23rd Ave.
376-3444
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade, meals,
sandwiches, soups, home-baked
desserts. Brunch Weekends.
Specials: Cupcake Mon., Southern
Cooking Tues., Greek Wed 6pm,
Ethiopian Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 10am-8pm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
Saigon Legend
Delicious traditional Vietnamese
cuisine with popular Asian
favorites. Pho-Banh Xeo, Banh Tom
Ha-Woi. Enjoy great food at great
prices. Family owned restaurant.
Next to Holiday Inn. Vietnamese
subs-pork, chicken, & tofu. Dine-in
or take out. Catering available.
Mon-Sat 10:30am-9:30pm, Sun
11:30am-9pm
374-0934
1228 W Univ Ave
huto ouurtesy u. nueeka.r
Aspiring designer Laura Vela's handbags lie amid her inspiration -fashion magazines,
sketches and her personal fashion scrapbook Vela's leather designs are made out of
fabrics from Argentina and are sold for less than $120* Barcelona native Laura Vela
will be studying at UF and sell-
ing her custom-made line of
handbags
By REBEKAH GEIER
avenue writer
Gainesville's fashion scene is
about to get more exclusive.
Laura Vela, 23, is selling one-of-
a-kind handbags to women like her-
self -those who love fashion and
see it as a form of self-expression
but don't want to be seen like every-
one else.
The Barcelona native and aspir-
ing designer will be in Gainesville
until August studying business
through UF's graduate international
exchange program.
"Fashion for me, whenever I think
about it, is a way of escaping what is
going on in the world," Vela said.
Vela, who studies executive man-
agement and fashion marketing at
ESADE, a business school in Spain,
is taking a break from business to
launch her own fashion line.
"I've always wanted to do some-
thing creative, but I am also aware
of how difficult it is to be someone in
this world," Vela said about her new
venture.
She already has one foot in the
industry: Vela studied at the Fashion
Institute of Technology in New York
City and contributed to Teen Vogue.
She has also styled A-list celebrities
while working at American Rebel
PR, including Jessica Alba, Leighton
Meester, Ed Westwick, Miley Cyrus,
Lindsay Lohan and Zac Efron.
Vela started designing handbags
four weeks ago, by accident. Af-
ter designing two bags just for fun,
hoards of compliments sparked the
young designer to consider starting
a business. The rest came natural-
ly.
"I just started drawing," Vela said
osu UIRD(D@lb. va @ tlTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009 + ALLIGATOR, 1 1
about the beginning designs for
her handbags. "At FIT I was taking
fashion-related classes, like styling
or upcoming trends, but not fashion
design."
Vela's personalized handbags
master the ability of combining high
fashion with high quality. She plans
on targeting women who look for in-
dividuality in the accessories they
buy, something they can't find at
stores like Forever 21, she said.
"I wantbto make the girl who
wears my bag to feel special and
unique," Vela said. "And since I want
to sell a purse that is unique, I want
it to be good quality."
Vela hand-picks the materials
used in producing her
Fashion handbags from fab-
ric stores in Buenos
Aires, Argentina. She
only uses real leather
or snakeskin. The extra embellish-
ments, such as silver studs and zip-
pers, come from Los Angeles or vin-
tage stores. Vela says the bags are
expected to last at least five years.
Vela says her designs are the per-
fect complement to a simple outfit.
So far, there is no precise style
to her line of handbags, which is the
point. Vela makes each design dif-
ferent so that there is variety.
"If today I am in a rock and roll
kind of mood, the black stud purse
would be perfect," Vela said regard-
ing the imagination she tries to cre-
ate to go along with her bags.
Her first design, for example, is a
muted colored snakeskin clutch in
baby blue, gray and mauve. Some
of her newer designs include a tan
handbag with ruffled layers and a
zebra-print interior, or a hot pink
snakeskin clutch smothered with
silver studs.
Vela's handbags can be pur-
chased for $100 to $120.
She is in the process of working
with local distributors and building
a Web site.
12, ALLIGATOR+ THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009
Band plays without gimmicks
By NICOLE LA HOZ
avenue writer
When Theory of a Deadman commands the
stage, there are no frills or gimmicks.
Guitarist Dave Brenner can't describe the
band's live performances. He said it will simply play
40 minutes worth of music this fall and "try to play
it really well."
On Nov. 30, the rock band from Vancouver, Brit-
ish Columbia, and Cavo will open up for Daughtry
on the Leave This Town tour in the O'Connell Cen-
ter. The show starts at 7:30 p.m. and tickets are
$29.50 to $39.50.
"A lot of the people that are coming to the
Daughtry shows don't know who the hell we are,"
Brenner said. "Hopefully they like what we do."
Before forming a band, singer and lead guitarist
Tyler Connolly, bassist Dean Beck and Brenner held
jobs involving glass, water bottles and fire protec-
tion services.
"They were all fun jobs," Brenner said. "We were
all happyto say good-bye to them."
Because their community was small, Connolly,
Beck and Brenner knew one another far before re-
cording an album.
Connolly's demo tape differed from the others,
however, catching the ear of Nickelback's ChadKroeger. He was signed to Kroeger's label, and
the band developed, releasing its self-titled debut
in 2002. "Nothing Could Come Between Us," the
album's hit single, bears strong resemblance to
Nickelback hits with its raspy melodic vocals and
catchy mid-tempo playing.
Theory of a Deadman has since evolved into a
pure rock band.
Brenner said "Scars & Souvenirs," the 2008
record, involved "a lot of jamming." The album re-
mains their focus for now. Members have dabbled
in new material on the side, but they haven't put
any songs together yet, Brenner said.
Aside from music, Theory of a Deadman is in-
volved with the Music Fashion Project. It picks a
"charity style" T-shirt and a portion of purchases
goes to band's favorite music-related charity.
The band has toured with acts like M6tley
Crue and Godsmack on CrQe Fest 2. Brenner said
he had fun hanging out on that tour because the
bands clicked.
Coming from CrQe Fest, Theory of a Deadman
didn't know what to expect at Daughtry concerts.
Daughtry has been really accepting Brenner said,
and crowds pack into venues by the time it per-
forms.
"They've been digging our music," he said.
"We're happy."Facebook reveals all
By LAUREN GOLD
avenue contributing writer
In high school, I jealously watched my
older sister on her laptop. She was on Fa-
cebook, a network exclusively for college
kids. I couldn't wait for college -if not for
the freedom, then definitely for the col-
lege e-mail address that would grant my
entry into the elite Facebook club.
Fast forward four years, and the world
ison Facebook. When Facebookextended
its membership to high school students,
myfriends and I gladly canceled our MyS-
pace accounts and made the switch.
When my 12-year-old brother logged in,
I was miffed, but I put him on limited pro-
file and moved on. When my friends' hip
mothers picked up on the trend, I ignored
my pangs of annoyance and begrudgingly
accepted their requests.
Now, my mom is begging me to let
her create an account. Though I appreci-
ate her asking my permission, I will deny
her until I am 40. When my 80-year-old
Grandma Hilda popped up as a "Friend
I Might Know," I lost it. What happenedto my prized Facebook world, my online
playground of funny photos and last
night's inside jokes plastered on my page
for my friends and I to enjoy, away from
the prying eyes of our nosy relatives?
What was once the addictive toy for
college students has become the entire
world's new pastime.
Friends of mine have recently disabled
their walls, made their pictures private or
even removed their surname from their
account, all in an effort to preserve their
personal lives. We know that employers
check out job applicants on the Internet.
We must be responsible, but censoring
ourselves makes Facebook lose part of
its entertainment value.
I keep my pictures classy, avoid
crude remarks and prevent anything
even slightly offensive from surfacing on
my Web space, but the online perks of
adolescent life are over. What was once
a simple, social networking tool for stu-
dents has become a database exchange
for professors, parents and even chil-
dren. Social networking is now public
networking.
EXAMS
(bv Independent Optometrist)ZhI Corner of
NW 13th St. I
& 39th Ave.
Near Publix
EVECARE
I EXPRESS 1
L (352)375-6133
GAINEOVILLE ELKO
#990
19t ANNUAL
TURKEY OHOOT
Sunday, November 22nd.
Noon -4 PM
at the Gator Trap & Skeet Club
Off of Waldo Road, just north of the
Airport. Follow the signs.
$5 PER SHOT /
5 SHOTS FOR $20
Proceeds will go to the
Elk's Charity Projects!
Shot Guns will be furnished at no charge.
You mau not bring uour own un!
COME OUT AND TRY YOUR LUCK!
EMPONER YOL)R
ROSINESS.
Advertise in the country's
largest college newspaper.
With a daily circulation of 35,000
and a daily readership of 50,000,
reach every market in Gainesville.
Contact us at [352] 373.4482.
al Ii gatoiirGET YOUR BEAT TSHIRT
FOR THE SWAMPP.
Sponsored by
HERFF JONES
www.herffjones.com/ufGet yours tomorrow at
Emerson Alumni Hall
lOAM until gone!
FREE for the first 1500
SAA members with
membership card.
352-392-9533 -www.ufalumni.ufl.edu
Classifieds
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished 0 unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
*3801 SW 13th St
12-9-75-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$399 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
24hr Fitness Center * 2 Pools
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-313 1*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$299/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Rms avail in 4BR Call Eric, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Apartment in Windsor
Park. $450/ea. room. FREE Internet and
cable! New W/D. On bus route to UF. 305-
788-5681/windsor5l5@gmail.com. 11-23-
09-45-1
2 bdrm/ 2 bth, fully furnished townhome
in Haile Plantation, SW Gainesville, front
garden, back porch. $950-$1050 for short or
long term. Ideal for visiting scholars, sabbati-
cals. 352-331-3183 11-19-09-30-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $800/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432
12-3-09-35-1
.-..1
Tradition of Student Living
Fully furnished student suites
Starting @ $399 all inclusive
3700 SW 27th St 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.Com
12-9-09-40-1
Walk to Campus. Indiv. leases available at
Oxford Terrace. Private bedroom and bath.
Washer/Dryer, Dishwasher, cable, internet
and utilities included. Campus Realty 352-
692-3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com
12-9-09-20-1
Walk to Campus. $380 per month, cable in-
ternet, utilities included. Indiv. lease, short
term, furnished. Campus Realty 352-692-
3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 12-
9-09-20-1
$385-3 bed/3 baths open in 4/4 Countryside
condo. Rent alone or with friends! On routes
9 and 35, all utilities included, for Spring or
longer. Call Nalini @ 352.514.3398. 11-23-
10-1
All u need to move in is your computor.Room
for rent $425/Mo ind all util and internet.
Treehouse Villiage apt. 2BR-2BA 4 blk fm
campus. 904-210-7203 11-24-09-5-11 bedroom in a nice quiet NW 3/2 house, on
bus route to UF, parking. $500 utilities incl,
fenced backyard, wood floor, internet, W/D,
flexible term, visiting scholars or grads. 352-
281-4229 12-9-09-14-1
4 Bdrm/4 Bath condo partially furnished.
Close to campus & on bus line. Very clean
w/ new carpet and all appliances. Pool, bas-
ketball court & workout room on premises.
$1,000.00/month Call (352) 483-1052 (must
dial area code) 11-20-09-3-1
2bed/2.5bath twnhome> Casablanca
675/month, new appliances
great bus route to campus
5 mi from campus, pets welcome
call Igor (954) 6830009 12-8-12-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1 BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
Amazing Values @ Arbor Park!
1 brs from $539 732+ sq ft
2brs from $599 1015+ sq ft
3brs from $750 1223+ sq ft
Water Included Pet-friendly
335-7275 *www.arborpark.com
12-9-09-75-2
Tired of Roommates?
Hate Living Far From Everything?
Downtown One Bedrooms Now Leasing!
Move-in TODAY for only $699!
Pool*Free Parking*Blocks to Campus
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
I BR/1 BR $465 * 2BR/1 BA $569
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now or Fall 2010.
2 & 3 Bedroom Townhomes.
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
A SPECIAL PLACE TO CALL HOME
1 BR from $585
2 BIR from $625
3 BIR from $755
Tanning*Fitness*Tennis*Pool*Playground
Washer/Dryer Fireplaces*Pools
Call us for a tour! 376-2507
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
1, 2, 3's! madisonpointe.org
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
12-9-75-2
PO LO S
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
14, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009
For Rent For Rent For Rent uFor Rent For Rent
unfrunished burnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$465, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
BRAND NEW REDUCED RATES!
1's, 2's, 3's
Inclusive Pkgs Available
Pet Friendly!
Immediate or Fall Move In
352-374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 12-9-
09-75-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921 352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $775/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
12-2-09-86-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Pine Rush Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1 bdr. from $459 2bdr. from $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Homestead Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
2/1 from $629 2/2 from $749
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Gator Village Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1 bdr. from $489
Near Downtown and 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Sunrise Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1bdr. from $435 $300 Amex card
Near UF, Schands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Summer Place Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1 bdr. from $435 $300 Amex card.
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$620 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172 888-373-0849
12-9-09-50-2ONE BLOCK TO UF (WALK TO CLASS)
3 bed 1 1/2 bath House- $1725
3 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utilities)- $1575
1 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utlities)- $645
Near SW 1st & 2nd Ave and SW 12th St.
No dogs (available now or spring semester)
Negotiable lease terms
call 352.337.9600 for more info 11-30-55-2
LARGE 2BR/1BA
Tile floors, except BRs. Covered patio. Close
to Shands 2336 SW 34th PI Apt D. $600/
mo w/stacking W/D. 1yr lease 352-372-3131
12-9-09-41-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
HOUSE avail Dec 1st. 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles to
UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace, cent
H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo. Call1 327-
2931 or 376-6183 11-25-09-36-2
1BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <50bs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 11-
30-09-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 11-24-
09-30-2
www.AndreeRealty.com
We specialize in rentals, sales & property
management. Try us. 352-375-2900 11-30-
09-30-2
HISTORIC DUCKPOND
1BR/1BA apt in vintage house. Hardwood
floorstile, renovated kitchen, quiet, blocks to
downtown $575 per mo. STUDIO $475/mo.
306 NE 6th St. 379-4952 11-23-09-24-2
Holiday Special/Big Time Savings
NO MOVE-IN COSTS
Free Rent (Don't Pay Anything until 2010)
Please Hurry.Only Few More Units
Rocky Point Apartments Country Gardens
3100 SW 35th Place 2001 SW 16th St
352-376-1619 352-373-4500
Regency Oaks South West Villas
3230 SW Archer Rd. 3643 SW 20th Ave
352-378-5766 352-336-9000
We Speak Spanish
11-20-09-20-2
First Month Free! Beautiful, spacious 3/2
condo, centrally located 1.5 miles from UF.
VERY LOW UTILITIES! Pool, W/D. Quiet; no
pets, please. Reduced to $975. Exit Realty
Producers 352-316-6842. 10-20-09-7-2
Working at Shands or VA- nice 2/1 @
Summit House across the street. $700/mo +
$200 dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 11-
25-21-2
Baxter Cottage
2 blks to UF campus, 1013 SW 4 Ave
2BR/1BA, Bright, clean, completely remod-
eled, Cent AC/Ht,wood firs, DW, W/D, NS,
NPets. $650+util. ATucker458@aol.com
11-30-21-2
WWW.BIKETOUF.COM
1 BR from $575
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $745
Tan ning*Fitness*Ten nis*Pool
Washer/Dryer*Pets Welcome!
Call us for a tour! 377-7401
12-9-09-40-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Sundowne Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Studio from $439 1bdr. from $479
Walk to Butler Plaza
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Totally Renovated 1 bdr. from $599
1 MONTH FREE! Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Ashton Square Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
2/2 from $739 3/2 from $799
1 MONTH FREE! Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
1 Block to UF! GREAT LOCATIONS
1 BR and 2BR Apts. See our list at
www.merrillmanagement.net
or call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 11-25-09-13-2
3BR 1.5 BA with family Room
Tile Floors, Laundry Room,
Central H & Air, Carport
319 NW 16th Avenue
$800/Mo. Call Merrill Management
Inc 352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
2BR 1BA Apt 1BLK TO UF!
Grad II Apts Special: $675/Mo
Central H & Air, Dishwasher
1236 Sw 4th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 11-25-09-13-2
1BR 1BA, Grad II Apts
1Blkto UF! Central H & Air,
Carpet, Laundry Fac. On site,
Inclds Wtr, Swg, Pst Cntrl &
Garbage. $500/Mo. 1236 SW
4th Avenue. Call Merrill
Management Inc 352-372-1494 11-25-09-
13-2
1 BR 1 BA Apt, Central H & Air
2 Blks to UF, Carpet, xtra room
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue $500/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 11-25-09-13-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
Move In Ready. Close to Campus and
Shands 1,2,3,& 4 bedrooms & individual
leases. Campus Realty 352-692-3800 rent-
als.campusrealtygroup.com 12-9-09-20-2
Two bedroom one bath condo for only $450
per month. Move in ready. On busline.
Washer/Dryer and Dishwasher. Will not last
long. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealty.org 12-9-09-20-2
$475-Female only for 1/1 in 3/3 Campus
View Condos. Furnished living/dining,
W/D,3rd Floor Unit, Newly built. Bedroom
furn available. Lease ends July 2010. Walk
to campus, shands, VA. 727-776-7098 11-
24-10-2
2 BR / 2.5 BTH Townhouse
Kensington North -3870 SW 20th Ave.
BRAND NEW tile & carpet, W/D, D/W,
INCLUDES utils & ethernet, pets welcome
Only $800/mo. Call 561.251.5425 11-23-
09-8-2
2 BR 2.5 Bath Townhouse behind UF Hilton
off of 34th St. Washer/Dryer $600 Call 352-
860-2202 11-20-7-2
2/2 ROCKWOOD VILLAS CONDO -$750
Avail Dec. 2009 or Spring 2010.
Gladys or Dan at 786-201-1158 or 305-491-
7333. OR gladysazocar@yahoo.com 11-
19-09-6-2* 3BR/1BA HOUSE
819 NW 10th Ave $850/mo
* 2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE
7209 SW 45th Pl. $600/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 11-30-09-
10-2
Dramatically reduced rent of $350 for 1 BR
downtown townhouse. Sublease could start
anytime after mid December. Vaulted ceil-
ings, huge bedroom with private bathroom.
Call 352-870-5004 11-30-10-2
Close to UF. Lg rm in a nice NW home.
Fenced back yard. 375/mo. Washer/dryer.
Cable internet/TV. Mike 352-316-3930 11-
19-09-5-4
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 12-9-09-17-2
Lowest Prices in Town!!!
Efficiencies starting at $325.00(walk to
Law School), 4 bedroom houses(Close to
Campus)from $795.00, Pay no rent until
Jan. 2010. Associates Realty 352-372-7755
12-1-09-10-2
2BR/1BA 7 Blocks E of UF. Cable, water,
internet incl. $850, FMR free, $500 SD &
LMR. Also for sale $139K. Bosshardt Realty
info@KristenAndRebecca.com 11-20-09-
5-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 11-20-
09-5-2
CHOICE LOCATION
*2BR/1 BA apt W/D, 530 NE 2nd St.
$750/mo
OFurnished room in house for grad student.
$450 & 425. 376-3195 11-23-09-5-2
Custom 2BR/1BA in pvt 4 Unit compx. Tiled
fir in Liv rm, Carpet in BRs w/ceiling fans. All
new BA. New Kit w/stainless appl, W/D, Cent
H/A, i-net/cable avail. Mgr pays water, pest
contrl, lawn main, security lites. Near bus rte.
Sorry no pets $685/mo Call 727-423-9463
SAlso avail: Fully furn 2BR/1BA $735/mo.
12-9-09-13-2
WALK TO UF. Avail in Jan:
* 2BR/2.5BA $800 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 0 Studio $475
1 yr lease, SD & NS. Call/Text: 352-870-7256
or gv1132601@gmail.com 12-9-09-14-2
Univ. Terr. Gainesville, 3921 SW 34th st., 1st
fIr., 4 bdrm., 4 bath, cent A/C, cable, wash.,
dry., full kitch., $280/mo.ea., owner/manager/
gainesville 352-472-9778 11-24-09-5-2
MUST SEE TO BELIEVE!
2BR/1BA off of Newberry Rd. $500/mo for
both rooms & ind all utils and satellite. Newer
house with large fenced backyard. Pets ok.
Call 472-1514 11-25-09-5-2
2/2 with loft aviail. immediately. Utitilities
included. w/d in unit. Tower Rd 450/month
352-246-3975 12-1-09-7-2
MIDTOWN WALK TO CLASS
* 1BR/1BA $475
* 2BR/1BA $350 ea.
* 1BR/1BA duplex $600
* 2BR/2.5BA townhome $525 ea.
Call 352-335-4790 or 352-214-3369
11-25-5-2
ISubleases
Rent huge master bedroom at Sabal Palms!
2 blocks from UF!
Private bath, granite countertops,
washer and dryer. $710.
Available Spring and Summer 407-496-4610
11-23-10-3
DEC FREE: 1br/1ba in 2br/2ba. Female to
share in Looking Glass Apts. Walk to cam-
pus. Washer/Dryer, Lease to August. $495/
month + 1/2 utilities. 352-871-0162 11-20-
09-8-3
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
bleases Roommates Roommates Furnishings For Sale
Sublease 1BR/1BA in a 4/4 at Gainesville
Place. $399/mo. furnished with W/D. Utilities,
internet, and cable included. Available
January-August
Call (727)804-4765 11-19-5-3
Own bedroom, own bathroom. 3 male
roommates. Gainesville Place apart-
ments. $400/month. January through
May. 717-756-2429 11-20-5-3
Female roommate wanted! sublease spring.
$520/mo, 6 bdrm big house, awesome loca-
tion! 3 min walk to Campus & 5 min walk
to Sor. Row! free park spot, 2ba, 2 kitchen,
porch, firepl, Lg rm, wd floors. Call (772)216-
5773 11-20-5-3
Large 1 Bedroom in 4/2. Spring/Summer
2010. 1.5 miles to campus and on the bus
route. Clean house, quiet roommates, wash-
er/dryer, dishwasher, new carpet. Pets ok.
$305/month. call 850-525-4532 11-23-09-
6-3
Canopy Apartment 1 br/1 ba
4 bed unit w/3 male roommates
Jan 1 2010- May4 2010
Save! Current rate $625/mth
Now $400/mth call 239-634-3130
09-5-311-25-
OFRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 11-30-09-55-4Enjoy A Romatic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
11-23-09-30-4
1 monthfree-Share2B/2B MH inCornerstone.
Furn rm avail now. $200 N/R dep. $400/mo
or $100/wk util incl. Laundry/cook/clean svc
avail. Near bus/shops. 30 day notice to va-
cate. Some pets ok. Call 331-0762 11-23-
25-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail Jan 1st.
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 11-20-
09-21-4
Walk or bike to UF, Shands orVA. Roommate
needed for nice 2/1, $350/mo + half utilities
at Summit House on SW 16th Ave. Recently
renovated. $200 dep. Call 352-843-0220 to
see. 11-25-21-4
Female wanted to share new 3BR/3BA home
near campus(SW area)2400sf. On bus route.
Washer & dryer included. Furnished, except
your bedroom. $425 plus utilities. Serious,
non-smoking students only. 813-610-1698
11-20-15-4
Female roommates needed. Live in a big new
house w/ bus stop to UF, quiet/relax area,
fenced yard,private pool. 520/month all inclu-
sive. Joyce 941-724-0961. Must see House
Pics: tinyurl.com/mbs77r 11-25-15-4
A clean, preprofessional, non-smoking femal
roommate for a 2/2.5 townhome close to
UF and Santa Fe. $400 + 1/2 of the utilities
and internet included, W/D, Bdr unfurnished.
Contact Madgene at 561-827-4970. 11-20-
09-10-4
Female roommate needed, 4/2.5 townhouse,
1-75 and Newberry, all included, gated, $400
baezwpa@bellsouth.net 954-557-4769
1-19-09-30-4
$385-Female roommate needed for 1/1 in
4/4 Univ. Terrace condo with all utilities in-
cluded, fully furnished, on routes 12 and 35,
very clean, for Spring or longer. Call Anu @
352-262-0628. 11-23-10-4
Female UF roommate needed for 3 bed-
room house walking distance to UF. Share
with 2 UF students. Private yard and park-
ing. $450.00 month plus util. email Lauren at
ciba123@aol.com 11-24-09-5-4
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers2 bedrooms available now in a GREAT 4 BR
house near campus. Easy walk to law school,
bike to main campus. Live with one student,
one professional. $450/mo. Nice neighbor-
hood, sunny porch, great place to live. Call
David, (321) 303-2214. 12-4-09-10-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Gator Getaway -Exp old Florida. 20 acre lot 4
miles south of Archer. Century old live oaks,
high & dry, beer & turkey. 15 mins from Gville.
Investment priced $6500/acre. Certified ap-
praisal as of 9/8/09. 352-528-2406 Ten
11-30-09-30-5
130 FEET RIVER FRONTAGE! 1.5 ACRES,
BUILDABLE LOT WITH LARGE SELECTION
OF HUGE TREES ON PEACEFUL SECTION
OF RIVER. GREAT INVESTMENT! ONLY
25K. (352)665-8067 1-13-09-20-5
Great for Students 1 BR/1 BA.
Walk to Campus. Only $49,900
Gore-Rabell Realty 378-1387 4-21-75-5
F Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame W/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7JR
C 0 fn1 P U T E R 6
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/un-
plugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/ID.
Certified MCSE Technicians. 352-338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
*KALEV ON KALLOI come to your location
All PC and Networking Problems
@ 352-262-6704 0 Only $25 per hour 0
12-4-09-10-7
F Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
j Foir Sale
*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
THE ORIGINAL RALLY TOWEL. YOU'VE
SEEN THEM IN THE STADIUM, NOW
GET YOUR OWN. THE ORIGINAL RALLY
TOWEL. JUST HOW BIG OF A FAN ARE
YOU? www.therallytowel.com 11-24-09-
14-10
WFtorcyCles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***WW.,BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
000000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS 0
ORunning or notO
ONEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
0Over 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS Buy6Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
11-30-09-50-12
16, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009
IAutos Wanted Help Want7 Help Wanted Help Wanted
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 12-9-49-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 12-9-49-12
92 Nissan Stanza $999 cash
98 Grand Am $999 cash
96 Kia Sephia $1299 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $1999 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $1999 cash
96 Plymouth Minivan $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
95 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
94 Honda Accord $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
Students Guaranteed Financing!
Do you have a valid drivers license?
Do you have a part time job?
Ride today for $750 down!
Call Angie @ 352-672-5048 11-19-10-12
WIWantedP
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgoldjewelry, scrapgold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 11-20-09-74-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 11-
20-09-74-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
0 the independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
Graduate debt-free. Earn cash while attend-
ing college. For a confidential interview call
1-800-577-2021 & please leave your name &
number TWICE 12-9-68-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
Earn Extra Money. Students needed ASAP
Earn up to $150 per day being a Mystery
Shopper. No Experience Required. Call
1-800-722-4791 11-20-41-14
Telecommunications--Software Engineers/
Programmers C/C++ programmers for
Embedded digital TV software (Cable,
Satellite, Video over IP). Nagravision has
openings in our Atlanta and Gainesville, FL
offices. 2-7 years experience. Competitive
salaries, benefits, relocation. Send resume
or questions to: resumes.atlanta@lw.net
11-25-09-28-14
MOST WANTED
Emmanuel
Jerger
Black Male
(DOB 11/22/89); 5'07",
150 lbs, Black Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
Felony Larcent
ALACHUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOPHair models wanted for long hair in motion
studies. Hip-length or longer only. No experi-
ence necessary. $70 to $120 and hour. Call
352 792-1824 modelslh@yahoo.com
1-14-09-32-14
Spring Design Internship!
352 Media Group is seeking young artists
with experience in
Fireworks or Photoshop to learn from our
Web design
team. Interested? Email
Internship@352media.com for details! 11-
19-09-10-14
Spring Programming Internship!
352 Media Group is seeking talented stu-
dents with experience in Web programming
and development.
Interested? Email
Internship@352media.com for details! 11-
19-10-14
GET PAID TO TAKE NOTES! Email your
course listing and a brief description about
yourself to ufl@sharenotes.com
START EARNING TODAY! 11-20-09-10-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
408 W University Ave. suite 106
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$8/hr + BONUS + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES 12-9-
09-20-14
Sales rep for Internet finance company.
Must work independently & meet deadlines.
Strong attention to detail & organization.
Research skills required. Sales experience
a plus. Salary starts at $24k/year + commis-
sion. Send resume to jobs@nationaltech-
mark.com or fax 1-866-728-4579 w/Financial
Sales in subject. 11-23-09-10-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Programmer needed w/experience in ASP
&/or ASP.net, Javascript programming, re-
lational databases, Perl &/or PHP, Ajax,
JSON, & semantic web development w/
CSS. $32,000/yr commensurate w/exp. Fax
1-866-728-4579 or jobs@nationaltechmark.
com w/"Programmer" in Subject. 11-23-
09-10-14
PRC NOW HIRING
Find a job you'll love. Immediate Openings
for Customer Care Representatives. $10.00
to $10.50 per hour. Paid Training and mul-
tiple schedules available. For more informa-
tion contact us at 386-326-5030 or 386-326-
5008 or apply online at www.prcnet.com
1-5-09-20-14
$10 Gift Card to Sign Up!
The first 50 women and 50 men that sign up
for www.takemeintrade.com with a real photo
and detailed profile with receive a $10 iTunes
Gift Card. 11-20-09-7-14
-- FAN PHOTOGRAPHERS NEEDED --
UF Football Home Games (BHG Stadium)
$7.50 -$25/hr + Paid Training.No Exp.Req.
Enthusiastic/Hardworking. Equipment prov.
CONTACT: ufphotomanagerl@gmail.com
11-20-09-5-14
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 17
Help Wanted Services services HventServices E Notices
Marketing Intern:Input/analyze
marketing & financial data for College of Vet
Med. Knowledge of MS Excel/Access req.
Apply at: jobs.ufl.edu REQ. #0803249 11-
23-09-5-14
Busy young professional (gator alum) look-
ing for part time cooking and cleaning help
around the house. Within 1 mile to UF. 1-2
hours per day. Email builds4fun@gmail.com
11-30-7-14
EARN WHILE YOU LEARN
SFla sales offce lkng 4 pt
sales $8-10/hr+incentives
contact:michael@cocard.net
954 420 9394 11-20-09-2-14
Babysitter needed for 3 kids (ages 1,3,4)
from 2-6pm M/W/F starting in Dec. Submit
resume, references and class schedule to
ejbray74@gmail.com 11-25-09-5-14
Your roommate hasn't done the dishes in
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the
Alligator Classifieds.
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
II
II iiiiii
IT-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 1-7-09-
120-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS**
Full-color DecalsOExhibitsOVehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServicegLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServicegLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 12-9-
57-15
FLOOR COVERING
James R. Langford Inc.
Carpet Vinyl Repairs
Restretches Installs
Call Jim 352-222-8827
12-1-14-15
GOT A TICKET?
TAKE TRAFFIC SCHOOL 100% ONLINE
STATE OF FLORIDA APPROVED
NO POINTS ON LICENSE
www.EasyTrafficSchoolNow.com 1-8-20-
15
IVE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Green cards -permanent resident status -
for postdoc researchers and new faculty.
Self-petition through national interest waiver.
Email robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com or
call 352-335-2699 for consultation. Robert
Jacobs, PA -Limited to Imm & Nat Law 12-
3-09-10-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Think you're pregnant?
Free pregnancy tests & referrals
Free, confidential advising
For appt., call 352-367-2716
A Woman's Answer Medical Center 12-8-
38-16
er Personal s
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards
Employment Visas & NaturalizationNATIVE AMERICAN POW WOW
Nov. 27, 28 & 29.
Crafts, Storytelling, Flutes, Drumming,
Dancing and Demos. Alachua County Fair
Grounds. gainesvillepowwow@live.com
11-25-4-20
W Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
SOOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1 -09-85-21
IVE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
63Z73Tickets
Need Hotel & Gas Money for Atlanta? Sell
your football tixs and come for the PARTY!
I need two tickets to the SEC Game.Big
Gator Fan/Alum traveling from S.FL. Email
me at -gatorbenjamin@gmail.com 11-20-
09-3-22
www.ruthlaw.com (352) 335-6748
2-2-40-18 o l Rides
r C-onneCtions
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true GMG TRANSPORT
love FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED! WLIiPets
Furry, feathery, scaly .no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
03Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.AMR mrI BRAND GRAMS SOLUTION
A1 Ni X8 E1 T1 Y4 RACK 1 = 84
1 v4  h E1 S1 Ti RACK 2 = 63
Ti Ai KM E 1 Ui Ti RACK 3 = 71
J8 Ui N1 K5 E1 T1 RACK4= 17
PAR SCORE 160-170 TOTAL 235
SCRABBLE' is a trademark of Hasbro in the US and Canada 02009 Hasbro Distributed by Tribune
Media Services. Inc. All rights reservedjimmenommmm&M=r
18, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009
Donovan goes to
athletic lineup late
HOOPS, from page 19
points. Georgia Southern had played Florida
close the last two years -contests UF won by
a combined 10 points -and the Eagles' athleti-
cism made it hard for the Gators to get into a
rhythm early on.
"When you have a lopsided win like that, it's
hard to get into a game like we were in today,"
Donovan said. "We needed a game like this. We
didn't need a 35-, 40-point win."
To close out the game, Donovan went to an
athletic, more experienced lineup of point guard
Erving Walker, Boynton, forward Chandler Par-
sons, forward Dan Werner and power forward
Alex Tyus. That meant taking out junior cen-
ter Vernon Macklin, who put up 15 points and
grabbed seven boards in just 19 minutes of play.
In the final 7:15, that lineup turned a seven-
point lead into a 20-point victory that made the
game seem like more of a blowout than it actu-
ally was.
In addition to wanting some of his veterans
in the game along with Boynton, Donovan also
made the decision to put in a team that could
match up man-to-man with the Eagles and take
away their 3-point shooting, usually the key fac-
tor when smaller schools pull off big upsets.
"The 3-point line concerned me when we had
a seven- or eight-point lead," Donovan said. "A
couple of threes, then the next thing you know,
you've got a one- or two-point lead."| .\ ,
Steven H. Keys / Alligator
Forward Chandler Parsons shoots during UF's 69-49 win over
Georga Southern in the O'Connell Center on Wednesday.Parsons' team-high 12
rebounds help Gators
keep Eagles off glass
DEFENSE, from page 19
satisfied with the win, as a team we played great de-
fense," Boynton said. "The shots are going to fall. All
we got to do is keep our defensive effort up, and I think
we're really good."
The Gators weren't much better than the Eagles of-
fensively, shooting 34 percent from the field and 2 for 16
(12.5 percent) from beyond the arc.
But Florida's ability to clamp down on defense, get
out in transition (10 fast-break points) and get to the free-
throw line (43 attempts) neutralized any shooting woes.
"We're tough to beat if we do all three of those things
consistently," forward Chandler Parsons said. "It starts
with defense. After that, you have to end each posses-
sion with a rebound."
Parsons led the team with 12 rebounds, including
seven on the defensive end.
After struggling to keep opponents off the offensive
glass in their two exhibition games, the Gators allowed
only nine offensive rebounds to the Eagles and out-
rebounded them 51-33 on the night.
Donovan said that a poor shooting night like this one
could have spelled disaster for his teams in the past two
years, but he was encouraged to see his team find a way
to win convincingly without any shots falling.
Freshman point guard Erving Walker, who shot 0 for
10, said this type of game and new attitude will pay divi-
dends as the season progresses.
"When our shots aren't falling, at least we have de-
fense to fall back on, that's what we understand," Walk-
er said. "We were last in the (Southeastern Conference)
in that last year and we still won nine games last year, so
hopefully if we correct that we can win 11 or 12."
Sports
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009
Second-half surge leads Florida to win
0 KENNY BOYNTON HAD 15 OF HIS GAME-
HIGH 22 POINTS AFTER HALFTIME.
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
a be rry@alIlIigator org
When the going got tough, Kenny Boynton got
going.
The freshman guard scored 22 points, nine of
which came from the free-throw line, as Florida (2-
0) overcame a sluggish first half and won a physical
game 69-49 against Georgia Southern on Wednes-
day night in the O'Connell Center.
Boynton's game-high scoring output came on
6-of-12 shooting from the field, including a 1-of-6
performance from 3-point range, but he got to the
free-throw line 13 times against the foul-prone Ea-
gles (1-2).
"I think he's got a little bit of that take-over men-
tality," UF coach Billy Donovan said. "He wants to
go get it, and he wants to go do it. I like that he's like
that. It's important he's like that for our team, then
we can try to channel him the right way."
Georgia Southern's physical play kept Florida
off its game early on, and UF took just a one-point
lead into halftime. But Boynton dropped in 15 in the
second half, when the Gators outscored the Eagles
43-24.
"I think we responded well to the physical play,"
Boynton said. "All we've got to do is keep knocking
down free throws, and that's what we did today."
Boynton and the Gators took advantage of the
Eagles' tight defense by drawing 32 fouls and get-
ting to the free throw line 43 times, making up for
their 2-for-16 performance from beyond the arc and
34 percent shooting for the game.
Overall, Donovan described his team's offense
Wednesday night as "pretty woeful."
"That was part of the reason we probably didn't
shoot as good of a percentage from the field," Dono-
van said. "It just seemed like we were shooting free
throws about every other possession."
Donovan attributed some of his team's first-half
Rayiaz Khan / Alligator Staff struggles to its exhibition and season-opening vic-
UF guard Kenny Boynton shoots the ball over Georgia Southern forward Rory tories, which the Gators won by an average of 43
Spencer during Florida's 69-49 win in the O'Connell Center on Wednesday. SEE HOOPS, PAGE 18ALLIGATOR
www.aIligatorSports.org
Gators' youth shows as season nears crucial juncture
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Writer
achiang@alligator org
In one of their biggest matches
of the season, a usual strength for
the Gators turned into a weakness.
No. 13 Florida's youth has been
a promising aspect of the team for
most of the season, but the lack of
experience has proven to be a dou-ble-edged sword.
Although the four starting soph-
omores don't usually play like un-
derclassmen, their youth showed
against LSU.
In Friday's match against the Ti-
gers, the Gators' lack of experience
was exposed as they lost against a
team that featured four starting se-
niors.
UF (20-4, 14-3 SoutheasternConference) hit
16 service errors
and recorded 25
attack errors in
the match, some-
thing coach Mary
Wise attributed
to the team's
youth.
"There were points where I felt
like maybe we pressed a little bittoo hard which sometimes you see
with a young team," she said. "The
service errors and the amount of
balls we hit out of bounds were in-
dicative of that."
The four sophomores hit seven
of those service errors and only
recorded one ace between them,
while LSU's four seniors only tal-
lied up one error behind the serviceAfter the loss, senior libero Elyse
Cusack pointed toward the Tigers'
experience as one of the reasons
they were able to pull out the win.
"I definitely think so," Cusack
said. "Experienced players play
well in tight situations."
In the final two sets of the match,
there was no confusion as to which
team possessed the group of se-
SEE VOLLEY, PAGE 20
E Tim Tebow was named one of
five finalists for the Johnny Unitas
Golden Arm Award, given to the na-
tion's top senior quarterback. The
winner will be named Dec. 11.0 Redshirt sophomore Rebecca
Lowe was named South Regional
Female Athlete of the Year. Todd
Morgan earned South Regional
Coach of the Year honors.0 Our four-team playoffs are set -Bobby
Callovi and three readers made the cut
after tiebreakers had to decide the final two
teams among a five-team field at 6-5. Check
out alligatorSports.org for a recap.Defense
erases poor
shooting
By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kmastri@alligator org
Florida shot miserably against
Georgia Southern on Wednesday
night, but the Gators opened up a
20-point win in the second half thanks
to their defense.
The Eagles shot 33 percent from
the field and 22 percent from the
3-point line, as UF outscored Georgia
Southern 43-24 in the second half.
Coach Billy Donovan said the
Gators will be able
to take more away
from their strong
defensive effortMen's than a crowd-
Basketball pleasing blowout
that might not force
the team to work as hard.
"Yeah, you're concerned a little
bit, you want to shoot the ball better,"
Donovan said. "But it's a reinforce-
ment right now they can see very,
very clearly, 'Wow, we ended up
winning by 20 points and look what
we shot from the field and the 3-point
line.' Hopefully that inspires them to
get even more intense and excited."
Freshman guard Kenny Boynton
scored a team-high 22 points but was
more proud of the team's defensive
performance than anything else.
"To tell you the truth, all of us are
SEE DEFENSE PAGE 18
E The Gators received National Letters
of Intent from six athletes for
2010-11: Elizabeth Beisel, Kaitlin Fre-
hling, Alicia Mathieu, Alana Pezevic,
Trish Regan and Julia Treible.
20, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009
GATORS SWIMMING
Dwyer looks to add to
early success at UF
By TONI-ANN MILLER
Alligator Writer
It is never too late to make
your dream a reality, and so
Florida junior Conor Dwyer has
proven.
Dwyer transferred to UF after
swimming at Iowa for two years.
While there, he set the school re-
cord in the 100-yard freestyle at
the Big Ten Championships last
season.
Since coming to Florida, he has
picked up right where he left off.
In his first meet this season,
on Oct. 9, the junior won the 200
free, and he has continued to ex-
cel for UF since.
"Conor Dwyer, right now,
has been one of the most pleas-
ant surprises," coach Gregg Troy
said. "He's extremely versatile
and he comes to practice every
day with a great attitude. He's
going to be a big player at the
NCAA (meet)."
Dwyer said he grew up a
Gators fan, but that coming outof high school, he was not as fast.
Iowa offered him an opportunity
to compete and he made the best
of it. However, one summer in
Gainesville changed everything.
"I was looking for a place to
train over the summer, I had fam-
ily an hour away and I'd been a
Gators fan growing up," Dwyer
said. "I just loved it when I came
here to train, and I decided to
stay."
This weekend he'll have an-
other opportunity to show his
abilities in the pool when UF
splits for the Georgia Tech Invi-
tational today through Saturday,
and the South Carolina Invita-
tional, which runs today and Fri-
day.
UF's women will also break up
and compete in the two meets.
"We have a smaller group on
each side, at each meet, and ev-
eryone has some relay opportu-
nities," Troy said. "It makes us
slightly weaker team-wise, but
we get a better feel for where a
lot of people are."
LSU able to cut down errors
VOLLEY, from page 19
niors.
Both teams struggled in the first two frames with 13 attack
errors each, but the third and fourth sets were the ones that
set the two teams apart. The Gators hit 12 errors in the final
two sets, while LSU was able to make some in-match adjust-
ments and cut their number down to four in the second half
of the match.
One of the sophomores, Colleen Ward, noticed that LSU
had a different mentality than the Gators during the match.
"They definitely have a different type of attitude with all
the seniors that they have," Ward said.
However, Cusack does not want the team to start using
their youth as a crutch.
"In big matches like last week against LSU, our effort was
there and just sometimes we don't execute," she said. "We
might not be the most experienced team, but we can't use that
as an excuse as to why we aren't winning matches."
While the four sophomores were overmatched by LSU's
four seniors on Friday, in a couple of years UF's group will
have the chance to return the favor.
"That core group of sophomores, they are going to be able
to do that to a young team some day," Wise said.Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
UF swimming coach Gregg Troy will split his team this week
to attend the Georgia Tech and South Carolina Invitationals.
Matt Tripp / Aligator Staff
UF sophomore Colleen Ward said she saw LSU's experience play a role in
the Tigers' 3-1 win in Gainesville.Brown's
season
ends in
injury
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIAMI -Ronnie Brown's
season has ended with an in-
jury- again.
The Miami Dolphins' lead-
ing rusher was placed on
injured reserve Wednesday
because of a right foot injury
suffered in Sunday's victory
over Tampa Bay.
A fifth-year pro, Brown
missed the final nine games
of the 2007 season with a right
knee injury.
The Dolphins had hoped
Brown might be able to return
this year but made the roster
move after he was examined
by a specialist. It's a big blow
for a team that ranks fourth in
the NFL in rushing and 30th in
passing.
The move was announced
shortly after the Dolphins (4-5)
departed for Thursday's game
against Carolina. Ricky Wil-
liams, the 2002 NFL rushing
champion, will replace Brown
in the starting lineup.
Brown was on pace for the
best year of his career with
648 yards rushing and eight
touchdowns, and he threw for
another.
He was the triggerman in
the wildcat, and it's uncertain
how much the Dolphins will
use the package with Williams
taking snaps.
Williams has rushed for 558
yards. He's coming off his first
100-yard game of the season
and is averaging a career-best
5.3 yards per carry, but he's 32,
and it's uncertain whether he
can handle a workhorse role.
The backup running back
is now 2008 sixth-round draft
pick Lex Hilliard, who has yet
to carry the ball in the NFL.
Doubletree Hotel. .We're more than just a cookie!
* Use Rate Code: SEC. Proper ID required; normal liquor laws apply.
WWW.GOD OUBLETREE.COM
4156 LkV SB 131). VI'LO UNIX k 30084 7701.938.10)26The Alligator has sales intern positions available for
the Spring semesters.You will receive classroom
training, firsthand sales experience, and an
opportunity to improve your communication skills.
This resume builder offers a flexible schedule with
a minimum of 10 hours per week.
(W mz@.0.00O alli g'ato'"6'r
