the independent florida
tV eh V en u
VOLUME 103 ISSUE
LOCAL
UAA targets
UF's carbon
emissions
By BROOKE KELLY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Though 90,000 cheering fans will fill the Swamp on Sat-
urday, one thing will be missing: carbon emissions.
Neutral Gator, a nonprofit initiative created in 2008, will
team up with the University Athletic Association to reduce
UF's carbon footprint and help reach the
UAA's climate neutrality goal by 2025.
This will be the first-ever carbon neu-
tral NCAA season working to offset the
carbon footprint created by athletic pro-
grams.
"I think it shows that the UAA is taking
Prizz1aa great sense of responsibility by trying to
eliminate their entire carbon footprint,"
said Anna Prizzia, director of UF's Office of Sustainability.
"And by partnering with Neutral Gator to locally offset it
instead of just purchasing the offsets is just great."
Neutral Gator only worked on offsetting home games
SEE NEUTRAL, PAGE 5
Interviews begin
for Senate seats
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
Student Government's po-
litical parties will interview po-
tential Senate candidates at the
Reitz Union today, Friday and
Tuesday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Ariana Alfonso, the super-
visor of elections for SG, said
the Unite, Progress and Orange
and Blue parties registered for
the election, which will be held
Sept. 29 and 30.
SG's party presidents agreed
that all candidates should bring
at least one thing to their inter-
views: ideas.
Fifty Senate seats are avail-able, including 14 for on-cam-
pus housing areas and 36 for
off-campus housing districts.
Students interested in run-
ning for Senate also need to
bring their Gator 1 Cards to the
Reitz Union, Room 284, and
they must fill out a qualifying
form before talking to any of
the parties.
"They should come pre-
pared to both ask and answer
questions," she said.
Joey Regalado, the Unite
Party president, said candidates
don't have to come with revolu-
tionary ideas. Instead, he wants
SEE SLATING, PAGE 5Multicultural Movin'
Sorority members from Theta
"We are accept-
ing people from
any age group,
any background,
any organizational
affiliation. All are
welcome to come
out for the Unite
Pa rty. "
Joey Regalado
Unite president10
aIigato
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
9 We Inform. You Decide.
Rayiaz Khan / Alligator Staff
Nu Xi Multicultural Sorority Inc. dance Wednesday on Turlington Plaza.
UF aims to stop hazing
* GROUP WILL TEACH STUDENTS
TO IDENTIFY, AVOID HAZING.
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@aligator org
Three recent scandals involving stu-
dent organizations have brought hazing
into the limelight at UF, but officials are
hoping a new educational campaign will
put a stop to the practice.
Jack Causseaux, associate director for
Sorority and Fraternity Affairs, said UF
is planning to create a coalition to find
ways to educate students, faculty and
staff about how to identify and avoid
hazing.
The coalition will likely include mem-
bers from the University Police Depart-
ment, the University Athletic Association
and Student Government, as well as rep-resentatives from UF's student groups
and recreational sports programs, Caus-
seaux said.
"Hazing is not a fraternity and so-
rority problem only," he said, adding it
happens in major sports programs, club
sports and even student groups.
Chris Loschiavo, director of UF's Stu-
dent Conduct and Conflict Resolution,
said he doesn't
U F think many stu-Administration dents realize how
dangerous haz-
ing can be and how to prevent it from
happening to them.
Loschiavo said although the campaign
has been in the works for years, three re-
cent cases of hazing, which all happened
within the span of a year, lent the initia-
tive some urgency."It's now more important than ever,"
SEE HAZING, PAGE 5
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"Today
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD 15
SPORTS 18Thunder
storms
85/70THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009
90 Brandon James
(right) is one of
three seniors
expected to step up
for UF's receiving
corps. James has
been used almost
solely as a return
man during his first
three years.
See Story, Page 18.visit www.alligator.orgtye
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
JAMSA General Body meeting
Today, 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
Institute of Black Culture
A night filled with culture, a
current-events segment and
more. Learn about the events
JAMSA has planned for the
fall. Share your comments and
questions.
"Get Carded" meeting
Today, 7p.m.
Reitz Union Room 357
Come learn about organ dona-
tion awareness and volunteer
opportunities.
UF American SolarEnergy Society
meeting
Today, 7 to 8 p.m.
Rinker Hall Room 235
Interested in clean, green and
sustainable energy? Learn
more about the American Solar
Energy Society's UF chapter at
ufases.org. Upcoming events in-
clude National Solar Tour, One
Less Car, our solar powered
vehicle project and our annual
national conference in Phoenix
during Summer 2010.
Sierra Club meeting
Today, 7:30 p.m.
UF Entomology Building,
Room 3118
The Sierra Club will hold its
monthly meeting. The topic is
"University of Florida Gone
Green," presented by Chris
Machen and Bahar Armaghani.
Multicultural Greek Council
Showcase: Evolution
Friday, 6 to 10 p.m.
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom
Sponsored by WOW! and Gator
Nights, each organization from
MGC will be showcasing their
values, traditions and history
through live performances and
skits. After the show, you can
meet every fraternity and soror-
ity in MGC and attain more in-
formation on recruitment.
African Student Union Meeting
Friday, 6:30 p.m.
CSE E-222
Join ASU at the for the first
monthly general body meeting
of the year. Free food will be
served. For more information,
go to www.ASUatUF.com.
GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF any one GNC Product
Cannotbecombined.OneCouponpercustomer3914 SW Archer Rd
only avaial a t Butler Paa loation,
Daly _ cials 377-6020 Exp 9/30/09
Trouble paying attention?
-Trouble focusing in class?
-Diffictuly finishing tasks?
-Frequently losing things?
We can help!
AD O assessm Ient
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 1 5930SWArcher Rd
info@morriscenters.comFORECAST
TODAY
THUNDER
STORMS
85/70FRIDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
88/71
Shabbat at Hillel
Friday, 7 p.m. and Saturday,
10:30 a.m.
2020W. University Ave.
Hillel will celebrate Shabbat
with its three regular ser-
vice options and an alter-
native learner's service for
those wanting to learn about
Shabbat, followed by free ko-
sher dinner. The event contin-
ues Saturday at 10:30 a.m.
Phi Alpha Delta Pre-Law
Fraternity Meeting
Sept. 8, 7 p.m.
CSE E-222
Informational meeting for stu-
dents interested in pre-law.
Come meet current members
and find out how to apply.
For more information, visit
www.ufpad.com.
Darius at UF
Sept. 10, 7 p.m.
Phillips Center for the
Performing Arts
Sponsored by the UF College
of Public Health and Health
Professions. A movie screen-
ing and talk with Darius
Weems. The event is free
and open to the public. For
more about this event please
visit www.phhp.ufl.edu/an-
nouncements/darius/
28th Annual Dog Days Run
Sept. 12, 8 to 10 a.m.
The UF Student Chapter of the
American Veterinary Medical
Association will host a 5K
and one mile run for owners
and their dogs to benefit the
Alliance for Rabies Control.
There will be food, a raffle,
goodie bags, awards for both
runs and a free T-shirt for all
those registered by Sept. 5.
Registration is on active.com
or the day of the race.
JAMSA and Iota Phi Theta
Fraternity present Jerkfest
Sept. 12, 5 p.m.
The first
ever Africa Choir at the
University of Florida. Open to ALL
students of the university.
Come and enjoy singing and performing
songs from the African Continent.
Meets every FRIDAY 3PM-4PM,
MUSIC BUILDING, ROOM 120
FIRST MEETING AND REGISTRATION:
FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 4TH, 2009
NO
gZECl15tXAflON Fore more information email
FEE duncan.wambuguc~ufl.edu
Friends don't let friends drive drunk.
Do whatever it takes.SATURDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
86/71SUNDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
86/71MONDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
86/71
Woodlands Apartment Pool
Caribbean-style fun in the sun.
Pool party with a live DJ and
food catered by the Reggae
Shack Cafe. Visit JAMSA's
Facebook group for more infor-
mation.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this
space? Send an e-mail to bkel-
ley@alligator.org with "What's
Happening" in the subject line.
Please include a one- to two-
sentence synopsis of the event.
CuS
-a,
CuSC33
a,
CO
C-,
a:
E-
-=
CuS
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
ENVIRONMENTAL TRACK
in the
Deptof Geolocla Sciences
Ba(helor of Arts degree projriam
Contact Dr. Joseph Meert (meert@geology.ufl.edu)
or Dr. Matt Smith (msmith@geology.ufl.edu)
orthe Dept. of Geological Sciences at 392-2231a the Endependent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 9 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill, astanf//@a//igator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Ca Ilovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
Opinions Editor Allie Conti, aconti@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Allie Conti,
Brian Kelley, Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry, Emily Blake,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Ashley Cruel,
Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Joe Holzer, Amanda Milligan,
Jennifer Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director
Advertising Office Manager
Advertising Assistant
Intern Coordinator
Display Advertising Clerks
Sales RepresentativesRose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Melissa Bell
Sara Ingebretsen
Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie, Caitlin Dilks,
Brittany Fayne, Jon Levine,
Joaquin Martinez, MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Andrea Almeida, Amanda Miller
Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
Feed your future
Learn how we can help jump-start
your professional career.
Begin at www.pwc.tv
7T7THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
LOCAL
Repairs
to begin
on park's
walkways
By JARED MISNER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Bivens Arm is getting a make-
over.
The 57-acre nature park closed
Sept. 1 in order to undergo an an-
ticipated three-month construc-
tion project aimed at improving
the park's boardwalks, bridges
and pavilion decking.
"Bivens Arm has been on our
project list for some time now,"
said Stefanie Nagid, natural re-
source management interim pro-
gram coordinator for the City of
Gainesville.
Although the construction is
commissioned to be completed no
later than Dec. 1, Nagid said the
date may fluctuate with uncon-
trollable circumstances, includ-
ing a hurricane
or an onslaught
of rain.
Bivens Arm
Nature Park
hosts nearly 60
acres of marsh-
es, soaring pine
Nagid and oak forests,
a one-mile nature trail, a 1,200-
foot boardwalk and a wide array
of wildlife.
"Bivens Arm is actually one
of our oldest acquired parks,"
Nagid said.
According to Nagid, the pres-
sure-treated wood used to con-
struct the bridges and boardwalk
has a lifespan of only 15 to 20
years.
In Florida, where the weather
conditions are notoriously moist,
the wood decays more rapidly,
she said.
She added that for Bivens
Arm, the lifespan is shorter still
due to the shady, moist condi-
tions provided by the pine and
oak canopy.
"[The bridges and boardwalk]
were very old and had become
unsafe," Nagid said. "The pavil-
ion itself was also unsafe, but for
different reasons."
The renovations, which will
be completed by McNeal and
White Contractors Inc., will cost
$98,340.
The renovations will result in
a slightly shortened boardwalk
and a minor adjustment in the
nature trail where the boardwalk
is being remodeled, Nagid said.
Admission to Bivens Arm is
free.
The nature park will reopen
from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily when
the construction ends.2009 Pricewaterhouse~oopers LLP, All rights reserved. "Pricewaterhouse~oopers" refers to Pricewaterhouse~oopers LLP (a D~elaware lmited lability partnership) or, as the context requires, the Pricewaterhouseuoopers
global network or other member firms of the network, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Ernployer.
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009
LOCAL
Organization rallies for national health care reform
By C.J. PRUNER gove ent should expand health
Alligator Writer care or let it lie. I A
At the political circus that unfold-
ed on the lawn of the North Florida
Regional Medical Center Wednesday,
Hope Kelly played the role of a clown
who lost her smile a long time ago.
Amid the sign-waving and horn-
honking, Kelly quietly sat in her chair,
stoically holding a cardboard sign for
cars on Newberry Road to see.
Kelly was one of about 70 people
-composed of the young and the old,
the strong and weak, the sick and the
healthy -who stood side by side to
support health care reform and repre-
sent political organization MoveOn.
According to MoveOn spokesman
Fred Pratt, who helped organize the
demonstration, Wednesday's effort
was one of more than 300 that took
place across the country. Thousands
gathered to say loud and clear: "We
can't afford to wait."
For many, including Pratt, political
activism is nothing new.
"I've been called everything in the
book: communist, socialist, fascist,"
Pratt said, happily waving to traffic.
Since President Barack Obama pre-
sented his platform to Americans, the
country has beenbitterly divided over
the question of whether the federalFor Kelly, there is no choice.
Her 52-year-old son, Christopher,
a former volunteer firefighter in Key
Largo, lies in a hospital bed in Miami.
His body, she said, once strong and
full of life, is ravaged by leukemia,
a vicious disease that lays waste to
blood, bone marrow and whatever
else is in its path. Christopher and his
family cannot pay for the $460,000
bone marrow transplant, an opera-
tion, Kelly believes, that might not ar-
rive in time to save her son's life.
"I feel like I'm letting him down,"
said Kelly, who suffers from multiple
sclerosis. "I can see him getting sicker
and sicker right before my eyes."
The solution, according to Kelly
and the others who surrounded her,
is to offer a public option for health
insurance, which would insure those
who can't afford it.
They argue that programs such
as Medicare and Medicaid are not as
horrific as opponents say.
"I just want to make sure everyone
in this country has what I've got," said
Bob Hofer, who has private health
insurance. "My Christian values say
you don't stand by and see people get
trounced; that's not right."
For thefull story, visit Alligator.org.Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Flora Maccoll protests for universal health care on West Newberry Road near the North Florida Re-
gional Medical Center on Wednesday afternoon.
Officials to dedicate home of local civil rights activist
* HE LIVED THERE FOR 72 YEARS.
By ERICA JOHNSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
At first glance, 1013 NW Seventh Ave.
looks like a house that's no more important
than its neighbors.
But for three quarters of a century, the
house was home to the man who made it pos-
sible for black students to receive diplomas
from Gainesville high schools.On Sept. 10, the City of Gainesville will
designate the house of A. Quinn Jones Sr. as
a historical site and place a commemorative
plaque outside the home.
Before 1925, local black students were only
allowed to complete 11 years of school rather
than the 13 necessary to graduate,
Jones' son, Oliver, said his father became
the old Lincoln High School's principal in 1923,
where he began his work toward expanding
the high school to include grades 11 and 12.
Jones accomplished this when the Lincoln
High graduating class of 1925 received diplo-mas for the first time.
Oliver said when the school became the sec-
ond accredited African-American high school
in Florida in 1926, his father was overjoyed.
"He would say he was so proud that this
didn't happen in Jacksonville,
Local or Miami or anything like that,"
News Oliver Jones said. "It was here
in Gainesville."
Jones, who lived in the house at 1013 NW
Seventh Ave. from 1925 until 1997, was the
man who brought change to the school sys-
tem, said Erin Friedberg, visual arts coordina-tor for the City of Gainesville Department of
Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs.
"He was an instrumental educational
leader in the African-American community,"
Friedberg said.
Greg Bradley, Gainesville Community Re-
development Agency finance manager, said
several people are scheduled to speak at the
dedication ceremony, including Jones' son.
"From this ceremony, I would hope that
the community would get an opportunity to
hear the story of A. Quinn told," he said.
For the full story, visit Alligator.org.
Support the Red
Cross Services to
0i Armed Forces and
'A change a life,
-j-4--- starting with your
own.
L r C Call 1-800-RED CROSS
i ior visit redcross.orgJessica is there for TOM'S That way, Tom can be there
wife and kids. for our country.+American
Red Cross
Qualifying to run for a Senate Seat in
Student Government elections:
September 3 JWRU 284
September 4 JWRU 284
September 8 JWRU 284
9:00 AM -5:00 PM
Informational Meeting
JWRU 361 6:30 p.m. September 1
.
Student Body Elections
September 29 & 30
8:00am-8:00pm
Please haveyour Gator] card or have aphoto ID andknow
your UF ID number.Phone + Internet + TVwkm n -Rl-lm10K"Our lives are simplified with our phone, Internet and cable on one, easy
bill -saving us money!"
With the Cox Bundle, you can enjoy a better-than-normal, productive Ife.
Side effects of the Cox Cure are immediate and may lead to longer conversations
with friends and family, lower rates and faster Internet connections & downloads.
Plus, hi-def TV on your schedule with DVR and On Demand.
tSide effects vary by subscription & usage. Please use excessively
www.cox.com
1-866-961-1102
*Offerexpires 10/31/09 Availablet, residentialcuorsmiCox Flonidaserviceaeaswhdnemlysubscrubet, Cox Digital TelephoneCox High Speed Indemet,ndard Service Cox Digital Cabil DVRwithintheofferpeniodandwhohavenmidivsinectedsumch 5ervicods)wathin thepsast30daysiHotmnonth
a oadTe acsTlephoe HgSpe nrnetnd acsivatiho e etr cablete Adrtiona er e the be incurred fonstallo an ctivaionofadd onal outetso wirnn of newoutletsard ecldes aplicable as ban anas sees telephone Modem required fitelephoneserreandwol be provided by Cox
Tolephesservice prinvided by Cox Flonida Telcom, L P @2009 Cox Communications, Inc All rights reserved
Group plans to offset
entire 2009-2010
UF athletic program
NEUTRAL, from page 1
last year. However, the group plans to offset the entire 2009-
2010 Gators athletic program.
At Saturday's season opener, Neutral Gator will have a
"Highlights of Gators Past" themed tailgate tent in front of
the O'Connell Center where travelers can offset their emis-
sions by learning more about the organization. Each game's
tailgate tent will have a new theme where fans can learn more
about Neutral Gator's endeavors and how to get involved.
"I think it shows that the UAA is taking a great
sense of responsibility by trying to eliminate
their entire carbon footprint."
Anna Prizzia
director of UF's Office of Sustainability
Angelica Ramdhari, project coordinator at Neutral Gator,
said the tailgates will be where students come into play the
most.
The group has reached out locally as well. On Saturday, it
held a "renter's initiative" to help low-income homes become
more sustainable; there have also been bake sales and creek
restoration by planting 200 apple and cypress trees.
Neutral Gator hopes that through these projects and in-
formational tailgates, the UAA 2025 carbon neutrality goal
will be met.
"Once we get the formula down, accomplishing the goal
shouldn't be too much," Ramdhari said.
HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
' rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShield
of FloridaF Ar , N ,ber: il- 6 373-0775
Form Number: 18533-599SU 3669 S.W. 2nd AvenueTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Parties' full slates to be posted Wednesday
SLATING, from page 1
them to think of small proposals
that will increase SG's presence
and recognition on campus.
Regalado said he is looking for
a good group of candidates willing
to put themselves second and the
desires of the student body first.
"We are accepting people from
any age group, any background,
any organizational affiliation," he
said. "All are welcome to come out
for the Unite Party."
Regalado said Unite will have a
full slate of 50 senators.
Dave Schneider, the ProgressParty president, said it would be
great to have a full slate, but he
wants people committed to in-
creased openness and participa-
tion in SG.
"The priority is not to get a full
slate of half-qualified candidates,"
he said. "The
Stu dent goal is to getGovernment a slate of stu-
dent candidates
that are going to represent people
across the board."
Schneider said he wants to find
student leaders willing to repre-
sent real student interests. Candi-
dates don't need to have previous
political experience, he said.Kyle Huey, the Orange and
Blue Party president, said he looks
for candidates who are familiar
with what's going on in SG and
have opinions on SG issues like the
free newspapers on campus.
"We're looking for students
who want to make real, substan-
tive changes in SG, and everything
else is second to that," he said.
Huey said he plans to have a
full slate.
Parties must submit their can-
didate selections by 11:59 p.m.
Tuesday, Alfonso said. Each par-
ty's official slate will be posted
Wednesday, the day of the manda-
tory candidate meeting.
Coalition may be formed during fall semester
HAZING, from page 1
he said.
"We'd rather deal with it proactively than have to
discipline organizations all the time for it," he said.
Causseaux said he hopes the coalition can be formed
sometime this semester, but said things should be well
under way by the end of the school year at the latest.
According to UF records, the last student organization
found guilty of hazing was Sigma Lambda Gamma, an
18-member Latina-based sorority, which was shut down
for five years by its national organization in April.
The group imposed restrictions on recruits that in-
cluded no Facebook, make-up or fast food.
Other recent hazing cases include the Tau Epsilon
Phi fraternity, which was suspended for one year in No-
vember after recruits were found shirtless and kneeling
on the basement floor, and the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity,
which was suspended for four years in June 2008 for
activities that included wall sits and consuming large
amounts of alcohol.
Best Jewelry and Loan
523 NW 3rd Ave e Pawn Brokers
371-4367 -371-CEMSKickboxing G Boxing
Gainesville DQj
3 nights of Boxing
or Kickboxing
$60.00
(must have coupon)
536 SW 2nd Ave
Dating Ti*p 4N7
Jessica Warshaver / Alligator Staff
Special r EY
I
EXAMS
(by Independent Optometrist)
378-3070 ofWthA,, Comer 0
NW 13th St.
& 39th Ave.
notp Near Publix
EY EC ARE
* --it" I EXPRESS I
L .(352)375.5133 i
RAMADAN
FAST-A-THON
September 16, 2009
6:30 pm
the O'Connell Center
For more info, visit:
www.IslamOnCampus.com
DON'T DRINK & DRIVELU
LU
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009
Flu Follies
Lawmakers overzealous
in fighting H1N1
t seems the government thinks back-to-school season will
somehow resemble "28 Days Later."
The President's Council of Advisors on Science and
Technology claims that a swine flu epidemic has the po-
tential to cause up to 90,000 deaths and leave 1.8 million
Americans hospitalized, a statistic that has caused a bit of
a panic.
Even though the Centers for Disease Control and Pre-
vention has released a counter-statement claiming that the
death tolls will not likely be that high, and the number of
deaths thus far does not suggest a future zombie apoca-
lypse, measures are still being taken to prevent a possible
disaster.
UF, for one, had a bright idea when they realized that
imposing a stringent attendance criteria could encourage
infected students to come to class. This semester, UF stu-
dents do not have to show up to exams if they are sick. This
is a good idea despite the fact that many will take advan-
tage of it (duh).
Among other preventative measures that seem like a
good idea: New York City is offering free vaccines to its 1
million-plus students, and "Sesame Street" is doing a spe-
cial about handwashing (and so is "Plaza Sesamo" in Mexi-
co, which is the cutest thing we've ever heard).
The state of Massachusetts, however, is taking the idea
of encouraging people to stay home and stay hygienic a
little too far. Currently making its way through the state
legislature is the Pandemic Response Bill. If passed, the bill
will allow the governor to declare a health emergency and
allow law enforcement officials to forcibly enter the homes
of citizens and quarantine or vaccinate them.
Whether this bill is a response to Barack Obama's team's
report is unclear. However, if it is, the Obama team needs to
issue another report that takes the Centers for Disease Con-
trol's findings into consideration. The people at the CDC
know what they're talking about, and if its slightly less
abysmal view of the coming school year will allay Ameri-
cans' fears, it should be made common knowledge.
After Hurricane Katrina, it makes sense that lawmakers
and politicians want to prevent any sort of comparable di-
saster; no one wants to take the blame for unnecessary suf-
fering or death. However, HINI is not the bubonic plague,
and it shouldn't be treated as such. Blowing things out of
proportion with exaggerated predictions or with possible
bills involving storm troopers is as irresponsible as taking
no preventative measures at all.
As Cillian Murphy's character in "28 Days Later" said,
"See, this is a really shit idea. You know why? Because it's
really obviously a shit idea." Sure, you can scare people into
washing their hands. But you don't need to scare them with
the threat of involuntary detainment and needle injection.
We know people who have had Swine Flu (former edi-
torial board member, sort-of rhymes with "Bland Sicko").
Sure it was uncomfortable, and sure, he needed to stay in-
doors. But, to him, that was common sense.
Obama needs to allay the fears of Americans who are
counting the days until the rapture by assuring them that
the death tolls will not be as high as his team initially re-
ported. He also needs to redirect state lawmakers who feel
as if they need to pass bills that infringe on the basic rights
of Americans in response to an imaginary threat.
Wash your hands, stay home when you're sick, see a
doctor if you don't feel well. That's all you need to do to
prevent Left4Dead from becoming your day-to-day. Warn-
ing people to stay safe is one thing. Frightening them half to
death is counterintuitive.
0l the independent floridaalligator
Kristin Bjornsen Allie Conti
EDITOR OPINIONS EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must includethe
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University Aye , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigato r.org/opinions
-v-
Fnssrtpdra e s4el
Fantasy sports provide real life skills
abor Day will officially kick off the American fan-tasy football season in 2009, and no matter where
you are this weekend you will be within earshot of a
conversation about somebody's fantasy draft.
Estimates are shaky, but the numbers floating around
the Internet suggest that 35 million Americans will play
fantasy football this year -around a tenth of the popula-
tion of our country.
Before economists can calculate how much work time
and productivity is lost to fantasy sports this year, I will
take up the mantle of defending fantasy football. What
do economists know, anyway? Haven't they already been
globally outed as a sect of misguided soothsayers who pos-
sess far too much of the public spotlight?
First of all, the fact that 35 million people may play fan-
tasy football this year is greatly relieving to me personally.
I used to have to hide my addiction to fantasy sports as if I
were concealing track marks from a heroin addiction. One
could not speak about fantasy sports in mixed company,
unless you had a particular fondness for disgusted glances
and the brisk feeling of total lameness. I used to get more
concerned looks than the people who talked about their
cousin, the child molester.
Now, we are legion. Everybody plays fantasy football,
and now some writers are beginning to think of this na-
tional digital pastime in a new light. An article by Chris
Gorski at LiveScience.com talked to college professors in
engineering and management programs across the coun-
try who feel that getting good at fantasy sports translates
to a host of other necessary skills in modem society.
Stating that fantasy sports "hold the secret to teaching
people to make insightful predictions" and teach how to
"manipulate complex and abstract systems," Gorski andthe professors state that fantasy
sports can make us all better citizens
and maybe not get so ripped off in
the real estate and stock market en-
vironments.
Another Web writer, blogger
Tommy Maple Jon Stonger, points out on Hereti-letters@alligator org calldeas.com that the variable ratio
reinforcement we all get from fanta-
sy football makes it basically like gambling -but without
the messy side effects of crushing debt or societal decay.
Stronger also lauds the competitive nature of the fantasy
environment and the camaraderie inherent in such a per-
sonal competition. Any fool misguided enough to have
stepped in front of my undefeated 2006 juggernaut "The
Stonecutters" surely knows the rancid taste of soul-crush-
ing defeat to this very day.
Some may castigate fantasy sports for the illusion of
control it grants to all of the wannabe sports executives out
there in fantasy land, or for the tidy profit these conglom-
erated media companies are making off advertising to the
teeming horde of fantasy players sitting in front of com-
puter screens all across our great nation.
To them, I have no response other than vague threats
and mumbled curses.
You see, I have graduated beyond merely playing fan-
tasy football into playing fantasy fantasy football. Each au-
tumn I pick a dozen of the more skilled fantasy players and
wait for them to win their individual leagues. I'm trying to
turn this thing into a pyramid scheme, since the other 320
million Americans are so damn fond of those things.
Tommy Maple is an international communications gradu-
ate student. His column appears on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Do you play
fantasy football?Monday's question: Do you think
you're judgmental?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org86% YES
14% NO
84 TOTAL VOTES
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
40a
f 1
.,A
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
kAvailable from Commercial News Providers"
m
-~ -j
Letters to the Editor
Voting records should be made public Ossip used issue as political ploy
A huge battle was won at Tuesday night's Senate meet- I'd like to express my concern with some of the facts
ing in the war of Student Government transparency. The represented in yesterday's Alligator regarding recent hap-
Progress Party's leading example of having voting records penings in Student Government.
made public was echoed by President Jordan Johnson and I find it quite disheartening that the Orange and Blue
the Unite Party. Party has jumped at the opportunity to blame the Unite
Unlike senators in Progress, some Unite senators may Party instead of congratulating the student body on a job
not waive their rights to make their voting records pub- well done. The removal and subsequent reinstatement of
lic. To be frank, if you are a senator who feels that your The New York Times has been the finest display of democ-
voting records shouldn't be public knowledge, then you racy I have seen as a student here at UF.
should be ashamed of yourself. Your vote doesn't belong An extremely difficult decision was made during the
to you. It belongs to the students you represent. Don't hide budget process with the mindset of fiscal responsibility
behind the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act or that was thought to be in the best interest of students. The
make excuses because now is the time to make SG open to students voiced their concern, which allowed Treasurer
students. If you truly have the students' interests in mind, Maryam Laguna to adjust the budget accordingly, once
sign the waiver. again in the best interests of students. My problem with
Kevin Seymour this would be the theatrics of Sen. Jonathan Ossip bashing
3EG the Unite Party in the press.
The proper avenue for change would have been visiting
U U U Laguna in her regularly scheduled office hours and talking
to her personally -not bringing the issue to press as a
Progress Party given undue credit political ploy.
Tuesday's letters to the editor by Nina Martinez and This was not about the Orange and Blue, Unite or Prog-
Mark Jaskowski are both misleading and unjustly give ress parties -this was about doing what is right for the
credit to the Progress Party. It wasn't Progress that initi- student body.
ated discussions to save The New York Times on campus. I hope we will not have to continue to be subjected to
Instead it was the Orange and Blue Party that repeatedly these negative campaign tactics from Sen. Ossip and his
questioned the Budget Committee for the past month and party leading up to the fall elections. I am confident that
brought the issue to the student body. the Unite Party will stick to its positive message and con-
If it wasn't for the Orange and Blue Party and Party tinue to lead SG and the entire student body into a posi-
Leader Sen. Jonathan Ossip, The New York Times would tive, new direction.
not have been saved. Sen. Ossip reached out to students in Kevin Cronin
the Alligator and created the "Save The New York Times at Senator, PHHP Co//ege
UF" Facebook group, which now has about 2,000 members.
He correctly identified how to cut waste from the budget U U U
in order to pay for the Times and planed a rally to let SG
know what students think. Pedestrians should yield to cyclists
The continuous hard work and dedication shown by To the oblivious masses of pedestrians:
the Orange and Blue Party and Sen. Jonathan Ossip paid That ringing bell you hear? The inches-from-collision
off by having The New York Times reinstated. Instead of whir of a bicycle passing you experienced? The impatient
giving credit where credit is due, the Progress Party tried shouts of "Excuse me!" in the background? They all mean
to claim that it was they who fought for the Times when one thing: GET OUT OF THE WAY. Get out of the bicy-
instead they remained silent within the Senate. This is just cle lane, stop standing five-wide across the sidewalk and
another example of the Progress Party attempting to deny please, please stop the veering aberration in your walking
what they have been ever since the spring election: a bunch trajectory.
of empty seats that side with the Unite party more than the I don't want to hit you -I have to get to class -but
students. goodness, sometimes you are just asking for it.
Donte Hargrove Katrina Lane
4LS 2LS% 0
% 0 am .0-
theAvenue thursday, september 3, 2009
Spotlight: Morningbell
'I
Fr; 9
'1 1
_E
-"
Morningbell (From left: Travis Atria, vocals and guitar; Stacie Atria, keyboard; Chris Hillman, drums; Eric Atria,
bass) will play a CD release show Friday at Common Grounds. Tickets are $6, and doors open at 9 p.m.THIS WEEK:
PG 9: Review of the contempo-
rary art exhibit at the Harn
PG 11: Recipe for the ultimate
Game-Day burgers
ONLINE: Tips for sex during the
football game
www.alligator.org/avenue
REGULA RS:
GAINESVILLE: Mamaw Menag-
erie showcases artists, page 9
FASHION: Local artist creates
custom shoe designs, page 9
ON TWITTER:
Follow the Avenue for updates
on fashion, music and events.
Username: gatorave
I hope you have been saving up
your lunch money because The
Beatles: Rock Band comes out
this Wednesday. Get ready to
rock out just like John, Paul, and
Ringo. sorry George fans, his
guitar is sold separately while it
gently weeps.
Morningbell album "more physical and immediate"
By MARY MANCHESS
avenue writer
The first track says it all: "Let's Not Lose
Our Heads" is a perfect description of how
Morningbell and its fans have been feeling
over the past two years.
The band has gone through a longjourney
to come out with its fourth album, "Sincerely,
Severely." And fans have been on edge with
anticipation.
The band is playing a CD release show Fri-
day at Common Grounds with the Shitty Beat-
les and Michael Claytor and His Friends.
Tickets can be purchased on Common
Grounds' Web site for $6, and doors will
open at 9 p.m. To award fans for their pa-
tience, the album will be available for $5 at
the show.
However, those who follow them on MyS-
pace, Facebook or Twitter can get the CD for
free if they follow the instructions.
The album was originally supposed to
be released in March in time for the band's
summer tour.According to lead vocalist Travis Atria, the
band was striving to get it done by then but
just couldn't make it in time.
"After the last album, I think we weren't
really kind of sure what we wanted to do, and
it just took a long time to just write this one,"
Atria said.
"I probably wrote 60 songs for this al-
bum, and most of them we just threw away
because they weren't any good, or we didn't
think they were any good."
While most bands usually release an al-
bum and then go on tour, Morningbell has
never been able to do this.
Atria said they have a short tour planned
for November, but it won't be anything like
the tour from this past summer, which was
through 21 states.
Despite not doing the normal CD-tour
combination, Atria said he is just happy with
how the album turned out. With influences
from the late '60s to the early '70s and mu-
sicians like Curtis Mayfield and Ike and Tina
Turner, he said that their new sound is a littlebit more upbeat than the previous albums.
"We fought quite a bit about all these
songs, but maybe that is why it turned out so
well because the ideas really had to survive
the process of arguing over them in order to
make the final cut," Atria said.
"I think our other albums were kind of ce-
rebral; there wasn't a lot of emotion in them.
This one I wanted to be a little more physical
and immediate."
And from what he saw on tour, he said
fans were well receptive to the new songs.
"I think this is our strongest effort, and
the reaction we got from the crowd when we
were on tour was the most passionate fan
reaction we have had," Atria said.
While most bands break up more than
they create new records, completing a fourth
album is an accomplishment within itself.
Atria has enjoyed the success but said
it doesn't really make sense how they are
where they stand today.
His brother Eric Atria, however, who is also
a guitarist in the band, claimed the answerto their fame was blood.
"The secret to being in a longtime suc-
cessful band is to be related to everybody,"
he said.
"[Travis] is my brother and [Stacie] is my
wife. We are on our sixth drummer, but if we
were four random strangers we would have
broken up years ago."
And if that happened, the Gainesville mu-
sic scene would just not be the same.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009 +ALLIGATOR, 9
Art shows global events
By ALISHA KINMAN
avenue contributing writer
It is a philosophical debate as to whether art portrays life or
life portrays art. From pop-art prints to abstract sculptures of
rusty bottle caps, the purpose of art has been to provoke emo-
tion through different perspectives.
The Harn Museum recently opened a contemporary art ex-
hibit titled "Art, Media and Material Witness." Through archi-
tecture, paintings and photography, the exhibit illustrates the
struggles foreign countries have faced during decades of politi-
cal, economic and social turmoil.
"The contemporary pieces create new ways of thinking and
provoke new thoughts about the artwork," said Kerry Oliver-
Smith, the curator of contemporary art at the Harn.
The exhibit includes 25 artists from Latin America, the Unit-
ed States and Africa. Although a majority of the artists have
come from different places around the world, the message of
social injustice and the effects of globalization are very similar.
Each artist acts as "witness" to events that they have person-
ally encountered, such as the fall of the Soviet Union and the
rise in poverty in Latin America.
One of the larger pieces of artwork that
immediately stops onlookers is a set of pic-
tures mounted on neon yellow poster boardNJ hanging on thin strings to resemble a house.
E This piece by Sergio Vega, entitled "Shanty
Nucleus after Derrida," portrays the poor, ru-
ral conditions in Mato Grosso, Brazil, through
photographs of lopsided wooden shacks re-
sulting from globalization and colonialism.
"The phrase 'a picture is worth a thousand words' is so much
more expressive of the difference in the ways reporters portray
an incident compared to an artist," said Alexandria Horner, a
student at Santa Fe College. "The emotional response generat-
ed from a picture is hard to predict, but an artist can be certain
that an image stands out more to the majority of people."
Another captivating piece of artwork is a picture of two Afri-
cans posing as a sculpture. While both resemble a stone sculp-
ture with stiff body positions, they are dressed in name-brand
clothing, such as Puma. Kehinde Wiley's work, "Dogon Couple,"
represents the transformation in developing countries toward
gradually accepting popular, Westernized styles as opposed to
traditional apparel.
The artists combine different techniques in order to let the
audience decide how to react to the portrayal of an event.
"If [people] have a negative reaction to a piece, they may
feel upset or angry to think that time and money have been
spent on something they deem inferior or even offensive. This
seems to happen more often with contemporary works," said
Dixie Neilson, an assistant director of museum studies at UF.
"People also feel upset when they don't understand a work of
art; they may feel out of place and uncomfortable surrounded
with pieces that seem to be speaking a different language or at
least a language they are not 'getting.' A traditional painting in
a gold frame rarely causes the same reaction."
The artists' different viewpoints expose the audience to
global events. Through each piece of artwork, the artists remind
everyone how the world is consistently changing for better or
worse.The exhibition will run until Aug. 1.Menagerie mixes art, music
By ATTIYYA ANTHONY
avenue contributing writer
Only at Mamaw Menagerie can $5 make your heart
content.
As the clouds began to cover the sun and its rays
began to lose their heat, those with dreadlocks, nose
piercings, dirty sneakers, Natural Lights and calf tat-
toos began their journey to The Kickstand to attend
'Mamaw Menagerie'- the coolest little arts and crafts
mini-festival around.
Within minutes, my dollar bills were transformed
into a homemade bottle-cap pin; a skull and bones
necklace; a piece of some amazing carrot, coconut
and cranberry loaf; a ginger brownie; a neon painting
of an elderly person's walker; and a one-minute mas-
sage.
On Saturday, almost 20 local vendors and more
than 350 students, artists, craftsmen and musicians
came out to barter jewelry, paintings, baked goods,
scarves and ties, records turned into flower pots, deco-
rated beer pong tables, henna tattoos and more at a
hippie-inspired art fest.
The Eighth Avenue Bike and Coffee Shop providediced coffee, toneVENDOR advertised online records,
Flying Heart Jewelry showcased its homemade pieces
and George's Meet and Produce displayed its wood-
work.
"It's a festival for everyone. The elderly can come
look for trinkets, and parents can spend time with their
children.but right now we get a lot of college students
drunk from earlier activities, stumbling in who want to
see a show and listen to music," said local artist and
event organizer Thomas Callihan.
Mamaw Menagerie also of-
Ony i fered a great selection of local
* * music. This year's artists includ-
ed Ancient River, the Ex-Boogey-
men, Travis Atria of Morningbell,
Baby Rat, DJ Thomas and DJ Ernie.
One notable performance was the harmonious folk
rock synthesized sounds of Michael Parrallax, who de-
spite the 90 degree heat, chanted his songs in a fur
bodysuit before a crowd of lip-synching mosh-pitters.
The next and final Mamaw Menagerie will be held
before Thanksgiving break. Callihan will then be leav-
ing for Brooklyn, NY, to pursue his artistic career.
According to Callihan, anyone is open to continue
the Mamaw Menagerie tradition once he's gone.
Matt Tripp/ Alligator Staff
Robbie Carroll, 22, and Blake Suarez screen print a design onto a T-shirt at the Mamaw Menagerie Saturday afternoon at the Kickstand
Carroll, a graduate of UF's graphic design program, and Suarez, a student in the program, printed designs onto fabric for a nominal price
helping hands hd
Toms shoes hopes to change world with film, artists
By ATTIYYA ANTHONY
avenue contributing writer
Changing the world starts one sole at a time.
No -that's not a typo. It's a revolutionary philoso-
phy that former "The Amazing Race" reality star
Blake Mycoskie lives by. When he started Toms
Shoes three years ago, he promised that with ev-
ery shoe purchased another would be donated to
a developing nation.
Thanks to Mycoskie and other fashion-for-
ward individuals, more than 200,000 canvas
slides have been donated to children and adultsberto Evans.
Evans will be showcasing his designs and
creating some new ones at the free viewing of
"For Tomorrow: the Toms Shoes Story" hosted by
Society Promotions at The Exchange on Friday at
8 p.m.
"I like working with Toms shoes. Besides the
fact that each shoe goes towards helping some-
one, the whole shoe is a canvas, so you can wrap
around the artwork," Evans said.
The 35-minute independent film documents
the severe poverty of a village in Argentina, where
children struggle to walk more than five miles to
in Argentina, South Africa and other developing get water, go to school and receive medical care.
nations. "We want to spread social consciousness in
Gainesville's boutique, The Exchange, has
also joined the cause. This month they are the
winner of the Toms Shoes Retail Store of the
Month for the custom designs of local artist Ro-The trials of the village members inspired
Mycoskie to create the Toms shoe based on the
traditional Argentine work-slide called the 'alpar-
gata.' And with only $44, shoe lovers can remain
on the best-dressed list and help change the
world in the process.
"We want to spread social
consciousness in the hopes that it
bzeomes eontagiou ."
JACOB LARSON
director of society promotions
"It's nice to see a new trend of humanitarian-
the hopes that it becomes contagious," said Ja- ism and social justice flowing into the fashion
cob Larson, the director of Society Promotions. industry," said Jason Sanders, co-director of So-
"That's what we're about -bringing light to is- ciety Promotions. "The world needs this."
sues like this."The documentary is heartwarming -a must-
see for the world changers buzzing in our com-
munity. The film reiterates the need for social
competence and the importance of remember-
ingthose not as fortunate as us. For many villag-
ers in the film, Mycoskie's donation was the first
pair of shoes that they had ever received.
Evans will be also be creating custom designs
during the viewing starting at $30. The shoes
take an hour to dry, so he said he would start any
designs, but he has no intent to rush his work.
Evans owns a couple pairs of Toms, but ironically
none of his are designed. He rocks them plain.
"It's easier for me to design other peo-
ples' shoes and let the creativity flow that
way, instead of spending that time on my-
self thinking about what I want," he said.
His designs will also be featured at Gainesville
Fashion Week.
10, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009
Cafe Gardens
Cafe Gardens has been just
across from campus since
1976. This quaint landmark
establishment with award
winning courtyard dining
is perfect for any date or
gathering. Open 7 days. For live
music schedule, call 376-2233.
Hours: Mon-Wed l1am-10pm,
Thurs -Sat 11am-11pm Sun
Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave
Peach Valley Cafe
Experience the freshness in
everything we do. Open daily
from 7a.m. to 8p.m. We have a
full menu ranging from Orchard
fresh Apple Fritters to fried
artichokes and Lobster bites.
Breakfast is served all day here
at Peach Valley Cafe including
Gainesville's best fresh Omelets
and Benedicts; mouth watering
Sausage Gravy and Biscuits,
and yes, Mammoth Pancakes
and waffles. Lunch and dinner
are also available any time
with bountiful salads, fresh
sandwiches, Pot Roast and
don't forget to ask your server
about our shrimp-n-grits
(wonderful). We are located at
3275 SW 34th Street directly
behind Hooter's (352) 376-
1834.
Liquid Ginger Asian
Grille & Teahouse
101 SE 2nd Pl. (behind
Hippodrome Theater
Downtown) Offering Asian
Fusion Cuisine in a relaxing
atmosphere. Wed and Thurs
night $5 martinis. Open for
lunch: Mon-Fri 11:30-2:30 Sun
12-5 and dinner Sun-Thurs
5-10pm Fri-Sat 5-10:30pm.
Call 371-2323 for a reservation.
43rd Street Deli and
Breakfast House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to
for over 25 years-we probably
served your parents! Biggest
4-egg omelette, French toast,
and daily specials. Not full yet?
Have lunch with us & enjoy a
large selection of sandwiches,
the best Reuben, gyros &
soup all at a reasonable price.
Vegetarian? Not a problem. We
have a selection that is sure
to fulfill your needs. We now
offer free WiFi! Open Monday-
Sunday lam-3pm.
4401 NW 25th Place 373-2927.
3483 Williston Rd 373-5656
conveniently located off 1-75.(S D 0@1M
Bagels Unlimited
Serving Gainesville for over
25 years. BU is a tradition of
sorts. We offer many breakfast
platters cooked fresh, featuring
omelettes, eggs any style, large
pancakes, French Toast, Knishes,
17 varieties of bagels and a large
assortment of spreads. Also
available are tofu and tempeh.
Over 100 bottles of hot sauces
are available for sampling.
1222 West University Ave.
Open everyday from 6:30am-
3pm.
Golden Buddha
Where eating well means eating
healthy.Gainesville's best
Chinese food. Now with more
sizes available with more vegan
options. As always, generous
portions, fast service & super
lunch/dinner combos. FREE
DELIVERY.
613 NW 16th Ave. 372-4282 or
380-9076. Full menu and specials
@ GoldenBuddhaSpecial.com
Moude's Classic
Coffee
Maude's Dollar Days
$1.00 Let's Go Study Sundays
(Black coffee for a dollar)
$2.00 Iced Mocha Mondays
(Half price iced mocha need we
say anything else)
$3.00 Treat Yourself Tuesdays
(good for one de-stressing
dessert per person)
$4.00 Wine Wednesdays
(any glass of wine)
$5.00 Thirsty Thursdays
(two imported beers)
$6.00 Finger Food Fridays
(any appetizer)
$7.00 Sweetheart Saturdays
(includes one dessert and two
regular coffees)
A limited time offer
Not valid with any other offer
Located downtown next to the
Hippodrome
101 SE 2nd Place 336-9646Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301
The Melting Pot
Your fondue experience.
Attentive service, fine
wines, the highest quality
fresh ingredients, a variety
of cooking styles, unique
sauces, your favorite chocolate
fondue. Dip into something
different. Located at 418 E.
University Ave.
(352)372-5623
D'Lites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
d'licious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly
without the diet taste. We also
feature a whole array of cookies,
chips, and various grocery treats
that appeal to Atkins, Weight
Watchers, and other dieters.
Our every day daily specials
make shopping at D'Lites a
special value! Come weigh your
options at the Marketplace Plaza
at NW 16th Blvd. and 43rd St.
(next to the Hollywood Video)
or at the Shoppes of Williston at
S.W. 34th Street and Williston
Rd. (next to Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!
Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts, and
beer, with lots of vegan options.
Now open 24 hours. Free WiFi!
Located 2 blocks east of campus
at 1025 W. University Ave.
505-6566Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve
frozen yogurt as a healthy
dessert alternative. Our yogurt
has 0 % fat and contains live
and active cultures. Choose
any combination of 8 different
flavors and over 30 toppings.
Everything for just 45 cents an
ounce. 3841 SW Archer Rd (next
to Bento Red) Open from noon
to midnight daily!
TCIY
Please visit one of our 3
locations to enjoy real frozen
yogurt products. Our low calorie
and low-fat soft serve is your
healthiest choice in Gainesville,
and it tastes great too. Waffle
Cone Wednesday from 5-8p.m.
and half-off smoothies from
5-6p.m. every day! Locations
at 34th Street next to Crispers,
Thornebrook Village at 43rd
Street and Town of Tioga. Find
us one Facebook and follow us
on Twitter at "TCBYgainesville"
Manuel's Vintage
Room
This family owned restaurant
is perfect for dinner any day of
the week. Come in and check
out one of the best wine lists in
town. Ask questions and learn
while you wait for the chef to
put out nothing but goodness
from the kitchen using fresh,
simple, and local ingredients.
Try the Early Dinner Sunday,
Tuesday-Thursday 5-7pm. $3
wines/$10 bottles. $10 Menu.
Ask about our Monday Wine
Dinners and private parties for
lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
St. (352)375-7372
Ristoronte Deneno
With new ownership at the
helm, Deneno is presenting
great Italian food in nearby
Alachua. Worth the drive!
Open for lunch Tues-Fri 11-2.
Dinner Tues-Sun starting at
5pm. Happy Hour Tues-Fri 5-7.
Every Tuesday is 1/2 off bottles
of wine. 14960 Main Street,
Alachua. 386-418-1066ThiGurnm To
EI)kiI\JkIJ
Caribbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
and oxtail. Opened Mon thru
Thurs IIam-7:30pm, Fri and Sat
1lam-11:45pm.
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
352-374-8111
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a
hip, trendy atmosphere. Two
great locations with outside
eating. Open every day for carry-
out or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.
Genesis Juice Bar
Bites & Blends
OPEN 7 Days 1109 W. Univ Ave.
2 Blks E of UF Across from B of A
Nutritious Super Smoothies, Pure
Potent Wheatgrass, Raw Juice
Bar, Homemade Soups, Fantastic
Food, I lot Paninis, Luv-Le-
Wraps, Stop In. You'll be glad
U did.
Cabana Cove
Key West Grille
Open for Lunch & Dinner
$6.99 Daily Lunch Specials
Happy Hour 4pm-7pm w/
$12.50 Buckets of ANY beer
Check Out Our New & Exciting
Menu & Expanded
Sunday Brunch Menu
$4 Martini Menu Wednesdays
$4 Mojito Menu ThursdaysGreen Plantains
Happy Hour $2.75
Drink+ Appetizer from 3-7pm.
$5 To-Go Dinners. Mon-Sat
from 4pm. Don't miss out $4.95
dinner + soda on Thursday,
student night from 4pm-10pm.
Visit us at 5150 SW 34th Street
at the new Publix Shopping
Center 7 days a week.
We cater. Check us out on
GatorFood.com 352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.com
Mildred's Big City
Food
Eat Gainesville's Best Food at
Mildred's. We support LOCAL
and SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh Dishes
Made From Scratch!
OPEN SUNDAYS!
CONVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371-1711
MildredsBigCityFood.com
New Deal Cafe6
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burgers! This l2oz.
Goliath is Naturally Aged and
Fresh Ground. MONSTROUS
Desserts. HUGE Martinis.
A Diamond in the Ruff!
Mon-Thurs. 1lam-10pm
Fri-Sat. 1lam-llpm
371-4418
Located next door to Mildred's
$5 off next $25 purchase
With This Ad
352-377-3278
www.cabanacove.net
2410 NW 43rd St.
Gainesville, Fl. 32606
Located Behind Garden
Gate Nurseryalligator
Grbiflim q RQrecipes P.
Recipe for the perfect
Game.-Day burgerTi Rmo!
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine
agrees, "[the chef] adds visual
flair to every dish to make it as
good-looking as it is flavorful."
NEW Happy Hour Specials!
Every day from 4pm-7pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices &
terrific service.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.
com
12 SE 2nd Ave. 378-6307
Mellow Mushroom
Shroomin' Student Specials
DOLLAR DRAFTS
14" Pizza $9.99
$3 Jager Meister
Happy Hour 3-7
All Apps Price
All Mixed Drinks 2-4-1
Order Online @
mellowmushroom.com
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta, & desserts. All you
can eat buffet available!
Outdoor dining. Visit www.
newyorkpizzaplus.com for
coupons. We Deliver!
490 NE 23rd Ave. 377-2542
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade,
meals, sandwiches, soups,
home-baked desserts. Brunch
Weekends. Specials: Cupcake
Mon., Southern Cooking Tues.,
Greek Wed 6pm, Ethiopian
Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 10am-8pm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
Saigon Legend
Delicious traditional Vietnamese
cuisine with popular Asian
favorites. Pho, Banh-Cuon,
Banh Xeo, Banh Tom Ha-Woi.
Enjoy great food at great prices.
Big new room! Family owned
restaurant. Next to Holiday Inn
Downtown. Dine in or take
out. Catering available. Mon-Sat
10:30am-9:30pm, Sun 11:30am-
9pm
374-0934 1228 W Univ AveBy MAXIM PETTERSEN
avenue contributing writer
With Game Day approaching this
weekend, your drive for football fa-
naticism, thirst for beer and especial-
ly your hunger for the perfect tailgat-
ing burger will shoot like a rocket into
the sky. Other than the action-packed
game with the Gators dominating,
the tailgating experience will be the
best part. Here is a homemade rec-
ipe to create a perfect, mouthwater-
ing burger on Game Day.
The Ultimate Game-Day Burger
with roasted garlic and Dijon may-
onnaise, balsamic caramelized red
onion and cabbage, sharp cheddar
cheese and arugula.
Ingredients:
Makes 2
V red onion (sliced into rings)
cup of chopped cabbage of
your choice
3-4 cloves whole garlic (skin on)
4 tablespoon mayonnaise
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard
3 tablespoon balsamic vinegar
2 thick slices of red tomato
cup of arugula
pound of ground sirloin (more
depending on how big you want
the burgers)
2 slices of sharp cheddar cheese
1 tablespoon olive or canola oil
Maxim Pettersen / Alligator
The Ultimate Game-Day Burger with roasted garlic and Dijon mayonnaise, balsamic
caramelized red onion and cabbage, sharp cheddar cheese and arugulaAdd salt and pepper for taste
Directions:
1. In a medium saut6 pan, sweat
the sliced red onion, chopped cab-
bage, and the whole garlic cloves
(with skin on) over medium-high
heat with salt, pepper and olive oil.
Cook until tender, then deglaze with
balsamic vinegar and reduce com-
pletely. Remove the garlic cloves
(to smash into the mayonnaise and
mustard later).
2. Season ground sirloin patties
with salt and pepper and rub with ol-
ive oil. Place them in saut6 pan, or on
a grill, over medium-high heat. Cook
until almost medium or medium rare,
top each patty with sharp cheddar
cheese and allow cheese to melt.
Take burgers off heat.
3. While burgers are cooking,
combine mayonnaise and mustard
with garlic cloves that were cooked
earlier. Peel and smash garlic with a
fork. Set aside.
4. Toast the buns.
5. Now let's assemble the burger
to build these delicious flavors and
textures. Spread the roasted garlic
and Dijon mayonnaise on both sides
of the bun. Add the cooked burger,
thick-sliced tomato, fresh arugula
and top with the sweet and savory
balsamic caramelized onions and
red cabbage.
6. Enjoy!THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009 + ALLIGATOR, 11
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished furnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
LIVE FOR $319!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
*TheLandingsUF.com 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13 St
12-9-75-1
SUPER HERO SAVINGS
HULK-Smashing Prices!
As Low As $299/person!
3515 SW 39th Blvd
Let Greenwich save you Green! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1&Th e g
atSnaFe
Walk to Santa Fe College!!!
Limited Time Only
Rates starting at $399 or
Receive a $1000 rebate check on us!
4/4's or Brand New 3/3's!
Fully Furnished, Free Ethernet
Free Cable and Utilities
Roommate Matching, Free Tanning!
352-379-9300 www.thecrossingatsantafe.com
12-9-75-1
STARTING @ $369
$0 to sign, 4 more info text
LEXINGTON to 25278
ALL INCLUSIVE & FURNISHED
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-12 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
Three bedroom out of four are available for
rent, furnished with utilities included. Near
UF and Shands, $400.00 a month. Call 352-
795-1870 or 352-266-4114. 9-3-09-30-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-1
WWW.TheFloridaRenterslnsurance.COM
Renters Insurance from $9 per month
Online Quotes 9-16-09-31-1
Univ. Terr. Gainesville, 3921 SW 34th st., 1st
fIr., 4 bd, 4 ba, cent A/C, cable, wash., dry.,
full kitch., Sept rent free! $300/mo.ea., $25/
person finders fee, owner/manager/gaines-
ville Immediate occupancy. 352-472-9778
9-4-09-27-1
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Beautiful 3/3 condo
Windsor Park, dir on bus route, new furn.,
beaut. remod. bathrooms and hardwood
floors, upstairs, front bldg, 1300/mo, 772-
349-3221, bdduf86@comcast.net 9-23-
09-30-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
PROF/GRAD STUDENT. All Amenities.
Studious & quiet. Safe & secure. $350/mo.
Leave message 333-8300. 9-4-09-14-1
1br/1ba in 4/4 luxury condo $369/mth,
all inclusive (utilities, internet, tv, phone,
washer/dryer), fully furnitured. very close to
campus. contact 352-235-4762 or
toxapheneufl@yahoo.com 9-16-20-1**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $350/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www. lamanchacondos.com 9-10-12-1
3 ROOMS FOR RENT
$525-$650/mo All utils incl. Near SFC, Oaks
Mall & UF 786-325-7941 9-21-09-20-1
FIRST MONTH FREE!!! Aptfor rent. 4bd/2ba.
$400/mo/room. Three blks from campus.
Newly remodeled. Pool, Internet. 813-690-
3781. 9-11-09-14-1
DUCKPOND
Prof/grad student. fully furn large room in qui-
et house. Bike to campus. $350/mo. Leave
message 872-8388 9-4-09-10-1
$350 MOVES YOU IN! Need 1 roommate to
rent rm in a 3/2 FULLY FURNISHED house.
5 mins to UF. 10 mins to Santa Fe. No sec or
util deposit. Split utils, maid & yard man, W/D,
'rg yard, family & living rm 813-362-7729
9-4-09-10-1
$300/mo.each 4 bdrm/2bath, washer &
dryer with utility pkg. CLEAN! @ University
Commons. 352-266-4114. 9-8-09-10-1
Beautifully Furnished 2/2 condo at Creeks
Edge, Ground floor, pool, 24hr gym, tennis
court, on RTS route 8, less than 2 miles to
campus, $1100 call 904-501-1990
9-8-09-10-1
NEED FEMALE ROOMMATE
for 3BR/2BA townhouse. $550/mo all inclu-
sive. W/D, on direct bus route, minutes to
campus. No pets. Please call 813-892-3996
9-23-09-20-1
Live in Luxury @ Windsor Park! Fully fur-
nished 3bed/3private bath poll view. Rent
includes: utilities, cable, high-speed inter-
net, washer/dryer, plus all amenities. ONLY
$399 CALL 305-984-4245 FOR MORE INFO
9-14-09-10-1
2 BR/ 2 pvt Bth Available in Rockwood Villas
3 BR unit- $400 per room plus 1/3 of utilities.
FREE Internet and Cable! W/D in unit. On
bus route close to Oaks Mall. Call 352-514-
0372 or email Carmen4909@yahoo.com
9-16-09-12-1
2/2 gated townhome with attached ga-
rage, cable w/hbo,sho,alarm. Close to
Shands.$980 mo. furn.opt.321-698-7579
myhomesoon@gmail.com. 9-25-09-17-1Townhome 2/2 end unit,fenced
SW near UF/Shands,bus;avail.
now;vaulted,w/d,deck,icemkr
$850mo/$400sec 352-256-6158
doxie.dogs@hotmail.com 10-1-09-21-1
Furnished., Windsor Park. ROOM $ 420 and
APT 1/1 $ 620 .2 mi from UF.All inclu. Elec,
TV,internet,gym, pool, W/Dry, Basketball,
.soccer & tennis courts.- 305-962-2525,
305-408-4330 -c2000_1@msn.com 9-8-
09-4-1
For Rent
unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
1, 2, 3's *SUPER RENT DISCOUNTS!
1BR $509 * 2BR $579* 3BR $775
HUGE FLOORPLANS!* Pets Loved!
Bus Stop *Pools *Green Courtyards!
Park Free Across From UF 335-7275
12-9-09-75-2
The ONLY Apartments Downtown
Studios-$645*1/1 from $699
2/2 from $900* 3/3 $500/bed
Washers & Dryers*Alarms*We Love Pets
207 SE 2nd Place-Next to Starbucks
352.338.0002-arlingtonsquare.org
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
WALK TO UF!
Studios & 1 Beds starting at $499!
Pet friendly, Free Parking Near UF
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Best Price & Great Location
Large 1 & 2's available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now!!! 3/3 for $336/person.
Cable w/HBO and Showtime included!
Private Dog Park-Tanning-Fitness Center
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For RentO nFnished nnished furnished nfurnished ufurnished
BIVENS COVE
1/1 -From $649 2/2 -From $699
3/2 -From $824 4/3 -From $1099
Close to UF/Shands * Pet Friendly
(352) 376-2507 * 3301 SW 13th Street
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
2/2 & 3/3 with GARAGE!
W/D, Alarm, Huge patio!
We love pets! $875-$1012
372-0400*MadisonPointe.org
12-9-75-2
SORORITY ROW 2BDs!
2br/2.5ba from $899
W/D included. No Move-in Fees!
Pets welcome! FREE Parking!
372-7111 CollegeManor.org
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2Get it while it's HOT!
Starting at $299
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
3813 SW 34th st
Call NOW! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 9-8-09-
59-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $695
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
* SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 *1216SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com 12-9-
75-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
kickoff ETIDONS
Reach your Target Market before the game!
Call today! 352-376-4482
fl-heidependet flrid.
COO PHOTOS!*TA
DPPOENT EATUES! AT E
September 4
September 11
September 18
October 30
November 6
November 20
November 25
December 4Charleston Sou
Troy
Tennessee
Georgia
Vanderbilt
Florida Internat
Florida State
SEC Championther Deadline: -etember 2
Deadline: September 9
Deadline: September 16
Deadline: October 28
Deadline: November 4
ional Deadline: November 18
Deadline: November 23
Deadline: December 2
'To Be Determineoship*Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key 0 Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
4PO LOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Across From UF! PET FRIENDLY!
Two Bedrooms starting at $599!
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!!
303 NW 17th Street, Ste A
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
**LUXURIOUS 1800 SQ FT HOME**
SECLUDED, UPSCALE NEAR UF. 3/2, SUN
ROOM, COVERED PATIO W/D. $1400/MO
PERFECT FOR GRAD. AVAIL AUG. 1607
NW 12 RD 352-466-4171 LV MSG 9-14-
09-68-2
We have REAL 1/1s
Dump your roommate & save on gas!
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $575 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450 -Only 4 left!
1600 NW 4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $475 -Just a few left!
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
9-30-09-66-2
* NANTUCKET WALK *
* UPPER WEST SIDE *
Brand new luxury apartments! Walk to class!
All-inclusive! nantucketwalk@cmcapt.com
352-240-6961
12-9-09-74-2
large 4 bed 3 bath house for rent. near uni-
versity and 34th, pets ok, washer & dryer, first
and security 1500/mo. Available June 1st.
yearly. Call 727-430-3094 7-19-09-21-2
BIKE TO UF! 1st mont free!
5BR 3BA, lawn service incl,
Fireplace, carport, w/d hkups, $1800/rent
3920 SW 20th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
43-2
VICTORIA STATION! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2.5 BA TH, washer/dryer, high ceilings,
separate Dining room, pool,
$800/rent, 3552 SW 30th Way #146
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
WALK TO UF! 1 ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR duplex, CH/AC, will consider small pet,
$695/rent 120-A NW 10th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2GREAT MOVE-IN SPECIALS!
1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 BR Houses & apartments!
Contact us for pricing & availability!
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
3BR $99 Moves you in! $750/mo
Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D, fenced yards,
pet friendly, wd firs, 352-505-9264 or 352-
870-0904 9-4-09-35-2
4/2 $99 Moves you in! $1000/mo
Super Special, Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D
hkup, carpet & wd firs, extra room, large
fenced yard, pet friendly 352-505-9264
9-4-09-35-2
2/1 Apt. $99 Move-in $500 total.
Historic downtown, cent AC, W/D hkup,
10mn bike to UF, front porch, pets ok,
great size. Yes $500 whole apt! 505-9264
9-4-09-35-2
Room $299. $99 first month.
has everything, walk-in closet, pvt BA,
W/D, DW, built-in micro, tile & carpet, pool
on site, 505-9264 or 870-0904
9-4-09-35-2
SOUTHFORK OAKS! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 1.5 BA TH, Pool, w/d hkups, close to
everything! $675/rent,
2300 SW 43rd St #1-3
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
37-2
POOL HOUSE! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR with bonus room or 3rd BR,
Large screen porch & deck, wood floors,
fireplace, Living & dining rooms, $995/rent
includes pool svc, 738 NW 24th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
37-2
STEPS TO CLASS! 4 BR 2.5 BA house,
Living, dining & sunrooms, w/d hkups,
CH/AC, $1800/rent, 1107 SW 1st Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
ARBOR
Ask about our move-in specials!
Close to UF & Shands
2411 SW 35th PL
866-604-7097
M-F 9-6, Sat 10-2
www.arborgainesville.com
12-9-09-74-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2, Sun 1-5
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off. 2/2 Close to UF &
bus route. Great for grad students! Builiding
is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev tenant. W/D, D/W,
tile & carpet in BDs $800 for the whole place
Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
9-4-09-27-2
GREAT LOCATION! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2BA in Concordia, w/d, pool, quiet loca-
tion! $750/rent, 405-B NW 39th Road
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
29-2
3BR/1BA House Available August 1st. Cent
H/AC, ceiling fans, carport. $900/mo. 217
NW 36th Terrace. Call 372-4903 or 917-416-
6968 9-4-09-24-2
611 NW 34th Dr. Available August 1st.
3BR/2BA house. Cent H/AC, ceiling fans.
$950/mo. Call 372-4903 or 917-416-6968
9-4-09-24-2
14, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfunished nfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
Downtown House 110 SE 4th PI 3BD/1.5BA
Central heat/air. On street parking, fenced
yard, w/d hookups. Walk downtown & bike/
bus to campus! $730/mo + 1st, last $500 dep
Call 373-6551 9-8-23-2
WWW.TheFloridaRenterslnsurance.COM
Renters Insurance from $9 per month
Online Quotes 9-16-09-31-2
LAS PAMPAS! 2 BR 2 BA townhouse,
Wood laminate floors, screen porch, pool,
loft $800/rent, 3482 NW 37th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
25-2
Prime location Beautiful extra large 2BR/1 BA
unit M-21 Summit House 1700 SW 16th
Ave. Near UFNANet/Shands. $600/mo.
Pool, parking. Private lease. 480-390-4528.
Deposit. 9-4-09-19-2
GREAT HOUSE BIKING DIST TO UF!
1st month free 3/2 in quiet area, fireplace,
garage, washer/dryer, $1095/rent,
3919 SW 28th Terrace
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-18-2
LOTS OF SPACE! 1ST MONTH FREE!
3 BR 2 BA w/ living, family & dining rooms,
2 car carport, fenced yard, w/d, lawn svc,
$1000/rent, 126 SW 40th St.
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
LIVE BY THE GOLF COURSE!
1st month free! 3 BR 2 BA TH, garage, vault-
ed ceilings, living & family rooms,
$895/rent, 1627 NE 40th PI
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
CLOSE TO EVERYTHING! 1st month free!
3/2 house, carport, living & family rooms,
newer carpet,
$825/rent, 1901 NW 38th Terr
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
CHEAP RENT! 1st month free! 2/2 MH,
Wood laminate floors, fenced yard, w/d hk-
ups, $595/rent, 5238 SW 66th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
23-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 9-16-09-25-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 9-16-09-25-2
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $550 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
OWNER
FINANCING
ON 19.99 ACRES
IN NEWBERRY, Fl
Fenced and cross
fenced, high and dry
Oak trees, zonedAG
and low taxes.
$269K
Call Gigi Tajalli
@ 352-281-0001
Watson Realty Corp.GRANTWOOD 2 MONTHS FREE!
2 BR 2 BA Townhouse, loft, wood laminate
floors, Washer/Dryer, pool, courtyard,
$750/rent, 2508 SW 35th PI #47
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
ROCKWOOD VILLAS 2 MONTHS FREE!
3 BR 3 BA Townhouse, wood laminate floors
& ceramic tile, porch, Washer/Dryer,
$895/rent, 858 SW 58th Terr
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
CUTE 3 BR HOUSE! 1st month free! Garage,
Newer flooring, w/d hkups, $775/rent
1730 NW 31st Place
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
23-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D hk-
ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/mo
Phone (352) 359-8311 9-30-09-34-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
1/1s from $392* 2/1s from $491
(Rate includes specials)
Close to UF & Oaks Mall.
Pine Rush Villas 375-1519
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
2/1s from $491* (Rate includes specials)
SW Archer Rd
Homestead Apts. 376-0828
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE* +$200 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
2/2s from $605* & 3/2s from $695
(Rate includes specials)
Close to Oaks Mall & Newberry Rd.
Ashton Square Villas 333-1120
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st MONTH FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Private Patios
1/1s from $472* (Rate includes specials)
Gator Village 372-3826
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Studios from $384* 1/1s from $425*
(Rate includes specials)
Walk to Butler Plaza
Sundowne 352-377-2596
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-21st TWO MONTHS FREE* + $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!!
1/1s from $401* (Rate includes specials)
1/2 mile to UF
Sunrise 352-372-4835
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
* Totally Renovated 1 Bdrs
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees
*$507 Month*lncludes Specials*
2 MONTHS FREE + $300 Gift Card
Free Tanning/Cyber Cafe
Great Location!
Courtney Greens 375-3077
www.gremco.com 9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Great Location
1/1s from $417 (Rate includes specials)
Summer Place 372-2818
3316 SW 41st Place Just offSW 34th Street
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
Available Aug: Cute & Clean Vintage 4bd/
2.5ba behind Applebee's. Bike to UF! Wd
firs, CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds. Huge rooms!
907 NW 11th Ave. $1350/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com 352-338-7670
9-8-09-17-2
HOUSE avail 1st wk of Aug. 4BR/2BA, 1.5
mis to UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF
bus rte. Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fire-
place, cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $1100/
mo. Call 376-6183 or 327-2931
9-11-09-15-2
i I I I \ \~ N
$99 Moves You In!
1, 1 w/den, 2 & 3 Bedroom
Call About Two Months
FREE RENT
352-331-2966
Rent start at $750.00
2625 SW 75th St, Gainesville, FL 32608
Equal Housing Opportunity.
9-30-09-21-2
GET A FREE BEACH VACATION!
Large 2 BR 1.5 BA Townhomes
Close to UF & On 2 Bus Routes
Open House Everyday 359-6386
www.gopinnaclepoint.com
9-4-09-13-2ROCKWOOD VILLAS 3 bed/3 bath $1,100.
Each room has a private bath. End unit in
quiet neighborhood. 2 pools, sand vball court,
tennis courts. Close to the mall, UF, and
SFCC. On bus route. Call 352.514.3424.
9-9-09-15-2
1 BR/1 BA available now. Near Shands. Large
screened-in porch. W/D hook-ups. Pets ok.
$525/mo, $575 sec dep. 3300 SW 23rd St.
Apt #2. Call 352-371-3473, please leave
message. 9-4-09-12-2
2BR + small bonus room/1 BA. Near Shands.
Availalbe now. Large screened-in porch. W/D
hook-ups. $685/mo, $700 sec dep. 3300 SW
23rd St. Apt #i. Call 352-37i-3473 please
leave message. 9-4-09-12-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
2 Bedroom-2 Full Bath Modern Condo. One
Car Garage plus reserved parking. Tiffany
Condos -NW 23rd Blvd. $850 mo + $500 dep
tiffany@NFMLLC.com, 352-514-1800. Pics
at tinyurl.com/tiffany4 9-8-09-12-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosed front patio
W/D, Wood floors, Fireplace
3 blocks from UF! Pets loved!
372-7111 106 NW 10th Street
12-9-09-75-2
*3BR/1 BA House
819 NW 10th Ave $850/mo
*2BR/1.5BA Townhouse
7130 SW 45th PI $600/mo.
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114
10-2
Clean, spacious 3/2 condo. Quiet, yet cen-
trally located just 1.5 mi. from law school.
Very low utilities, W/D, pool. Sorry, no pets.
Just $1000. Call 352-262-9119 9-11-09-
14-2
Townhouse 4/2/1/2 covered parking, swim-
ming exercise room, screened porches,
laundry hook ups,clean updated unit, pets
less than 40 lbs okay. $900 rent + deposit
Susan 352-262-4617. 9-4-09-9-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two iBRs $625 & $575.
one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceiling
fans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, secu-
rity. No dogs. 378-3704 sallygville@aol.com
9-15-09-15-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home on shady
lot. From $345-$425/mo ind water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th St. Last month free. 376-
5887 10-9-33-2
0 YZal _1fS la
-9
C
IStill need housing this Fall?
Ask about our Last Minute Move-In Spec
352.338.74674BR newer double-wide on 5 acres in
Newberry. 6-stall barn, board fence, horses
welcome. $1300/mo. Call 850-329-7669
9-15-15-2
Beautiful 2/2 Apt for $840/month located in
downtown Gainesvile. 2 miles from campus
and close to shops and restaurants. Apt in-
cludes washer, dryer, balcony, pool, and
alarm system. Available now. Call (561) 827
5358 9-8-09-10-2
$599. 1BR with large study. Washer/
Dryer provided;upstairs; ceiling fans,
CHA, quiet, prefer grad student or profes-
sional; greenspace, parking, close to UF/
downtown. 1822 NW 10th St. 352 376 0080
9-8-09-10-2
HALF OFF 1ST MONTH'S RENT. 3Bd/2Ba
home off of Archer Road, near Pita Pit. $900/
mo with $500 sec. dep. Large deck with
fenced yard. Pets ok with addl dep. Call 213-
1567. 9-14-5-2
4/2 HOME PLUS STUDY
Corner lot, H/D 2385 sq ft Rent reduced to
$1400 + $1400/OBO dep. Motivated to rent!
Avail now. 3608 NW 22nd Pl. Call 352-214-
1956 9-9-09-10-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
Downtown Bed & Breakfast District: historic,
huge 3/2, 2/1, and 1/1. Water inc. Laundry
inc. $1900, $700, and $650 respectively.
Walk downtown! 373-7566 M-F 9-5. 9-17-
14-2
2br/1ba House $795/mo walk to UF!
Located behind Norman Hall. Includes 2
parking spots, high speed internet, shared
washer/dryer. Renovated '09 -tile, paint,
appliances. Private owner 352-375-5975.
9-1 1-09-10-2
AVAILABLE NOW or JAN 1. 3BR/2BA nice
house. Pets ok, washer/dryer provided. Quiet
dead-end road. 4100 NW 14th Pl. $975/mo.
Fenced yard. 352-339-2342 9-4-09-5-2
WE'RE HERE TO HELP! FOCUS ON
SCHOOL Must see upgrades new carpettile
& more.from a disc. rate of $390 Move in to-
day Pets ok
15 mins from UF Call for specials 352-332-
8225 10-12-30-2
Looking for an affordable/spacious place to
live in SW Gville? Renovated 2BR/2BA apt
Archer Rd near UF, Butler Plaza, 1-75. Tile
fir in living/dining rms, kitchen & bath. Carpet
BRs. Short leases avail 352-262-2828 9-4-
09-5-2
C=
lal!
Only 6 Blocks from UF Campus!I J-1 t
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
For Rent For Rent For RentRoommates Roommatesunfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
2BR/1BA 1 month FREE. Oak Condo by
Oaks Mall. $695, screened-in porch, W/D,
community pool & gym, water & trash includ-
ed. 321-948-6327 or americana@cfl.rr.com
9-28-09-20-2
2BR/1BA House on Large Wooded Lot.
Archer Rd/l-75 area, $800/mo. and one
FREE month with lease. Safe family neigh-
borhood. New tile and carpet. Washer/
Dryer. E-mail MH575@Cox.net for more
info. 9-4-09-4-2
2/1 Available in NE Gville for $700/mo
Fenced yard, garage, house all redone inside
with new appliances, paint, fixtures, carpet/
tile. $1000 security, lease length negotiable.
Call 352-284-3961 9-8-09-5-2
1 Block to UF! GREAT LOCATIONS
1 BR and 2BR Apts. See our list at
www.merrillmanagement.net
or call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 9-9-09-5-2
2BR 1BA Apt 1BLK TO UF!
Grad I I Apts Special: $650/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 x10 9-9-09-5-2
2BR 1 BA Apts $550-600/Mo
5 Bilks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 9-9-09-5-2
* O's1BR 1BA Apt $450/Mo
1BLK TO UF, Central H &Air
Carpet, Laundry Facilities
1236 Sw 4th Avenue
Call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 9-9-09-5-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $500/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 9-9-09-5-2
TOWER OAKS
2BR 1 BA Duplex $525/Mo
2210 Sw 70th Terrace
New Carpet, paint. Central H &
Air. Laundry hkups. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 9-9-09-5-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 9-9-09-5-2
HUGE 1BR available now
Terrazzo floors, close to UF & SFC. 4022
NW 7th. Flex lease. $425/mo A/C heat, close
to bus lines. 352-318-8822 9-9-09-5-2
5 bed, 3.5 bath large NW home
2 master suites, in-ground pool,
study, fireplace, remodeled in
2009, 2 car garage $1975 month
Smart Choice Realty 376-2779 9-9-09-5-2
.0 0 0
S~ U
II
-war
m2 bed, 2.5 bath furnished condo
5 miles to UF, $800 a month
3 bed, 2 bath condo, 4 miles to
UF, unfurnished, $875 month
Smart Choice Realty 376-2779 9-9-09-5-2
* 1BR condo, 2nd fir. $625/mo;
* 2BR condo, 1st flr w/ patio $750/mo
Both newly remodeled. New appliances incl
built-in microwaves & W/D. 1 mi from UF.
772-801-9884 9-10-09-5-2
Rent reduced Must see!,Quiet,1/2 mile UF,
2BR/2.5BA Twnhs,1200sf,4112 SW15thPI,
fenced yd, A/C,W/D hk-up, DW,Pets OK,
SW20th busline,$775/mo.Open Hse Sat-
Sun10-6, Aval now.352-378-6817,871-8205
9-10-09-5-2
DUPLEX EFFICIENCY Private entrance
1BR/1 BA, full kitchen, double stainless sink,
garbage disposal, microwave, ref/freezer,
Dish TV, covered patio, shed. Utils incl $475/
mo. Tower & Archer Rd. 352-372-6466 9-4-
09-2-2
4 bd/ 4 ba condo at Countryside, only $850,
1200 sq ft. Rented furnished or unfurnished,
washer & dryer incl, Community pool, fitness
center and basketball courts Call Bosshardt
Property Management Today! 352-371-2118
9-24-09-15-2
Greenleaf 2BR/1 BA, Tile living room & dining
rm, new carpet, paint, vaulted ceiling, walk-
in closets, W/D hook-up, corner unit, fenced
yard, quiet neighborhood. $675/mo + sec
dep. 332-8196 or 339-6177 9-9-09-5-1
F subleases
FEMALE wanted, $550 furnished, all-inclu-
sive sublease 1/1 in a 2/2 at JEFFERSON!
352-895-6346 or neha63@ufl.edu
9-8-09-10-3
Spring 2010 College Park 1BR/1BA Studio
Apt Sublease. Walking distance to campus
and unfurnished. Rent is $625/month. Call
321-223-7867 or kmurph@ufl.edu 9-22-09-
15-3
Fully furnished/Utilities included Apt. @
The Estates. $520 or Best Offer. 1 Bdr/1
Bath available. Pets are welcomed. Call
678-478-0793 for more information. 9-10-
5-3
OFRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Countryside Share 4BR/4BA upgraded furn
condo 1.5 miles to UF on bus rte, pool, W/D,
cable & utils incl. $425/mo. Call 386-672-
6969 or 386-295-7929. 9-18-09-35-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 10-1-09-26-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-4
Male, grad student, small furnished apt on
side of private home close to UF. One per-
son only. No pets. Cable, patio, clean, quiet.
$500 pm, utilities included. 336-5808 9-8-
09-21-4$350 MOVES YOU IN! Need 1 roommate to
rent rm in a 3/2 FULLY FURNISHED house.
5 mins to UF. 10 mins to Santa Fe. No sec or
util deposit. Split utils, maid & yard man, W/D,
Irg yard, family & living rm 813-362-7729
9-4-09-10-4
Room $299. $99 first month
has everything, walk-in closet, pvt BA,
W/D, DW, built-in micro, tile & carpet, pool
on site. 505-9264 or 870-0904 9-4-09-14-
4
Female for upstairs 4/bed 4/bath Countryside
@ UF Condo fully furnished, $435 incl utilities
cable/internet W/D pool work-out fac. semes-
ter renter ok, great bus route. 904-612-3944
9-8-09-15-4
Roommate wanted to share 3br/2ba house
w/pool near UF campus. No pets, No smok-
ing.
$395/month +1/3 utilities.
Call 321-537-6212 for more info 9-8-09-15-
4
GREAT PRICE!
$380 & all utils incl. 1/1 avail in fully furn 4/4
apt. New carpet & paint, cable, wireless in-
ternet, pool, W/D in unit. SW area on 2 bus
rts. Bus stop on site. 954-593-3063 9-4-09-
13-4
Hate long bus rides? Be in class/Shands/
VA in 5 mins. Share 2/1 at Summit House
Condos, $375/mo + 1/2 util.$200 sec. dep.
No pets per complex, Available immed. Call
Tim 352-843-0220 9-15-19-4
Male college student preferred. 4BR/4BA
Countryside condo. Own bathroom, W/D,
hi-speed internet, on bus rte. Utils included.
$430/mo. 863-634-1893. Available immedi-
ately. 9-10-09-15-4
1 BR in 3BR/2BA GREENLEAF
Furnished condo. W/D, free TV cable. $350/
mo + 1/3 utils. Call 352-260-3359 9-10-09-
15-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
9-4-09-5-4
Female roommate needed, beautifully
renovated, furnished condo,1 mile
from UF, $399/MO includes cable,
internet, utilities, pool + fitness room
and on bus routes, 352 262-2871
9-4-09-10-4
$375 + divide utilities. 2 spacious rooms
avail. in 4/2 furnished house. Female college
student pref. 10 min from UF. Bus stop in
front of house & goes straight to UF. W/D in
house. Avail. immed. No pets 954-667-7290
9-9-2-4
FIRST MONTH FREE
Share 3br/2.5ba townhouse on SW 35th
PI with one roommate! $399/mo+1/2 utils,
cable, internet. Close to campus, great bus
route. Call Lee 239-353-9010(day) or 239-
353-5340 (evenings). 9-9-09-10-4
Share furn T/H w/UF U/G. 3BR/2.5Ba M-M
lease. 1st & Last moves you in. $325 up-
stairs,$250 ground. No dogs. Screened patio
& pool. 786.514.5319/786.299.8626/
macsen.latimer@ufl.edu 9-8-09-7-4
My roomate and I have two rooms avail-
able in a nice house. The house is only 3
miles from school and walking distance to
a busstop. We are looking for 2 female roo-
mates.rent is $400 for the bigger room and
$375 for the smaller. The house has a fenced
in back yard and is located in a great neigh-
borhood. Call Christina if you are interested
my number is 847 452 9874. 9-4-09-5-2
Grad student seeking two female roommates
(NS/ND) to share a new 4/2 house in a quiet
neighborhood 3 mi. W of 1-75. With cable,
internet & security alarm. 475/mo., util. incl.
Please call 352-331-8794. Rooms are avail-
able immediately. 9-30-20-4
Roommate needed. Private BR in quiet
house. Great for grad student. $350 + 1/3
util & 1 mo. deposit. DSL/cable/laundry/yard.
Midway between UF/SFC. 352-376-9200.
9-9-5-4Verry cool roommate. Walk to UF. 2BR/1 BA.
$325/mo + utils & satelite. Furnished room,
with king-sized bed, desk and TV. Near
Norman Hall. Call Jim at 372-9411 or 215-
1164 9-9-09-5-4
Female wanted to share brand new
3br/3ba home near campus. Washer
& dryer included. On bus route. Non-
smoking, serious students only. $450 plus
utilities. 813-610-1698 9-17-10-4
: Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
2001 2BR/2BA Mobile Home
in Oak Park Village. Includes appliances,
10x10 shed, awning. $12,000. 352-424-0687
9-8-09-20-5
Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name
brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490
will deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
-.
16, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009
Furnishings For Sale Autos Help Wanted Help Wanted
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
05 PC Bedroom set -$275
ODining table w/ four chairs -$125
*Queen & Full mattress sets -$90/set
Call Billy 215-3403 9-9-09-14-6
Like New White Metal Weight Bench, as-
sembled, ready to use, no weights included.
$50.00 or best offer.Tel333-1170. 9-8-4-6
WASHER/DRYER
FOR SALE-$200 or best offer. Come pick
them up in the Duckpond on evening of
Thursday 9/3. Call 352-275-8098 9-3-1-6
Computers
CASH PAID: Laptops Cameras Cells
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
Lexmark Inkjet Cartridges
5 Black #4 / 3 Color #5
(Paid $250) $150 Take All
(941)916-1912 9-9-5-7
rz Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
IFor SaleUF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
PARKING SPACES
FOR RENT $60/mo.
Call 372-4903 or 917-416-6968 9-4-09-24-
10
PARKING 60 SECONDS TO UF
Next to McDonalds NW 13th St. Call for se-
mester rates: 352-538-2454. 9-4-09-14-10
PLAY & BUY DRUMS, GUITARS, MORE
@ STUDIO PERCUSSION
www.STUDIOPERCUSSION.org
(352) 338-8302 9-18-20-10
OSOOJET BOATOOSO
'97 14' SeaDoo, 4-5 seater, perfect for lakes,
rivers, intercoastal. Runs great, looks great!
Must sell, moving. Comes w/ wakeboard, ski
rope & skis. $6500/OBO Call 352-316-1637
9-4-09-10-10
Homes Available for Immediate Occupancy.
Low Payments! $1 Deposit!
Call Today! 352-378-4411
9-11-09-8-10
W MCyCes peds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
*www.BuyMyScooter.com**
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
wwwRPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
2006 49cc Venus Scooter: runs great, de-
pendable, 90 miles per gallon, fully serviced,
and has a metropolitan look. Bought it for
$1,400 and selling it for $850 352-328-6122
9-4-6-11CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
2003 VW PASSAT
55 k miles, sunroof, beige. Very nice. $5995.
472-3441 9-3-09-5-12
'02 NISSAN MAXIMA
142K miles. 1 owner. $6000. Call 352-475-
2063 or 352-215-1399 9-4-09-5-12
ZWantedZ
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 9-11-09-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
Looking for someone to help me learn to rake
knit a hat, second and fourth wednesdays of
each month. These hats are made for peo-
ple in Haiti. Come and have fun with Lenora.
Call 219-6948. 9-11-09-74-13
Volunteers Wanted -Horses Helping People
is seeking volunteers for therapy and horse-
back riding program. Please email awalnes@
gmail.com or view our webpage at www.
horseshelpingpeople.org. 9-8-5-14
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
comfjobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
Executive Assistant- Crime Prevention
Security experiencing huge growth, great
career opportunity! Experience preferred.
Background check, drug test & valid FL
Drivers License required. Great benefits! Fax
resume to Jessica @ 376-9236
9-9-09-14-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
FALL 2009
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
9-4-09-11-14
Brand new start-up company is looking
for Reps in ALL areas. We train & support
at no cost. Be your own boss. Make the
fortune you've dreamed of. No $ to start.
http://stokton.org/vacancies.htm 9-10-
09-14-14
PARK PLACE CARWASH
is looking for highly motivated employees,
morning & afternoon shifts available Apply in
person 7404 NW 4th Blvd. No calls please.
9-14-09-15-14
MOSES MEDIA INC. has 18 immedi-
ate openings for National Internet Sales
Reps for our downtown office. Will train.
Commission based. Applicants must have
great communication skills, be self motivated
and computer literate. Telemarketing exp. a
plus. Please call Mr. Williams 352-337-2800
9-4-09-10-14
Movie Extras, Actors, Models Wanted -Up
to $300/day! All Looks Needed! Call NOW
1-800-458-9303 9-21-20-14
Long hair models needed Work in a easy
going beautiful outdoor setting. Hip length
and longer only. No exp. ness. earn $80-300
while enjoying the day. 352 792-1824
9-4-09-10-14
Consultants wanted at the Center for
Instructional Technology and Training at the
University of Florida to assist in Faculty lab.
Applicants must be familiar with Windows
and MS Office, Photoshop, & Dreamweaver.
A friendly and cheerful attitude is essential
for this customer service position. Pay
starts at $8.00/hour. Contact Jennifer Smith
jksmith@ufl.edu, online application at:
http://www.citt.ufl.edu/employment.php.
9-4-10-14
WEB GRAPHIC ARTISTS wanted at the
UF Center for Instructional Technology and
Training. Develop your portfolio! Please visit
our website for more information. Schedule
is flexible; pay starts at $10.00 per hour. Call
392-7249 ext 230, online application at http://
www.citt.ufl.edu/employment.php
9-4-10-14MOTHERS HELPER
2:30-6 weekdays for 13 and 11 y/o kids.
References and reliable car
required. 352-379-1017.
9-4-09-10-14
einstein's OASIS hair salon HAIRSTYLISTS
needed. up to 70% comm benefits 331-4340.
600 NW 75th St. Suite "C". 9-15-15-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
We are looking for business leaders to help
us build our college database, earn bi-weekly
cash & monthly residual income. Graduate
debt-free. Please call 1-800-577-2021 for a
confidential interview. 12-9-68-14
LIFE SKILLS COACH -needed for after-
school activities/care teenage boy with au-
tism. 2:30-6:30 M-F. References and reliable
transportation required. Experience and train-
ing preferred. Call 246-2353. 10-16-30-14
Notes & Note Takers
Wanted Immediately.
Freshman & Sophomores in Demand.
We pay top dollar for Notes & Note Takers.
email: tamunotesegmail.com 9-10-09-3-
14
Tutors needed 1-on-1 at-risk elem, mid
school students. 1-4 afternoons per wk. $10/
hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed wk study req
for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally
352-384-1155, st23@cox.net 9-9-09-10-14
Gatorfood is looking for drivers for the fall.
Get paid quick- collect all tips and delivery
fees in cash each night! Must be 21 and have
a clean driving record. Please call (352) 379-
3663 for more information. 9-4-6-14
Publication Designer Wanted
Design printed program flyers and online
sports-theme magazine for Easton-Newberry
Sports Complex in Newberry. PT to start w/
FT possible. Exp with Mac software desired.
Resume: dougengh@teacharchery.org
9-8-7-14
I MOTNTEDE
John F. Reed, Jr
White Male
(DOB 11/29/73); 6'00",
195 lbs, Brown Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
Burglary, Felony
Criminal Mischief and
Petit Theft
ALACNUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOP*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS 0
ORunning or not!0
ONEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 17
U FHelpWanted HelpWanted f Help Wanted Services personal
Responsible, loving, fun and smart part-time
after school nanny for two children, one in
elementary school and one in middle school.
Older child has Asperger's.
Pick-up from school. Transport to activities.
Help with homework. Act as role-model.
Required: OT, Speech, Psych or Special
Ed background, or other experience with
Asperger's children
Hours: 3:00p until the end of the day (be-
tween 5:00p and 7:00p, depending on the
day), M-F
Rate: $12 per hour
Send resume to: pflugg@bellsouth.net
9-4-09-5-14
be part of $7trillion industry!
spring break on a budget!
away football games on a budget!
pay for tuition!
visit-www.trips-net.net/bdazzled 9-4-09-5-
14
Campus Marketing Position
Want to work for HP but haven't got a degree
yet? Be a campus ambassador and get paid
to promote the brand on your campus.
Apply at: www.repnation.com/hp 9-10-09-
8-14
B O O K K E E P E R / R E C E P T I OIN I S T
ASSISTANT
FT for Law Office. EXP in QB, with A/P, A/R
& trust accts. Client intake skills a must.
Email resume to: lisa@striplinglawfirm.com.
10-12-09-30-14
Receptionist/fileclerk/runnerfor busy lawfirm.
Must be organized, motivated, teamplayer w/
positive attitude, reliable transportation. p/t
or f/t Resume: mel@millerbrasington.com.
9-4-09-5-14
Female smokers ages 19-25 needed for con-
fidential phone interview. Call 404-324-6836
leave your name, number and the brand that
you smoke. Earn $50 for phone interview.
10-13-09-30-14
SHIPPING TECH
Full or part time. Must be dependable. Prior
experience a plus. Please send resume to
hr@gleim.com or apply online at www.gleim.
com 9-15-09-10-14BARTENDERS, WAITSTAFF & COOKS
Scores Bar & Grill
1 W University Ave. Apply in person 2-5pm.
9-8-09-5-14
** MARTIAL ARTS INSTR. WANTED **
For growing TKD/MMA school
in Gville. Friendly, energetic
person. Experience preferred.
Leave msg at (352) 375-0700
9-8-09-5-14
THE RED ONION
Now accepting applications for server &
kitchen positions; experience necessary.
Apply in person only, before 11am or after
2pm. Located in the Uptown Village Apts on
NW 39th Ave. & 24th Blvd 9-4-4-14
LEASING AGENT PT
Friendly, energetic person. Experience
preferred. Great benefits. Must be avail.
afternoons & weekends. Apply in person.
Spyglass Apartments. DFWP
12-9-09-67-14
Geek your way to wealth & earn cash while
attending college. For a confidential inter-
view, call 1-800-577-2021 & please leave
your name & number TWICE 12-9-68-14
Afterschool help needed for busy 16-year-
old special needs girl. Experience and clean
driving record a must, background check re-
quired. 6-9 hours perweek, $12 per. Apply to
macphaulkids@bellsouth.net. 9-4-09-3-14
Leasing Agent- Part Time position. Looking
for energetic, fun, outgoing, responsible can-
didates with great customer service skills.
Stop by Towne Parc apts to fill out an ap-
plication. For more info call 352-375-3072
9-9-5-14
Doggie Daycare Needs Canine Caretakers
Must be comfortable working with groups of
dogs. Sat. availability a must. Apply in per-
son. Off SW 34th next to bowling alley. www.
campmarlin.com, 352-376-9544 9-9-09-5-
14
Help wanted for one serious hardworking
and trustworthy UF student. Gen or const
labor, exp with electrical & plumbing, carpen-
try, chainsaw & heavy lifting. Part time flex-
ible hrs. $7-7.50/hr. 376-6183 or 327-2931
9-4-09-3-14Spanish/English bilinguals wanted for re-
search study at UF. Pays $40. Must speak
Spanish better than English and be 18-40
years old. If interested, e-mail
ufaphasialab@gmail.com 9-4-09-3-14
Fan Photographers needed for UF
football home games! Email to apply
ufphotomanagerl @gmail.com. Fan pho-
tographers motivate and excite fans to take
photos that are viewable on gatorzone.com
in a partnership with UF. $7.50/hour plus
productivity bonus drives hourly rate to $12-
$20/hour. Equipment provided.
9-15-09-8-14
PT Nanny for 3.5 yr old boy. Mon/Wed/Thurs
7-8:30 am & Tues 5-6:30 pm. Minimum 1 yr
commitment. Background check & referenc-
es required; CPR & experience preferred.
Must be nonsmoker with car & cell phone.
Excellent salary. 225-3349. 9-4-09-5-14
$10/hour to participate in a study of how
we perceive speech sounds from other
languages. Email: spl.ufl@gmail.com
9-8-09-3-14
PART TIME -
APPROX 4 HOURS PER WEEK $8/HR.
EMAIL CPLEDGER@NAYBOR.US
FOR MORE DETAILS 9-4-2-14
Personal Care for physically disabled woman
Weekends 3pm -11pm. Background & CPR
Email resume to berrycoworker@yahoo.com
Call 377-7417 9-9-09-4-14
HANDYMAN NEEDED
Carpentry, painting, electric $10/hr.
Call 224-5990 9-10-09-5-14
SANDY'S SAVVYCHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE
NOW HIRING. Great working environment.
PT/FT positions available. $7.25-$7.50/hr +
incentives. 352-372-1226 -2906 NW 13th St
9-10-09-5-14
WhserviCes
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.'Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 9-16-
09-60-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
Laser Hair Removal, Electrolysis, & Skin
Care @ Advanced Hair Removal & Skin
Institute- 352.331.6797- Ask about student
discounts & sorority specials. Check out our
website @ www.hairskininstitute.com
9-30-09-27-15
Private home office experienced childcare.
Close to UF. 3 months to 3 years old. $17.50/
day & pay only for the day(s) you need.
Please call 352-372-1769 9-11-09-14-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
9-25-20-15
PRESSURE WASHING & PAINTING
Serving FL for more than 10 yrs!Unbeatable
Prices!!Call today@(352)219-4944 for
your free estimate. We offer wall papper
hanging,Concrete Staining,Dry Wall,Tile &
Cleaning as well. 9-4-4-15
PHYSICS TUTOR, PhD physicist with pri-
vate college teaching experience available
for tutoring in general physics.
d.alderman.barlow@gmail.com 9-4-2-15
Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fatSAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
LAPTOP BACKPACKS!
All Jansport backpacks on sale. Many styles
with padded laptop compartments. All have
lifetime warranties. 1 mile N. of UF on 13th
St. Lloyd Clarke Sports 352-372-7836 9-3-
10-18
SHOE SALE
Over 200 styles are on sale 10-50% off.
Great selection of running shoes, sandals
and cleats too! Let us help you find the right
shoe. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St.
9-3-10-18
NEED A RUNNING BUDDY?
Come join our running group Sunday nights
at 6:00pm. Meet at Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504
NW 13th St (1 mile N. of UF) 3-6 mile loops -
Great company. www.lloydclarkesports.com
9-3-10-18
NEED TEAM UNIFORMS?
From super-technical to ultra-basic, we make
any type of jerseys you may need. Our team
department is fast, competitive and profes-
sional. Call Palmer @ 372-7836 for all of
your team needs. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504
NW 13th St. 9-3-10-18
CHACOS
Great sandal for walking all over campus.
Adjustable straps for a custom fit & they last a
long time. Flip flops too! Lloyd Clarke Sports
1504 NW 13th St. 352-372-7836 9-4-10-18
BOARDSHORT SALE!
Awesome colors & prints all on sale.
Billabong, Quiksilver Element, Fox, Hurley&
Oakley. Check it out. Lloyd Clarke Sports, 1
mile N. on 13th St. 9-4-10-18
MODELS NEEDED
Hair and Fashion. No exp.
Editorial and photo. 331-4340.
EINSTEINS 600 NW 75th St. "C" 9-8-10-18
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public Wed-Sat-Sun 1 pm-6pm
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
WJLRides
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16 1=4_X" 4
Affordable Therapy at Stillpoint GMG TRANSPORT
This months Specials: FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
1 Hour Massage Therapy or. Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
1 Hour Acupuncture/Acupressure/Herbal Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -AlsoConsult. or Chiropractic Treatment Session Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra$ 40.00!!! Licensed, Experienced charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
Professionals 10 minutes from campus on -$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
39th ave. schedule today. 376 1320 9-17- 12-9-74-23
20-16
CHARTER BUS / CHARTER BUS RENTAL
fPersonals LIMOS / 352-494-1734 ask for Harold
WE BEAT ALL COMPETITOR PRICING
ASK ABOUT SPECIAL DISCOUNT OFFER
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING www.reliancecoach.com 9-22-20-23
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee) Met 9
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18Tri-County Bird Hospital
Recept/Tech PT for more info call 352-318-
1247. Apply in person Mon thru Fri. 9-4-
09-10-24Attention
Alligator Advertisers!
The Alligator will not be publishing on Monday,
September 1st due to the Labor Day holiday. The
Business Office will be working, but will not be
answering phones or accepting advertisements.
The DEADLINE
for Tuesday, September 8
is TODAYby 4:00pm
The DEADLINE
for Wednesday, September 9
is TOMORROWby 4:00pm
These deadlines apply to both
Display and Classified advertising.
Display: 376-4482
Classified: 373-3463
Sports
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Unproven veteran
receivers vital for UF
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF return specialist Brandon James is being counted on to share snaps at Percy Harvin's old position.
James only recorded 25 touches on offense last season.U DEBOSE'S INJURY ADDS
TO LACK OF DEPTH.
By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kmaistri@alligator org
Florida started fall practice
hoping to have one of the wide
receivers emerge as the likely
candidate to replace Percy Har-
yin.
With this week's news that
freshman Andre Debose's ham-
string injury is worse than previ-
ously thought, replacing Harvin
just got a little bit tougher for the
Gators.
"We got some guys that need
to step up," senior wide receiver
David Nelson said. "Our main
concern on the team is depth at
wide receiver."
Of all the receivers, Debose
was the most likely to gash op-
posing defenses from the slot and
backfield.
If he is unable to play for a
large portion of the season, senior
Brandon James and sophomoreJeff Demps could see the bulk of
the touches in the former "Percy
position."
James, who has caught just 19
passes in his three-year career,
will have an expanded role in
the passing game despite being
used primarily as a kickoff and
punt return specialist until this
season.
The first team All-South-
eastern Conference return man
said that he has been waiting
his whole career for a chance to
make a difference on offense, but
he doesn't want to give up any
return opportunities this year.
"This being my senior year
and (Harvin) leaving, it's my turn
to really step in and fill the offen-
sive void," James said."We've
had a lot of depth, a lot of play-
makers. I had to wait my turn."
The outside receiver positions
are more set as Nelson, senior Ri-
ley Cooper and sophomore De-
onte Thompson have proven to
be reliable pass catching options
throughout training camp.
Cooper, in particular, has
SEE WR, PAGE 19
CSU builds program with big checks
Nobody wonders why Florida would
schedule to play a team like Charleston South-
ern.
That part is easy: to give the Gators a warm-
up game to start the year and to keep their non-
conference schedule as risk-free as possible.
After all, one loss can cost them a chance
to go to the national championship, and why
risk a hard non-conference game when they al-
ready play some of the nation's toughest teams
in their conference matchups?
But why would a FCS school like Charleston
Southern come to Gainesville to play the best
team in country, when it is well aware it will
most likely get stomped on?
In recent history, few FCS schools have
beaten one of the top FBS teams, most notably
Appalachian State defeating Michigan 34-32 in
the Big House in 2007, so why put your team
through the pain of getting routed 70-3?
The main reason these small schools put
themselves through the embarrassing losses
is the not-so-embarrassing paychecks thatcome with playing these
games.
--Charleston Southern
is getting paid $450,000
for playing Florida this
year.
Bobby Callovi The Bucs also played
Bobby's World Miami ($400,000) last
bcallovi@alligatororg year and will play South
Florida ($450,000) later
this season, bringing in
a total of $1.3 million to the program for three
games of getting manhandled.
Charleston Southern coach Jay Mills said he
is also hoping to play FSU soon.
Another trip to the bank will be needed for
that one to deposit another large check from the
Seminoles.
The athletic department has some big plans
for spending the money it is receiving for let-
ting these big schools practice on the Bucs.
"The university benefits from (the payouts)
SEE BOBBY, PAGE 20CHARLESTON SOUTHERN
Bucs grateful for chance
By PHIL KEGLER
Alligator Staff Writer
pkegler@alligator org
The biggest buzz about Saturday's
Charleston Southern game may have
been a point spread that never was.
USA Today's Danny Sheridan re-
leased what he expected the betting
spread should be between the Gators
and the Buccaneers.
Problem is initial reports got
Sheridan's line wrong. The sports
betting analyst has Florida as only
63-point favorites against Football
Championship Subdivision member
Charleston Southern, as opposed to
the 73-point spread some media out-
lets reported.
Still the large margin and the fact
that the Bucs are about to play the
defending champions has drawn
a lot of attention to a small school
in Charleston, S.C., which has only
3,200 students.
Charleston Southern coach JayMills said he hasn't used the point
spread as motivation, because, well,
there's already plenty of it there.
"I don't think you can add any
incentives," Mills said. "Defending
national champions, No. 1-ranked
team in the country, former Heisman
Trophy winner and
probably one of the
preseason favorites
for the Heisman
Trophy this year --
I don't think there's
anything you can
do to add incentive
or attention to this
Mills ball game."
It will be quite the uphill battle for
the Buccaneers inside The Swamp.
The result the last time the Gators
faced a FCS opponent was a 70-19
Florida victory against The Citadel
on Nov. 22.
And Charleston Southern fin-
SEE CHARLESTON, PAGE 20
FANTASY CHALLENGE
E We held our 10-team draft Wednes-
day night, and the readers' smack talk
is now posted on alligatorSports.org.
Check our Web site for weekly up-
dates on the league's standings.alligator~ports Podeast
U With the college football season set to
kick off tonight, our five football writers
joined host Adam Berry for an epic 1:45
podcast with previews, predictions and
much more. Check it out on iTunes.TEEING OFF WITH MIKE DiFERDINANDO
0 it turns out Pacman Jones won't be playing for Winnipeg in the CFL this sea-
son after all. Luckily the Blue Bombers obtained the services of former Detroit
Lions WR Charles Rodgers -can you say Grey Cup? .Jason David Frank, aka
Tommy the Green Power Ranger, is entering MMA. Can't say I'm surprised. The
move from Power Ranger to pro fighter seems like a pretty natural transition.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
UF's blocking absent so far
0 THE GATORS ARE YET TO
OUTBLOCK AN OPPONENT.
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
a berry@alligator org
The word was all over the
white board in Florida's practice
facility Wednesday -the area
coach Mary Wise thinks her team
needs to improve the most before
the next match: blocking.
Despite an impressive 3-0 start
to the season, the No. 5 Gators
have not outblocked any of their
three opponents, trailing 21.5-18
overall.
Throughout the week, Wise
has stressed the importance of
blocking, and she planned to de-
vote plenty of time in Wednes-
day's practice to working on that
aspect of the game.
"We're not blocking balls,"
Wise said Monday. "The easiest
way to look at it is just to look at
the numbers."
UF is averaging just 1.6 blocks
per set, compared to the two per
set its opponents are recording.
Last season, the Gators tallied
2.25 blocks per set, ranking 72nd
in the NCAA.
But for a team that has the po-
tential to make a run deep into
the postseason this year, Wise
said those numbers simply have
to be higher.
The Gators' middle blockers
are more than talented enough,she said, but they just need to
get back into "that blocking
rhythm."
"There are two really key stats
in women's volleyball that deter-
mine success -one is hitting ef-
ficiency and the other is blocking
balls," Wise said. "Over the years,
I don't think there have ever been
great teams that didn't block."
Sophomore middle blocker
Cassandra Anderson, who leads
the team in blocks with eight, said
the reason for the lack of produc-
tion has been mostly mental for
the Gators.
"There are two really key
stats in women's volleyball
that determine success 
-
one is hitting efficiency and
the other is blocking balls."
Mary Wise
UF volleyball coach
With a little more practice,
she said, UF should make strides
toward blocking better by this
weekend.
With four matches over the
next two weekends -including
showdowns with No. 11 Stan-
ford, who knocked UF out of the
postseason last year, and No. 3
Washington -it will be critical
for the Gators to improve their
defense at the net.
"To have it down in the next
two weeks would be great," An-
derson said. "That would be a re-ally big part of us winning."
So far this season, Wise said
Florida has yet to consistently
make the blocks it should be
making, let alone those the elite
teams make.
With improved blocking, of-
fensive mistakes would not be
quite as costly, and if an oppo-
nent keeps UF from scoring, the
Gators' defense could provide
another method of putting points
on the board.
Aside from the obvious ben-
efits of racking up points and
slowing an opponent's hitting
attack, Wise added that effective
blocking early can also change
the way opponents play the rest
of the match.
If a hitter gets rejected early
on, she could become frustrated
enough to make a change she
doesn't need to or isn't entirely
comfortable with.
Senior Kristina Johnson, who
has started all three matches at
middle blocker, said slowing
down teams like Stanford and
Washington requires getting
touches on the ball in any way
possible.
Solidifying their primary line
of defense up front would be a
huge benefit for the Gators when
facing such highly ranked oppo-
nents this early in the year.
"It's really important," John-
son said. "If we can block well,
then everything else just sort of
falls into place."Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
Middle blocker Cassandra Anderson leads the Gators with eight
blocks through three matches this season.
Hammond, Lawrence's development needed provide depth for passing game
WR, from page 18
caught the eye of coach Urban Meyer, who
said the senior has looked better than ever in
his senior campaign.
"Of all the previous camps and previous
years he has been a Florida Gator, he's not
even close to where he's at right now," Mey-
er said. "His attitude is tremendous."The coaching staff is confident with the
top three wideouts, but Debose's injury has
also made depth a cause for concern.
Frankie Hammond Jr. and T.J. Lawrence,
both redshirt freshmen, are next on the
depth chart though neither of them have
ever played in a college game.
Nelson said the veterans challenged the
two young receivers to step up in practicethis week, but he was unhappy with the re-
sults.
"We really need them to
be consistent," Nelson said.
"They made some playsFootball (Monday). But they'll make
a play and the next play they
won't. It has to be consistent every down.
I'm going to sit down with them and try toget in their heads a little bit and tell them it
wasn't acceptable.
"They have to know their assignments.
They can't miss assignments. It's game
week. I have to trust the guy next to me to
know his assignment. There are too many
missed assignments. They need to get in the
playbook and really understand what's go-
ing on."
GET YOUR BEAT T-SHIRT
FOR THE SWAMP!
Get yours tomorrow at
Emerson Alumni Hall
10AM until gone!
FREE for the first 1500
SAA members with
Sponsored by membership card.
A HERFF JONES. * www.herffjones.com/uf 352-392-9533 -www.ufalumni.ufl.edu* ~ ANCE R
starring Jen Smith, eftP R 0 u E C T
Tod immerman,
Matihew Lindisay, Dylan
Kammerer Sara Morsey$/ 15 preview tonight at Spir & Beth Hylton
-WA-Mippodrome Theatre tickets at- --
' 352)37-HIPP &thehipp.org f] M Finally!
i TETRO pecpinwtsieefcsowa.
-HgIPP The new film by Francis Ford Coppolaci n em a Final night -6:15 and 8:45pm
Tickets and Information 352-375-HIPP I THEHIPPORG
20, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2009
Debose still looking into options with injured hamstring
By PHIL KEGLER
Alligator Staff Writer
pkegler@alligator org
The fate of freshman wide re-
ceiver Andre Debose will not be
decided this week.
Meyer met with Debose and
his parents Tuesday night but
said Florida's training staff is still
looking into possible options.
Debose was expected to see
playing time this season but has
been slowed by tendon damage
in his hamstring.
Meyer said the final decision
as to whether Debose will have
surgery should come early next
week.
"We're not pressed against
a timetable right now," Meyer
said. "I just walk into the doc-
tor's office, and they say we wan-
na check a couple things out and
we'll let you know."
LONGING FROM AFAR: Meyer
wouldn't mind if Jarred Fayson
was still in Gainesville.
The former Florida wide re-
ceiver played sparingly duringthe Gators' 2006 title run and
had only 12 catches for 148 yards
and three touchdowns during his
sophomore season in 2007.
After the season, Fayson trans-
ferred to Illinois for more playing
time and has two years of eligibil-
ity left after sitting out the 2008
season per NCAA rules.
Meyer called Fayson one of
the best players in the country
Wednesday.
"I wish he would've stayed,"
_ Meyer said. "He'd
Football
has."be getting ready to
be the go-to player
at Florida.
"That's how
much talent he
LINEBACKER NEWS: A.J. Jones
will start Saturday at strong-side
linebacker.
Brendan Beal (sore neck) did
not practice Wednesday but is
expected to play.
Freshman Jelani Jenkins (an-
kle) did some individual work
but is doubtful for Saturday's
game.Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
UF freshman wide receiver Andre Debose was expected to contribute right away, but he may miss a
significant amount of time this season if his hamstring injury requires surgery.
flt ~ hu~t Li
"Copyrighted MateriaI
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"BOBBY, from page 18
with a new athletic facility in the near future,"
Mills said. "It's going to give every sport their
own locker room, it's going to give us an aca-
demic resource center for our athletes and it's
going to help out the student body of Charles-
ton Southern, so we are very thankful for the
opportunity."
These games don't just help out financially.
They also benefit the team's recruiting.
Charleston Southern has gotten more media
attention this week than it will the rest of the
season.
It's unlikely that ESPN's First Take would
have invited Mills on its show had his team not
been playing Florida.
This doesn't mean the Bucs will steal away
blue-chip recruits from the Gators, but those
high school players who aren't FBS-caliber but
still quality players will now have heard the
name Charleston Southern and may give it
more thought when Mills starts calling.Also, the state of Florida has the most high
school talent in the country and not all of it gets
picked up by the big schools. With so many
trips to the Sunshine State for these warm-up
games, Charleston Southern coaches have
plenty of opportunities to make short drives
the night before the game to watch some high
school games and evaluate possible prospects.
While these games can help bring in play-
ers, facing the Gators can provide the Bucs with
on-the-field assistance.
Charleston Southern runs an offense similar
to Urban Meyer's spread. Watching tapes and
reading books can only get you so far when it
comes to developing an offense.
What better way to learn how a spread of-
fense should look than playing one of the pre-
mier example of it?
This game can serve as a learning tool for
Mills to improve how his team runs the spread
in the future.
For Florida, this game is just a warm up for
the rest of the season, but for Charleston South-
ern this game is what's building its program.
CSU opened 2008 season with Miami
CHAR LESTON, from page 18
ished only 7-5 last season. The Buccaneers
were picked to finish fifth in the seven-team
Big South Conference in 2009.
"We're going there with the purpose you
should have each and every week which is
to win the football game," Mills said. "That's
the number one objective every time you take
the field.
"But at the same time, this is still supposed
to be about young men and the educational
opportunities they have.
"This is an opportunity for them to have
an experience that most likely they never
would've gotten."
While FCS member Appalachian State
shocked Michigan two years ago, this match-
up appears to be even more of a sure thing.
Charleston Southern opened the 2008 season
at Miami and lost 52-7.
Still, Florida coach Urban Meyer said it is
a good opportunity to see how young players
perform in front of a big crowd in a game that
counts in the standings as well as refining ex-ecution on both sides of the ball.
Charleston Southern runs mostly a spread-
option option, and the Gators' defense is pre-
paring to see something similar to the offense
it plays against every day in practice.
"We're not taking them lightly by any
means," receiver David Nelson said. "We're
going into this week as we
would any other week."
As far the Bucs are con-
cerned, the Gators have
already helped them out.
Mills said UF's decision to
put Charleston Southern
on its schedule encouraged
Meyer other major programs to
schedule the Bucs. Charles-
ton Southern will receive $450,000 for play-
ing Florida on Saturday.
"Thanks to the University of Florida for
giving us this opportunity. We'll be forever
indebted," Mills said. "We're excited about
the additional exposure that the football team
has received. We know that the 90,000 in at-
tendance for this game is going to be unlike
anything we've ever seen before.Br
