~the Vnu the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 70 We Inform. You Decide.-0I72\
Rey
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2009
Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator Staff
Turlington Page-Turner
While waiting for her Plants, Health and Spirituality class to start, 19-year-old Laura
Hundersmarck, an anthropology and Portuguese major, reads the Alligator outside of
Turlington Hall on Wednesday afternoon.
ON CAMPUS
Teachers, friends remember
telecom student as 'fighter'
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
Samantha Grosse was a curious, motivated
student.
The UF telecommunications student worked
in the WRUF newsroom for class. She liked inter-
national politics, loved animals and was in Alpha
Omicron Pi sorority.
She didn't like to use her disease as an ex-
cuse.
That's why she didn't tell Tom Krynski, the
news director of WRUF-AM and WRUF-FM, that
she had cystic fibrosis until she started missing
classes and shifts at the station.
"She didn't want that to slow her down," he
said.
However, on Monday, Samantha succumbed
to her disease, which affected her lungs and di-
gestive system."I don't think she had any obstacles.
She just did what she wanted to do."
Christine Eschenfelder
WUFT news assignment manager
Carlos Torres, who taught Samantha's Radio
1 class, said she possessed the qualities of a good
broadcast journalist, including an ability to work
as a team player and a willingness to help her
classmates, even if it meant staying after class.
"Whether she would have chosen to do on-air
or production, whether she would have chosen
to do news, sports or entertainment, she would
have excelled at it," Torres said.
Christine Eschenfelder, the WUFT news as-
signment manager, taught Samantha in her elec-
tronic news producing and management course.
Eschendfelder said Sam had a bubbly person-
SEE SAMANTHA, PAGE 4Local custodian
featured
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Melinda Augustus doesn't consider
herself a particularly trusting person,
but she opened her heart to the film-
makers who developed her story into
a documentary.
The film, "The Philosopher Kings,"
follows Augustus, 48, a custodian at
the Florida Museum of Natural His-
tory, and seven other custodians from
universities across the nation as they
tell their stories, showing audiences
that wisdom can come from more than
just textbooks and teachers.
Augustus traveled to New York
twice for screenings of the film, which
won or was nominated for awards at
10 film festivals. She said the chance to
travel to such a beautiful area and get
the red carpet treatment was amazing.
The Florida Museum of Natural
History will host a free screening of the
film for the public Feb. 16, said Kelly
Donovan, a communications specialist
at the museum.
Augustus, who lives in Alachua,
S~& p,in film
was approached during the summer
of 2008 to be part of the film after her
supervisor, Gloria Grant, suggested
her to filmmakers who came to UF
looking for potential participants. They
returned to film her later that summer
and spent a week shadowing Augus-
tus at work and traveling with her to
her childhood home and her mother's
grave. Director Pat-
rick Shen and pro-
ducer Greg Bennick
made her feel com-
fortable enough to
open up for the cam-
era about her experi-
ences, she said.
Augustus The hardest partof the filming process
for her was talking about her mother,
who died more than a decade after a
medical accident during the birth of
her 15th child left her comatose, she
said. Augustus was 9 years old.
"It's amazing how some things
you'll never get over ever in your
whole life," she said. "I'll always miss
SEE FILM, PAGE 5
~t l}L nv~
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
* For a story on
the upcoming film
based on the Alice
Sebold novel "The
Lovely Bones," in
select theaters
Dec. 11, see the
story in The Avenue,
Page 8.Today
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 13 Sunny
CROSSWORD 15 72/50
SPORTS 18
visit www.alligator.org0 Callie Rivers
(right) and the No.
14 UF volleyball
team will begin
NCAA Tournament
play with a first-
round match
against College of
Charleston in the
O'Dome tonight.
See Story, Page 18./li
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3,2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Hillel Hanukkah Extravaganza
Today, 7p.m.
2020 W. University Ave.
Celebrate Hanukkah by cooking
your own sufganiyot (jelly do-
nuts), making a menorah, play-
ing dreidel and participating in a
Hanukkah-themed charades game
and rap contest.
Sierra Club Program
"Tread Lightly"
Today, 7:30 p.m.
Entomology Building, Room 3118
David Bruderly will describe the
latest gas mileage achievements to
reduce energy consumption and
carbon footprints.
Wigilia Polish Holiday
Celebration
Saturday, 8:30 p.m.
Keene Faculty Center, Dauer Hall
Traditional Polish party with
games, singing, and fortune telling
sponsored by the Polish Student
Association, Student Government,
and the Center for European
Studies.
Floridance presents
"Winter Waltz"
Sunday, 8 p.m.
Phillips Center for Performing
Arts
The student-run dance company
will hold its fall showcase of dance
performances. This year's event is
raising awareness for and benefit-
ing Relay For Life. The event is free
and open to the public.
Gator Citrus Club Citrus Sale
Dec. 9 to Dec. 11, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Fifield Hall
The Gator Citrus Club will be
hosting its annual citrus sale.
Grapefruit, oranges and gift bas-
kets will be available for purchase.
For more information, please visit
the club's Web site at www.hos.ufl.
edu/citrusclub/.
Food for Thought
Dec. 10, 11 p.m. to 1 a.m.
Plaza of the Americas
Hosted by the Freshman
Leadership Council, food and fun
activities will be provided on the
Plaza of the Americas to help stu-
The 7 undisclosed,
unwelcome surprises
from cigarettes.
Come join us for a
"Quit Smoking Seminar"
January 13, 2010
6:00 -9:00 PM
Paul J. Schilling, M.D.
Radiation Oncologist,
William Irving, and Alexandra
Livingston, Registered Nurse
Oncology Certified
At the American Cancer
Society's Winn Dixie Hope Lodge,
2121 SW 16th St. Gainesville, FL
For SEATING Reservations,
Directions, please contact
Alexandra Livingston,
Registered Nurse
(352) 377-1027FORECAST
TODAY
SUNNY
72/50FRIDAY
RAIN
61/50
dents take a break from study-
ing.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this space?
Send an e-mail to bkelley@alliga-
tor.orgwith"What'sHappening"
in the subject line. Please include
a one- to two-sentence synopsis
of the event. Make sure all sub-
missions are formatted properly.
Space in this section is limited.SATURDAY
RAIN
61/43SUNDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
67/49MONDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
72/51a the Emdependent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 70 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Flonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Mana
Managing
Assist
Assist
alligator
Assis
t
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org
STILL WALKINGI 111 A beautiful, touching, critically acclaimed dramacinema set in Japan. Final night -6:15 & 8:45pm
Tickets and Information 352-375-HIPP I THEHIPP.ORGEditor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
ging Editor/ Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
g Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
ant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill,
astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Will Olsen, wo/sen@a//igator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
ant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@a//igator.org
Sports.org Editor Bobby Callovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Brian Kelley,
Jennifer Jenkins, Will Olsen
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
tant Photo Editor Matt Tripp mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
he Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@a//igator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry,
Emily Blake, Joe Holzer,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Sanika Dange,
Ashley Hemmy, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
George Pappas, Paul Runnestrand,
Jennifer Smith, Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligatororg
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Natasha Dykes,
Brittany Fayne, Joaquin Martinez,
Megan Meckstroth,
Samantha Owen, MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, e//ight@a//igator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
Assistant Bookkeeper Amanda Miller
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@a//igator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , PO Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
t I ~{%! ~'%
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Who has
d'best
holiday
treats for
d'figurE?
(SEr= nEXt pagE.)
The Perfect Gift Made Sime. Spa Rogale INSTANT
Online G rates.
Easg online appointments availab e angJtime gou wish!
11od Massage! paacials
www.sparoyaeI.net 352.333.5800 ac
Mention This Ad And Save 10% Otf Service of $50 Or More
Assessment
Treatment
School Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 | 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.com
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3,2009
Imrm u" 7n I
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Stompin' for
the Holidays!
Benefitting Toys for Tots
Thursday, Dec. 3
9pm-2am
*HolidayScavenger Hunt*
* Huge Holiday Raffle *
* Gateway Scooter Giveaway *
* Pictures with Santa *
Student Organization Competition.
$1,000prize!
Admission indudes
Food, Drinks, Covers,
Live Music, and Prizes!I
visit gatorstompin.com for details
Saturday
Come watch the Gators in the SEC Championship
& enjoy our food & drink specials
Go Gators!for o.tv voldocr%
:08 Seconds
Thursday! Night
College Night
* Ladies Drink FreE
-$110 Longnecks for Everyone
Friday
* $3 JaI-k amnd Jagqer
-$1 Longnecks
Saturda
-$2 Longnecks
-$4 U-Call-It
[MUo ik] DI~D [M 5 MEA MTDWDl[ (a Mf s[
[LmhQ fl=0imi l u]r-
Hil W. University Ave.Memorial will be held
Monday at AOPi house
SAMANTHA, from page 1
ality and was always smiling.
She would stay after class or come to Eschenfelder's office for
help when practicing her news writing and was both consider-
ate and outgoing, he said.
"I don't think she had any obstacles,"
Eschenfelder said. "She just did what she
wanted to do."
Sara Sanner, who lived with Samantha
for a year, said she also knew how to have
a good time. She and Samantha always had
people over to their poolside apartment at
the Estates, including football players she
Grosse met while living at Springs Residential Com-
plex.
Sanner said Samantha was a fighter who didn't let her dis-
ease stop her from having a good time or helping others.
"She wanted to, you know, be normal, as normal as she
could, and to encourage others who have the disease to do the
same," Sanner said.
A memorial for Samantha will be held Monday at 7:30 p.m.
at the Alpha Omicron Pi house.
ON CAMPUS
Smathers Library gets new look
By ERIN ROBERTS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Smathers Library just got a make-
over.
A ceremony was held Wednes-
day morning to recognize lobby ren-
ovations that began in August, said
Barbara Hood, George A. Smathers
Libraries spokeswoman.
The interior was painted, new
lighting was installed in the lobby,
and the woodwork was stripped and
restained, Hood said.
"It was described as looking like
a haunted house because of the dim
lighting in the lobby before the reno-
vation," Hood said.
The lobby now also features dis-
plays honoring George Smathers.
Bruce and John Smathers, sons of
the late George Smathers, were joined
by their wives along with Dean of
University Libraries Judith Russell to
cut an orange and blue ribbon at the
ceremony commemorating the im-
proved lobby and celebrating their
father's contributions.
A black-and-white photograph of
George Smathers and President Lyn-
don B. Johnson in the White House is
illuminated in one of the three display
cases dedicated to the philanthropist
within the lobby.
Other photographs, medals and
documents in the display cases alsohighlight contributions he made to UF
as a student and a benefactor and his
contributions state and nationwide as
a U.S. senator.
"As a research university, we
acquire materials for schol-
arship and research, and
we preserve the artifacts in
such a manner so anyone
can come in and use these
items for education."
Judith Russell
Dean of University Libraries
"Many of the libraries are adminis-
tered as George A. Smathers Libraries
as a system, but this rededicates the
renovations that were made due to
his contributions," Russell said. "The
bronze plaque outside, the portrait of
Sen. Smathers, artifacts, documents
and overall appearance of the lobby is
a much more appropriate dedication
to Sen. Smathers."
Hood said rare photographs,
books, artifacts and documents that
are also showcased in the lobby were
chosen from the special and area study
collections like Asian and Africana
studies, The Price Library of Judaica
and the Latin American Collection,
which are housed within the library."As a research university, we ac-
quire materials for scholarship and re-
search, and we preserve the artifacts
in such a manner so anyone can come
in and use these items for education,"
Russell said. "You want people to
come and feel like these materials are
open to you."
The improvement of the lobby is
expected to lead to more progress and
renovations within Smathers Library
as well as throughout the campus
to meet the educational needs of the
students, the public and scholars and
researchers around the world.
Plans are being made for the
renovation of the Special Collections
Research Room on the second floor
of Smathers Library to increase the
amount of space in the study area and
overall usefulness of the room.
Bruce Smathers said in order for
UF to be ranked nationally in the top
10 universities, it is necessary to pro-
vide top 10 research libraries to the
students.
"Everyone wants to contribute to
the athletic program, but my father
recognized that this is the future of the
University of Florida as an academic
institution, which greatly depends on
the school, but really on an excellent
library system," Bruce Smathers said.
"Education is everybody's birthright,
and hopefully UF will become one of
the top 10 universities in the coun-
try."
DANCE ALIVg
NA I ON AL BAL LI T
N d
NUTCRACKER
Dec.17&18at 7:30PM and Dec.19&20 at 2PM
Sponsored by ShAndsHavkhCare
Chocolate & Champagne Holiday Gala
December 19 at8pm
Sugar Plum Tea
December19 & 20 at 4PM
SponsoedSa LIinch", Lloyd & Saiwmeik
Mommy & Me On Stage
December16 at 5PM
Sposored by M&sSBauA
Aflf andevennts at the Philips Ceterforthe PrfodgAts
Dance ive National Ballet 352-371-2986 / www.dancealivs.org
at35 392-2787, Ticketmaster outlets & Phillips Center Box 1OiCV
DANB is funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 by the
Endowment for the Arts, a federal agency In partnership with the Florida Departme
GAIN ?VILLE Division of Cultural Affairs and the Florida Council on Arts ano
VISITGAINVLLE 0
TARGET AT
------------------------------------------
JUST FOR GATORS!
Its graduation and you don't know what to do with your family! Here is a fun entertaining
thing to do with the whole family- plus let your family know that you're a Gator with culture!
Take younger sister or brother to the TEA and PERFORMANCE. Then you and your parents
take in the CHAMPAGNE GALA and PARTY! Use the coupon below to save $
$5 Discount Coupon Good for 4 tickets to Nutcracker Performance
Exchange ONLY at Phillips Center Box Officer -- 1D'ItES 
-E Y E calorically affordablE
EXAMS E
f l A, Corner of
NW 13th St.
& 39th Ave.
Near Publix BUY ONE, GET ONE FREE
Regular cup or cone with this ad.
Expires 12/24
I4216 NE 16th Blvd. 5218 SW 34th St.
375-4484 378-2969(352)375-6133 M-T 11 a-9p, F-Sa 11 a-1Op, Su 12-9p
Spring 2010
Reach over 60,000 UF & SFC
students returning to school
Run Date:Tuesday, January 5, 2010
Deadline: Friday, December I I, 2009
Save 10% on your advertisement in our
Welcome Back Edition! Just reserve and
pay for your advertisement by
Wednesday, 12/09/09.
",JTHURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Film will have local
showing in February
FILM, from page 1
MY mom.
The documentary became a platform for her to begin
the healing process by finally talking about what hap-
pened to her mother.
"As a child, it's like a quietness -unspoken," she said.
"I realize now that I have to talk about what's inside of me
because if you hold onto it and it's never expressed, you
carry that with you your whole life."
Augustus said she's not the type of person to sit behind
a desk all day, and she loves her job at the museum because
it keeps her on her toes. She enjoys seeing
National new faces every day as visitors come to see
News the exhibits.She works a second job in the afternoon
at a daycare center, and before taking a job
at the museum in 2004, she ran her own daycare for 18
years. Sometimes she even sees children from her previ-
ous daycare business at the museum. She loves working
with children because they are nonjudgmental and love
unconditionally, she said.
When she thinks back on her involvement with the film,
Augustus said she remembers how friendly and reassur-
ing Shen and Bennick were toward her. She still keeps in
touch with them, as well as with several of the other custo-
dians from the film.
Augustus, who first thought the film was just a college
student project before realizing it was a much bigger un-
dertaking, said she is proud of the film and that making it
was ultimately a refreshing experience.
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3,2009
Editorial
Indian Burn
American Indians need
health care reform
he health care system that American Indians rely on is a
patchwork of half measures and empty promises.
President Obama outlined many of the problems in
a speech last month, stating that "Native Americans die of ill-
nesses like tuberculosis, alcoholism, diabetes, pneumonia and
influenza at far higher rates" than other Americans. According
to The New York Times, diabetes causes three times as many
deaths among American Indians than others, and alcohol ac-
counts for up to five times as many deaths.
Much of this can be explained by the fact that American In-
dians face a shortage of doctors near reservations, inadequate
medical equipment and hospitals that are miles of dirt and
gravel road away.
But worst of all may be the issue of rationing. With limit-
ed federal dollars and little tribal revenue, members of some
American Indian tribes wait months or even years for critical
treatment.
At one reservation, home to 15,000 Apaches, there is a back-
log of patients waiting for treatment that sometimes stretches
into the hundreds. Overburdened doctors often add 10 addi-
tional patients a month to wait lists.
And these procedures are by no means minor. A Navajo
man waiting for brain surgery in New Mexico suffered seizures
while driving and nearly died when he passed out after leaving
the stove on. Because his seizures and headaches (caused by a
shifting metal plate in his head from a childhood injury) were
not "life threatening," it was the back of the line for him.
Even women who find lumps in their breast or otherwise
suspect a problem can face wait times of months to see special-
ists. This has lead to breast cancer deaths that may have been
preventable.
So when lawmakers included provisions to improve this
failing system with the health care overhaul, conservatives op-
posed the expanded benefits and special exemptions granted to
American Indians.
Sen. Tom Coburn, R -Okla., argues that by exempting Indi-
ans from purchasing insurance, premiums will rise for insured
people and further stress the American Indian health care sys-
tem.
But with insurers that avoid or provide very limited cover-
age to American Indian territories, and with a full quarter of
the American Indian population in poverty, exemptions make
sense. At the very least they should not be used as an excuse to
delay much needed improvements to the health care system for
American Indians.
Conservatives also argue that because 1.9 million American
Indians (of roughly 3 million total) already receive free health
care through the Indian Health Service, additional spending is
unnecessary.
Free health care is all well and good, but what's the point
when you have to wait months or years to receive it?
Isn't this the kind of rationing that conservatives have been
claiming to fight for years? They need not look to Canada for
a "horror story" to justify their position -there's one in our
backyard. One that they choose to ignore.
It's called Indian Country.
The notion that the free market -private insurance -will
solve this problem is clearly a flawed one. The free market
chooses to avoid these "high risk" populations. But the status
quo obviously will not work. So what is the solution?
Comprehensive reform.
American Indians, along with the rest of the American peo-
ple, need a fundamentally different health care system. More
doctors and a greater emphasis on preventative care go hand-
in-hand with broader health care coverage.
Because this case proves that you can't go halfway with
health care reform.
a ll te independent forida
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORSWill Olsen
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names wiii be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Ay , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
Gainesvi Iie, FL 32604-2257oi umns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Oaii 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/opinions
S S 0'
Vopy ri ted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providersasvoo
Column
Tiger's choice of m
rue to his reputation as the hardest-hitting driver
on the PGA Tour, Tiger Woods spent the majority
of his Thanksgiving holiday entering a world of
pain. The grimy details that are now oozing out of the
celebrity guerrilla media sleaze machine only amplify
the deliciousness of this sordid Tiger tale.
Tiger and the other residents of Isleworth Country
Club live in palatial houses that start at $2 million, but
it is refreshing to see that nobody in this exclusive en-
clave has decided it would be a good idea to talk to the
popo. Snitches get stitches, no matter if you live in Sec-
tion 8 housing or on a snobbish golf course. Tiger "Stop
Snitchin" Woods usually stays far away from political
endorsements or social issues, so it is good to see him
take a firm stand against assisting law enforcement of-
ficers. Everybody finds their voice sometime in their
lives.
The worthless public relations vomit slopped down
in front of us by the more established news outlets
would be insulting if it weren't so comical. Tiger's hot
Viking nursemaid of a wife was saving his life when
she smashed his SUV with a golf club in the wee hours
of the night, as the official pablum read last week. Hon-
estly, I can hardly think of a better way to get someone
out from behind the wheel than to smash out the back
windows with a golf club.
With the staid news outlets sucking at the teat of out-
right lies and the rich neighbors making like a bunch of
defiant dope boys, once again it was up to the Al-Qaida
tactics of loosely-coordinated but ideologically similar
celebrity news organizations to get the grubby facts
about Tiger straightened out.
The saddest part of this whole ordeal is the revela-istress was subpar
tion in US Weekly that Tiger was
not only cheating on the Viking
nursemaid with a skanky "cock-
tail waitress" but that said "cock-
tail waitress" was on the televi-
sion show "Tool Academy." I use
Tommy Maple quotes around the term "cocktail
letters@alligator org waitress" because it is code for
"stripper who can't dance."
For those of you who have not had the pleasure of
witnessing this masterpiece, after filming the first epi-
sode, "Tool Academy" instantly rocketed into the pan-
theon of Greatest Achievements in American History
along with the Apollo space missions and Pixy Stix. The
show is a transcendent experience, and like fine wine, it
only gets better with age.
Obviously, my problem lies not with the show itself
but with the fact that the world's first billion-dollar
athlete is sopping up sloppy seconds from a guy who
willingly identifies himself before a national audience
as "Loud Mouth Tool."
Tiger lost his Teflon coating this Thanksgiving week-
end, but his mansions and money can surely salve most
of his wounds. The stench of infidelity may be harder to
wash off the formerly squeaky-clean pitchman -espe-
cially the "Tool Academy" love hexagon he has dragged
his wife into -but America loves to build people back
up after mercilessly tearing them down. Good thing
Oprah is gonna be around for a couple more years, be-
cause Tiger may need a seat on her comfy couch some-
time soon.
Tommy Maple is a graduate student in international
communications. His column appears on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Have you ever The results of Monday's poll
watched 'Tool Academy'? question are unavailable due to
technical error.
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
Bible shouldn't be followed selectively
Thank God for the Bible.
I just want to thank Shaelyn McDaniel for
enlightening everyone on the teachings of Je-
sus Christ. It is so nice to hear someone spread
the word of Jesus to others, letting them know
that their lifestyles are abominations, just like
wearing clothing with two types of material is
an abomination (Leviticus 19:19). And I hate
it when people "cut the hair at the sides of
your head or clip off the edges of your beard."
Didn't they read Leviticus 19:27?
Thank you so much, Ms. McDaniel, for
shaming these wicked, wicked homosexuals
and people who are pro-choice. How dare
they fall in love with someone, or decide what
is best for their bodies? I'm just glad the Bible
is so certain and proven and doesn't reside in
the fiction section of Barnes & Noble.
Nicholas Smith
UF3LS
Christians should preach love, not hate
This is in response to Shaelyn McDaniel's
letter, "Author misinterprets the Bible's mes-
sage."
The notion that Christians pretend that
God's love is conditional and that he only
loves you if you fit some type of "normal life-
style" is insane. If this were true, then no one
would fit the definition of a Christian.
Gay people are murdered, denied equal
rights, denied housing, employment and talk-
ed about as if homosexuality were some kind
of disease that they could "fix" if they were
"true" Christians. This is a dangerous men-
tality and message that Christians hold. Gay
people suffer while self-righteous Christiansset impossible standards and hide behind
the Bible. I think that some Christians forget
that only God is infallible. People need to stop
preaching hate and start preaching love and
acceptance of all people.
Nichole Newcome
UF animal biology senior
HINI vaccinations went smoothly
I would like to commend the UF Student
Health Care Center for a very organized HINI
flu shot procedure. The online sign-up system
was very easy to find and use. I printed out the
forms and had them with me. A tent was set
up outside, and it took me exactly 30 seconds
to check in. Arrows clearly directed me to the
correct location in the infirmary, and the entire
vaccination procedure took less than 5 min-
utes. Kudos to the staff who organized what
could have been a madhouse with long lines
into a very streamlined program.
GinnySwitt
UF alumna and OPS staff admissions
* U U
Drivers should consider feelings of fans
when making bad decisions
A notice to the University Athletic Associa-
tion:
I hereby appoint myself the official desig-
nated driver of the UF football team. Players
can go out and get hammered during the week
of the most important game of the season. It's
okay. I will be on call, prepared to offer a ride
to any player in need of my service.
The game against Alabama may not mat-
ter that much to the players, but it certainlydoes to me. I will be happy t
sleep schedule for the duration
UF to ensure that the players r
for games. My services will e
chauffeuring. I will also throw
of any player targeted by an
help work out late-night confli
wich shop employees, and reti
impound lot the cars of playe
I am fed up with these studen
jeopardize their careers and pla
Should they continue to misbe
ers may lose scholarships or pc
sional suitors, but I stand to 1
pride in my team.
Please, UF football players:
in need.
U.S. should withdraw from Af
The decision to send an ad
troops to Afghanistan is irresp
part of the administration I help
er. Granted, President Obam
during the campaign that he w
on Afghanistan because it was
war during the Bush administr
doesn't make this a correct deci
There's a point often made a
stan that it is the deathbed of
British failed, the Soviets failed
too, will fail. It is a modern-day
We have helped put in a c
now backed by our govern
people aren't happy about it
wouldn't have previously been
are now changing their minds a]THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
o sacrifice my try. The area is now a breeding ground for an-
of my time at ti-American mentalities, but only because we
emain eligible made it that way.
xtend beyond The only responsible thing to do at this
myself in front point is to pull out of Afghanistan. Did Lyn-
officer's Taser, don B. Johnson and Richard Nixon make good
cts with sand- decisions when they increased the troops to
rieve from the Vietnam against the will of the people in both
rs' girlfriends. the United States and Vietnam? No, and his-
athletes who tory shows that we should never have been in
ying eligibility. Vietnam. It's amazing how much the Ameri-
have, the play- can people know and how little the govern-
)tential profes- ment listens to them in times of war.
ose more: my I just read that the surge will cost about $30
billion during the first year alone. Wouldn't
Call me when that money be much better off given back to
the people of this country, from the lower class
Lars Rodriguez to the middle class, and pumped back into the
UF3LS economy?
Only time will tell whether this surge will
work in the end. Personally, I don't think it
will, because military presence in the country
ghanistan has failed time and time again. All the signs
ditional 30,000 of history are pointing toward the option that
onsible on the isn't talked about -pulling out of Afghani-
ed put in pow- stan. The area will most likely crumble, but the
always said area will probably crumble after we leave any-
anted to focus way. At least we can save countless American
the forgotten and Afghani lives in the process.
ation, but that I have supported President Obama in ev-
sion. erything he has done or has tried to do so far.
bout Afghani- I found little fault in what he said on the cam-
empires. The paign, and I was ecstatic when, in the small
and now we, hours of the morning in November of 2008, I
Vietnam. was a part of history. But I have to differ with
corrupt regime, him in this decision. I will continue to support
mient, and the him, but I think he has made a huge mistake
.People who with this surge. I just hope I'm proven wrong.
anti-American Paul Murty
bout our coun- UF English sophomore
, a
Hoop it Up
WIN TICKETS!
Lower Level Sideline seats
6 WINNERS!
December 19, 2009 1 BankAtlantic Center I Sunrise, FL
ENTER TO WIN: www.alligator.org/app/orangebowl
GPAD BASH 2009
Decemer feEMerson AIumni Hall
1938 W. (Jniversity6PM-8pm Ae
-FOOD catered by Gators DocKside
-ENTERTAINMENT by KI15 205.3
-PRIZE giveaways
-Pictures with ALBERT 4 ALBERTA
-DICOUNT rate to join the Alumni
Association
**Bring your Gator ID to join the celebration!
theAvenue thursday, december 3, 2009
'Lovely Bones' shows realm between life and death
By MARY MANCHESS
avenue writer
Saoirse Ronan isn't like her
peers. She doesn't have a fragrance
or clothing line, and she isn't among
the teeny bopper, triple-threat, over-
night sensations that Disney pro-
duces.
"I'll leave Miley Cyrus to that," the
Irish actress said in a telephone con-
ference call that The Avenue partici-
pated in on Oct. 15. "I don't think I'm
really that kind of actor."
And she definitely isn't. Ronan
was nominated for an Academy
Award at the age of 12 for her role
as Briony Tallis in "Atonement." And
now at age 15, rumors of a second
nomination are up in the air for her
role as Susie Salmon in the upcom-
ing film, "The Lovely Bones," based
on the best-selling novel by AliceSebold.
The film is scheduled for limited
release on Dec. 11. It will be official-
ly released on Jan. 11.
The plot centers on Ronan's
character, 14-year-old Susie, who is
brutally murdered and watches her
family deal with the aftermath of her
death from the in-between. In order
to move onto the afterlife she must
accept her death, which is conflicted
by the vengeance she feels toward
her murderer and the desire to have
her family heal from her devastating
death.
Prior to filming, Ronan decided
not to read the book because at the
time she was only 13 years old.
"The book is little bit more visual
and a bit more violent than the film,
so itjust made sense," she said. "But
I read the book this year for the first
time, and I absolutely loved it, andI think because I had been through
the whole experience of making the
movie and living through the story, I
think that helps me to really connect
with the book."
In the book there is a very graphic
rape scene that lasts for about two
pages. Ronan said that this scene
is not featured in the film, but she
doesn't think it dras-
New tically changes the
overall synopsis.
"It can make
people uncomfort-
able, and it can make people too
disturbed," she said. "And I find that
if they do it the way that we did in
'The Lovely Bones,' which was a
very tasteful way to do it, I think, is
to just leave it up to the audience's
imagination, and let them think of it
for themselves, sometimes that can
even be stronger."With a star-studded cast that in-
cludes Mark Wahlberg, Susan Saran-
don, Rachel Weisz and director Peter
Jackson, there are high expectations
looming by bloggers and film critics.
While Ronan sees it as a privilege
to work with such high-profile people
in the business, she said she has
never felt intimidated but always re-
spected.
"I've never really been starstruck;
I've never been speechless or any-
thing like that. I don'tthink I could do
that anyway, I'm Irish," she said. "I
usually get very excited when I meet
people around my own age, whether
they're well-known or not."
Excited and cheerful are charac-
teristics of the actress outside of her
dark characters.
"I'm not particularly attracted to
dark roles. I suppose with 'Atone-
ment' and 'The Lovely Bones' it justkind of worked out that way," she
said. "But I love the depth to them.
I love just their thinking process,
especially with 'Atonement.' And it
just, you know, it takes a lot of think-
ing to really understand those kinds
of characters. There's a lot of parts
now where it's very easy to just be
the happy girl, and you know, there
are some great characters at the mo-
ment who are more than that, and
who are also very uplifting, like Susie
Salmon."
Ronan said she has also been
looking at scripts that are comedic
and a little bit more light-hearted.
But she doesn't think that Susie
Salmon's real story is dark.
She said, "I think that the mes-
sage of this movie, although it
may not seem like it to people who
haven't seen it yet, is ultimately hope
and how you get there."
Mark Wahlberg (who plays Jack Salmon) and Saoirse Ronan ( who plays Susie Salmon) in the upcoming film "The Lovely Bones." Ronan plays the role of a
young girl who is murdered and watches from heaven as her family tries to track down her killer. The movie will be released Dec. 11.
PG 11: Column about crushing the spirit of Christ-
mas and a review of the Gainesville Local Art
Mart
PG 12: Q + A with indie band Cursive
ONLINE: Check out a list of easy Florida romantic
getaways at www.alligator.org/avenueSEX: The benefits of tech-
nology, page 12
FASHION: The Avenue
speaks with the founders
of Rent the Runway, page
9A-LIST |COMING UP
Looking for quick gift ideas? The fifth
season of Lost comes out on DVD Tues-
day. You could also pick up Taylor Swift's
new Holiday Collection EP with Christmas
favorites. And if you still can't find a gift
for someone, there is always Starbucks.Don't be sad this is the
last Avenue of fall.
We'll be back in the
spring with more stories
on all of your enter-
tainment favorites.THIS WEEK: -1 REGULARS
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2009 +ALLIGATOR, 9
Runway offers alternative to buying designer clothing
By TAWNA SOELDNER-DANGER
avenue contributing writer
Even with a closet full of clothes,
many women suffer from the age-old
complaint: I don't have anything to
wear.
Two recent Harvard Business
School graduates aided the timeless
plight by creating Renttherunway.
com, a Web site that allows women to
rent high-end dresses for one-tenth of
what they cost.
For most women, the luxury of
walking into a retail store and pur-
chasing dresses from designers like
Roberto Cavalli, Herv6 L6ger and
Catherine Malandrino is, and prob-
ably always will be, a dream. But
Renttherunway.com makes dreams a
reality for women working on a bud-
get with rentals ranging from $50 to
$200 for a four-night loan.
The Web site makes renting a
dress as easy as ordering a textbook.
Customers browse the vast selec-
tion of designers, schedule a delivery
date and the dress arrives the next
day. Just to be safe, included withthe dress is a second back-up size, a
custom garment bag and a fit kit, in-
cluding double-sided tape, bra strap
adjusters and deodorant stain remov-
ers. If the customer isn't sure what
style she will be feeling that evening,
for an additional $25, she can rent a
back-up dress.
After a night of looking fabulous,
the customer places the dress in pre-
paid packaging and drops it in the
mail for a no-hassle return. Dry clean-
ing is included in the initial price, but
a $5 insurance fee covers most ward-
robe mishaps, like a missing button,
broken zipper or slight stain. If the
dress is returned in complete disar-
ray, the renter is responsible for the
full retail price.
Jenna Rush, a UF advertising se-
nior, stumbled upon Renttherunway.
com on a Twitter feed from Glamour.
com earlier this semester.
"I was instantly intrigued," she
said. "The clothes are incredible, and
the prices are reasonable, even for a
college student like me."
With Christmas partiesjust around
the corner, winter weddings on the"Some girls may resist
branching into new designers
and styles, but our stylists walk
you through the process. They
help you find the pezrfzet dre
for your body type."
Jennifer Carter Fleiss
co-founder
mind and formals galore, Rush said
Renttherunway.com is just what any
recessionista needs to survive the
holiday season.
The Web site also offers a hotline
with stylists available to help with fit-
tings.
"They offer girls reassurance," co-
founder Jennifer Carter Fleiss said.
"Some girls may resist branching into
new designers and styles, but our
stylists walk you through the process.
They help you find the perfect dress
for your body type."
Rush is one of Renttherunway
com's founding members. With the
Web site being invitation-only, Rush
had to request to be part of the exclu-sive service. Now, more than 65,000
people are members, and 20,000
people are on the waitlist. Members
receive e-mail updates of new dress
arrivals and special discounts.
For New Year's Eve, Rush plans
to rent a chic one-shoulder sequin
Alice and Olivia cocktail dress that
she said she wouldn't normally be
able to afford. Co-founder Jennifer
Hyman brainstormed the idea during
a trip home to New York City. Hyman's
younger and incredibly fashionable
sister Becky was stumped on what
to wear to a wedding. She hunted
through her closet but found nothing
that inspired her. Becky's meek sala-
ry as an accessories buyer for Bloom-
ingdale's made the idea of purchas-
ing a designer piece unrealistic.
"She felt guilty about buyingsome-
thing new, didn't want to borrow from
a friend and wished there was a way
to rent a dress that would have got-
ten her excited for the event," Carter
Fleiss said.
Back at school, the Hymans and
Carter Fleiss created many business
plans and held a meeting with Diane
A00F0D
11111 ......Butler Plaza Newberr Square(Mot 40m-7em Reada -6 Tts a NtNbe ere Rm K NH
335-1232 332-3937
HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShieldfk'Ef)of Florida11 %Fo rm Nonbe L8 nsf9thU 373-0775
BDIV u3eCrossand BlueShield Ass.tion
Form Number: 18533-599SU 3669 S.W. 2nd AvenueVon Furstenberg in hopes of getting
Renttherunway.com off the ground.
After speakingto more than 1,000
women, Fleiss said that women's wor-
ries evolved into Rent the Runway.
"The Web site gives women the
access to the Carrie Bradshaw club,"
she said. "Girls get to dress up and
have fun with fashion. They don't
have to go to Forever2l or H & M and
get the knock-off. It's the best way
for designers to get real girls in their
clothing."
The co-founders plan to launch ac-
cessories in the spring. Carter Fleiss
said it will show women how to dress
up or down any of the items featured.
They also plan to dabble into profit
sharing with the designers, brides-
maid's products and eventually be-
come international.
"Renttherunway.com is great
for girls who are conscious of cost,"
Carter Fleiss said. "It gives girls who
never had the opportunity to wear de-
signers like Just Cavalli, to test outthe
hot red dress and if she has a great
experience in it she'll want to go out
and buy it."
Habitat
We've got everything you need
to furnish your new place.
Great prices!
$25 Delivery!
373-5728 23 I7 SW I3th St.
Help provide local
students in need
with free
educational materials
and supplies!
Donate items
that you
no longer
use:
spiral
notebooks,
art supplies,
folders, pencils,
notebook paper,
highlighters, and morel
TOOLSFOR
SCHOa2LS
For more information:
www.toolsforschools.lchua.fI.us
352-374-5213Victor Lemonte Wooten,
Future Man and Jeff Coffin
PIJs tA n l P0t(s 
.
Please use trash cans and clean up spills in libraries that allow food.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2009 +ALLIGATOR, 11
Cafe Gardens
For over a third of a century,
the Original World Famous Cafe
Gardens has been serving Gators
with delicious food and a large
selection of beers and wines.
Located just across from campus
near the Florida Book Store, this
quaint landmark establishment
with award winning courtyard
dining is perfect for any date
or gathering. For live music
schedule, call 376-2233. Hours:
Mon-Wed 11am-10pm, Thurs-Sat
11am-llpm, Sun Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave
Gator Dawgs
We have 26 styles of hot dogs
to choose from. Chicago, Heart
attack, Frito, Colombia, etc. Even
create your own. Our burgers
are prepared daily and cooked to
order. Our fresh deli sandwiches
come with over 1/4 lb of meat.
Check out our full menu at
GatorDawgs.com. Several
delicious vegetarian & vegan
options. We are located at 1023
W University Ave.
378-4353
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and Stacks.
The only way to describe the
Stack is that is outrageously
delicious! Its uniquely different
presentation- three 6 inch flour
tortillas stacked high with fresh
grilled ingredients and just
the right accent of cheese- is
strangely inviting to one's palate.
Come out & try our 1/3 lb
Burgers, steak seasoned Panchos,
& Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the Home Grown and
Homemade Black Bean Hummus!
Now serving draft and Red Stripe
beers! We deliver! Open late to
serve your late night cravings!
Sun-Wed: I1Iam-3am. Thurs-
Sat: IIam-4am. 34th St Plaza
(Sweetbay)@ 2124 SW 34th St
672-6111
www.jdoobies.com
Peach Valley Cafe
Experience the freshness in
everything we do. Open daily
from 7a.m. to 8p.m. We have a
full menu ranging from Orchard
fresh Apple Fritters to fried
artichokes and Lobster bites.
Breakfast is served all day here
at Peach Valley Cafe including
Gainesville's best fresh Omelets
and Benedicts; mouth watering
Sausage Gravy and Biscuits,
and yes, Mammoth Pancakes
and waffles. Lunch and dinner
are also available any time
with bountiful salads, fresh
sandwiches, Pot Roast and don't
forget to ask your server about
our shrimp-n-grits (wonderful).
We are located at 3275 SW 34th
Street directly behind Hooter's
(352) 376-1834.IDI
Liquid Ginger Asian
Grille & Teahouse
101 SE 2nd Pl. (Behind
Hippodrome Theater Downtown)
Offering Asian Fusion Cuisine in
a relaxing atmosphere.
Wed and Thurs night $5 martinis.
Open for lunch: Mon-Fri 11:30-
2:30 Sun 12-5 and dinner Sun-
Thurs 5-10pm Fri-Sat 5-10:30pm
Call 371-2323 for a reservation.
David's BBQ
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, Eat in,
Takeout, Drive-thru, Catering,
or Tailgaiting. Everyone loves
David's BBQ because, unlike or-
dinary BBQ places, David's cooks
over a real wood fire! Eat where
the locals eat! Voted #1 BBQ in
Gainesville! Approved caterer
for UF's Emerson Alumni Hall.
Mon-Sat 7am -9pm. Sundays
open at 8am. Drive Thru until
9:30pm 7 days! 352-373-2002.
Have David's BBQ delivered by
Gatorfood.com. FREE WIFI. 5121
NW 39th Ave
www.davidsBBQ.com
Bagels Unlimited
Serving Gainesville for over 25
years. BU is a tradition of sorts.
We offer many breakfast platters
cooked fresh, featuring omelettes,
eggs any style, large pancakes,
French Toast, Knishes, 17 varieties
of bagels and avlargeassortment
of spreads. Also available are tofu
and tempeh. Over 100 bottles
of hot sauces are available for
sampling.
1222 West University Ave.
Open everyday from 6:30am-3pm.
Donut Connection
Breakfast sandwiches, bagels w/
cream cheese, fritters, cinn rolls,
and 30 varieties of donuts.
Coffee by the lb. Best coffee in
town. Enjoy our outdoor tables.
Open every day Sa-8p 375-0376
5205 NW 39th Ave, Timber
Village. Wholesale prices available.
Golden Buddha
Where eating well means eating
healthy.Gainesville's best Chinese
food. Now with more sizes
available with more vegan options.NI
N
As always, generous portions,
fast service & super lunch/dinner
combos. FREE DELIVERY.
613 NW 16th Ave. 372-4282 or
380-9076. Full menu and specials
@ GoldenBuddhaSpecial.com
The Yearling
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog legs,
and alligator, as well as USDA
Prime beef, seafood, grits, greens
& hush puppies. Open Thursday &
Friday 5pm-10pm, Saturday 12pm-
10pm & Sunday 12pm-8:30pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999
www.theyearlingrestaurant.com
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban, Italian,
and Mexican Cuisine. New menu
items prepared daily! Come try
our famous Cuban sandwiches
and slow roasted pork. We cater 7
days a week! Visit us in the Tower
Square 2 miles from Butler Plaza at
5729 SW 75th Street.
373-0301
MLites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-and
is the only low-calorie soft serve
with NO artificial sweeteners. We
rotate over 100 delicious creamy
flavors (see this week's at www.
gatordlites.com) that are diet-
friendly without the diet taste.
We also feature a whole array
of cookies, chips, and various
grocery treats that appeal to
Atkins®, Weight Watchers@, and
other dieters. Our every day daily
specials make shopping at D'Lites
a special value! Come weigh your
options at the Marketplace Plaza at
NW 16th Blvd. and 43rd St. (next
to the Hollywood Video) or at the
Shoppes of Williston at S.W. 34th
Street and Williston Rd. (next to
Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!
Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts, loose
leaf teas, and beer, with lots ofvegan options. Now open 24
hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
blocks east of campus at 1025 W.
University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve
frozen yogurt as a healthy dessert
alternative. Our yogurt has 0%
fat and contains live and active
cultures. Choose any combination
of 8 different flavors and over 30
toppings. Everything for just 45
cents an ounce. 3841 SW Archer
Rd (next to Bento Red) Open from
noon to midnight daily!
TCBY
Please visit one of our 3 locations
to enjoy real frozen yogurt
products. Our low calorie and
low-fat soft serve is yourdhealthiest
choice in Gainesville, and it
tastes great too. Waffle Cone
Wednesday from 5-8p.m. and half-
off smoothies from 5-6p.m. every
day! Locations at 34th Street next
to Crispers, Thornebrook Village
at 43rd Street and Town of Tioga.
Find us one Facebook and follow
us on Twitter at "TCBYgainesville"
Yogaberry
OPEN LATE-ACROSS FROM THE
UNIVERSITY IN TARGET COPY!
Come build your healthy treat at
Yogaberry! Our yogurt is 100%
fat free and the only yogurt that
is made with real organic milk.
Choose from an array of fresh
fruit toppings cut daily, candies
and fun cereal. New flavors for
you to try daily, and always free
samples! In addition, we have
the finest organic, free-trade
coffee. Our coffee bar features
lattes, cappuccino's, espresso,
cuban coffee's, yoga mocha's and
much more.
Let's Eat Diner
The best kept secret inGainesville,
Let's Eat Diner is a small diner
just off the beaten path on 39 Ave
at NW 22 Dr. Open Mon-Sat 7am
till 8pm serving breakfast, lunch,
and supper and Sunday 11am
till 2pm with a lunch buffet. We
serve home style cookin'. "Just
like Momma used to fix." 352-
378-0738 www.letseatdiner.com
Oh yeah, we also do catering!Green Mango
The best Indian food in
Gainesville. Serving Gai
since 1991. The best Sa
in Florida. Offering man
dishes. We are specialize
catering any group size
available-free delivery o
purchase over $25! Ope
Mon-Sat 11:30am-9pm,
1pm-8pm. Call 352-505
7625 W Newberry Rd
Luca's Pasta
Customize your own pa
100 combinations, start
$2.99! Choose your pas
& topping. All made fre
Vegan & Gluten-free op
Open Mon-Sat 11-9. De
take out/dine in. See m
www.lucaspasta.com.
607 W. University Ave.
352-338-1700
Manuel's Vintage
This family owned rest
is perfect for dinner any
the week. Come in and
out one of the best win
town. Ask questions an
while you wait for the c
out nothing but goodne
the kitchen using fresh,
and local ingredients. T
Early Dinner Sunday, T
Thursday 5-7pm. $3 wi
bottles. $10 Menu. Ask
Monday Wine Dinnersz
parties for lunch or dinr
South Main St. (352)37E
Caribbean Queei
Offering jerk chicken, cu
and oxtail. Opened Mon
Thurs Ilam-7:30pm, Fri
11am-11:45pm.
Located at 507 NW 5th
352-374-8111
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's
popular sushi joint. Enjo
Bento boxes, boba tea, s
bowls, and noodle bowl
trendy atmosphere. Two
locations with outside e
every day for carry-outc
Call our Newberry Rd. 1
at 377-8686 or our Arch
location at 224-5123.TD To
most
)y our
sashimi
s in a hip,
o great
eating. Open
or dine-in.
ocation
er Rd.week.
We cater. Check us out on
GatorFood.com 352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.comI IKilling Christmas spirit
By ERIK VOSS
avenue writer0the idepe.ndent floridaalligator
Cabana Cove
Key West Grille
Now offering a new bistro
nesville inspired menu.
mosas Open for lunch and dinner.
ny vegan Full martini and mojito bar.
ed in Voted nicest outdoor dining.
Delivery COUPON -DATE NIGHT -COUPON
rn any Choose 1 appetizer, 2 entrees, a
n 7 days bottle of wine, and share a slice of
Sunday Key Lime Pie.
-6200. All for only $39.99 (expires
12/31/09)
2410 NW 43rd Street
Gainesville
352-377-3278ista. Over Please visit us online at
ing @ www.cabanacove.net for
ta, sauce, additional savings and coupons.
,sh & quick.
tions too. B nK
livery/
enu online The Olcim Cafe
Mouthwatering, healthy Kosher
cuisine at affordable prices!
Daily $10 All-You-Can-Eat
Dinner Specials. Mexican, Pan-
Room Asian, Italian, Mediterranean
aurant & American Deli! SUSHI night
day of every Wednesday at the low
check price of $10! NEW this semester-
e lists in Schwarma & Falafel Station!
d learn Fresh Salad Bar daily with over
hef to put 50 + items! Take-out available.
ss from Lunch Specials starting at $5
simple, 11:30-2:30 M-F. Dinner 5:30-8:30
ry the M-Th. Located inside the Hillel
uesday- building across from O'Dome. 202
nes/$10 W University Ave. 352-248-2606
about our www.theolamcafe.com
and private For event info:
ner. 6 www.myolamcafe.com
'5-7372
Green Plantoins
n Happy Hour $2.75
rry goat Drink + Appetizer from 3-7pm.
thru $5 To-Go Dinners. Mon-Sat from
and Sat 4pm. Don't miss out $4.95 dinner
+ soda on Thursday, student
Ave. night from 4pm-lOpm. Visit us at
5150 SW 34th Street at the new
Publix Shopping Center 7 days aTHE JONES
Gainesville's own independently
owned community restaurant
dedicated to bringing sustainable,
local, and organic food to the
table. Oh, and it's really yummy.
Herbivores, carnivores, & omni-
vores welcome! NOW SERVING
DINNER EVERY NIGHT! New
hours: open every day Sam-
10pm. Check out our facebook
page for specials and events. 401
NE 23rd Avenue. 352.373.6777
Mildred's Big City Food
Eat Gainesville's Best Food at
Mildred's. We support LOCAL
and SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh Dishes
Made From Scratch!
OPEN SUNDAYS!
CONVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371 1711
MildredsBigCityFood.com
New Deal Cafe
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local Beef
Burgers! This l2oz. Goliath
is Naturally Aged and Fresh
Ground. MONSTROUS Desserts.
HUGE Martinis. A Diamond in
the Ruff!
Mon-Thurs. 1 am-l0pm
Fri-Sat. 11am-i pin
371-4418
Located next door to Mildred's
Ti A mol
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine agrees,
"[the chef] adds visual flair to
every dish to make it as good-
looking as it is flavorful." NEW
Happy Hour Specials! Every day
from 4pm-7pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices & terrific
service.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.com
12 SE 2nd Ave. 378-6307
Boca Fiesta
Best Margaritas in Town!
Fresh-squeezed + all natural!
Tasty tacos, burritos, nachos!
Cheap beer, full bar, open late!
232 SE 1st St Downtown
336-TACO!Kickin Devil Cofe
Restaurant
Gainesville's newest treasure.
Locally owned restaurant with
great Cajun and Caribbean
vegetarian food! Enjoy jambalaya,
gumbo, French crepes, delicious
salads and much more! Groove
to a selection of eclectic music
while you settle in for an evening
of delicious food. Live music most
nights after dinner. It's 4 blocks
from Satchels in the industrial park,
2 blocks west of Sonnys. Five dollar
lunches, buy 2 get 1 free drinks,
4 course dinners for 2 for $29.95
Open Tues Sat 352 505 6660
Book your party here or let us
cater your event!
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads, pasta,
& desserts. All you can eat buffet
available! Outdoor dining. Visit
www.newyorkpizzaplus.com for
coupons. We Deliver!
490 NE 23rd Ave.
376-3444
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade, meals,
sandwiches, soups, home-baked
desserts. Brunch Weekends.
Specials: Cupcake Mon., Southern
Cooking Tues., Greek Wed 6pm,
Ethiopian Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 10am-8pm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
Saigon Legend
Delicious traditional Vietnamese
cuisine with popular Asian
favorites. Pho-Banh Xeo, Banh Tom
Ha-Woi. Enjoy great food at great
prices. Family owned restaurant.
Next to Holiday Inn. Vietnamese
subs-pork, chicken, & tofu. Dine-in
or take out. Catering available.
Mon-Sat 10:30am-9:30pm, Sun
11:30am-9pm
374-0934
1228 W Univ AveBy MARGARET GRECO
avenue writer
Things got weird almost imme-
diately at the Gainesville Local Art
Mart. Initially, I was distracted by
the smell and sight of people mak-
ing pizza inside the building, but it
quickly became clear that many
Gainesville residents make some
crazy crafts. If you ever wanted to
get some organic catnip (for just
$2!) or a few bedazzled felt Christ-
mas tree ornaments, this is defi-
nitely the right place.
I waded through a crowd of
young hipsters and older, more
conservative couples until I saw
something that caught my eye:
pregnant animal-themed art. The
idea of that sounds really creepy,
but in reality it was actually cute.
The artist, Juli Elin Toro, who is
going to have a baby in about two
weeks, said she started making
the prints because she wanted to
create art that related to her preg-
nancy.
Toro, 23, has never seen any
expecting rhinos, buffalos or
bears but said she "just kind of
made it up."
I made my way through the
maze of tables overflowing with
fishing lure key chains and bowls
of girly headbands before I once
againnencountered something I
had never seen before.
In the corner, I spotted severalpeople playing with sparkly mul-
ticolored hula hoops. This was
somewhat shocking. What was
even weirder was that these peo-
ple were notjust testingthem out,
they were actually buyingthem.
Later, I saw a table covered
with small cloth purses that
turned out to be reusable snack
and sandwich bags.
Juli Adams and Meg Pearce,
both 2008 UF graduates, started
Moja Creations online about 10
months ago on etsy.com, which
Adams described as "an eBay for
homemade items."
Although this is their first craft
show, the pair has sold more than
2,500 items online and has re-
ceived international orders from
Australia, CanadaFashion and Singapore.
The bags,
which come in kid-
friendly prints like dinosaurs and
other more adult patterns, are
popular among schoolchildren
and women who take their lunch
to work, Adams said.
Overall, the craft show didn't
really feel like a craft show. There
were no tacky Christmas sweat-
ers adorned with puffy paint
and appliques, but there was
creepyfound-object jewelry and a
yarn chandelier. The sale show-
cased the bizarre things hidden
in Gainesville that we sometimes
look over.6~b~
fm~i~f? ]10, ALLIGATOR * Thursday, december 3, 2009
When my family gathers, we collec-
tively devolve into sadists.
Somewhere between my father's
need to leave an impression and my
mother's high standards came five off-
spring who, when united, produce an
unrelenting flow of cynicism. We're the
champions of cruelty.
Naturally, myfamily is at its most de-
structive during the holiday season.
It was four days before Christmas
when we dined at a local restaurant.
At a nearby table sat a woman wear-
ing a headband with festive felt antlers,
which jingled merrily every time she
took a bite of her Reuben sandwich.
Christmas was coming early this
year.
Regardless of what reindeer do in
minds of believers, that sort of thing
doesn't fly in my family. Our enjoyment
of the holiday season has always been
tongue-in-cheek: We're ho-ho-ho-ing at
you, not with you.
"Do you think she picks up NPR on
those things?"
"It's going through the uprights.
and it's good!"
"I'm debating between ordering the
mozzarella sticks or the grilled rein-
deer."
Eventually our well of wit dried up,
and we changed the subject, noticing
our inside joke was leaking to other
tables. My father, however, hadn't been
paying attention and wasn't sensitive tothe situation.
"What's with the antlers?" he
asked.
Our table exploded into laughter.
Antler Lady lowered her half-eaten Reu-
ben to her plate, removed the antlers
from her head, and slipped them into
her purse.
She heard us.
"We finally did it," I whispered. "We
killed Christmas."
At that very moment, the Polar Ex-
press derailed. Rudolph was gunned
down by a Taliban rocket launcher.
Santa Claus clutched his chest and col-
lapsed thunderously to the ground, and,
after the elves' failed attempts at CPR,
he wheezed his final words:
"You win, Erik."
I couldn't escape the nightmares.
On Christmas Eve, gone were my vi-
sions of dancing sugarplums -in their
place were Antler Lady's sobbing chil-
dren cowering in the corner, dodging
shards of porcelain ornaments as they
shattered on the wall behind them.
"Christmas is canceled!" she bel-
lowed, blowtorching the artificial tree
down to a steaming mound of green
plastic.
"Why, Mommy, why?" squealed the
children.
"Because Mommy wore these
f**king antlers you gave her!"
The holiday spirit can only take so
much mockery before we lose it forever.
We can embrace the childish traditions,
or we can dig Santa's grave.
Happy holidays.
GLAM shows gems
12, ALLIGATOR * Thursday, december 3, 2009
Cursive gets creative High-tech sex pleases all
By JON SILMAN
rveniie writer
Cursive, an indie-rock band from Omaha,
Neb., is playing at Common Grounds on Sun-
day. The band is on Saddle Creek records, a
record label best known for another Omaha
act, Bright Eyes. Its latest album, "Mama, I'm
Swollen," was released in March, and they
played the "Late Show with David Letterman"
that same month. The Avenue got the chance
to talk to bass player Matt Maginn about play-
ing on TV, the band's sound and his favorite
Nirvana record.
* So what did it feel like perform-
ing on that (Letterman) stage?
Scary. Frightening. It was intimidating and
really f**king cold.
* You seemed to get a pretty good
response from him afterward. He
said the title of the album and then
said "Yowza!"
I think he was sort of shocked or surprised.
I think we caught him off guard a little bit.
As opposed to most indie bands who seem
to prefer sparse arrangements and lo-fi sound
textures, Cursive has more of a dissonant
feel without as much sound separation, and
kind of a Pixies-like vibe. Is that intentional?
We do like to allow for some separation, but
that's just kind of the aesthetic we've always
liked. We've never hid the fact that we like
bands like The Pixies a lot (laughs) and are
influenced by them. We kind of like the dis-
sonance a lot, and anytime you can make the
music sound uncomfortable or different or
odd, the better, really.
* OK with that in mind, which Nir-
vana album do you like better: "Nev-
ermind" or "In Utero?"
I guess I kinda like "In Utero," for that rea-
son. It's far more aesthetically interesting,
but they were a big enough band that (the re-
cord label) gave people enough time to really
understand it.
* Back to this dissonance aspect,is it a statement against "popular"
music?
The first time I was introduced to that type
of playing, it was so different and so fresh to
me that it was exciting and really captured
my imagination, you know? It wasn't anything
you'd heard before because it's not normal to
make those sort of sounds.
* So as a band when you're writ-
ing, instead of putting in a normal
guitar break or something do you
consciously say, "OK, let's try some-
thing that sounds a little different
here."
We try to kind of walk a line. We used to
do that, but we've allowed ourselves to ex-
pand a bit and not be so intentionally coun-
ter-intuitive all the time. We've been trying to
allow some normal influence to come in and
not f**k everything up, but that being said,
I think we collectively decided that the next
record we want to completely f**k up. We've
been trying to mix them both, something
more traditional and things that are weird
sounding, but now I think we're in the mood
to do something really strange.
* How do you measure success as
a band?
Good question -I don't know. I guess if our
friends still like what we record then we're
successful.
* What about you personally? How
doyou measure successfor yourself?
I guess if I'm still having fun, and surviving
without too much pain. You know, if we can
still have fun and not have to take out a loan
to go out on tour.
What: Cursive with Capgun Coup and The
Early Twenties
When: 6 p.m. Sunday
Where: Common Grounds, 210 SW Sec-
ond Ave.
Cost: $14By BRANDT WILLIAMS
avenue writer
As any well-educated and well-
rounded 20-year-old can tell you, col-
lege welcomes those with an irrepress-
ible appetite for knowledge. However,
those 20-somethings also comprise the
nation's youth -a generation that is en-
joying its prime and is fully aware of it
sexual abilities. College also welcomes
the flirtatious, the scandalous, the ir-
responsible, the debased and the ador-
ably promiscuous. We jump in and out
of one another's beds but often overlook
the simpler, STD-free expressions of our
sexuality.
This is where technology comes in.
Smartphones, texting and webcams
have broadened not only our commu-
nications, but also our sexual horizons.
Long-distance couples should be espe-
cially thankful for this as it provides an
outlet that allows them to get in touch,
get off and prevents them from putting
out for someone else.
Still, phone and webcam sex is not
limited to those who are emotionally
committed. Do you remember that Geor-
gia fan you met in Jacksonville, the one
who simultaneously blew you and your
mind? He or she may live in Athens, but
technology can establish a connection
for at least one more night. Phone and
webcam sex also provides an alternative
to intercourse, thereby promoting absti-
nence. And if abstinence isn't really your
game, well, high-tech sex will prove suffi-
cient at teasing your latest crush and his
cocky attitude.
It all starts with simple texting, or
rather, sexting. Use your BlackBerry or
iPhone one night to drop a flirtatious
hello. Ask your intended target why he orshe is up at such a late hour and what
he or she is doing to, err, entertain him-
self or herself. You'll know pretty quickly
if he or she has taken the bait. Just be
careful where you leave your phone
when sexting; you wouldn't want the talk
at Thanksgiving dinner to be why your
younger sibling found a text that read, "I
want to baste your turkey."
Phone sex is where it gets heavier.
This requires you to get vocal and not
give a damn about what your roommate
might be overhearing. Start by discuss-
ing what you're not wearing and where
you're touching yourself. Progress into
what you'd do with your phone buddy if
he or she were there -think of Ludac-
ris' lyrics, "whips and chains, handcuffs,
smack a little booty up with my belt."
Some might consider
this prospect awkward
or uncomfortable -
but that's why a sense
of humor is necessary.
A little encouragement
will further direct the
conversation from
"but.I don't really know what to say" to
"I want you on all fours."
And then there is the webcam. This
is best done not with someone met in a
chat room but rather someone you know,
trust and is of age -jailbait should not
be a word in your vocabulary. Webcam
sex is essentially someone watching via
an Internet connection while you show
off your ass(ets), and milk yourself and
that webcam's abilities for all it's worth.
This being 2009, phone and webcam
sex isn't creepy; it's technological. Just
ensure that your morning after doesn't
include findingyour adventures on texts-
fromlastnight.com, or, dear God, Xtube.
ATTENTION
ADVERTISERS
The Alligator will not publish from
Thursday, December 10
to Monday, January 4
due to the holiday break.
The final deadline for
Tuesday, January 5 is
Friday, December 11.
This deadline applies to both Display and Classified Advertising.
Save 10% by purchasing your ad
by Wednesday, December 9.
(Display only.)
Display Advertising Classipfed Advertising
376-4482 376-4446
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
*3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
$399 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match Full Student Suites
24hr Fitness Center * 2 Pools
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$299/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Rms avail in 4BR Call Eric, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $800/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432
12-3-09-35-1
, e,,ngn 0
Tradition of Student Living
Fully furnished student suites
Starting @ $399 all inclusive
3700 SW 27th St 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.Com
12-9-09-40-1
Walk to Campus. Indiv. leases available at
Oxford Terrace. Private bedroom and bath.
Washer/Dryer, Dishwasher, cable, internet
and utilities included. Campus Realty 352-
692-3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com
12-9-09-20-1
Walk to Campus. $380 per month, cable in-
ternet, utilities included. Indiv. lease, short
term, furnished. Campus Realty 352-692-
3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 12-
9-09-20-1
1 bedroom in a nice quiet NW 3/2 house, on
bus route to UF, parking. $500 utilities incl,
fenced backyard, wood floor, internet, W/D,
flexible term, visiting scholars or grads. 352-
281-4229 12-9-09-14-1
2bed/2.5bath twnhome> Casablanca
675/month, new appliances
great bus route to campus
5 mi from campus, pets welcome
call Igor (954) 6830009 12-8-12-1
Will Consider Semester Lease! Oxford
Terrace-short walk to UF. Private room/bath
in 4/4, clean and ready to move-in. Includes
furnishings, utilities, wi-fi, cable and W/D. M
or F okay, No smoking or pets.
beweiss59@hotmail.com or 321-228-3379
1-6-09-10-1Female wanted for 4/4 condo. Furn room
w/ private bath Clean, bus rte pool workout
room. Inc utilities cable internet wash/dry
$450/mth for spr sem $300 sec dep Jeff 904-
612-3944 or weeks63@comcast.net 1-20-
09-20-1
1/1 in 4/4 at Countryside Condos $435/mo.
Avail now. Must be clean/neat roommate.
Furnishedutil + wireless included, porch, 1st
floor,5 min from UF,washer/dryer,bball
court,pool,hot tub. kokonut@ufl.edu 12-8-
5-1
Jackson Square Spring lease $500/month!
for a 1/1 in a 2/2. Beautiful furnished apart-
ment with private baths.
3 MINUTE WALK TO CAMPUS!!!!!
561-706-2387 or bdeg@ufl.edu for info 12-
9-09-5-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 4-21-09-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
$99 MOVES YOU IN!
1 brs from $539
2brs from $599
3brs from $750
Wtr incl*Pet Friendln*Spacious
1 mile from UF*Shands*Downtown
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
Tired of Roommates?
Hate Living Far From Everything?
Downtown One Bedrooms Now Leasing!
Move-in TODAY for only $699!
Pool*Free Parking*Blocks to Campus
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
4-21-09-71-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR/1 BR $465 * 2BR/1 BA $569
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
4-21-09-71-2Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now or Fall 2010.
2 & 3 Bedroom Townhomes.
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
A SPECIAL PLACE TO CALL HOME
1 BR from $585
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $755
Tanning*Fitness*Tennis*Pool*Playground
Washer/Dryer*Fireplaces*Pools
Call us for a tour! 376-2507
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
1, 2, 3's! madisonpointe.org
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
4-21-71-2
*POLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
14, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3,2009
For Rent For Rent For Rent F For Rent For Rent
wished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75 SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 4-21-
71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
4-21-09-71-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
* SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$465, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
4-21-09-71-2
BRAND NEW REDUCED RATES!
1's, 2's, 3's
Inclusive Pkgs Available
* Pet Friendly!
Immediate or Fall Move In
352-374-3866
4-21-09-71-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match eline Friendly!
Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
NOW LEASING FOR FALL 2010
Utility Packages Available
*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
4-21-09-71-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key 0 Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921 352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $775/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
1-5-09-92-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Pine Rush Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1 bdr. from $459 2bdr. from $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-25-2FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Homestead Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
2/1 from $629 2/2 from $749
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-25-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Gator Village Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1 bdr. from $489
Near Downtown and 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-25-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Sunrise Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1bdr. from $363 $300 Amex card
Near UF, Schands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-25-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Summer Place Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1 bdr. from $363 $300 Amex card.
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-25-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/i BA $425
* 2BR $450-$620 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SID some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172 888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2LARGE 2BR/1BA
Tile floors, except BRs. Covered patio. Close
to Shands 2336 SW 34th PI Apt D. $600/
mo w/stacking W/D. 1yr lease 352-372-3131
12-9-09-41-2
1BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St.
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <50lbs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 1-6-
09-44-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 12-9-
09-39-2
Working at Shands or VA- nice 2/1 @ Summit
House across the street. $700/mo + $200
dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 12-9-29-2
WWW.BIKETOUF.COM
1 BR from $575
2 BR from $625
3 BIR from $745
Tan ning*Fitness*Ten nis*Pool
Washer/Dryer*Pets Welcome!
Call us for a tour! 377-7401
4-21-09-71-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Sundowne Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Studio from $439 1bdr. from $479
Walk to Butler Plaza
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-92-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Totally Renovated 1 bdr. from $599
1 MONTH FREE! Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-92-2FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Ashton Square Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
2 & 3 bdrs from $709
1 MONTH FREE! Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-92-2
1 Block to UF! GREAT LOCATIONS
1 BR and 2BR Apts. See our list at
www.merrillmanagement.net
or call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 1-5-09-22-2
3BR 1.5 BA with family Room
Tile Floors, Laundry Room,
Central H & Air, Carport
319 NW 16th Avenue
$800/Mo. Call Merrill Management
Inc 352-372-1494 1-5-09-22-2
1BR 1BA, Grad II Apts
1Blk to UF! Central H & Air,
Carpet, Laundry Fac. On site,
Inclds Wtr, Swg, Pst Cntrl &
Garbage. $500/Mo. 1236 SW
4th Avenue. Call Merrill
Management Inc 352-372-1494 1-5-09-22-2
1 BR 1 BA Apt, Central H & Air
2 Blks to UF, Carpet, xtra room
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue $500/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 1-5-09-22-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 1-5-09-22-2
JULI
Copyrighted Material me
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rentfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $500/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 1-5-09-22-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 1-5-09-22-2
Move In Ready. Close to Campus and
Shands 1,2,3,& 4 bedrooms & individual
leases. Campus Realty 352-692-3800 rent-
als.campusrealtygroup.com 12-9-09-20-2
Two bedroom one bath condo for only $450
per month. Move in ready. On busline.
Washer/Dryer and Dishwasher. Will not last
long. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealty.org 12-9-09-20-2* 3BR/1BA HOUSE
819 NW 10th Ave $850/mo
* 2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE
7209 SW 45th Pl. $600/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 1-5-09-
18-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 12-9-09-17-2
Custom 2BR/1BA in pvt 4 Unit complx. Tiled
fir in Liv rm, Carpet in BRs w/ceiling fans. All
new BA. New Kit w/stainless appl, W/D, Cent
H/A, i-net/cable avail. Mgr pays water, pest
contrl, lawn main, security lites. Near bus rte.
Sorry no pets $685/mo Call 727-423-9463
SAlso avail: Fully furn 2BR/1BA $735/mo.
12-9-09-13-2
WALK TO UF. Avail in Jan:
* 2BR/2.5BA $800 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S Studio $475
1 yr lease, SD & NS. Call/Text: 352-870-7256
or gv1132601@gmail.com 12-9-09-14-2$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1.5 Bath
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands
on bus route. W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500
security, $550/month. 2640 SW 31st Place
Unit B. 562-2782 or 514-6869 if interested.
1-6-14-2
1st MONTH'S RENT FREE! Lovely, spa-
cious 3/2 condo. Quiet, yet centrally located,
just 1.5 mi. from law center. Very low utili-
ties! Partially furnished.W/D,pool. $975. Exit
Realty Producers 352-316-6842 12-8-09-
10-2
WALK/BIKE TO UF/SHANDS! Campus Edge
1 BR/1 bath, washer/dryer, stove,dishwasher,
pool,gym,no pets,$550/m,2360 SW Archer
Rd.561-313-1549 Owner agent 1-11-09-
15-2
NEED A CHANGE?
Rooms for rent, 5 blks from UF. Indiv leases,
no redec fees, utils incl. A few left for Dec or
reserve yours for Aug. Call today 226-4111
12-9-09-10-2
FIRST MONTH FREE or $600/MO! (original
price $660) Bright 2/1 apartment on the sec-
ond floor. Short walk from UF/Shands/RTS
13,16,17. This is a lease transfer. Available
Dec. 1st. Hurry! Call 407 922 0029 12-3-
5-2
MOVE IN JAN. Room in 4b/3b house shareI!(A PLA N DAT I OAT I PCAT bath. Easy walk to campus. No pets. Non DSmoking. 500/mon incl. util. 250/sec dep.Extended Deadline! kmtheo@hotmail.com or 352-262-2710/514-
1-800-KAP-TEST Enroll by December 7th 4570 1-5-09-10-2
kaptest.com/rebate and get $200 back. LARGE 1 BR HOUSE
Urban loft design -fully remodeled. Very
nice. Backyard, trees, downtown, big city
cracker. 316-6667. $670/mo. Available now.
* r * e e .e e * . 1-5-09-10-2
STEPS TO LAW SCHOOL
* Large 1 BR/1 BA $475/mo
* 1BR in 4BR/2BA house $350/mo
Clean, quiet, split utils. W/D. Call Tom 954-
529-4031, www.pleasantstreet.net (for pics)
1-6-09-10-2
I I
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content, a1=111
Available from Commercial News Providers
I
I1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 12-3-09-
5-2
Nice 2 BR near UF, restaurants and shop-
ping. Large utility room with WD Connections,
Dishwasher, Additional private storage, Pool.
$620 per month. (352)870-5815/(352)333-
7721 1-5-10-2
3BR House for rent
Wood floors, front/back porch. 2035 NW 35th
Ave. Close to UF, SFC busline. $725/mo.
Available now. Flex lease. 352-318-8822
12-3-09-5-2
Student looking for roommate to share a
lakefront 2 bedroom 1 bath condo 1/2 mile
from campus. Extremely nice, quiet neigh-
borhood, with a respectful roommate. Would
be responsible for 1/2 utilities/cable/internet.
Rent $390. Available immediately. Call Don
352-870-0152 12-4-09-5-2
$99 Moves-U-IN! $299 + 75 utility package.
Downtown Vintage room, or 34th st condo
room w/private bath & walk-in closet. 352-
226-3535, 713-705-6279 1-7-09-10-2
3/1 Vintage House! $900/month Walk to UF!
Porch, w/d hook-ups, central AC 352-226-
3535, 713-705-6279 517 NW 8th St 1-7-
09-10-2
4 Bed/2 bath Vintage House $990/month.
Walk to UF! Univ/by Leo706. 818 SW 3rd
Ave. Central A/C, porch, w/d, and close to
downtown too. 352-226-3535, 713-705-6279
1-7-09-10-2
Serene Living at Magnolia Manor Apts
All 2BR/2BA units. W/D, mirrored wall, sky-
light, alarm. Starting at $640. Model open
daily. Call Maribeth 352-317-8150 12-0-6-2
One bedroom with office, full bath, and kitch-
en for rent! One block from the University of
Florida on SW 5th Ave. Utilities are not in-
cluded but are split among the renter and the
other three roommates. It's part of a house
and rent is only 500$ a month! 386-295-1703
12-7-09-4-2Duplex 2BR/1BA, NEW kitchen, tiled floors,
fenced yard, 1mi to SFC, $600/mo.
Call 352-278-2897 12-8-09-5-2
2BR/2BA Condo
1 Mile from Campus
Call 352-516-2545. Pets ok. 1-5-09-7-2
LARGE 2/2 PETS OK
Fenced in backyard, W/D hook-up, plus stor-
age, central heat & AC, Master bdrm has 3
closets, apt just painted, new carpet, new
frig. Now available, rent $650. Sec only $100
with reference. Call Mr. Kristoff 352-332-
5030 1-5-09-7-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.
one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceiling
fans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, secu-
rity. No dogs. 378-3704 sallygville@aol.com
1-5-09-7-2
DUCKPOND
2BR/1.5BA 1200 sq ft townhouse. Amazing
location. Tile floor, new countertops. Blocks
to downtown. Available now. $850/mo. 508
NE 4th Ave. 379-4952 1-5-09-7-2
DUCKPOND
Stone cottage studio. Small but cute. Good
sized kitchen. Blocks to downtown, restau-
rants. Available now. $475/mo. 306 NE 6th
St. 379-4952 1-5-09-7-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home. Shady lot.
From $345-$425/mo. Inc water. No pets.
Last month free. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887
1-5-09-6-2
BLOCKS TO UF
Available August 2010. Now showing
multiple houses. 2BR/2BA, 3BR/2BA,
4BR/3BA, 5BR/3BA. www.dalyproperties.
com or call Carol 359-3341 1-5-09-6-2
Beautiful &Affordable Townhouse w/fireplace
in SW Gville! Laminated wood downstairs &
carpet upstairs. 2BR/1.5BA near UF, Butler
Plaza, 1-75 & Oaks Mall. Short leases avail.
Great deal! Don't miss it. 352-262-2828
1-5-09-6-2
Move in Special: No Security Deposit
2/2 Condo with washer/dryer, screened-
in porch, newer condo, near UF. Shands,
located off 34th & Archer Rd. 2 units
available $750 per month. Call 317-5060
1-5-09-6-2
Relocated. Assume my lease. Dec rent paid.
No 1st, last, or security deposit 950.00/mo
2BR/2BA townhome, W/D hookup. Arlington
Square,downtown, walk to the Hipp, on bus
line, alarm system included. 863-258-6350
12-9-09-5-2
r-subleass
$385-Room available for Spring 2009 in 4/4
University Terrace Condo. Fully furnished,
utilities included, W/D, on bus routes 12 and
35. Call Anu @ 352-262-0628 12-9-9-3
Sublease furnished 1/1 in a 4/4 at Gainesville
Place. W/D, utilities, internet, cable includ-
ed. $400/mo. 3 great female roommates.
Available immediately through August. (352)
231-3124 12-4-09-5-3
Release Spring 2010, UClub Apts.
I'LL GIVE YOU $350 FOR THIS APT.
$555/mo. all inclusive; 1 bdrm.,
private bath; female roommate
email: cmm616@ufl.edu 1-5-09-10-3
Sublease furnished 1/1 in a 2/2.5 townhouse
spring 2010(Jan 1 to April 30). $500/month
utilities, internet, and cable included! Located
in Brighton park Call (352)222-9646 or email
clarissahoover@ufl.edu 12-8-09-5-3
$350/mo 1 BR furnished apt at Campus
Lodge Available from January to August.
W&D, Pool, 24 hr gym, Computer Lab,
Basketball courts. Contact 8504783876 or
8507124370 12-7-09-4-3
SUBLEASE $500 per month: The
Courtyards-5 minute walk from UF campus.
4/1.5, fully furnished with utilities and wire-
less. Lease begins January 1 and can go un-
til August 7 (ending date can be negotiated.)
Contact Nicole at nicole.seigel@gmail.com.
12-8-09-4-3$280/mo+util.Sublease nxt spring/sum.Lg 1
br/1ba in 3br/3ba Stoneridge apt.Inc:wash/
dryer,dshwshr,all essentials!Lg walkincloset!
Walk to Butler plaza.2 bus rts 12&35.Gym,
pool, bball/tennis crts also. 813-909-6447
12-9-5-3
eRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $299/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 12-9-09-62-4
Enjoy A Romatic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
12-9-09-40-4
1 monthfree-Share2B/2B MH in Cornerstone.
Furn rm avail now. $200 N/R dep. $400/mo
or $100/wk util incl. Laundry/cook/clean svc
avail. Near bus/shops. 30 day notice to va-
cate. Some pets ok. Call 331-0762 12-7-
33-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail Jan 1st.
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 12-4-
09-28-4
Walk or bike to UF, Shands orVA. Roommate
needed for nice 2/1, $350/mo + half utilities
at Summit House on SW 16th Ave. Recently
renovated. $200 dep. Call 352-843-0220 to
see. 12-9-29-4
Female roommates needed. Live in a big
new house w/ bus stop to UF, quiet/relax
area, fenced yard,private pool. 480/month
all inclusive. Joyce 941-724-0961. Must see
House Pics: tinyurl.com/mbs77r 12-9-09-
23-14
Female roommate needed, 4/2.5 townhouse,
1-75 and Newberry, all included, gated, $400
baezwpa@bellsouth.net 954-557-4769
1-19-09-30-4
2 bedrooms available now in a GREAT 4 BR
house near campus. Easy walk to law school,
bike to main campus. Live with one student,
one professional. $450/mo. Nice neighbor-
hood, sunny porch, great place to live. Call
David, (321) 303-2214. 12-4-09-10-4
1BR/1BA in 2BR/2BA located on Archer Rd.
Bike to Campus! Avail Now/Spring Sem.
Discount rent until January 1st.- Then
$400+util. OBO
Call Chase at 386-937-2621 12-4-09-5-4
Room for rent. Master bedroom w/
private bath. 3/4 mile from stadium.
Quiet neighborhood. Split utils. 352-281-6618
1-5-09-9-4
Roommate wanted in Jan or Aug. 2000 sq
ft. 2 women looking for 3rd roommate. 3BR -
comes fully furnished, W/D, internet, TV. 3rd
& 2nd Ave. $600 + 1/3 utils. 561-281-9274
1-5-09-9-4
Roommate wanted. Large 3/3 house w/
2 grad students in NW. Close to UF, SFC,
shopping. $375/mo, $200 dep. Lease til 7/31.
Large room, low utils. Call Evan 352-428-
0500 1-5-09-9-4
Male, grad student, small furnished apt on
side of private home close to UF. One per-
son only. No pets. Cable, patio, clean, quiet.
$500 pm, utilities included. 336-5808 12-
9-09-8-4I
IFEme
I
16, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3,2009
Rooates Furnishings Computers Motorcycles, Mopeds Aut
Roommate needed for 2BR Apt. close to
UF. Bus Stop Right Outside. Room Not
Furnished, Everything Else Furnished. $350/
Mo. Plus Utilities.Call Kyle at 954-907-8538
or email me at kylefranzone06@yahoo.com
.12-4-09-5-4
Luxury House -room, $500 incl. utilities.
W/D, ceramic tile, micro, etc. Looking for
graduate/professional for nice place & likes
small pups. Williston/SW 23rd St. 352-226-
3535/713-705-6279 1-7-09-10-4
Roommate needed in Rockwood Villas spa-
cious room and private bath in a 3/3. $400.00/
month plus a 1/3 of the utilities 352-538-7521
1-5-09-8-4
Grad student seeking two female roommates
(NS/ND) to share a new 4/2 house in a quiet
neighborhood 3 mi. W of 1-75. With cable,
internet & security alarm. 475/mo., util. incl.
Please call 352-331-8794. Rooms are avail-
able immediately. 1-12-12-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
1-5-09-7-4
1 bed/private bath in 3/3 at rockwood villas.
$450 inc. utilities (cable, wireless internet).
Washer/Dryer in unit and plenty of parking.
On UF and Sante Fe bus route. Call Jerry for
more info. 407.403.0656. 12-9-09-6-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
130 FEET RIVER FRONTAGE! 1.5 ACRES,
BUILDABLE LOT WITH LARGE SELECTION
OF HUGE TREES ON PEACEFUL SECTION
OF RIVER. GREAT INVESTMENT! ONLY
25K. (352)665-8067 1-13-09-20-5
Great for Students 1 BR/1 BA.
Walk to Campus. Only $49,900
Gore-Rabell Realty 378-1387 4-21-75-5
Furnish hinges
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/un-
plugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/ID.
Certified MCSE Technicians. 352-338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
*KALEV ON KALLOI come to your location
All PC and Networking Problems
@ 352-262-6704 0 Only $25 per hour 0
12-4-09-10-7CERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECH
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com 12-
9-09-10-7
p Bcyes
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
Best Prices in Town
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
CF For Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
Top of the line gator pool table! Solid slate,
8ft.,gator blue felt, gator billiard balls, gator
cover $1800 OBO. MUST SELL! call 352-
372-6533 12-9-09-5-10
CHRISTMAS TREES!
Potted Leylands, Arizona Cypress, & Red
Cedar; Table-Top to 10 ft. $7-$69. 209 NW
75th St. Alachua 386-462-2060 1-5-09-6-
10
M-torCyCces, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***www.B~uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
000000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11Discount Motorcycle Gear
www.turn2co.com. Up to 75% off original
MSRP. 904-294-8344 Turn 2 Gear 1-5-
09-9-11
Honda Shawdow Spirit 750,yellow
Exell.10K,shield,bags,custom canvas
cover,$3500,call Paul 352-514-6227 see it
Newberry Rd. Imports,7349 W Newberry ask
Andy 12-9-09-5-11
WLZ hAutos
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS 0
ORunning or not!@
ONEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-122003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
CALL US! TOP DOLLAR PAID!
Fash Cash -Free Towing
Cars, Trucks, RVs, Motorcycles
386-365-1855 12-9-09-12-12
Affordable-Auto-Insurance-Quotes.net/UF
Is your auto insurance company taking you
for a ride? Our free quote service finds you
the best coverage at the lowest rates with
major carriers in just 5 min! Save up to 50%!
12-8-09-5-12
Cars from $29/Mo!
Hondas Chevys Jeeps and
More! 0$ Down 36 Months @
8.5% apr for listings Call
800-366-9813 ext 9765 4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS Wanted
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
12-9-09-57-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
96 Plymouth Minivan $699 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $999 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999 cash
96 Kia Sephia $999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1499
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
95 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900 SOLD
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 12-4-09-74-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 12-
4-09-74-13
4b4 -
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial Mews Providers
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 17
UF HepWanted HelpWanted f HelpWanted Services Entertanment
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
the independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,FI 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
Graduate debt-free. Earn cash while attend-
ing college. For a confidential interview call
1-800-577-2021 & please leave your name &
number TWICE 12-9-68-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
Hair models wanted for long hair in motion
studies. Hip-length or longer only. No experi-
ence necessary. $70 to $120 and hour. Call
352 792-1824 modelslh@yahoo.com
1-14-09-32-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
408 W University Ave. suite 106
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$8/hr + BONUS + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES 4-21-
09-71-14
PRC NOW HIRING
Find a job you'll love. Immediate Openings
for Customer Care Representatives. $10.00
to $10.50 per hour. Paid Training and mul-
tiple schedules available. For more informa-
tion contact us at 386-326-5030 or 386-326-
5008 or apply online at www.prcnet.com
1-5-09-20-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Evenings &
weekends. Fax resume to 373-2230 12-8-
09-10-14
Like to read & want to make extra
cash? Atlantic Publishing needs
people to write honest book reviews
(1-3 paragraphs). $50 for 3.
E-mail dbrown@atlantic-pub.com. 12-8-
09-10-14
CHILDCARE NEEDED -We're looking for
a grad student to keep our 6 month old on
a regular basis Spring Semester at our NE
home (near downtown). Experience and ref-
erences required. Call Sarah at 367-3844
12-4-09-5-14
Full time NANNY needed for Jan: M-F
toddler $10/hr; must have newborn exp
grad students welcome; exp req;
Noah's Ark Nanny; send resume, photo,
short bio to gnv@nanoneone.com 1-5-09-
10-14
NANNY ASAP for adorable 1yr old:
3 full days/ wk; 25-30hrs; $9/hr;
starts asap or Jan.
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com 1-5-09-
10-14
MWFSat NANNY NEEDED Jan
6:30am; 15hrs/wk average (days vary)
3 yr old twins + 1yr old;
must be avail thru August 2010
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com 1-5-09-
10-14
STUDENT SALES REPRESENTATIVE
WANTED
DORMSHADES, LLC is a manufacturer and
distributer of high quality licensed collegiate
eyewear. We are looking for a student rep-
resentative at the University of Florida for a
part-time commissioned sales position and/
or distributorship. The earning capability is
determined by your own drive and ingenuity.
To learn more contact
brian@dormshades.com. 12-4-09-5-14
University Athletic Association
Accounting
We are currently seeking a flexible indi-
vidual to fill the position of part-time (OPS)
filing clerk. The duties include but are not
limited to data entry and filing. Experienced
in Microsoft Excel and good organizational
skills are required. This is a minimum wage
position averaging 20 hour per week. If inter-
ested please fax resume to (352) 375-5182.
If you have questions regarding this ad,
please contact me in the Human Resources
Department at 375-4683 x6301.
Thank You,
Brenda Lembo
Coordinator Recruitment 12-9-09-8-14Interactive firm seeks Project Manager. Proj
mngmt & web/tech exp are a plus. Send re-
sume to rhorton@352media.com by EOD
12/3. Fun work atmosphere! 12-8-09-7-14
"Have Bad Credit?
Want to make $1,000s for doing nothing?"
Call (877) 465-8463 for more information.
1-5-09-6-14
WL Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 1-7-09-
120-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* *GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS*
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
* * PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES * *
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 12-9-
57-15
GOT A TICKET?
TAKE TRAFFIC SCHOOL 100% ONLINE
STATE OF FLORIDA APPROVED
NO POINTS ON LICENSE
www.EasyTrafficSchoolNow.com 1-8-20-
15
Green cards -permanent resident status -
for postdoc researchers and new faculty.
Self-petition through national interest waiver.
Email robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com or
call 352-335-2699 for consultation. Robert
Jacobs, PA -Limited to Imm & Nat Law 12-
3-09-10-15
M l lh Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
Gentle Women.through the lens of
Douglas J. Nesbitt, newly released book
now available for holiday gifts!
www.gentlewomen.us
1-11-09-10-21
WJZ Tickets
LOYAL GATOR ALUMNI NEEDS SEC TIX,
WILLING TO PAY GOOD MONEY $$$ FOR
TIX. 352-283-2495. CASH PAID 12-9-09-
12-22
WJLRides
Think you're pregnant?
Free pregnancy tests & referrals
Free, confidential advising
For appt., call 352-367-2716
A Woman's Answer Medical Center 12-8-
38-16 GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
HIV ANTIBODY TE STING -charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
Alachua County Health Dept. Call 4-21-71-23
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards
Employment Visas & Naturalization
www.ruthlaw.com (352) 335-6748
2-2-40-18
WJ Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
loveW ZPetsY
Furry, feathery, scaly .no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
We need volunteers and stray/feral cats to
fix! On Sunday, Dec 13th, we will be spay-
ing/neutering homeless cats to increase their
quality of life and to save lives. You can help
make a difference in your community- join
us! No matter what your talent is we have
ways for everyone to get involved. Trap a
stray, volunteer your time at the clinic, do-
nate a lunch item, or help spread the word.
Join our Facebook group, Operation Catnip
Gainesville Chapter, or tweet with us at www.
twitter.com/operationcatnip. For more infor-
mation: (352)380-0940 operationcatnip@
nmhp.netwww.nmhp.net 12-9-9-24
iEvent NtiCes Lost & Found
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
Sports
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2009
Florida will start NCAA play
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Writer
achiang@aIIigator org
After being selected to the NCAA Tourna-
ment field for the 19th consecutive season,
the Gators should be accustomed to the post-
season by now -but that isn't the case.
Florida doesn't know what to expect this
weekend as it has only has played a com-
bined three matches all time under Mary
Wise against the three teams in its first and
second round bracket -College of Charles-
ton, FIU and Miami.
No. 14 UF (23-5, 16-4 Southeastern Con-
ference) will begin the tournament against
College of Charleston (18-12, 12-4 Southern
Conference) at 7:30 tonight in the O'Connell
Center.
Although the Gators
and Cougars don't have
too much of a history, the
one time they did matchup
was in a similar situation -
the first round of the 2007
NCAA Tournament.Wise The unfamiliarity be-
tween the four teams comes as a change to
the Gators.
"It's way different. In the SEC you play
teams twice," opposite hitter Callie Rivers
said. "You pretty much know people's names,
numbers and tendencies within the confer-
ence. When going into these games you really
don't know anything about the teams."
Although the players will not have the
chance to view mountains of film on the Cou-
gars, coach Mary Wise has spent all week
studying UF's first-round opponent.
From what she has seen, College of Harrison Diamond/ AlligatorS
Charleston runs a fast offense and block ex- UF outside hitter Callie Rivers said the NCAA Tournamen
SEE VOLLEYBALL, PAGE 19 quite a change due to the unfamiliarity of opponents.ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
I.
t is
Alabama looks to get revenge for letting '08 slip away
0 THE CRIMSON TIDE HAVE
WON 24 STRAIGHT
REGULAR-SEASON GAMES.
By PHIL KEGLER
Alligator Staff Writer
pkegler@alligator org
When the Crimson Tide take the
field Saturday, they will not have
lost a regular-season game in 743
days.
That will be little consolation for
Alabama if it comes up short against
Florida in the SEC Championship
Game for the second straight year.
UA is about to get a secondchance against UF, after the Gators
pulled away in the fourth quarter
for a 31-20 win en route to a BCS
National Championship Game ap-
pearance.
This year's winner will again
have a chance to play for the na-
tional title.
"We got too caught up in the mo-
ment," Alabama linebacker Rolando
McClain said. "Our guys got caught
up in the pressure and they wanted
to be the hero and make the extra ef-
fort play instead of just doing what
we had to do and doing what our
job was.
"If everybody would have just
done what they had to do in thefourth quarter instead of getting
caught up in the moment, we would
have been fine. I think the guys un-
derstand that now and everybody
is trying to play their role, playing
their role the best they can instead of
trying to be the hero."
It has been well-
documented that
Saturday's show-
down will feature
a clash of the na-
tion's top defenses. The outcome
may hinge on which offense can
do just enough to pull out the win.
Florida and Alabama have seemed
to favor the run this year, with the
Gators boasting the SEC's top rush-ing offense and Crimson Tide run-
ning back Mark Ingram second in
the conference in rushing yards per
game.
UA quarterback Greg McElroy
said the ability to depend on Ingram
on offense has been a big help as he
develops in his first year under cen-
ter.
"(Inrgram has) been a great se-
curity blanket for all of us in our
first years as starters. He's that solid
rock," McElroy said. "He's been a
guy we can fall back on when we
need to grind the clock and a guy
that's gotten off to great starts in
games for us."
Ingram's superb season hashelped the Crimson Tide weather
through some of McElroy's rockier
weeks, including a three-game
stretch against Ole Miss, South
Carolina and Tennessee in which he
completed 51.8 percent of his passes,
averaged 119.7 passing yards per
game and had a total of zero touch-
downs and two interceptions.
"There was a huge question
mark that everybody had about the
quarterback on our team this year,"
Alabama coach Nick Saban said.
But Alabama's closer-than-ex-
pected win in the Iron Bowl may
have given McElroy a much-needed
SEE ALABAMA, PAGE 20
POLL QUESTION
Today's question: How far will the
UF volleyball team go?Previous question:
Which school has
been Florida's
biggest rival in the
Urban Meyer era?Percent (Votes)
LSU 59% (287)
Georgia 27% (133)
Tennessee 9%(43)
FSU 5%(23)
486 TOTAL VOTESIt's really too easy
being this awesome
Editor's Note: Graduate student, Palm Beach Post
Gators beat writer and reader Ben Volin earned a
guest column for winning our inaugural alligatorSports
Fantasy Challenge.
o apparently the prize for my outstanding per-
formance and season-long dominance in this lit-
tle fantasy college football league is to write 500
words for the Alligator.
Awesome. How thrilling.
This is exactly how I should be spending my time
this week.
Not, you know, covering the
nation's No. 1 team as it prepares
for the Game of the Century, or
studying for my MBA exams.
Nope, instead I'm supposed
.to sit here and brag or somethingBen Volin about beating a bunch of collegeRollin' With Volin kids in fantasy football.sports@allgatororg Yeah, I won the league. Cool.
Can't wait to drop that line with
the ladies in Midtown.
For both of you that care, I won because of a kid I
didn't know existed until Week 2. His name is Blaine
Gabbert, and he's a sophomore quarterback for Mis-
souri who lists sports, hanging out with friends and
fishing as his primary hobbies. Not quite the stuff of
Tebow, but he did me well this season as a replacement
for Sam Bradford, who I took with the second overall
pick and promptly hurt himself for the season in Week
1.
The Tigers went 8-4, 4-4 in the Big 12, but Gabbert
was a champion in my locker room. He finished with
3,302 passing yards, 228 rushing yards, 26 total touch-
SEE VOLIN, PAGE 20
UF FOOTBALL NEWS
U Quarterback Tim Tebow was named one of five finalists for the Walter Camp
Player of the Year award for the third straight year. The winner will be
announced live on the 6 p.m. SportsCenter on Dec. 10. The other finalists are
Alabama running back Mark Ingram, Houston quarterback Case Keenum, Texas
quarterback Colt McCoy and Nebraska defensive tackle Ndamukong Suh.POLL RESULTS
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Down But Not Out
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Writer
achiang@alligator org
The Gators' season hit an all-
time low as they traveled to face
Kentucky on Nov. 22.
For the first time in 19 years,
they would not win the Southeast-
ern Conference title.
But the disappointment and
embarrassment that came with
ending Florida's 18-year streak did
not prevent this team from staying
focused.
Before the match against Ken-
tucky, junior Callie Rivers made
sure that her team knew there was
still a lot at stake.
"When I walked into the lock-
er room prior to the (Kentucky)
match, she had written on the wall
'not on our watch,' and she had
every player sign it," coach Mary
Wise said. "That was their rally
cry.",
UF went on to dominate Ken-
tucky en route to a four-set victory
after losing to the Wildcats less
than two months before.
Since falling out of conten-
tion for the conference crown, the
Gators have looked like a new
team.
Wise's decision to insert middle
blocker Lauren Bledsoe into the
starting lineup along with the stra-
tegic move of using a one-setter of-
fense has rejuvenated the group.
After a devastating loss to Ten-
nessee, which knocked the Gators
out of title contention, the changes
were made.
UF has reeled off three impres-
sive victories since -two coming
against top-25 opponents -as it
begins the NCAA Tournament to-
day against College of Charleston.
"As much as you would love to
win the SEC every year, it has got-
ten a lot better," sophomore Kristy
Jaeckel said. "Overcoming this ad-
versity is something that is really
going to make us a stronger team,
ultimately."
The Toughest Road Yet
As the Gators begin their jour-
ney to the Final Four in Tampa,
they will have to look no further
than the rough road they've trav-
eled this season for some experi-
ence.
In the first 18 seasons of Wise'stenure at UF, she only dropped
eight conference matches. This
year, the team lost an unprec-
edented four matches to SEC op-
ponents.
"It has easily been the most
competitive season in the SEC be-
cause there is so much more parity
now," Wise said.
Three other SEC teams are cur-
rently in the top 21 of the RPI rank-
ings and all four of the Gators' con-
ference losses have come against
those teams: Kentucky, LSU and
Tennessee.
While UF went undefeated in
conference play during the 1992
and 1993 regular seasons and from
1995-2003, Jaeckel believes the
team used to pay for it in the post-
season.
"Being able to learn from our
losses early instead to having one
of our first losses in the tourna-
ment can really help us," she said.
"If we really take it to heart and
learn from these losses, it can only
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
20o6
2007
20o8
2009make us stronger for the tourna-
ment."
Although conference competi-
tion has been tough, nonconfer-
ence play has been even tougher.
The Gators have faced four non-
conference foes ranked in the top
14 of the RPI, including No. 3 Flor-
ida State, No. 5 Washington, No. 6
Stanford and No. 14 Notre Dame.
They went 3-1 in those matches,
with their only loss coming against
Washington early in the season.
"With the experience we have
and all the great teams we have
played so far, once we get to the
tournament we will be better pre-
pared," senior Elyse Cusack said.
Unmatched Versatility
There were many questions
surrounding the setter position af-
ter Cindy Bathelt transferred from
UF before the season began.
But then came junior transfer
Brynja Rodgers to fill the void and
provide another setter to comple-
35-5 (13-1 SEC)
34-2 (14-0 SEC)
33-4 (14-0 SEC)
28-6 (13-1 SEC)
35-2 (14-0 SEC)
37-2 (14-0 SEC)
34-4 (14-0 SEC)
35-3 (14-0 SEC)
33-3 (14-0 SEC)
29-5 (14-0 SEC)
28-2 (14-0 SEC)
34-3 (a6-o SEC)
36-2 (a6-o SEC)
28-5 (15-1 SEC)
33-3 (15-3 SEC)
30-3 (19-1 SEC)
29-3 (19-1 SEC)
27-4 (18-2 SEC)
23-5 (16-4 SEC)ment sophomore Kelly Murphy in
UF's 6-2 offense.
Although Rodgers has been
consistent and is second on the
team with 5.43 assists per set, the
Gators have turned to a one-setter
offense featuring Murphy for the
latter part of the year. Last sea-
son this scheme was not used as
Bathelt and Murphy ran the two-
setter attack.
The new offense has paid divi-
dends.
When first used against Auburn
on Nov. 8, the Gators committed a
season-low four attack errors in
the match. Against South Carolina
on Nov. 27, the offense led to a sea-
son-high hitting efficiency of .519.
"I think it's a lot of fun. It gives
different teams a lot to prepare
for," Murphy said. "If one thing
is not working out, it lets us know
that we always have another op-
tion."
UF's versatility has led Wise to
implement another adjustment.
Sweet 16
Final Four
Final Four
Sweet 16
Elite Eight
Final Four
Final Four
Final Four
Elite Eight
Sweet Sixteen
Elite Eight
Final Four
National Runner-Up
Second Round
Elite Eight
Sweet 36
Sweet 16
Sweet 36
Jessica Warshaver / Alligator StaffAfter the loss to Tennessee, she
moved Bledsoe from opposite hit-
ter to starting middle blocker and
removed senior Kristina Johnson
from the starting lineup.
For most of the season, Bledsoe
and Rivers fought for playing time
at the right side. By moving Bled-
soe to the middle, both can be on
the court at the same time.
"By using these players that are
versatile enough to play at differ-
ent positions, it allows us to get all
of our playmakers on the court at
the same time," Wise said.
The new middle blocker has
led to increased offensive produc-
tion as Bledsoe has averaged eight
kills per match in the three she
has played at the position. John-
son only averaged four before the
switch was made.
Both of these late-season shake-
ups have helped breathe new life
into the team as it heads into a
postseason that is structured in the
Gators' favor.
Home Court Advantage
Although UF failed to win the
SEC, the Gators have a lot going
for them as they begin the tourna-
ment.
The team is guaranteed to stay
in Florida for the entire postsea-
son.
The O'Connell Center will host
the first and second rounds, as well
as regionals. The Final Four will be
held in Tampa.
Last year, the Gators had to
travel to Colorado for regionals
and lost to Stanford. This season,
traveling won't pose a problem for
them.
Confidence shouldn't be an is-
sue either.
UF has beaten two of the tour-
nament's top-four seeds, No. 3
Florida State and No. 4 Stanford,
during the regular season.
All this combined with Wise
making the most of the Gators'ver-
satility and the experience gained
from playing in a much-improved
SEC will help prepare this team for
a run in the postseason.
Wise even believes that the
end of the 18 year streak can help
the team set its sights on a bigger
goal.
"We said all along that we
would not win a national champi-
onship until we lost the SEC."UFVolleyball in the NCAA Tournament
under Mary Wise
YEA R RECORD NCAA FINISH
Gerar doneat in his Hi itprovided shelter fr
Support the Red Cross and change a life, American
starting with your own. T Red Cross
Call 1-800-RED CROSS or visit redcross.org.
20, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2009
Quick turnaround time leads to limited video study of opponents
VOLLEYBALL, from page 18 pared the team well for this situation. In we didn't see on video, so it's a different On Monday, sophomores Kristy Jaeckel
ceptionally well.
"Once we get to the tournament we get
limited video on each opponent," senior
Elyse Cusack said. "We'll really only watch
video on them (the Cougars) one time. But
then we get the opportunity to scout FIU
and Miami for the second round, so we'll
see them on video and playing live."
The nonconference schedule has pre-
VOLIN, from page 18
downs and just seven interceptions.
I contacted the Missouri athletic de-
partment to try to score an interview
with Gabbert, but saying that I'm writing
a column for The Alligator apparently
didn't have quite the cache I expected.
But Gabbert, of course, didn't win this
thing by himself. Texas' Jordan Shipley,
Kansas' Kerry Meier, Minnesota's Eric
Decker, West Virginia's Noel Devine and
the Alabama defense also led me to the
title.
Florida fans hope I don't type that last
part of the sentence again this weekend.
How many words are we at now?
306? Ugh.
This was my first season playing col-
lege fantasy football, and you know
what?
It's really easy. I played in two leagues,
and reached the finals in both.
I can't sit here and claim that I had
any special insight during the draft.
By the fourth round, I hadn't heard
f
Ieach of UF's first three tournaments of the
season, it played two matches against un-
familiar opponents on consecutive days.
The key to playing against these types
of teams is the ability to make adjustments
on the fly, Wise said.
"It's actually more fun because you
kind of make an adjustment during the
match," Cusack said. "You'll see teams do
new things during the match that maybe
of any of the remaining players, and we
still had like seven rounds to go.
We limited the playing field to only
BCS teams, which if you're counting at
home is 65 teams.
Then consider that we only had 10
owners in the league.
With 65 teams, there were plenty of
good players to go around.
When my running back Nic Grigsby
got hurt, I simply went to the waiver wire
and found a guy named Daniel Thomas
from Kansas State I had never heard of
him before, but I'll take his 971 yards and
nine touchdowns, thank you.
The fact that I dominated the league
-no one came within four games of
my 12-3 record -says more about the
simple-mindedness of the other owners
in the league than of my fantasy football
genius.
This really isn't hard, people. Please
come stronger next season. Dominating
isn't as fun as it seems.
Especially when it results in you hav-
ing to write 500 words.challenge."
FOUR GATORS NAMED ALL-
SEC: UF may not have won
the conference this season,Volleyball but it was still able to tie
for the most players named
to All-SEC teams.
Kentucky, Tennessee and UF all saw
four of its players earn the honor.and Kelly Murphy were named to the All-
SEC First Team.
Murphy has been a triple threat all
season long and currently leads the na-
tion with nine triple-doubles. As a setter,
whose primary job is to pass, she is still
second in the conference with a .370 hitting
efficiency.
Meanwhile, Cusack and sophomore
Colleen Ward earned second-team honors.
UF will look to contain WR Jones
A LABAIIA, from page 18_
boost of confidence. He completed 21 of 31
passes for 218 yards and two touchdowns
and drove his team 79 yards for the game-
winning score with 1:24 remaining.
That might be remembered as the day
McElroy went from a game manager to a
clutch presence in the pocket.
"It was important for us as an offense,"
McElroy said. "Most times people will sit
back and say -if our offense is put in
charge of winning that, shoot, we're go-
ing to be out of luck."
McElroy's favorite target has been star
wideout Julio Jones. Jones caught five
passes for 124 yards in last year's SEC
Championship Game as a freshman. This
year, he has eclipsed the century mark in
yards just once, racking up 102 against
LSU.The Gators will rely on their confer-
ence-best passing defense to shut down
Jones.
"What they do is not necessarily over
complicated," McElroy said. "It's tough
to prepare for in the
sense that you can rep-
licate the looks, but it's
difficult to replicate the
personnel they have."
McElroy has gone
through quite a trans-
formation this season,
McElroy but whether it will be
enough still remains to
be seen.
"At the end of the day, you can talk
about playing Florida and how you want
to beat them," McClain said, "but at the
end of the day, you have to go out and
prove it."
