Today
visit www.alligator.orgWe Inform. You Decide.THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaRecycleAvenuethe 
Page 9
VOLUME 102 ISSUE 91
RAIN
62/44FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD 14
SPORTS 18
n Nick Calathes 
(right) had a 
historic night against Georgia on Wednesday, earning his second career triple-dou -
ble in UF’s blowout victory.See Story, Page 20.By KATIE EMMETS
Alligator Writer
kemmets@alligator.org
The State Attorney’s office filed three 
charges of prostitution against former 
Gainesville police officer Bill Billings Wednesday, after seven months of investi-
gations revealed that he paid prostitutes for sex. 
The internal affairs report states that 14 
women said they had sex with the former corporal in his marked patrol car while he 
was on duty.
Billings, 51, resigned in August after the 
investigation began in June.
Although State Attorney Bill Cervone 
said there is no mandatory sentencing for the misdemeanor charges, Billings could 
face up to a year in jail and between $500 
and $1,000 in fines.
Cervone said felony 
charges are still pending on 
Billings for stealing money 
from GPD. 
When investigators put a GPS tracking 
device in Billing’s car, it was discovered that he was paid more than $6,000 for overtime 
assignments that he never worked, accord-
ing to Alligator archives.
If convicted of the felony charges, Billings 
faces up to five years in prison and up to 
$5,000 in fines in addition to his misdemean-
or sentences, Cervone said. Ex-GPD officer charged with prostitution
By LAUREN BAKER 
Alligator Staff Writer
lbaker@alligator.org
For the second time in UF’s 
history , a member of Student 
Government’s executive branch will face getting the boot.
A resolution to impeach Student 
Body President Kevin Reilly was filed last Thursday by five senators of SG’s minority party— the Orange and Blue Party .  
Today the 46 senators elected last fall will meet at Hillel at 6 p.m. 
to vote on the issue. A two-thirds vote is required to sus-
pend Reilly from office. 
Removing him from the position would require a subsequent trial and a three-fourths vote from sena-tors elected in spring. 
Orange and Blue Party Sen. Sam 
Miorelli, co-authored the resolution. 
“The charges that we make are 
simply irrefutable,” Miorelli said. The three-page resolution stacks 
six allegations against Reilly, in-cluding violations of Student Body statutes and last semester’s e-mails scandal.
Reilly was one of four SG officials 
UF Senate party files impeachment against presidentHarrison Diamond / Alligator Staff 
Thief Speak
Jon Douglas Rainey, co-host of Discovery Channel’s “It Takes a Thief,” answers questions on security and his 
experiences on the show in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom Wednesday night. The event was co-sponsored by UF Off-Campus Life and Accent. See story at alligator.org.
LOCAL
By HUNTER SIZEMORE                                                
Alligator Writer
Jayne Moraski knocked on tent flap after tent flap 
at tent city on Wednesday, poking her head in to ask 
Gainesville homeless about their lives.   
She asked, “Are you currently employed?” and 
“What caused you to become homeless?”
Moraski was a part of a larger project that tracked 
what services the homeless use in Gainesville and collected data from 
jails, schools and other organiza-tions.
The Alachua County Coalition 
for the Homeless and Hungry and the Gainesville/Alachua County Office of Homelessness took the census from Tuesday to Wednesday morning. 
Volunteers were paid $10 an hour to canvass 
Gainesville, visiting shelters, churches and other plac-es where the homeless commonly spend time, includ-ing Tent City and other camps.
Many of the volunteers were homeless themselves, 
providing an advantage in picking out other homeless people in a crowded room or finding camps that are not well known.                        Groups take 
census on 
homeless
DeCarmine
StudentGovernment
Dean charged with stealing from UCF
ORLANDO (AP) — The University of Central Florida reports 
that an associate dean used a school credit card to buy $40,000 
worth of home entertainment equipment. Jail records show Jamal Nayfeh turned himself in Wednesday and was released on bail.
A UCF official says a routine budget audit in early January 
revealed the charge was made to Nayfeh’s purchasing card in December. The school official says UCF police were notified shortly after finding the charge.
Nayfeh, who has been at UCF for 18 years, is an associate dean 
of the College of Engineering and Computer Science and a profes-sor of mechanical engineering, according to the school’s Web site.n Co-discoverer 
of the Human 
Immunodefiiency 
Virus came to UF 
Wednesday to dis -
cuss new develop -
ments related to the 
disease. See Story 
at alligator.org.  SEE CENSUS, PAGE 5SEE CHARGES, PAGE 5
SEE REILLY, PAGE 5NewsLocal2, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 102 ISSUE 91 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Nicole Safker, nsafker@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristin Bjornsen, 
  kbjornsen@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / New Media Rachel Roy, rroy@alligator.org
 University Editor Lauren Baker, lbaker@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Brittany Davis, bdavis@alligator.org
 Freelance Editors Emily Blake, eblake@alligator.org
  Christina McGinley, 
  cmcginley@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Evan Drexler, edrexler@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor Adam Berry, aberry@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Dan Seco, dseco@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Nicole Safker, Kristin Bjornsen, 
  Dan Seco
 Photo Editor Harrison Diamond, 
  hdiamond@alligator.org
  Sarah Hsu, shsu@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, lnieset@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Brian Kelley, 
  Katherine Mojena, Stephanie Slade
 Copy Editors Morgan Collins, 
  Cassandra Fellerman, Joe Holzer,
  Rachael Pino, Jennifer Smith,
  Sara Watson
 Staff Phil Kegler, Mike McCall, 
  Brian Steele
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org 
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Daniel Webber
 Intern Coordinator Sarah Buckwald
 Display Advertising Clerks Sarah Buckwald, Kaela Hill
 Sales Representatives Amanda Freilich, Sara Ingebretsen, 
  Shaun O’Connor, Madeline Ross, 
  Lexie Stout, Kaia Tershowski, 
  Ryan Winkler
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario     
MARKETING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4558 (Fax)
 Marketing Director Brad Smith, bsmith@alligator.org
CIRCULATION
 Operations Manager Scott McKearnan,
  smckearnan@alligator.org
 Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Ramona Pelham, 
  businessoffice@alligator.org
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Jennifer Cavasino, Amanda Clifton
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 General Manager C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
PRODUCTION/SYSTEMS
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Editorial Production Supervisors Erica Bales, James Hibbs
 Advertising Production Staff Erica Bales, Aki Chang, 
  Shannon Close, Doug Eastman, 
  Brianna O’Sullivan
 Editorial Production Staff Vidhika Agrawal, Erica Ervin, 
  Kevin Hart, Max WeisslerFORECAST
TODAY
RAIN
73/44SUNNY
67/47SUNNY
58/30RAIN
56/31RAIN
62/44MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at (352) 376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.“What would you do?”: A Forum 
on Discrimination and Racism 
hosted by National Society of 
Black Engineers
Today, 6:15 p.m.F.E.A.R.L.E.S.S. will be speak-ing at the forum. Come and 
share your opinions and ex-
periences. For more informa-tion about this event, email programschair@ufnsbe.org or 
visit ufnsbe.org.Center for European Studies, 
is part of a series of academic 
and cultural events this year focusing on a broad range of 
issues related to migration 
in Europe. For more infor -
mation, please visit: www.
ces.ufl.edu/jmcemig. 
Origins of the Earth: Clues from our Solar System and 
from Distant Worlds
Today ,7:15 p.m.
Pugh Hall 170
The astronomy department is hosting the first of sev-
eral public events in 2009. 
Andrew Youdin will lecture about how recent scientific 
observations are improving 
our understanding of the Earth’s origins of the Earth.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Peace Corps in the Caribbean 
and Pacific Islands
Today, 6:30 p.m.
The Hub, International CenterReturned Peace Corps volun-
teers will share their experi-
ences of living on islands in 
the Caribbean and Pacific. A 
Peace Corps recruiter will be 
available to discuss the appli-
cation process.
Critical Mass & Rock ‘n Ride 
Benefit Show
Bicycle ride at 5:30 p.m.Show at 7 p.m.
$5 benefiting the Kickstand and 
Gainesville Books to Prisoners. The bicycle ride begins at 5:30 p.m. in Plaza of the Americas 
and ends at the Kickstand on 
South Main Street. Performers 
include Umoja Orchestra, Rio 
de la Muerte, The Damsels, Sea Grapes and Giuseppe.
 Migration in the Neoliberal Age
January 30 and 31 at 10 a.m.
Dauer 215 
This workshop, hosted by the 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 3
By LAUREN BAKER
Alligator Staff Writer
lbaker@alligator.org
Florida’s Board of 
Governors will meet again to-
day as part of a two-day ses-
sion, addressing two topics that will center on saving stu-
dents money, in the session’s 
final day.
The issues of interest will 
pinpoint the $24 million in Pell grants that went unclaimed by Florida resident students in 
the State University System, 
said Bill Edmonds, the board’s spokesman.
Edmonds said Thursday’s 
discussionwill center on sav-ing students money .“We’d love to get $24 mil-
lion from the legislature, but that’s not going to happen, 
we’ve got a budget crisis 
going on,” Edmonds said. “Meanwhile it’s there for the 
taking.”
Another consideration in-
tended to cut students’ costs may be the requirement for all 
pro -
fessors to post 
text-
books online 30 days before 
class starts.
Posting textbooks early al-
lots enough time for bookstores to obtain used materials and 
for students to order discount-
 SKATING IS ILLEGAL ON 
ROADS OR IN BIKE LANES.
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligator.org
Students have skateboarded 
to class for years without much 
trouble, but that all changed Wednesday as the University Police Department conducted a 
“saturation detail,” targeting skate-
boarders and pulling them over if they were skating on the street.
Four motorcycle officers, four 
officers on bicycles and a canine unit were out in shifts from 8:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. to educate stu-dents about Florida’s skateboard-ing law, said UPD Lt. Stacy Ettel.
The statute makes it illegal to 
skateboard or roller skate on roads or in bike lanes, though crosswalks are fair game.
Because many students are un-
familiar with the law, officers gave warnings to students who had never been ticketed for the offense before, Ettel said.
UPD planned to ticket anyone 
with a prior offense. Tickets carry 
a $52.50 fine.
The department will be con-
ducting saturation details every 
Wednesday where it focuses on a specific issue like seatbelts or hel-mets for scooter riders, Ettel said.
Skateboarding was the first fo-
cus of the semester, he said. 
Over the years, skateboarders 
on campus have run into pedestri-ans and vehicles and also injured themselves on steep hills, he said.
The number of people on cam-
pus makes skateboarders a hazard 
to themselves and others, he said.
“It’s just congested and some-
thing has to be done,” he said.Ettel said skateboarders stopped 
on Wednesday had no idea the law 
existed. 
Ryan Hance, a UF psychology 
junior who received a warning for skateboarding Wednesday , said he disagrees with the law.
“I think the law’s pretty ridicu-
lous. I don’t see why a bike can ride in the road and a skateboard can’t,” he said.
He said he has skateboarded 
to class ever since he came to UF and never had any problems until Wednesday.
He said the officer who pulled 
him over told him he could ride on the sidewalk instead.
“I was like, ‘Well, the sidewalks 
are pretty packed,’ and he’s like, ‘Well, looks like you’re gonna have 
to walk then,’” he said.
Ettel said he understands 
Hance’s concern, but thinks the 
roads aren’t any better.
“The roadways are just as 
crowded with the amount of ve-hicles, scooters, motorcycles, state vehicles (and) police vehicles,” he said.UPD enforces skateboard lawBOG to discuss 
Pell grant funds
“I think the law’s pretty 
ridiculous. I don’t see why 
a bike can ride in the road 
and a skateboard can’t.”
Ryan Hance
UF psychology junior
UFAdministrationBy MORGAN COLLINS
Alligator Writer
Improving transportation and 
making city buses more hip were 
among the topics discussed by Gainesville residents Wednesday at a workshop sponsored by the 
Regional Transit System.
The workshop, held at 
Gainesville Regional Utilities’ 
downtown headquarters, was part of the city’s ongoing effort to 
remodel the bus system using the 
“bus rapid transit system.” 
Bus rapid transit systems are 
designed to cater to more pas-
sengers and run more efficiently. 
The cost of this system would be about $6 million to $10 million per mile, covering bus service and vehicles.      
The workshop was a way to get 
community feedback, said Doug Robinson, chief transit planner for RTS.
“We’re going to need local 
support for this to get going,” he said.                   
Robinson said he thinks the 
benefits of a better bus system 
would surpass the costs.
With this system, buses could 
reduce wait time at traffic lights 
by having signal priority. With 
signal priority, buses send a sig-nal to a receiver on a traffic box to 
change the light.
The system could upgrade 
buses, replacing current vehicles with more modern, aerodynamic and fuel-efficient models.
The proposal for Gainesville’s 
bus rapid transit system will only focus on densely populated areas that face transportation problems, Robinson said.
“The idea is to start small and 
grow something that’s success-ful,” he said.
The current routes extend for 
about 38 miles.
The city plans to submit an 
application for federal funding, which requires applicants to sub-mit information on traffic pat-
terns and the number of riders, 
Robinson said.
“We need people to want to 
get behind this as something that 
is helpful to the community,” he 
said.
There are 83 cities around the 
world that use versions of the bus rapid transit system, including 
Portland, Ore., and Los Angeles, 
said Jaime Lerner, the former mayor of Curitiba, Brazil, who helped his town remodel its tran-sit system.He said all cities have three 
issues in common: mobility, sus-tainability and coexistence.
Bus rapid transit can fix these 
problems because it reduces road congestion, which reduces car -bon emissions. The system is ef-
ficient and increases riders, bring-
ing more people together, Lerner said. 
“We all are affected,” he said. 
“We all are a part of this change.”4, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009
Sarah Hsu / Alligator Staff
Senior Research Associate Joel Rey, from the National Center for Transit Research in Tampa, speaks 
about the Bus Rapid Transit proposal at the GRU Administration Building on Wednesday afternoon.
Bus rapid transit system discussed at RTS workshop
LOCAL
By MORGAN COLLINS
Alligator Writer
Alachua County schools could 
get a financial boost if Congress 
passes President Barack Obama’s economic stimulus plan.
Under his proposed American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, Alachua County’s public schools could get about $20.8 mil-lion over the next two years, ac-cording to data from the U.S. House 
of Representatives’ Committee on 
Education and Labor.
The money would go toward 
programs such as special educa-
tion and building construction, 
according to the data, and many feel like Alachua County’s public schools can use some extra help.
“We’re certainly in need,” said 
Frank Burns, the principal of Hidden Oak Elementary School in Gainesville.
He said 85 to 90 percent of state 
education cutbacks force schools to make tough decisions like re-ducing the number of teachers and cutting special programs like art and music.
But with Congress still debat-
ing the stimulus plan, it’s too early to expect money to come pouring into the district , Burns said.
“We’re just concentrating on 
getting through this year,” he said.
Alachua County schools have a 5-year plan to manage schools 
going through budget cuts, said 
Jackie Johnson, a spokeswoman for the School Board of Alachua County.
Each year the state reviews and 
updates the plan, which runs until the 2012-2013 school year.
Johnson said she wasn’t sure 
what criteria 
Congress would 
use to determine how schools re-
ceive aid. 
“If federal 
funding were to come our way, it would be terrif-ic,” Johnson said.
Overcrowded and run-down 
schools are two of the biggest problems facing the county, Johnson said.
Most  of the schools are more 
than 30 years old and need about $193 million in repairs, she said
Alachua County’s state funding 
has dropped severely as a result of 
statewide budget cuts, Johnson 
said.
Even property taxes collected 
to support schools won’t help be-cause a recent Florida law  requires 
the money normally reserved for 
upgrades to be used for operating costs, Johnson said.
“It’s essentially to mask the 
amount of operating funds we are losing,” she said.The other option for the district 
is to take out mortgages against school facilities, but this is only allowed for certain programs and won’t fix most of the problems, Johnson said.
She said Alachua County has 
not sent program proposals for the plan.
The county shouldn’t wait too 
long to address the problems, Johnson said.
“It’s like a car,” she said. “If 
you don’t fix a small problem now, it becomes more expensive 
later on.” 
Chris O’Leary, 27, who has a 
daughter at A. L. Mebane Middle 
School in the city of Alachua, said 
the lack of funding is harming his 
daughter’s education.
A teaching shortage at the 
school separated his daughter, 
Aileen, 13, from her favorite social 
studies teacher. The school moved the teacher to another grade be-cause there weren’t enough social studies teachers in that grade.
The school also dropped elec-
tives and crammed more classes into a shorter school day to make do with budget deficits, O’Leary said.
Schools cannot last much lon-
ger in this state, said O’Leary, a UF senior.
“It’s like asking a poor person 
to live on $5 less,” he said. Plan would allot $20.8M to schools
Obama
“We’re going to need lo -
cal support for this to get     
going,” 
Doug Robinson
RTS chief transit planner
Nat’l report: UF 
endowment solid 
 THOUGH UF’S ENDOWMENT INTIALLY FELL,  
IT HAS RECOVERED ABOUT $5 MILLION. 
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligator.org
A national report released Tuesday shows that UF’s 
endowment has fared much better than those of other colleges and universities.
While endowments at the 796 institutions surveyed 
lost an average of 3 percent from July 1, 2007 to June 30, UF’s endowment grew by 2.6 percent, according to the report from the National Association of College and University Business Officers.
UF was one of 77 institutions with an endowment 
larger than $1 billion.
At the end of the survey period, UF’s endowment was 
$1.25 billion.
A follow-up survey, which examined the period from 
July 1 to Nov. 30 when the economy slumped, showed that endowments fell an average of 22 percent.
UF’s endowment shrunk almost 20 percent to about 
$1 billion in the same period, according to numbers pro-vided by UF Foundation spokesman Chris Brazda.
In December, though, the fund recouped about $5 mil-
lion.
Since 2002, UF has climbed from No. 76 to No. 60 on 
the list of institutions in the report.
Brazda said UF is happy with this year’s numbers and 
credits UF’s success over the years with its long-term in-vestment strategy.THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 5
 BOOKSTORES FOUND ABOUT 10 
ITEMS ON THE RECALL LIST.
By KATHRYN STOLARZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Stores on the UF campus stopped sell-
ing peanut butter products listed on the U.S. 
Food and Drug Administration’s voluntary 
recall list in connection with the salmonella outbreak caused by Peanut Corporation of America’s tainted peanut butter and peanut paste, according to Lionel Dubay, UF’s direc-tor of business services division.
Food suppliers to UF’s bookstores identi-fied about 10 snack items in stock that were on the recall list, he said.
Campus convenience stores like those at 
Little and Pugh halls stopped selling some re-called snack items including certain crackers and protein bars.
The cost will be absorbed by UF’s suppli-
ers, Dubay said.Meanwhile, campus dining halls have not 
changed their menus. Suppliers have assured UF that its peanut butter, purchased in bulk containers, is safe to eat, Dubay said.
No products have been pulled from cam-
pus vending machines. 
“The salmonella outbreak has had mini-
mal impact on our vendors and the univer -
sity,” Dubay said.
As of Wednesday , 432 recalled peanut 
butter products have been identified, ac-cording to the FDA, and 501 infected people have been reported from 43 states, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Florida hasn’t reported any cases of related illness.UF stores react to peanut butter crisis
Billings was eligible for retire-
ment benefits before the investiga-
tion, but if he is convicted, he may lose that privilege.
“The Gainesville Police 
Department has completed their 
investigation into the actions of former employee Bill Billings,” 
said GPD spokesman Keith 
Kameg.
“The charges filed Wednesday 
are the next step in this case,” Kameg said. 
GPD will assist the State 
Attorney’s Office with anything it 
needs for a successful prosecution, he said.
Fellow Gainesville police of-
ficer David Reveille, investigated 
alongside Billings, was accused 
of forcing prostitutes to have sex 
with him by threatening them with jail. Charges have not been 
brought against Reveille.
GPD has turned its investiga-
tion on the case over to the Office 
of the State Attorney.
“We are waiting to see which 
charges, if any, they file,” Kameg said.GPD turns 
case over to state attorney
“I’m pretty good at spotting 
homeless people,” said Jimbo 
Hubertz, a volunteer who camps around Gainesville. “I’ve never been homeless, but they call me that.”                                              
It is impossible to get com-
plete numbers because of the large variety of homelessness, said Jon DeCarmine, director 
of the coalition.  Homeless people who are staying with relatives or 
are in other informal, temporary housing situations are notorious-ly hard to count, he said.
“We have no illusions that we 
counted everyone,” he said.
A report on the findings could 
be available by Monday.Initial census report may be available as early as  Monday
who exchanged private e-mails in May dis-cussing appointments and how to keep the Orange and Blue Party out of Senate commit-tees. 
“Obviously, that’s the first thing on the 
list,” Miorelli said. 
But Reilly said the resolution’s claims are 
“absolutely not” valid enough to warrant im-peachment. 
Poring through the document, Reilly 
poked holes in the allegations and said his involvement in the e-mail scandal did not violate Florida’s Sunshine Law. 
While he admitted to 
conducting public business privately , he maintained 
that his role in the e-mails 
was merely advisory . 
“I don’t have any influ-
ence on the committee,” he said. “No more than any other person that would recommend people.” 
Ten of the 12 applicants that Reilly rec-
ommended became senators, according to Student Senate archives.
This is the second time the Orange and 
Blue Party has filed a resolution for impeach-ment, the first instance over the summer and against Student Body Treasurer Paul 
Drayton.  
Miorelli said the party was conflicted 
about how to act concerning Reilly.
But Senate President Jordan Johnson of the 
Gator Party felt the call for Reilly’s impeach-
ment was a publicity stunt. 
“This stuff, the last time we heard about 
it was the last campaign,” he said. “I don’t think there’s any doubt as to the motives.”Reilly: Resolution claims not valid enough for impeachmentCENSUS , from page 1
REILLY , from page 1CHARGES , from page 1
NewsLocal
Reilly
“The salmonella outbreak has 
had minimal impact on our ven -
dors and the university.”
Lionel Dubay
UF’s director of business services divisionThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009
Opinions
Reader responseALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionsEditorial
Nicole Safker
EDITORKristin BjornsenRachel RoyMANAGING EDITORSDan Seco
OPINIONS EDITOR
198 TOTAL VOTES
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org7% YES93% NOToday’s question:  Would you want to party with Sean ‘Diddy’ Combs?Tuesday’s question: Would Oprah 
make a good president?‘Souper’ Stimulus
Barack’s budget plans
are mmm-mmm-good
Column
Obama’s religion a Constitutional rightBudget Bowl
President Barack Obama has been given a number 
of religious titles in the past year, ranging from  “secular progressive” to  “secret Muslim,” yet all 
the while he has professed to be a Protestant Christian. Rather than delving into Obama’s religion, let’s start with an easier question:
Who is Michael Newdow?
You probably don’t recognize the name, but you’ve all 
heard of him. Newdow, better known as  “that guy,” is an 
attorney best known for his work to remove the words  
“under God” from the Pledge of Allegiance and “In God 
We Trust” from U.S. currency.
Despite failures in all of his attempts, Newdow was at 
it again as recently as this month — this time attempting to remove  “so help me God” from the presidential oath 
at the inauguration.
Even with the support of numerous individuals and 
groups, Newdow once again failed to have those words 
stricken from the inaugural oath.  
Mr. Newdow, why do you keep trying?You’re not going to win on constitutional grounds. 
The Constitution was drafted by an overwhelmingly Christian group to protect the freedom of religion, not freedom from it. The separation of church and state is no-
where to be found in the Constitution. The Constitution 
only prevents Congress from passing laws “respecting an establishment of religion.”
Congress didn’t pass a law to force anyone to say these 
things; they are said out of free will. It would be an un-constitutional compromise of free speech for any court to tell us otherwise. You would think that alone would be enough religious controversy for one inauguration. Wrong.Yet another conflict started when 
Obama chose Rick Warren, a fiscally liberal, socially conservative evan-
gelical preacher, to give the inaugu-
ral prayer.
This sent Obama’s pro-gay-
marriage support base up in arms. 
How could Obama possibly choose 
a preacher who didn’t support gay 
marriage when he spent his campaign issuing pro-gay 
rhetoric like “my religious beliefs say that marriage is 
something sanctified between a man and a woman?“
Obama tried to soften the blow to his supporters by 
asking openly gay bishop Gene Robinson to say another prayer, but the gesture was met with a lukewarm recep-
tion.  Then Warren offended more people by committing 
yet another blatant act of intolerance. He dared to use the name of Jesus Christ! In a Christian prayer!
Atheists, secular humanists and other groups who fan-
cy themselves “progressive” need to get over the fact that some people are, in fact, Christian. Religion is a large part of many people’s lives, including Obama’s by his own admission. People like to talk about their religion and express it publically. And the Constitution’s free exercise 
clause gives them every right to do this.  
If Michael Newdow wants people to refrain from talk-
ing about their religion, he should find a better way to 
do it than filling the court system with frivolous public-
ity-stunt lawsuits that attempt to deprive people of their 
rights. Thankfully, we have the Constitution to prevent him from doing that.
Johnathan Lott is a political science and economics sopho-
more. His column appears on Thursdays. Johnathan Lott
letters@alligator.org
Put away the government cheese, the House just passed 
President Barack Obama’s stimulus package to the tune of $819 billion.
Wednesday evening saw what appeared to be a big win 
for the Obama administration, as a vote of 244-188 gave his plan the green light.
While Obama shouldn’t exactly stay awake at night ques-
tioning why no Republicans supported the bill, the Editorial 
Board can’t help but wonder why there was no love from 
across the aisle?
Regardless, the Democrats’ strength in numbers allowed 
for the stimulus package to pass in Congress, which gives us the opportunity to start discussing how the money will be spent.
Based on reports from CNN, the Obama stimulus pack-
age will highlight four distinct areas of need, ranging from tax cuts to creating jobs.
What we really like is the fact that almost $150 billlion 
may end up being spent on education. Not to mention the $20 billion to help feed the hungry with increased support for food banks as well as expanded lunch programs.
The Editorial Board extends a warm congratulations to 
Obama for taking a proactive approach in addressing the 
economic criss afflicting the nation.
Heck, Obama’s been in office for just over a week, yet it 
seems like he already has quite the handle on things.
By potentially providing $300 million in tax cuts for citi-
zens and businesses as well as creating as many as four mil-
lion jobs for Americans, the stimulus package may prove to be the proverbial chicken soup for the economic soul.
Typically synonymous with Super Bowl week, celebrity-filled bashes 
may be taking a backseat to the game thanks to the sput-
tering economy.
Perhaps the most highly 
recognizable party from year 
to year, Playboy’s slump-ing circulation forced Hugh Hefner to cancel his annual gala in favor of a scaled-down affair. 
Hef isn’t the only one 
coming to terms with a de-pleted bank account, as nei-ther Nike nor TIME will be partying it up on Florida’s left coast this weekend.
Let the Editorial Board 
shed a tear for all the A-listers and socialites who are feeling the effects of the 
recession perhaps for the 
very first time.
Don’t fret, Gator Nation; 
there will be more than a few soirees in Tampa if you are on the fence about mak-ing the drive down I-75.
It’s hardly a surprise, but legendary partyer Sean “Diddy” Combs, who prob-ably doesn’t know how to spell r-e-c-e-s-s-i-o-n, plans to throw what should prove 
to be quite the blowout.
Dubbed “The Good Life 
Experience,” Diddy’s three-
day event will feature the ul-timate in opulence as party decor reportedly includes a plethora of diamonds and pearls. 
And the strangest event 
of the week? A party hosted by boxer Antonio Tarver and Nelly at a science museum. The Editorial Board must concede we had no idea ce-lebrities go for the whole wine and dinosaur thing.
So maybe you won’t 
be rubbing elbows with 
Playboy bunnies or compli-
menting Hef on his smoking jacket, but we can assure you Kim Kardashian and her sis-ters will be running around somewhere.
They count as celebrities, 
right?THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Columnist takes himself too seriously
As a recovering Christian, I find some 
of the proclamations of faith in Turlington 
Plaza extremely hard to swallow. I do not understand how screaming “You’re all gonna die” is supposed to bring people to Christ. It is a ludicrous idea. 
I found the picture on the front page of 
the Alligator to be incontestably appropri-ate. I applaud the person who deemed the picture front-page worthy. When I saw the poster stating “Homo sex is sin” and a “threat to national security,” I could not help but laugh. This person deserved to be called “Richard Simmons’ biggest fan.”  
This wasn’t blatant disrespect for 
Christian tenets. It was an emphasis on the hilarity of the lengths to which some go in sharing their convictions. Nobody of any creed, Christians, Muslims and Buddhists 
included, should take themselves so seri-
ously.  
Molly Mosher
4LS
Column lacks understanding of Bible
Dean Early’s column pertaining to the 
front-page photo on the January 22 issue of the Alligator is rife with contradiction, both in theology and logic.
The opinion presented is that the Alligator 
prints hateful journalism about Christianity that specifically villainizes the religion and those who practice it. He goes on to say that he tries to “avoid the Alligator as much as 
possible.” How can one form an accurate 
opinion of the content of a periodical when 
that person does not even read it?
Early is later quoted saying that J.K. has 
the “freedom to preach about the ills and abomination and immorality of homosexual behavior.” He is correct in that J.K. has the right to speak his mind, but this is a two-way street. Scott Paterson is entitled to the same rights as J.K., including the right to ex-press himself, which is exactly what he did. 
If Early and the throng of angered citizens 
he seems to think are behind him want an apology from Paterson, are we not entitled to one from J.K. and Early for expressing their opinions? Do I now have to apologize for even writing this? 
I also must have missed the memo circu-
lating around campus about the conspiracy to overthrow the Christians, because I have not seen or heard anything about this sinis-ter scheme.
Apparently Early thinks UF professors 
view Christians as “mindless robots that can’t think for themselves.” He goes on to speak for them, claiming they believe “the Bible is inaccurate, unreliable, bigoted, hate-filled and outdated.”
As far as I have been able to comprehend, 
his entire argument is littered with inac-curate information, bigoted, close-minded thought and hate-filled rhetoric. 
The Bible is dragged into his fallacious 
article numerous times, as a bulwark to hide behind and avoid the piercing gaze of truth. I was under the impression we were sup-posed to love our fellow man, not condemn them or threaten them with violence. Early seems to be of the opinion that if someone disagrees with his viewpoint, violence and diatribes about the superiority of Christian thought are the answer.
Does he really believe Tim Tebow, whom 
he seems to hold in high regard, would re-sort to such tactics? How dare he try to lump an outstanding person like Tebow in with himself.
For someone who claims to have strong 
religious fiber, the anger and hate which permeate throughout Early’s column are staggering. He could easily turn the other cheek as Christianity teaches if he truly be-lieved in his faith. Why is it that when some-one makes incredulous claims we are able to 
shrug them off and even laugh about them, 
but when there is at least a grain of truth, we become angered and defensive? 
Perhaps we should be the ones consoling 
this man, for it seems he is the one who has lost his way, not from faith, but reality.
Michael Herrmann 
Gainesville resident
Meaning of Christianity misconstrued
I would like to send out a newsflash to 
Dean Early, as he is the embodiment of rot-ten Christianity. As a Christian, he should know that we are not called to be respected. We are not to be honored or given the same leeway as other religions.
That said, his article was the most hate-
ful, bigoted garbage I’ve read in some time. I would ask the UF campus to not take his words as representative of the greater Christian population. 
Perhaps Early should pick up his Bible, 
as he will find his behavior closer to that of the Pharisees than Christ. The world, or Gainesville, is not waiting for the “message” to get out in hateful and insensitive ways. 
They’ve heard it all before. They are wait-
ing for us to show them something different, intriguing, and thought-provoking. What 
Early has done with his self-martyring, 
hypocritical tirade is further alienate his community from the most incredible thing in existence. 
I, as a Christian, will not join him in his 
quest for pseudo-justice. I will, however, join the homosexuals in their offense at an unloving, bigoted Turlington preacher, for 
that is damage worth repairing. As far as 
I’m concerned, Dean Early, your convoluted, 
violent religion, complete with all its rules and violence, can go to hell. 
I’ll be here, with my Bible and my Jesus, 
treading quietly against the tsunamis of ha-
tred you so readily dish out. 
Elliot Morgan
4LS
Religious tirade needs no response
I would like to honestly thank you for 
printing Dean Early’s column detailing how 
aggrieved the whole religion of Christianity 
is, due to your front page photo showing a 
student flicking off a “preacher.”
I was going to write a sarcastic letter. 
Then, I changed my mind and decided to 
write a serious letter, picking apart Early’s 
loosely coagulated arguments one by one. 
But I no longer think that’s necessary. 
What needs to be debunked? What really 
needs comment? Nothing does. Early’s let-ter speaks for itself. Straight from his heart 
- whenever it actually does beat, mind you. 
Do I have to point out how Christians are not 
a single collective entity? That it is ridiculous 
to think that a slight against any Christian 
is a slight against them all? If a Christian is 
executed for committing murder, does that mean every Christian dies?
Must I point to the parts of the letter 
where it rambles on and on and on? Should 
I even bother to tell Dean that those “proph-
ets” are no more Christians than Sigfried is 
a successful tiger trainer? Need it be typed 
down that they incite college kids to strike 
them on videotape, so that these “prophets” 
can sue them and have them kicked out of school? And, if it is not this one, then the 
others that preach the same detritus do so?
No. None of this needs to be said. I think 
that once Early started to threaten to beat 
Christian values into UF students, he al-
ready stopped being a Christian.
Garrett Clifford
Gainesville resident
the AVENUEThursday
  In case you don’t check Ticketmaster as often as you check your Fa-
cebook, there’s no shortage of live music in Florida in the upcoming 
months. Whether in town or just a short road trip away, these shows are 
worth all of the damage your vocal chords will inevitably endure. 
 1) John Legend, Feb. 2, Jacksonville
A singer that can actually sing is hard enough to find these days. Throw a piano 
into the mix and you have John Legend. 
 2) Ne-Yo, Feb. 10, Gainesville in the Stephen C. O’Connell Center
Even if Ne-Yo isn’t your “sexy love,” how can you pass up a concert                           
that’s on campus?
3) Dr. Dog, Feb. 21, Orlando
If you haven’t heard of Dr. Dog yet, there is no better way to scope them out than 
a live performance. It won’t hurt a bit.  
4) Jesse McCartney, March 5, Orlando
Jesse McCartney is (surprisingly) not 12 anymore, but his music hasn’t matured 
as well as his good looks. Just be prepared to fight off a sea of 13-year-old girls.   
5)Britney Spears, March 8, Tampa
She’s back (again). Don’t miss her first arena tour in five years, in case she goes 
crazy again. 
—   ALISON SCHWARTZ 
[concerts ]
 [
the A - LIST
Dan Seco reviews Leo and Kate’s new drama 
Revolutionary Road, and columnist Erik Voss dishes on drunken conversations.
Robert Hilson reviews the new Late of the Pier, Thom Yorke and Glasvegas albums.
Ashley Ross shares seductive tips and tricks to snag a valentine in time for the holiday. Also, Henry Taksier in-terviews Tomas Kalnoky, the creative leader of the New  Jersey ska band Streetlight Manifesto.
12:11:“I can’t stand Angelina and all her babies. Maddox 
probably thought he hit the jackpot, but then Angelina 
proceeded to take him to every other Third World coun-
try on the planet. He’s probably like. ‘Bitch, when the 
fuck are we getting to Malibu?’”
— E! TV host Chelsea Handler told an audience at 
Carnegie Hall this past weekend
09:JANUARY 29, 2009
www.alligator.org/the_avenue/
Matt Butcher (pictured) and 
the Revolvers, along with 
The Ones to Blame and    
The Deep and Holy Sea 
will perform at Common 
Grounds on Saturday night. 
Doors open at 9 p.m. and 
tickets are $6.
See Story, Page 9.
Photo courtesy to the Alligator
09: As the youngest member of a family of 
seven, I was the last one to start drinking 
alcohol. 
My tardiness out of the womb made me 
the “designated son,” which included clean-ing up the house, listening to drunk rants and driving home from the 
liquor store. 
Yes, the liquor store. In 
my family, we open presents 
early.
Growing up in this fashion 
led to an ability to interact with drunk people in a way most people don’t have the patience to. In fact, you could 
say I have more success with drunks than 
with sober people.
I don’t know what this says about me, 
but I try not to think about it. 
A positive side effect: success with 
women. I remember one instance in which I shared a couch with a theater major in a cocktail dress.
“Oh my God,” she observed. “Your face 
is so adorable!”
Hours earlier, this mess of smeared mas-
cara and moppy hair was probably a cutie. Now, her head hung loosely on her neck as if 
she was a fresh corpse. By the coats of glaze 
over her eyes and the tequila on her breath, I could tell she had a few too many. Now, some skeptics out there doubt a 
drunk’s sincerity. What those skeptics fail to see is the unrestrained honesty people ex-
hibit after a few shots of truth serum. 
How many family reunions have been 
ruined after Aunt Martha has one too many 
mimosas and kicks off that Dad-always-loved-you-better speech? 
Besides, my mom says I 
have the face of an angel. 
Desperate enough to ac-
cept any compliment, no 
matter the sobriety of the 
source, I humored Tequila Breath for a short while. 
“You know, faces say 
a lot about what a person 
looks like,” I informed her. 
“That’s so true!” 
Cut to an hour later: the group of drunks 
around me burst into laughter. I successfully 
turned the couch into a drunk-haven. Even 
Tequila Breath felt comfortable enough to pass out on my shoulder. It was like some glorious dream.
But a dream’s all it was. On the ride home 
(in which my sober friend found me consid-erably less interesting), I felt ashamed. Is that what it takes to get people to talk to me — getting them completely trashed? 
Hopefully soon I’ll be able to find a way 
to hold conversations with people without requiring them to impair their vision and judgment first.THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 9
The Internet has opened up new platforms for 
the musician and music lover. 
Grooveshark, a Gainesville company, is a Web-
based music application that aims to improve the 
connection between people and music. 
By providing on-demand access to music, as well 
as live performances, Grooveshark introduces the artist to the fan and vice versa. 
On Saturday at Common 
Grounds, Grooveshark is host-ing a show with Matt Butcher and the Revolvers, along with The Ones to Blame and The Deep and Holy Sea. Doors open 
at 9 p.m. and tickets are $6. 
The show is the first of 2009, and it will be one of 
the five or six shows Grooveshark puts on a year.  
Matt Butcher and the Revolvers is the headliner 
for this show. Matt Butcher, or MB, has no real ex-
pectations for the show other then to play well.
“Just playing live to people, that’s one of my fa-
vorite things to do,” he said. “As a songwriter too, it is a way for you to connect with a complete stranger. 
I feel a connection there, even though we’ve never 
talked before.”
The concert has been set up around the release of 
the 25-year-old singer-songwriter’s new album, “Me and My Friends.”
MB said he is very proud of the album because of 
its honest storytelling. 
“I picked songs that were the best fit and the most 
honest from my life,” he said. “Even before I put the 
record out, I already considered it a success because 
I liked it.”
Aside from his new album, Butcher is also look-
ing forward to seeing The Ones to Blame perform. The last time he performed with the quartet was when he was a part of a band called The Headens. 
Beth Condra, a writer and booking promoter for Grooveshark, said she saw the two artists perform a few years ago and thought they produced a good dynamic. 
“It had been a couple years since the two had 
played together and I thought it’d be really great to 
see them again on stage,” she said. “And then The 
Deep and Holy Sea really complements their style.”
Josh Bonnain, Grooveshark’s vice president of 
sales and marketing, wants the show to be a fun experience not just for he audience, but also for the 
musicians and producers. 
“If it wasn’t for entertainment 
we would all go crazy ,” Bonnain said. “Music really is an art form. 
You don’t appreciate an act until 
you see them actually perform-ing in front of you.”
The show was originally go-
ing to be at the end of December, 
but due to winter break and the lack of students in town, they decided to wait. 
“Every time we do a show we try to make sure 
it’ll impact the artist, so it helps the artist,” Bonnain 
said. “At the end of the day it gets people to associ-
ate a great experience with Grooveshark, and that’s what we want to provide.”
The show’s timing also harmonizes with The 
Deep and Holy Sea, who will be the opening act. It has been a couple of months since the Gainesville band has performed at home.  
“We have been doing a lot of recording, practic-
ing new material,” guitarist David Turbeville said. 
“We’ve been on tour for a while so I’m pretty excited 
to play in Gainesville with all our friends.” 
The band is also preparing to release its new al-
bum in spring. 
“I feel like there is a lot more continuity because 
everybody has been playing together for a while.”
Turbeville said fans could look forward to hear -
ing both new and old music at the show. 
“I think it’s going to kind of sort of draw a di-
verse group of people.”
Sarah Hsu / Alligator Staff
The Cab performs at a free show at the Swamp Restaurant on 
West University Avenue Tuesday afternoon.I picked songs that were 
the best fit and the most 
honest from my life.
Matt Butcher
singer-songwriter““
Growing up in this fashion led to an ability to interact 
with drunk people in a way most people don’t have the patience to. ““Grooveshark gives free grooves
‘Revolutionary’ drama
reveals true life in suburbia
Unfortunate results tend to ensue 
when Hollywood moguls cast their 
significant others in leading roles.
For Sam Mendes, it doesn’t hurt be-
ing married to Kate Winslet.
The acclaimed director of “Road to 
Perdition” brings to life Richard Yates’ 
novel “Revolutionary Road” – a 1950s 
prequel of sorts to Mendes’ masterpiece “American Beauty.”
Reuniting the co-
stars of the box of-fice smash “Titanic,” the film focuses on the lives of Frank 
(Leonardo DiCaprio) 
and April Wheeler (Winslet) as they settle into the com-forts of suburban living.
But therein lies the problem — both 
Frank and April suffer from wander -
lust as their dreams don’t necessarily include owning the big house on the hill with the white picket fence.
April clings to the fantasy of putting 
her mundane life aside and uproot-ing her family to move to Paris – alas, playing the lead at the neighborhood theater must suffice for the time being.
Bogged down by a monotonous 
desk job in Manhattan, Frank holds lit-tle regard for his position, as a typical day at the office places more emphasis on where to eat lunch than emptying 
his inbox.
To the outsiders and perhaps 
even those who think they know the 
Wheelers best, Frank, April and their two children epitomize the quintessen-
tial 1950s family.
Sadly, there is no happiness at the 
well-kept house 
on Revolutionary 
Road. Instead, the 
film tracks a hope-less quest for a re-vised American 
Dream — ultimately 
leading to dire con-sequences.
Beyond the stel-
lar efforts of the two leads, Michael 
Shannon delivers a gripping perfor -
mance as John Givings, the medically 
troubled son of the Wheelers’ real es-tate agent. His brutal honesty provides 
a stark contrast to a world willing to 
subscribe to self-delusion.
Revolutionary Road offers a bleak, 
if not sobering, account of how life in a bedroom community can prove to be a 
trite existence.
For many, the plight of Frank and 
April Wheeler may not deviate so far 
from their own.DAN SECO   OPINIONS EDITOR
MARY MANCHESS                                            
AVENUE CONTRIBUTING WRITER
‘Trashed talk’ eases convos
Revolutionary 
Road offers a bleak, 
if not sobering, account 
of how life in a bedroom 
community can prove to 
be a trite existence.““ERIK VOSS   AVENUE WRITERGLASVEGAS
GLASVEGAS
Glasvegas takes its name from 
hometown Glasgow and Sin City, which means that the Scottish quartet has an uncanny knack for haphazardly conjoining words and musical trends. To the sur -
prise of no one, the NME crowd has anointed these Clash look-alikes London’s latest and great -
est craze du jour as This Month’s Beatles manage a sound that pillages from almost every English musical movement of the last three decades. Shoe -
gaze grandeur? Check. Ringing Edge-style guitars? Check. The Smiths’ melodrama? Oh yeah, it’s there -- most shamelessly in the form of “Lonesome Swan, ” a hackneyed rip of “I Know It’s Over” with a guitar line set to the latter song’s “Then why are you on your own tonight?” melody. Particularly grotesque is the Joe Strummer knock-off “Stabbed” that repeats ad nauseam, “I’m gonna get stabbed. ” THOM YORKE
THE ERASER REMIXES
The beat-challenged white man’s 
attempt to appeal to please cool urban people, the remix album al-ready exists as something of a su-perfluous curiosity, but gains an added aura of “WTF?” whenever 
someone as supremely talented as Thom Yorke indulges in its futile pursuits. It is safe to say that each and every one of these nine edits resurfaces inferior to its predecessor, but The Bug’s adapta-tion of “Harrowdown Hill” takes the butcher-job crown as it (for lack of a better term) erases the track’s devastating electric guitar coda. Elsewhere, Various’ “Analyse” rendition kills any sense of rhythm with stuttering drum machine percussion and layers of reverb. Yorke includes two versions of “Black Swan, ” which would seem laughably un-justified if not for the chorus’s eloquent summation of the remix: “This is f----d up/ f----d up. ”LATE OF THE PIER
FANTASY BLACK CHANNEL
Worlds collide in Castle Doning-
ton, England. Devo grows up a punk band; disco hones its chops at CBGB; black leather sprouts se -
quins. Late of the Pier wears the side effects. A four-piece from the 
British Isles, the young new wave act shows off all manner of mishmashed influences, piecing togeth-er a sound that filters the ’80s’ choice bits through a laptop, distorts them to hell and discards every -
thing else. This cut-and-paste style makes room 
for swirling synths, Nintendo-bleep percussion, 
even Sabbath-lite riff rock (“Heartbeat”). But these secondary players all feed off the band’s bread and butter: the almighty groove, which achieves 
a heightened state in the form of the menacing 
electro-blast called “Whitesnake. ” It’s a song that 
unlocks imaginative, other-dimension scenarios – two-steppers take over Studio 54; Madge learns guitar; hipsters dance to power chords.10, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009 THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 11
CD REVIEWS  ROBERT HILSON   AVENUE  WRITER
13Merlion
Join us and experience 
afternoon tea time! Special selection from British and Asian style teas. Variety of tea appetizers served with a pot of tea of your choice. Over 24 types of tea available. Seating available for parties for up to 50 people. Private rooms 
available. Tea time between 
noon and 5pm. Free wireless internet access.3610 SW 13th St. 376-8998www.merlionrestaurant.net
Café Gardens
Café Gardens has been just across from campus since 1976. This quaint landmark establishment with award winning courtyard dining is perfect for any date or gathering. Open 7 days. For live music schedule, call 376-2233 1643 NW 1st Ave
Gator Dawgs
Check us out. We have over 20 styles of hot dogs to choose from. Chicago style, a frito hot dog, a Colombia hot dog, etc. and we come up with new ones all the time. Our burgers are prepared fresh daily and cooked to order. Our deli sandwiches come with over 
1/4 lb of meat and your choice 
of toppings. New vegetarian cuisine: veggie dogs, veggie buns, and veggie chili. We serve beer, too. For delivery to see a full menu - check us out at Gatorfood.com. We are located at 1023 W. University Ave. 352-378-4353. Call ahead for pick up. 
Great Outdoors Restaurant
Voted Best New Restaurant in Florida! Our award winning menu includes fabulous steaks, Elk, Bison, Duck, Maple Plank salmon, and even gatortail! Our Harris Ranch burgers, signature salads, and homemade soups are fantastic. 
Wood burning ﬁ  replace, live 
bands on the patio, two full service bars. Drive to Historic High Springs, only 25 minutes from campus! 386-454-1288www.greatoutdoorsdining.com
Peach Valley Café
We specialize in scratch cooking that’s available for dine in or take out for all your breakfast and lunch needs. This sister restaurant to Stonewood Grill and Tavern has a breakfast menu that includes everything from eggs benedict, a wide selection of 
gourmet omelets, pancakes, 
french toast, mufﬁ  ns and more. Be sure to try our famous Buttermilk Drop Biscuits & Sausage Gravy, and our one of a kind Sack of Orchard Fresh Apple Fritters, made from Granny Smith apples, tossed in a blend of cinnamon and 
sugar. We also offer breakfast 
on the go with our breakfast 
wrap, egg sandwich and 
seasonal fruit bowl. For lunch, enjoy one of our valley fresh salads, sandwiches, burgers or gourmet wraps. You can’t go wrong with the Pine Grove Chicken sandwich, made with a fresh, char-grilled chicken breast, smoked bacon and melted cheese. Our burgers are hand packed and made from 
fresh choice sirloin, NY strip 
and ﬁ  let mignon. Our popular Sequoia Burger is made with caramelized red onions, sautéed mushrooms, smoked bacon and melted provolone cheese. We also serve a variety of gourmet wraps, perfect for when you’re on the go. Our line of beverages includes specialty coffees, beer and wine. Take out is available (Call ahead to order), as well as catering and party platters. Open 7 AM - 8 PM every day. We’re located at 3275 S.W. 
34th St., next to Carrabbas and 
behind Hooters. 352-376-1834 
THE SWAMP RESTAURANT
The Swamp offers something for everyone; signature wings, fresh dishes and an atmosphere sure to please. Sit outside and enjoy cool misting systems on cozy outside decks or sit inside and see the best memorabilia in town. Swamp, daily offers lunch, dinner and drink specials and a happy hour from 4 to 8pm. Don’t forget your curbside service and remember The Swamp always caters to you! www.swamprestaunrant.com1642 W. Univ. Ave37-SWAMP
Liquid Ginger Asian Grille & Teahouse
101 SE 2nd Pl. (behind 
Hippodrome Theatre Downtown) Offering Asian 
Fusion Cuisine in a relaxing 
atmosphere. Wed and Thurs 
night $4 martinis. Open for 
lunch: Mon-Fri 11:30-2:30 Sun 
12-5 and dinner Sun-Thurs 
5-10pm Fri-Sat 5-10:30 pm. 
Call 371-2323 for a reservation.
David’s BBQ
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, 
Eat-in, Take-out, Drive Thru, Catering or Tailgating. Everybody loves David’s BBQ because, unlike ordinary BBQ places, David’s cooks over a real wood ﬁ  re! Eat where the locals eat! Voted #1 BBQ in 
Gainesville! Approved caterer 
for UF’s Emerson Alumni Hall. Mon. thru Sat. 7am ‘til 9pm. Sundays open at 8am. Drive Thru ‘til 9:30pm seven days! 352-373-2002. Have David’s BBQ delivered by Gatorfood.com. FREE WIFI 5121 NW 39th Ave. www.davidsBBQ.com
Bagels Unlimited
Serving Gainesville for over 25 years. BU is a tradition of sorts. We offer many breakfast platters cooked fresh, featuring omelettes, eggs any style, large pancakes, French Toast, Knishes, 17 varieties of bagels and a large assortment of 
spreads. Also available are tofu 
and tempeh. Over 100 bottles of hot sauces are available for sampling.
1222 West University Ave.Open everyday from 6:30am-3pm.Golden Buddha
Where eating wells means 
eating healthy... Gainesville’s 
best Chinese food. Now with more sizes available with more vegetarian options. As always, generous portions, fast service & super lunch/dinner combos. FREE DELIVERY.613 NW 16th Ave. 372-4282 or 380-9076. Full menu and specials @ 
GoldenBuddhaSpecial.com
Maude’s Classic  
Coffee
A gourmet coffee shoppe with a wide array of desserts and treats made daily. We also serve delicious sandwiches, salads, appetizers, beer, & 
wine. Much of our menu is 
vegan or vegetarian friendly. Bring your own CLEAN 12 oz. cup and get a daily brew for a buck. Indoor and outdoor seating available. Free wireless and parking behind the building. Downtown Gainesville 336-9646.
Omi’s Kitchen
Gainesville’s Best in Cuban, Italian, and Mexican Cuisine. New menu items prepared daily! Come try our famous Cuban sandwiches and slow roasted pork. We cater 7 days a week! Visit us in the Tower 
Square 2 miles from Butler 
Plaza at 5729 SW 75th Street.373-0301
Virtually Cuban Restaurant & Internet Cafe
BREAKFAST-LUNCH-DINNER-CATERINGLocated at 2409 SW 13th St just 1/4 mile from Shands Hospital. We specialize in authentic Cuban food. Breakfast specials 
are cooked to order and 
start at $3.99, Lunch special sandwiches start at $6.65 and entree sepcials at $7.40. Serving a variety of sandwiches pressed on fresh Cuban bread. Ropa Vieja, Chicken Fricase, Picadillo, Roast Pork, Bistec de Palomilla, Pork Chops, 
Shrimp Creole and Scampi 
are just a few of the entrees. Also available are empanadas, Cuban pastries, croquettes, ﬂ  an, guava cheesecake and other Cuban delicacies. Open Monday-Friday 6:45am-9pm, Saturday 11am-9pm, Sunday closed. For the latest menu and hours please visit our website virtuallycuban.com or call 336-4125
TCBY
Please visit one of our 3 
locations to enjoy real frozen 
yogurt products. We offer the lowest calorie and low fat soft serve in Gainesville that tastes great and is good for you. Wafﬂ  e Cone Wednesday from 5-8pm. Locations at 34th Street 
next to Crispers, Thornebrook 
Village at 43rd Street and Town of Tioga. Check us out on 
Facebook.
Caribbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat and oxtail. Opened Mon thru Thurs 11am- 7:30pm, Fri and Sat 11am-11:45pm. 
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.         
352-374-8111
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville’s most 
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi bowls, and noodle bowls in a hip, trendy atmosphere.Two great locations with outside eating. Open every day for carryout or dine-in. Call our 
Newberry Rd. location at 377-
8686 or our Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.Cabana Cove 
Caribbean Grille
Open for Lunch & Dinner$6.99 Daily Lunch SpecialsWorld Famous Conch FrittersG’ville’s Nicest Outdoor DiningSunday Brunch 10am-2pmw/Complimentary Mimosas
$4 Martini Menu Wednesdays
$4 Mojito Menu Thursdays
Full Service Catering
$5 off next $25 purchase
With This Ad
352-377-3278
www.cabanacove.net2410 NW 43rd St. Gainesville, Fl. 32606Located Behind Garden
Gate Nursery
Green Plantains
Try out Monfongo, chofan & 
grill mojito chicken. Don’t miss out $4.95 dinner & soda on Thursday, student night from 
4pm-10pm. Show Gator ID. 
Visit us at 5150 SW 34th Street at the new Publix Shopping Center 7 days a week. We cater. 352-378-1930. Happy Hour Mon-Fri 4-7pm. 2 for 1 Beer Special.www.greenplantains.com
Emiliano’s Cafe
Come taste our Latin cuisine with original tapas and a wide selection of  Mojitos and imported wines and beers. Perfect for social or business gatherings. The Sundowner daily happy hour from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. features 2-4-1 sangria and mimosas, $2 imported 
beers, 1/2 price wines by the 
bottle and $1 off all tapas. Try our Sunday Brunch with endless mimosas from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. SE 1st Ave. For reservations call 352-375-7381 www.emilianoscafe.comMildred’s Big City Food
When you eat at Mildred’s you’re investing in your community! We buy more local food than ALL other restaurants combined. Our Food is NOT Processed. Start Living Healthy! Fresh Food Made From Scratch! LOCAL. ORGANIC. GOOD.
Inexpensive specialty cakes!
JUST MINUTES FROM CAMPUS-ON THE BUS ROUTE 3445 W. University Ave.371-1711www.mildredsbigcityfood.com 
New Deal Café
Keepin’ it fresh. Keepin’ it real. We buy fresh products: Meat, Fish & Veggies NO ONE comes close to our commitment to  sustainable agriculture. Best Burger in Town!!! This 12oz MONSTER is the best BANG for your BUCK!! Try Gainesville’s Undiscovered 
Diamond in the Ruff. Stellar 
Martini Menu & Beer Selection! 371-4418 
TI AMO!  
Mediterranean restaurant & barWhere FOOD & LOVE Meet! Southern Living Magazineagrees, “[the chef] adds visual ﬂ  air to every dish to make it as good-looking as it is ﬂ  avorful.”  NEW Happy Hour Specials! Everyday 4pm-7pm
There’s something for 
everyone! Small and Large Plates for Tapas Style Dining. Amazing party space,affordable prices & terriﬁ  c service. Visit www.tiamogainesville.com 12 SE 2nd Ave.  378-6307Mellow Mushroom
We’re not sure what is more unique about the Mellow Mushroom--the prices themselves or the value that you get for such reasonable prices. You can eat there on a student budget, but the quality of ingredients and the love that go into every item is good 
enough to share with your 
mom. Or boyfriend.  There are plenty of salads and you can build your own or enjoy locally produced tempeh, avocado, and teriyaki on the one hand, or a loaded pie like the mighty meaty or the 10-ingredient house special.  You might say there’s something there 
for every one of your four boyfriends. Just make sure everyone knows it’s your restaurant before you take them. Lunch & Dinner 7 Days, Outside Seating, Unique Beers. Call for speciﬁ  c hours and delivery information.
Book Lover’s Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine. Natural, organic, fair trade, meals, sandwiches, soups, home-baked desserts. Brunch Weekends, Cupcake Mon., Greek Special Wed 6pm, Ethiopian Thurs 6pm. c.cards 10am-9pm.  505 NW 13th St.   384-0090
Saigon Legend
Delicious traditional Vietnamese cuisine. Pho, Banh-Cuon, Banh Xeo at great prices. Next to Holiday Inn. Dine in or take out. Catering available. M-S 10:30am - 9:30pm S 11:30am-9pm. 374-0934 1228 W Univ. Ave.1
2
3
4
56789
10
11
12
the guide to
AfternoonTea TimeLocal& Organic
AmericanChinese
Coffee Shop
CubanCuban
MediterraneanVegetarian
VietnameseAmerican American
Asian
Barbeque
Jamaican
JapanesePizza
Breakfastand LunchFrozenTreatsLatinChinese
LatinFusionKey WestStyle
For more info on
 the guide to Dining Out, 
contact Madeline Ross, 
Alligator Advertising 
376.4482Dining OutsexThere are only about two weeks left 
until that dreaded holiday, the one full 
of an obnoxious amount of pink, with 
roses everywhere and events planned to 
remind you that you’re single. 
Oh yes, Valentine’s Day. You either 
love it, or you hate it. And most people 
usually hate it; so don’t feel bad if you’re 
slightly bitter. 
But just because you don’t have a 
valentine right now, doesn’t mean that you can’t have a valentine in a couple of 
weeks. 
There are plenty of ways for you to 
find someone out there who is worthy of 
fully stocking your cabinet with scented 
massage oils and body chocolate. 
What you must remember, though, is 
that it is not going to come easy. Don’t 
think your lame pickup lines are going to do the trick. Around V-Day, people 
tend to be a bit more sensitive. 
Girls can be easier to seduce because 
they are lonely, or they can be extremely 
stubborn. Guys might be tentative to let 
someone seduce them out of the fear 
of being dragged into an awkward “Be mine” situation. 
But regardless of loneliness, stub-
bornness or fear of attachment, play your 
cards right and you will have plenty to 
do on the 14th.
First thing to remember is not to go 
after the unattainable. The whole shoot-
for-the-moon thing does not really work 
in these kinds of situations. If you are re-ally looking for some fun, and you know they are out of your reach, don’t even try. It’s crunch time, people. 
So before you go out, take time to 
make yourself look sexy. Guys, this means dressing sharp and confident in colors that make your best features 
stand out.  
Girls, let’s make this very clear: you 
can look sexy without looking slutty. It’s 
okay to show a little skin, but don’t ex-
pose too much. Plus, if you’re going to 
seduce a guy, you want to seduce one who wants you, not just your body. 
Regardless of what you are wearing, 
though, it is most important to be confi-
dent. Don’t necessarily play hard to get 
— that silly game is just annoying to ev-eryone — but don’t be overly available because everyone loves a little chase. 
You’ve got to act and feel seductive for 
others to think you are. 
Of course there are the normal ways 
to seduce someone. Flirt your heart out, bat your eyelashes or flash a smile. 
These are all clearly easy to do and usu-
ally work well. But they are far too over -
done and boring.With V-Day right around the corner, 
you’ve got no time to waste. You can work some interesting magic that will 
make your skills stand out above the 
rest. 
Scents are very sexually sensitive, and 
there are plenty that can help you reel in your bait with one simple whiff. 
The first tip is to make sure you smell 
good, which is why cologne and perfume are a good idea. It has been proven that men are attracted to scents like lavender, 
vanilla and even pumpkin pie. 
But there are sneakier ways than 
smelling nice that can make you as se-
ductive as ever.
There are many foods out there that 
tend to cause arousal. Foods that cause sexual excitement are known as aphro-disiacs, and oysters are at the top of the list. 
Serve these, or even better, feed them 
to your love interest and you’ll have them literally eating out of the palm of your hand.
So, what are you waiting for? The 
clock is ticking. Use these sexy seductive tricks to be sure you are not wallowing in self-pity on Valentine’s Day. It is time to use all of your best moves, best lines 
and best foods. 
But who knows, perhaps you won’t 
even need to go the extra mile to ensure 
a lover on V-Day. You could just meet that special someone, and regardless 
of how you smell or what foods you’re 
feeding them, you might just have them at “hello.”12, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009
on the avenueCruel Intentions
with STREETLIGHT 
MANIFESTO
HENRY TAKSIER       
AVENUE WRITER
ASHLEY ROSS   AVENUE WRITER
You’ve got to act and 
feel seductive for others to 
think you are.““
Streetlight Manifesto, New 
Jersey’s beloved third-wave ska 
band, will play Wednesday at 
Common Grounds. The show, which also features A Wilhelm Scream, The Swellers and The 
Stitch Up, begins at 7 p.m. Tickets 
are for $14.
Taksier interviewed Tomas 
Kalnoky, the band’s creative 
leader, who first gained fame as a member of Catch 22.  
Tell me about third-wave ska.Third wave ska? I don’t know. 
We’re just musicians. We’re not 
really concerned with the histories 
of genres and whatnot. We just make music and throw in every-thing we’ve grown up with: ska, 
punk.
What do you like to write songs 
about?Day-to-day, month-to-month, 
life. I try not to write too much 
about girls, drinking, generic stuff, 
because it’s all been done so many 
times. There’s no set plan for writ-
ing a song. We just write whatever comes out.
Do you have any favorite songs 
you’ve written throughout your career?That’s like asking a parent who his favorite kids are. How to find and seduce a valentineBeautiful 1,2 & 3 Beds
FREE Cable w/HBO & Internet
LOW Rates starting at $699
W/D in each unit!*Free Tanning!
We love pets: 372-8100
4-22-72-2
Available Today!
$0 Move In Fees! 
1/1-from $649*2/2-from $769*3/2-from $899
(352) 377-7401 * www.theboardwalkapt.com
4-22-08-72-2
ALL THE SPACE YOU NEED!
At the price you want
No Move-in Fees! Move in TODAY!
1, 1 w/den & 2 BRs - Reduced Rates!FREE UF parking * FREE Gym
Pets Welcome * 352-332-7401
4-22-72-2
PARKING
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-22-08-72-2
YOUR MOM...
...wants you to live here!
AMAZING DEALS!
1, 2, & 3 bdrms, W/D
Gated, Pet friendly, 
Immediate Move-in Specials
(352)372-0400
4-22-72-2
Three Pools!  Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis!  Business Center!
Billards Room!  Fitness Center w/ Free 
weights!  Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts!  Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, I-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!  
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$779 2/2-$930 3/3-$1115 
Washer/Dryer in ALL UNITS!
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-22-72-2
Affordable, Quiet, Comfortable
1’s from $539 * 2’s from $375/person
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
4-22-08-72-2
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Huge 4BR TH W/D inc.FREE UF Parking*FREE GymCall for specials 332-7401      4-22-72-2
Great Pet Place!
Waived Move-in Fees!
Free Cable w/HBO & Internet
W/D in Unit*Free Tanning!
Huge 1,2,3 Beds: 372-8100!
4-22-08-72-2
Downtown Luxury & Cash Back 4 Fall!
Too Good To Be True!
Perfect Location-Great Price
W/D*Wood Floors*Bring Your Pets!
Great parking-walk to bars-bike to UF
Reserve now! 338-0002
4-22-72-2
MUSEUM WALK
Gainesville’s Best Kept Secret
Leasing for Fall & NOW!
Luxury 2/2 THs and 3/3 Flats
FREE Cable, FREE Tanning, FREE Alarms
Walk to UF *379-WALK
4-22-72-2
THREE BLOCKS TO UF!
2br/1ba from $700
No Move-in Fees! Water included
Wood floors avail! Pets loved!
FREE Parking! 372-7111
4-22-08-72-214, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $695
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
4-22-08-72-2
 SPYGLASS 
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages,
Incl Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 10-5:30, Sat 11-2, Sun 12-4
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
4-22-08-72-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
No Move-in Fees! Pets loved.
Studios - $549, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
372-7111 Collegemanor.org
4-22-08-72-2
* Where in the world is Hidden Lake?
You may want to find these luxury apts!
3/3’s start at $425 person for Immediate
2/2’s are $490 person, Includes Cable & Internet
Call Now 352-374-3866
4-22-08-72-2
3 and 4 BRs STEPS TO UF
From $450/person
Pets loved! W/D avail
Pool, Open late
CollegeParkUF.com 371-7777
4-22-08-72-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $599 - 150 ft from UF!
$0 move-in fees! Move-in Today!
FREE parking! Pets Welcome!
372-7111 CollegeManor.org
4-22-08-72-2
GREAT ODIN’S RAVEN:
Our 4/4’s are classy!!
SIGN TODAY and get $720 off your lease!!
Rates starting at $509!!
CALL: 352.271.3131
GainesvillePlace.com
4-22-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-22-08-72-2
Gator Championship Special
Sign a lease and get up to $1,800 cash
Visit our models and sign for Fall 09
Huge, luxury 1br-4brs with TVs in kitchen
Beach-entry pool*free tanning*pet friendly
*352.376.0696 * www.EnclaveUF.com*
4-22-08-72-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 bed luxury condos for rent.
Granite tops, tall ceilings, private balcony, super quiet construction. $1600/mo.Call Eric Wild at 352-870-94534-22-72-2
4BR/2BA HISTORIC HOUSE
10 blocks to UF. Near downtown. High ceil-ing, wood floor, cent A/C, W/D, tons of char-acter. Avail Now  237 SW 4th Ave. $980/mo  352-214-9270   4-22-08-72-2WOODLAND VILLAS 
2BR units starting at 
$695. Gated community.
Private courtyards. 
M-F 10-6 Sat. 10-2
5950 SW 20th Ave.
888-803-7678
www.woodlandvillas.com
4-22-08-72-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on 
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to 
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824   2-3-08-50-2
WALK TO UF - AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
1BR/$495 to $999/mo
2BR/2.5BA $1499/mo
Gore Rabell Real Estate378-1387  Gore-Rabell.com4-22-08-72-2
WALK 2 BLOCKS TO UF
2b,1b * 1 block MidTown * 2 Car Decals, 
WiFi-Internet * Washer & Dryer. Sm pet ok. 
Jan-July 204 NW 18 St Manny 317 4408   
1-30-08-18-2
RIGHT PLACE, RIGHT PRICE, RIGHT NOW 
Steps from VA, Shands, Vet School & UF.
1 & 2 Bedrooms from $625. Grad student &
VA/Shands discounts Renovated units avail 
Union Properties@Summit House 376-9668
4-22-08-72-2
Spacious 1 & 2 & 3 bedrooms.starting at 
$525. $625 & $795. Different floor plans 
some with enclosed patios or balconies. 
Italian Tile, bedrooms carpeted, D/W, W/D hookups, verticals Central Heat & air. Lots of storage space. Near bus route .332-7700   
1-30-38-2
SUN ISLAND
1BRs from $580  2BRs from $650
Sun Bay  Sun Key  Sun Harbor
352-376-6720
4-22-08-72-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office1BR $515, 2BR $580Call for daily specials352-335-0420      1-30-08-48-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office.2BR $535Call for daily specials
352-335-0420   1-30-08-48-2
Available TODAY!
1/1: 620 sq ft--$629
2/2: 975 sq ft--$705
3/2 : 1096 sq ft - $866
Pinetreegardens.com * 376-4002
4-22-08-72-2
PET’S PARADISE
$375 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-10-08-37-2
100+ Apts: Walk to UF
On 1 website: www.ForRentNearUF.com
Photos & Virtual Tours for 100 apts near UF
Studios $625+ * 1BR $689+ * 2BR $839+
3BR $650/br+ * 4BR $479/br * 352-376-6223
4-22-72-2
2/1, 3 Blocks to UF
HW Floors, Centr. AC
Pet Friendly $850/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-76-2
BRAND NEW FOR AUG 09
CAMPUS VIEW PLACE2BR/2BA OR 3BR/3BALuxury Suites near Shands,Norman Hall, UF Sorority Row1240 SW 9th RoadPlease visit us at the model1185 SW 9th Road 1-5pmUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.campusviewplace.com   4-22-75-2LEASING FOR AUG 09
Quality Student HousingNear UF, Norman & Shands
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR Properties
List Avail Jan 20th!!
Please call or email us to
Receive a list before they
Are all gone!!!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
info@rentgainesville.com
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
CAMPUS VIEW SOUTH
Now Leasing 2BR/2BA
Luxury Dual Suites1185 SW 9th RD $1000/mo
Close to UF, Norman Hall
& Sorority Row.
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
WWW.RENTGAINESVILLE.COM
Check out all of our available listings!
1, 2, 3 & 4BR Properties.
Many have been drastically reduced
For immediate occupancy!
Union Properties 352-373-7578   4-22-75-2
NOW LEASING
2BR/1.5BA MidTown Apts
Parking/laundry hkups
Walk to UF $850/moUnion Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
PET FRIENDLY!
3BR/3BA w room to run
behind Hilton on SW 34th ST
Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2Available NOW
1BR/1BA w/laundry hkupsPets OK w/fee close to UFWater, sewer & trash incl.Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
$995/MO 3BR/2BA
NEAR UF!! w/d incl.2041 NW 7th PlaceLarge family room w/fireplaceHardwood floors & nice yardUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
CAMPUS EDGE CONDO
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile floor, W/D 
in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate. 239-250-
6149, 239-992-2449   1-30-08-19-2
5BR/3BA HOUSE
Block from law school, biking distance from 
UF.  W/D incl. Pets ok. Huge yard. $1600/mo. 
Call Solomon 262-3472   2-3-08-20-2
 2BR/2.5BA - $725/mo.
 2BR/1.5BA - $625/mo.
Off SW 34th St. Close to UF, Shands, shop-
ping & dining. Fenced yard, util room. private parking, pets ok. Call Solomon 262-3472   2-3-08-20-2
University Terrace West
1 Female needed $325/moLease through July 2009
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-72-2

&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHEDWALK TO SANTA FE
2bd/2ba $750/mo
1 car garage. dw, mw. wd incl
Fenced yard. Avail Now!Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com       4-22-72-2
Mallorca Unit near Royal Park
2BD/2.5BA Avail Now!!
Beautiful, luxury townhouse
w/ garage. $950/moUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-72-2
for available units or call
352-284-0316 / 352-281-0733
Houses, Duplexes, Condo, Townhouses. 
Walk/Bike/Bus to UF. Neat, clean, quality1-30-08-18-2
2BR/2BA Townhouse, small pets ok! private 
courtyard, icemaker, dishwasher, washer/
dryer hookup. walk to restraunts/ grocery. 
$799. mo. quiet neighbors. 318-0089   2-4-09-21-2
2bd/2.5ba townhouse. Pet friendly. Close 
to I-75 and bus route to main campus. New 
paint and 2 parking spaces. Rent is $750 a 
month plus $10 per pet. January free!! Call 
Rhonda at (727)-243-4688.    2-3-09-20-2
Rocky Point Apartments
3/2 W/D hkps Pets welcome!
$899.00 call now 352-376-1619  2-3-09-20-2
1BR apt. w/pvt gated courtyard located in 
small proffesional complex @ 3320 SW 23d St. Single, mature applicants only. New car-pet. $575.00/mo small pets ok @ $25.00/mo 352 377-2150 Please leave a msg.   2-4-09-20-2
POOL HOUSE AVAILABLE NOW!
Bike to UF 4BR/3BA, over 2000 sf, nice area 
1 mi to UF. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo now or $1700/mo in fall. Can divide into 3/2 for $1200/mo. Pool service extra376-6183, 352-
327-2931  2-12-09-25-2
2BR/2.5BA Twnhouse condo near UF. 2 
Master BRs w/ own BA, Ideal for 2 to share. Wired for inet + sec sys, W/D hk-up, appli -
ances, comm pool, 1st & sec dep req. $1000/mo 954-805-7827  dennismiller@tycoint.com  2-4-09-20-2
1BR/1BA w/lg STUDY - Great Location
1blk to UF/Shands Avail Now! Energy effi-cient, some utils. Very spacious, carpet, de-cal park Prefer grad student/mature. $650. postj@bellsouth.net 376-0080, 284-3873   1-30-09-16-2
Immaculate and newly renovated historic 
home. New hardwood flrs, appliances, paint. Walk to campus. 3/1. $800/mo for two occu-pants through July 31st. 911 NW 10th Ave. 215-7199   2-6-09-20-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/2BA nice, large house. Hot tub, fenced yard, washer/dryer provided, 3413 NW 8th Ave. $1625/mo. Screened back porch, other houses available. 339-2342 for more info.  1-30-09-14-2
H2/1 Funky Upstairs AptH
3 Blocks to UF
Pet Friendly $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
H2/1 House w/ Big YardH
4 Blocks to UF, HW Floors
Pet Friendly, Outdoor Kennel
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
H2/1 Apt, 4 Blocks to UF H
Central AC, No Tow Parking,
Pet Friendly, $700/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
H2/1 Apt, 1000 SFH
Island Kitchen, WD hookups
Centr. AC, Pet Friendly $700/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/3BA large house with large bedrooms. House only 4 yrs old. Fireplace, washer/dry -
er provided, vaulted ceilings. 2108 NW 8th 
Court. $1575/mo. 339-2342 for directions.   
1-30-09-12-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/2BA, nice modern house on large pri-
vate lot. Fireplace, washer/dry provided. 
$1425/mo. 2606 NW 34th St. Pets ok. Deck, lots of trees. Call 339-2342   1-30-09-12-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
Large house 4BR/2BA, large bedrooms and 
large living room, privacy fence, pets ok. 
Washer/dryer provided. $1400/mo 2100 NW 
8th Ct. Call 339-2342  1-30-09-11-2
NO FEES and One Month Free!
On Bivens Arm Nature Preserve
Inclusive 2’s, 3’s, and 4’s
MASSIVE Townhomes!
W/D and Jumbo Microwaves in Every Unit
Free Water, Cable, Tanning, Alarms, Pool
336-3838 TheLandingsUF.com
Great Bus Route! 2 Miles to UF
4-22-63-2
LARGE AFFORDABLE CONVENIENT
Serious students upgrade into private condo 
2BR/2BA vaulted ceilings, breakfast bar, tile, 
carpet, smoke-free, laundryroom, fenced 
backyard. $675. SW. 374-4216 appt.  2-12-
09-20-2
HUGE 2BR 1BA
W/D hookups. Pets OK
Walk to Vet School
$650 mo. Move in today!
866-747-8314 CMC LLLP
Lic. Real Estate Broker
Equal Housing Oppty.
4-22-09-61-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1.
4BR/2BA house. 10 blocks from campus. washer/dryer provided, hardwood floors, dishwasher, large backyard & big storage. $1575/Mo 1105 NW 10th Ave.  339-2342  1-30-09-7-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1.
Studio with separate kitchen, fireplace, washer/dryer provided, wd floors. 1 blk from campus, attached to house with separate en-trance. 106 SW 12th St. $525/mo 339-2342  1-30-09-7-2
*Huge 1BR Loft w/Skylight*
3 Blocks to Mid-Town/Univ Ave*Walk to UF
Cathedral Ceilings*Only $799 at Arbor Lofts
www.ForRentNearUF.com * 352-376-6223
4-22-59-2
BRAND NEW Cricket Club
Phase II, 2BR/2BA Condogated,pool,fitness center,W/D$1100/mo,call mario 352-219-4426or jmacmaster@e-techservices.com   2-4-10-2
2BR WALK TO CLASS!
As low as $380/person!
Pets welcome, wood floor avail
Pool, Open late and weekends
371-0769 CollegeParkUF.com
4-22-09-59-2
WALK TO SANTA FE COLLEGE
2BR/2BA $750/mo til 7/31/093108 NW 79th Court 1 car garageUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-59-2
LARGE HOME NEAR UF
Nice home w/many upgradesReady now! 1789 SF GarageUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-59-2
5 BEDROOM HOUSE
Walk to Class, Across from UF
hardwood floors, washer/dryer, A/C
Available August 1, 2009
call John @ 561-866-8234
1-30-09-6-2
2BR/1BA upstairs, hardwood floors, freshly 
painted, new kitchen floor, free month.  1 block from O’Connell Center, just off University Ave. $590/mo 727-697-3110 .  1-30-09-6-2HISTORIC HOMES
1-3BR apts + 2 houses 923 SE 4th St, 18 NE 10th St. High ceilings, porch, wood floors. $500-$1100/mo. No dogs. 1st, last, sec. Call 378-3704, sallygville@aol.com   2-19-20-2
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS OF GREEEN SPACE. 
2BR/1BA house. $650/mo.
Call 352-378-9220 or mobile 213-3901   2-5-
09-10-2
4/2 HOME PLUS STUDY
corner lot, H/D 2385 sq ft for $1800 + $1800 
deposit. 3608 NW 22nd Pl. Call 352-214-
1956   2-19-09-20-2
Summit House 1BR/1BA Available Now
$605 per mouth $250 security Walk to VA or Shands Call 352-672-1482   3-6-09-30-2
** Across From UF ** 
$1150/mo Special!
2br/2ba Limited Time Offer  for Fall Luxury Apts w/ Internet & Parking Incl.www.LookingGlassApartments.com111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-22-09-59-2
2BR/2BA apartment available on 2nd floor. 
Located in SpyGlass off of 62nd blvd near 
the mall! Bus route 20 to campus! Features 
fireplace, washer/dryer, quiet backyard view 
of the woods. Pet Friendly. Rent is $1100. 
Call 239-980-9448.   1-30-5-2
2BR/1BA Spacious. 7209 SW 45th Lane, 
Gainesville. Cent H/AC, W/D hk-up. $600/
mo. $500 sec dep. No pets. Call 386-462-
0994   2-2-09-5-2
One month FREE!
1 & 2 BR single-story villas starting from $529
Move in costs starting at $139
Close to Oaks Mall and Archer Road.Pine Rush Villas 375-1519       4-22-09-59-2
One month FREE!
1 & 2 BR flats starting from $599Move in costs starting at $139Two blocks south of Archer Rd. & 34th StHomestead Apts. 376-0828     4-22-09-59-2
One month FREE! $189 Moves you in!
HUGE 2 & 3 BR single story villasstarting from $759Close to Oaks Mall & Newberry Rd.Ashton Square Villas 333-1120    4-22-09-59-2
3BR/1BA apts. 1 Blk to UF - August 1st. 
Renovated historic building. 1227 SW 4th Ave. Wood flrs, cent H/AC, parking, some utils pd. $1475/mo. Call 352-514-5060 cell.   2-9-10-2
WOODSIDE VILLAS off Tower Rd. 7200 SW 
8th Ave. 2BR/1BA + bonus rm & dining area. 
1072 sq ft. Vaulted ceiling, W/D, DW, fans, 
pool, newer carpet/tile, bus rte, smoke-free, no pets. $800/mo. Quiet area 352-339-6502  
2-6-09-8-2
LARGE 2BR DUPLEX NEAR UF. Fenced 
backyard, lots of privacy, W/D, screened porch & extra large utility room. Only $500 deposit & $725/mo. Call 352-372-3131. Location: 1710 SW 38th Terr.    4-22-09-58-2
UNREAL LOCATION ON UNIVERSITY 
AVE/LAW SCHOOL2360 W University Ave4 bed/ 2 bth, w/d, Large Yard, Fireplace. Walking distance to UF, 1 block from law school. Call Bill at 615-400-5178$1000.00 a month through July. $1400.00 Starting Aug 1.  2-10-09-10-2
HHHHOUSE 4BR/2BAHHH
Avail 8/1. Lovely remodeled. W/D. Bike to UF. 
No pets. Details at 3532 NW 7th Ave. $1400/month. 373-1558 or 246-8645 2-4-09-5-2
FIRST MONTH FREE OR $300 CASH! $650/
mo, 1/1, quiet friendly complex,2 miles from reitz union.Grad student, moved up north, I need to rent my place! lreiden@hotmail.com, 973-534-3788 for more details.    2-6-09-7-2
Huge 5/3 MH on 5ac 12 min to UF, w/d, no 
pet fee. $1600 mth. 352-213-3943   2-17-14-2Spacious POOL home in Keystone Heights3BR 2Bath, 35 min from G.ville, quiet cul du 
sac, lots of extras, PET FRIENDLY 
Call Trevor Water Realty 352-473-7777    2-4-5-2

3UBLEASES
Arlington Square (2b/2ba) -$1025/mo-
UF Campus/Downtown Gainesville. Avail 
12/18/08. Utils not incl. Must be willing to 
take over existing lease. Security dep free. Contact sean6cly@ufl.edu or 239-410-1603   2-9-08-30-3
$420 + 1/2 utilities-Sublease 1Br in a 2/1 
house with female UF student; screened in 
porch, fenced-in backyard, carport, close to 
bus route, parking decal included, pets ok. 
Call Barbara for more info 954-673-9822   
1-29-14-3
ONE BLOCK TO UF/LIBRARY WEST! 
Looking Glass Apts. 1BR/1BA IN 2/2. Free in-
ternet, W/D Tile kitchen/bath. MUST LEASE 
NOW! PRICE GREATLY REDUCED. WILL 
ACCEPT BEST OFFER!! (850) 525-4532   1-30-9-3
Will pay $500 to take over my room in a 
4bed/4bath apartment from January 2009-
August 2009 needs sublease and it comes 
fully furnished with everything included $499/
mo call Fredrick Williams (813)849-8125:   
2-2-10-3
First month’s rent FREE!
Fully furnished premium apt. at Gateway at 
Glades. $455/mo., all utilities included.
jbreland@ufl.edu   2-11-15-3
3Br/2Ba apt $900/mo. Rent includes water. 
Jan free. Move in now. @Corner of Archer Rd and 34th St, close to Butler Plaza. Lease from Now to Aug. Call Chen at 352-871-6722 or shupin@ufl.edu.   1-30-3-3
1 BR/BTH 1/2 mile from UF. Near Oaks Mall 
& other attractions. On bus 20 & 21 route. $549 a mth. Pet-friendly. Call Vicki at 865-363-7044.   2-9-09-7-3
$400/MONTH SUBLEASE THRU AUGUST
Apt less than a mile from campus & down -
town. Amenities include W/D, dishwasher, oven w/ stovetop, & refrigerator For more info call 863-370-9602 or 863-581-4928.   2-4-09-5-3
$350/MONTH! CAN’T BEAT THAT PRICE! - 
FURNISHED - ALL UTILITIES & INTERNET! 
WALK TO CLASS! WINDSOR HALL 
LUXURY DORM, 2 BLKS FROM CAMPUS. DESIRABLE 1ST FLR, STEPS FROM LAUNDRY. MALE TO SHARE LARGE DOUBLE APT, FULL BATHROOM. QUIET ROOM WITH WINDOW OVERLOOKING NATURE AREA 904-923-7431   1-29-09-1-3.

2OOMMATES
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-22-72-4
1br w/pvt entrance available in 2BR condo 
Central air and heat. 2 pools in complex. Walking distance to UF. Rent 375/mo1BR hdwd flrs, pvt ba avail in beautiful NW house close to UF $395/mo 352-316-3930.    1-30-09-20-4
Very close to campus 4/2 remodeled condo 
opens to lovely courtyard and pool. $425 w/ UT cable and internet included.(for sale or rent) call 352-870-0291   2-17-09-30-4
Male roommate needed. Share furn 3BR/2BA 
house w/yng prof $400/mo +1/2 util Directv, ph, wireless, Vonage, elec. W/D, ofc space pvt BA (morn) lg yd fenced, pets ok, trees, wooddeck, hottub, pond. UF-15 min drive, near bus, Lakeview Ests 352-682-6297    2-10-25-4
2 BRs AVAIL FOR FEMALES ONLY
in 4/2.5 townhouse. $450/mo/room. All in-cluded: internet, cable, electric, etc. 754-204-1624   2-13-09-27-42 Female roommates NS/ND to share a new 
4/2 house in a quiet neighborhood 3 mi. W of I-75. w/ cable, internet & security alarm. $475/mo. util. incl. Call 352 331 8794   2-20-30-4
NEED ROOMMATE! 1 MONTH FREE! 1 year old 3 
bdrm townhouse located near UF and Sante Fe. Students preferred. wsh/dry,cable,gym, pool. $500/month + 1/3 util.Flexible lease.Call Alex 954-663-8255    2-2-14-4
1BD/1BA avail NOW in 2/2.5 condo near UF. 
Furnished, W/D, pool, open parking, on 4 
bus rts. $400/mo + 1/2 utils. Call Chris 561-
445-9034   2-6-09-17-4
Share 2/2 MH Furn rm $200 N/R dep. $400/
mo; $100/wk incl util.  2wk adv. laun/cook svc 
avail N/S, N/A, N/D. Discount for handyman. 
Car a+ 30 day notice 2 vacate. Nr bus/shops 
Sm caged pet ok 331-0762   2-2-8-4
- :: 2 Blocks To UF :: - 
Room in 4br condo incl utils, internet, cable 
TV, pool. Very Nice $375. 283-8777
www.Gainesville-Rooms-4-Rent.com  4-22-
09-62-4
Master bed w/private bath in 4BR/3BA house 
off NW 16th Ave. DW, W/D, Cox cable w/
networked inernet, new carpet & ceiling fans. 
No cats or dogs. $425/mo incl utils. 328-
4995   2-5-10-4
Graduate student or young professional 
roommate wanted to share 2/2.5 Female preferred Pets allowed Lease until 6/30/09 Email jaclnb@yahoo.com for info   1-30-5-4
TWO FEMALE ROOMMATES needed for a 
nice 4/2 house to live with two other gradu -
ate professional women. ONLY $350 & $375. 
Includes util and swimming pool. Great loca-
tion, quiet neighborhood. Call Mr. Kristoff 
352-332-5030    2-10-09-10-4
1/2 OFF 1st MONTH Rent if in by March!
Seeking 2 roommates-1.5 miles to UFeasy ride2 SFCC off-NW 16th-HUGE house,PoolTable,65”TV Large rooms!sayNo2apts$525/MONTH per room 561-756-5368   2-3-5-4
ROOMMATE wanted.Share 3BR/2.5 Bath 
Furnished TH,CasaBlanca West w/2 UF UG. M or F OK. $275/mo + 1/3 utility.Smoking patio. No lease/No Sec. Avail now. 786-299-8626 (Gus) or 786-514-5319 (Max). BARGAIN!   1-30-09-2-4
Looking for male college student (preferred) 
to share 4BR/4BA condo with same. Own bathroom. W/D, high speed internet. Includes utilities $430/mo (available immediately) 863-634-1893   2-4-5-4

2EAL %STATE
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD ONLINE AT www.al-
ligator.org.  or please call 373-Find
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551   4-22-72-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4 
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman, Campus Realty at 352-219-2879.  4-22-72-5
Brand new luxury condos starting at $220k. 
Granite tops, tall ceilings, private balcony, steel & concrete construction, alarm system. Call Eric Wild at 352-870-9453    4-22-72-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL 
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite 
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF. Matt 
Price, Campus Realty 352-281-35514-22-72-5THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 15

&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
2OOMMATESCONDOS AT UF
www.CONDOSatUF.com
Matt & Tiffany Thomas, Bosshardt Realty
(352) 494-0194 or (352) 316-5556  2-17-
60-5
Condos for sale near UF/Shands!!
Many affordable units available.
Call Carolyn/Maureen at:
(352)284-4428 or (386)365-8590
@ Matchmaker Realty.    1-30-09-21-5
$7800 - 2BR/1BA Gainesville mobile home. 
Very nice neighborhood. Furnished living room & kitchen. Attached shed, cent H/AC, W/D incl. Covered porch. Aaron 352-871-0792   2-2-09-5-5
HUGE 4bd/3.5ba NW home in Walnut Creek 
off 39th Ave! Great location to UF or SantaFe! 
Tons of upgrades, huge porch off 2nd story, 
2 car garage & more. $229,900! Please call Dana Fults @ 352.318.0686!    2-18-15-5

&URNISHINGS
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-22-08-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846       4-22-08-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490       4-22-08-72-6
BED - KING - $170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  4-22-08-72-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost 
$1500, sacrifice $450     352-333-7516
___________________________________
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg     333-75164-22-72-6 
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100 (352) 372-7490     4-22-08-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846   4-22-08-72-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table, 
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New, still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100. Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588   4-22-72-6 
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-22-08-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516. 4-22-72-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846. 4-22-72-6 
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop 
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516. 4-22-72-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard, 2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.    4-22-08-72-6
FUTON - $60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With 
plush mattress $140. All brand NEW still in box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516  4-22-72-6 Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. 
New in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
___________________________________SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516   4-22-72-6 
QUEEN SIZE FUTON BED
60x80 solid wood maple,
coral,teal and cream print.
$150.00. 353-332-5890.
1-29-09-10-6

#OMPUTERS
CASH PAID FOR LAPTOP’S
Buy - Sell - Trade Any Condition
336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz Joel      4-22-
08-72-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-08-72-7
4-22-70-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041. 
www.GatorlandComputers.com  4-22-70-7

 "ICYCLES
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)   
4-22-72-9

 &OR 3ALE
PARKING :
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-22-08-72-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: http://www.surplus.ufl.edu/online/  392-03704-22-08-72-10

-OTORCYCLES -OPEDS
 SCOOTERS 
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974 
4-22-08-72-11
New Scooters 4 Less 
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-22-08-72-11
GatorMoto
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com  4-22-08-72-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-22-08-72-11***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
 Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
 All on one site! Check the website or call 
336-1271 for more info!  4-22-08-72-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   4-22-08-72-11
SWAMP CYCLES
Closest to Campus. Largest selection,
Best Customer Service.
Motorcycles, Scooters, Accessories, and Service.
633 NW 13th Street    www.swampcycles.com
4-22-72-11
SOLANO CYCLE
Scooters from $799. Largest selection from 
KYMCO, Daelim, Hyosung, Adly, Genuine, 
Estblished 10 yrs,     2 yr warranties
1024 S Main St 338-8450 solanocycle.com
4-22-08-72-11
2008 Redstreak SuperSport 49cc Blue 
Scooter:
approx. 750 miles, great condition, paid 
$1800, asking for $1050 Please call 352-
672-0328    2-4-5-11
2008 Redstreak MetroRetro 49cc Scooter:
approx. 442 miles, great condition, white with 
teal accents $900 Call 352-514-1116   2-4-
5-11

 !UTOS
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS
Running or not! 
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPSOver 15 yr svc to UF students
Call Don @ 215-7987    4-22-08-72-12
CARS - CARS BuySellTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-22-72-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622 4-22-72-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas  Chevys  Jeeps and more!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 97654-22-72-12
FAST CASH PAID
For any running cars or trucks. 1995 and up. 
Clean or ugly. Segovia 352-284-8619  4-22-72-12
ATTENTION
 SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WHY PAY MORE? YOU COULD PAY LESS!300+ vehicles @ wholesale prices 338-1999      4-22-08-72-12
All Vehicles Must Go!
Liquidation Sale Special60 Days Payoff on Cash Vehicles(Payoff time negotiable)Sun City Auto 352-338-1999  4-22-09-62-12
Over 250 Vehicles Will Be Sold At 
Wholesale Prices to the PublicIncluding Cars, Trucks, Vans & SUVsSun City Auto 352-338-1999   4-22-09-62-12
Bring Your W-2 and Ride Home Today
Why Wait for Your Refund?File Your Taxes Here andDrive Off in Your VehicleSun City Auto 352-338-1999   4-22-09-62-12
Sun City Auto
No Credit CheckAll Vehicles $0 DownBuy Here – Pay Here352-338-1999    4-22-09-62-12 2003 Saab 93, 60,000 miles fully loaded in 
excellent condition! $10,000.
2002 Mitsubishi Eclipse RS, manual trans-mission, $85,000 miles. $4,800. Call (352) 
284-8478 or e-mail jessiesawka@gmail.com   
2-18-20-12
2003 Silver Honda Civic, excellent condition, 
97500 miles, $7995. All required mainten -
ace completed; recent maintenance records available. One owner, non smoker. Call 352-359-6049.    2-2-09-5-12
$$ CASH TODAY! $$
For Your Unwanted Cars
Junk!! Trucks, RVs, & Wrecks!!!
TOP DOLLAR PAID!
386-234-0072 & 386-234-0075
2-2-09-5-12

 7ANTED
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
 Gold  Diamonds  Gems  Class Rings 
 ETC  Top Cash $$$ or Trade 
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243.  4-22-
72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090  4-22-
08-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.

 (ELP 7ANTED
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-vertiser before giving out personal informa-tion or arranging meetings
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-cord, drug-free, perssonal references. www.carrsmith.com for details.    4-22-72-14EARN $60 THIS WEEK!
Donate Plasma & Save a Life
$$$$$$$$$$$$
Best part-time job you’ll ever have.
NEW DONORS
Bring this Ad and Earn an
Extra $5 on Your 2nd Donation.
DCI Biologicals 150 NW 6th St.
352-378-9204
4-22-08-72-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  4-22-08-72-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-22-08-72-14
CNA TRAINING CLASS: $250! Work at your 
own time & pace in your own home! To get 
program on DVD’s call 352-597-2559. For 
online program visit  www.lapcnatraining.com Get started right away!   4-22-72-14
Tired of Working Retail?
Local real estate co. hiring part-time Sales & 
Leasing Associates.  Need previous sales 
or retail exp & outgoing personality.  No real 
estate exp req (training provided). Bonuses 
& benefits. Send resume, cover letter & avail 
schedule to hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-22-72-14
*IT/Programming Internship.  Local invest-
ment firm seeks individual to work PT/FT with 
SQL, HTML, ASP, databases, servers, and 
networks.  2+ yrs exp pref.  $15-20 per hour + bonuses, long term capability.  Fax resume 
to 352-378-4156.*   1-30-08-21-14
WEB DEVELOPERS & COMPUTER 
CONSTULTANTS: UF Center for Instructional 
Technology and Training. Web developers must be familiar with Dreamweaver, CSS, XHTML and 
Photoshop. Portfolio links must be included 
with application. Consultant position requires expert skills with Windows and Microsoft Office 
applications. Excellent communication skills 
required. Pay starts at $7.50 per hour. jksmith@
ufl.edu, online application at http://www.citt.
ufl.edu/employment.php.
1-30-17-1416, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009

2EAL %STATE
&URNISHINGS
-OTORCYCLES -OPEDS
 !UTOS
 (ELP 7ANTEDUF Survey Research Center
Telephone Interviewers
NO SALES
$8.00 - $8.50/hr
Students and Non-Students
352-392-2908 Ext: 105
408 W. University Ave. Suite 106
4-22-70-14
Paradigm Properties
Leasing Specialist, PT
Sales & Customer service exp.
EOE, DFWP
Apply on-line at: www.teamparadigm.com 
352-375-2152 ex 301    4-22-67-14
Earn extra money. Students needed ASAP. 
Earn up to $150/day being a mystery shop-
per. No experience required. Call 1-800-722-
4791   4-22-09-65-14
Busy doctor needs professional executive 
assistant 20-30 hrs/week. Experience is an 
absolute must. Ideal applicant able to an-
ticipate need. Compensation based on exp, 
email CV to gm@ehsfamily.com   2-16-09-
22-14
Part Time Work for
Full Time Pay
Phone Sales Reps M-F 6:30-10pm, 
no wknds,pd wkly, Call 352-378-2262
for intrvw, exp. preferred   1-29-09-10-14
Busy doctors office seeks helper for clerical 
work. 10-20 hrs/wk $7-9 based on experi -
ence. Will consider all applicants References 
required Email resume to gm@ehsfamily.com   2-2-12-14
SUMMER INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE 
from May 1st thru Aug 20th in Branson, 
Missouri for singers, dancers, musicians. 
352-332-0515 or 352-332-0514   1-29-09-
10-14
Are you tired of working more for less and less?
Break the cycle & get what you really want: 1-800-679-7042 Ex.2660   2-16-20-14
Full-Time Office Administrator
Permanent full-time administrator needed to manage a very busy evangelical ministry office in Gainesville, Fla. Schedule must be flexible. Typing and organizational skills are a must. Email resume to: youthnow@aol.com or fax resume to 352-335-0080.   1-30-09-7-14OFFICE ASSISTANT
Approx 25 hr/wk, afternoons and some Sat 
mornings. Tasks include taking rent pay-
ments, answering phone, filing, writing let-
ters. Min 1-yr commitment expected. Starting pay $7.50/hr. Good PT job for student. Please 
send resume and cover ltr to Gore-Rabell 
Real Estate, 909 NW 6th St, Gvl 32601. 
Email rabell@atlantic.net or fax to 378-2411. 
No phone calls please.  4-22-09-58-14
SELF-MOTIVATED start today and receive 
$500-$3500 per week. Asolutely no selling. 800-242-0363 ext 8852; www.mygoldplan.com/gmgreen (serious inquiries only)   2-4-09-5-14
Toddler Teacher Needed. Imagine Learning 
Center info@imaginelearningcenter.
com 371-5450. Taking applications from reliable,creative individuals who enjoy work-ing with children.    2-18-09-15-14

 3ERVICES
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-22-72-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners. 
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250’ x 
160’ riding ring, round pen  & jump paddock. Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175 
everglade-equestrian.com   4-22-74-15
Want to be a CNA? Don’t want to wait? 
Express Training Services can get you certi-
fied under 3 wks! Hands-on exp, no videos. 
Day/eve/wkend. Class sizes limited. 338-1193 for details expresstrainingservices.com 
4-22-08-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-22-72-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762. Greathouse Equestrian Ctr.   4-22-72-15
GATOR MOVING & STORAGE 
Local and long distance moving
One item or a houseful!
10% off with this ad!       FL Reg IM 19  
Call Now! 352-374-4791, 800-797-6766
4-22-08-72-15
HORSE BOARDING
12 x 12 stall - cement block barn. Good grass 
turnout with room to run! Limited # of stalls available. 352-472-2627 for info & directions. 4-22-08-72-15
HYPNOTIST - Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Elminate bad habits. Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis. Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH, NGH certified 379-1079     4-22-72-15
 MOVING? 
 FREEWAY MOVING 
You’ll love our low rates & references. Student 
Discount. Call 352-256-0999. Lic #IM7074-22-72-15
Absolute Value Automotive
Major/minor auto repairs ASE cert. Free pickup & delivery of your car. UF grad owned. Lowest price guaranteed. All makes/models. 9420 NW 13th St 379-31301-30-08-23-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
4-22-72-15
MATH & PHYSICS TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   1-30-15-15Perfect Valentines Day Gift!
Turn favorite photos into unique artwork.
Canvas printing, custom framing available.
www.popartworkshop.com   2-6-12-15
Buying Gold!!!!
Have unwanted gold chains, bracelets, ear
rings, watches? Call Matt at 352-260-7143
Buying Gold giving the best prices in town!
1-30-09-5-15
Free $10.00 gift Card
coolgiftsbuy.com
Get your Valentines Gift
coolgiftsbuy@comcast.net    2-6-09-9-15
Ivy-League Educated Editors!
Use us to help you produce a powerful, well-written and outstanding academic paper or personal statement! Find us at www.onyxwriting.com.   2-10-09-10-15

(EALTH 3ERVICES
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-22-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-22-72-16
Clinical Hypnotherapy for:
Accelerated Learning, Weight Loss,
Quit Smoking, Fears/Phobias
Student Discounts Free ConsultationsCALL NOW 352-283-0175    1-30-5-16
Postpartum Doula Care
Avoid Colic and DepressionRejuvenation for Mother and BabyCall 352-219-1444Free Evaluation with this ad        2-2-5-16

 0ERSONALS
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Family Chiropractic 
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-22-72-18 
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
4-22-08-72-18

 #ONNECTIONS
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
Jack,
Thanks for last night. Harry’s was fine for a first date, but I have to admit I was a little em-barrassed when you pulled out all of your dis-count coupons and paid the difference with coins. I’ll see you at the Food Court today. Kelly                                  1-29-09-1-19

%VENT .OTICES
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!“MARGARITA” Feb.2, 7 pm, Hippodromeoriginal dance theater performance Sign up for a free ticketwww.BlackCProduction.com   2-2-09-10-20

%NTERTAINMENT
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-22-08-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public Wed-Fri-Sat-Sun 1pm-6pm
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-19-09-97-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville  Better Prices
Better Fields  Better Call 371-2092
4-22-08-72-21
 BAHAMAS SPRING BREAK 
$189 5-Days or $239 7-Days. All prices 
include: Round trip luxury cruise with
food. Accommodations on the island at
your choice of thirteen resorts. 
Appalachia Travel 1-800-867-5018.
www.BahamaSun.com #ST35585
3-4-08-86-21
GRADUATION HOTEL HOTLINE
Graduating this May? Wehave rooms! 352-278-1595FL. Seller of  Travel Reg No #12618   2-5-15-21
Need performance credit?
sign up for a free ticket
www.BlackCProduction.com
“Margarita” Feb.2 Hippodrome theatre   2-2-
09-10-21
Spring Break
Caribbean Tour & Cruise
http://caribtourcruise.com/springbreak.html
(800) 955-5594FL Seller of Travel Reg#10098   2-4-10-21
Need a DJ for your HOUSE PARTY? House, 
Electro, Hip-hop, Reggaeton, Rock, Techno... 
Starting at $30 for the night!!!
Visit www.djyannix.com orcall 352-213-5945     1-29-1-21

 4ICKETS
Free ticket to ‘MARGARITA’
dance theater at the HIPPODROMEFeb. 2, 7 pm. sign up at www.BlackCProduction.com   2-2-09-10-22

 2IDES
Cheapest fixed price in town to So. FL.
Buy tickets on line, over the phone, in per -
son. $35 One Way - $45 Rount Trip.
Regular and Reverse Trips - One Price
www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-22-72-23

 0ETS
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.

 ,OST  &OUND
$100.00 CASH REWARD 
Lost cat last seen Casa Blanca West. Large 4 yr-old white marbled male, blue eyes, big head. Gentle. Answers to “Ra-Ra”. 786.299.8626 (Gus) or 786.514.5319 (Max).   1-30-09-2-25THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 17
Web Designer/Programmer to maintain and 
build web applications. Experienced with 
PHP, ASP, MySQL, Dreamweaver, etc. hr@
alesys.com   2-5-09-11-14
Immediate opening for a
Professional Leasing Agent!Part Time or Full TimeExperience Preferred, Great Pay!
Fax resume to 352-372-0708   4-22-59-14
NO JOBS AVAILABLE,
BUT WE OFFER CASH AND TRADE for 
CDs and DVDs (and we sell them too).
HEAR AGAIN CDs & DVDs
818 W University Ave 32601  2-17-09-20-14
Entry-level position open for Production 
Assistant Responsible for gathering and 
organizing elements of educational books 
and related materials. Must have the ability to work independently, handle multiple proj-ects, and be flexible with changing priorities. 
Must be highly organized with eye for detail, 
able to meet multiple deadlines. Proficient 
in Microsoft Office, familiar with Quark. Post secondary degree required. Fax cover letter & resume to 352-334-0935 or e-mail at re-
sume@nccer.org.DFW EOE Great benefits   
1-30-09-7-14.
Part-time Nanny for toddler needed M-F 
from 2:30-5:00pm. Childcare experience is a 
must. Required to pick up child from school. 
Send resume with references to elena_b83@hotmail.com or call 352-363-0167.   1-29-09-5-14
Full Time experienced C/C++ DEVELOPER 
needed for established, privately owned soft-
ware firm. Benefits and competitive salary in 
Gainesville, FL.
https://www.monetra.com/content/careers.
html     1-29-09-5-14
Paralegal/Legal Assistant; Legal office expe-
rience preferred. Energetic, High work ethic, 
good people skills and attention to detail a 
must! Full time, non-smoker. Fax resume 
with cover letter to Law Office of Carl Carrillo 
(352)371-7127.    2-11-09-14-14
Local Webpreneur sold portfolio of 
companys, looking to do it again with a new 
local team. Exciting Oppty --Contract to 
perm pos. MUST know PHP, MYsql, CSS, 
Flash, Web/Ad Creatives. Resume, portfolio 
and rates to resume@gvilleholdings.com
2-5-09-10-14
Progressive Family Medicine Practice is 
seeking an energetic Certified Medical Assistant. If you want a challenging position and an excellent opportunity please submit your resume to gvilleprimarycare@gmail.com  1-30-09-5-14
400+ Counselors/Instructors Jobs!
3 Coed summer camps in PA.Travel Paid, Top Salary.Cool Nights & Warm Days!1-800-488-4321, www.lohikan.com    4-22-09-59-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-22-09-59-14
PT webmaster proficient in PHP. Hourly rate 
commensurate w/ experience. Fax resume to 352.505.0555 or email to Katie@cornellre.com   1-30-09-5-14
Homework Coach needed for bright disor-
ganized 9th grader. Daily Sun � Thurs. (2 hours). Hours can be flexible. $9.00/hour with .445/mile. Fax or email qualifications, letter(s) of recommendation, and contact info. to Judith Wishin - email wishin@cox.net Fax 846-1287.   2-4-09-7-14
Medical Office Assistant PT. Afternoons & 
evenings, Mon-Fri, 4-6pm. Duties incl: medi-cal billing, dictation & scheduling. Some pa-tient interaction. Mail resume to TRC 6400 Newberr Rd, Ste 301, Gville 32605   2-9-10-14
PEACH VALLEY CAFE
NOW HIRING
Experienced line cooks & prep personnel. Apply in person, Mon thru Thurs from 2-4pm. 352-376-1834. 3275 SW 34th St.   2-3-09-5-14

 (ELP 7ANTED
 (ELP 7ANTED
 (ELP 7ANTED
 3ERVICES
%VENT .OTICESSaints undefeated in conference18, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009
AP Photo
Miami forward Michael Beasley shoots as Orlando’s Tony Battie tries to block his 
shot during the first half of the Magic’s 86-76 win in Orlando on Jan. 2.
NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIAMI — Michael Beasley has big plans 
for All-Star weekend, including getting to his 
old home court in time to watch Kansas State play rival Kansas.
First, though, will be a trip to Phoenix — 
for the NBA’s Rookie Challenge.
Beasley was the lone Miami Heat player 
selected for the game between the league’s top rookies and sophomores, something he said was disappointing. He hoped that fel-low rookie Mario Chalmers and second-year player Daequan Cook would be joining him in Phoenix for the Feb. 13 contest, but neither got enough votes from the league’s assistant 
coaches.
“Honestly, I thought they were both a lock, 
a shoo-in,” Beasley said. “The year Mario is 
having, I thought there was no question. He played great against Derrick Rose. He played great against Russell Westbrook. And Daequan deserved to go. At least, that’s what I think.”
Instead, it’ll be Beasley and only Beasley 
on the court from Miami in that game, mak-ing him the sixth Heat rookie to be selected. He joins Khalid Reeves, Kurt Thomas, Caron Butler, Udonis Haslem and Dwyane Wade — who will help coach the rookie squad, along-side sophomore coach Dwight Howard of the Orlando Magic.
“I thought they would have a chance,” 
Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said of Chalmers 
and Cook. “It’s tough. I know it would have 
meant a lot for the two of them. It’s a tough process. I hate even getting involved in it. I get so many things in the mail, people poli-ticking for their players, agents, people from other teams. I don’t really like the whole pro-cess.”
Cook entered Wednesday’s game against 
the Washington Wizards as Miami’s fifth-leading scorer at 10.4 points per game, plus he has hit 42 percent of his shots from 3-point range. He entered the night with 99 makes from 3-point range this season, fifth-best in the league.
Chalmers, the Heat starter at point guard, 
is averaging 9.5 points, 4.6 assists and 1.8 steals for Miami. Chalmers ranks seventh in the NBA in steals per game.
“I think both of them have good enough 
numbers to be there,” said Beasley, who plans to leave Phoenix quickly and get to Manhattan, Kan. — where he spent last year with Kansas State — in time for the Feb. 14 game between the Wildcats and the defend-
ing national champion Jayhawks.
Besides Beasley, the 
rookie team was com-posed of Rose (the No. 1 overall draft selection from Chicago), Westbrook (the No. 4 pick from Oklahoma City), O.J. Mayo of Memphis and the Los 
Angeles Clippers’ Eric Gordon at guard; Beasley and Portland’s Rudy Fernandez at 
forward; and centers Marc Gasol of Memphis, 
Brook Lopez of New Jersey and Portland’s Greg Oden.
“I’m disappointed,” Chalmers said. “I 
thought I was going to make it. Everybody said my chances were going to be pretty good, but it didn’t turn out that way.”
The sophomore team has Houston’s Aaron 
Brooks and Detroit’s Rodney Stuckey at guard; the Los Angeles Clippers’ Al Thornton, Philadelphia’s Thaddeus Young, New York’s Wilson Chandler, Houston’s Luis Scola and Oklahoma City teammates Kevin Durant and Jeff Green at forward; and Atlanta’s Al Horford at center.
“I’m fine. It’s over,” Cook said.Beasley preps for Phoenix
By KELSIE HOECHERL
Alligator Writer
Santa Fe College freshman guard Lanita 
Bartley was unstoppable Wednesday night against Daytona State College.
The Falcons were on fire during the first 
half, scoring just 10 seconds into the game, but Bartley wouldn’t have it.
The Saints (16-4, 5-0 Mid-Florida 
Conference), behind Bartley’s 11 points, eight rebounds and seven assists, came from behind and beat the Falcons 64-56.
Bartley kept it straight to the point after the game, not mentioning her individual performance.
“We worked hard, and now we’re 5-0 in 
our conference,” Bartley said.
With 2:30 left on the clock in the first half 
and the Saints down 29-27, Bartley scored off a stolen pass, tying the game for the first time since the opening tipoff. The Saints built off Bartley’s momentum and put 5 points on the board in the last two minutes of the half.
“The kids played hard, but they need to 
execute better on defense and play harder,” SFC coach Chanda Stebbins said. “We had some players step up and play through in-juries.”
Down, but definitely not out, the Falcons 
pushed hard to regain the lead over the Saints in the second half. 
Falcons freshman guard JaQuavia Couch 
sank a three, making it a one-point game. 
Bartley’s performance, however,  was un-
matched, as she was all over the court steal-ing balls and making shots. At one point, she widened the Saints’ lead to 6 points by hitting a shot while falling down.
With seven minutes left in the game, 
Couch retaliated and tied the score at 56.
Foul shooting stepped to the forefront in 
the final minutes of the game, but foul after foul, neither team could perform at the free-
throw line with the clock winding down.
With 3:30 remaining, SFC guard 
Quanisha Dixon hurled the ball from half 
court to center Letiecia Davenport, who laid the ball up to put the Saints ahead for good. SFC made two more shots in the last 30 seconds, solidifying their win.
Davenport led the Saints in scoring with 
16 points.Bartley takes charge, sparks Santa Fe comeback
By JESSICA ETTER
Alligator Writer
Redemption.
The last time Santa Fe College 
played at home against a Mid-Florida Conference opponent, the team lost. For Wednesday’s game, the Saints were hoping for a better ending.
The Saints (18-5, 4-1 MFC) 
soared over the Falcons of Daytona State College 68-44 on Wednesday.
SFC sophomore guard Aaron Holmes scored 15 points and had 
four rebounds in the first half, al-
lowing the Saints to lead 32-22 at halftime.
“Aaron did a great job. He is 
a talented player and can make 
plays,” SFC coach Chris Mowry 
said. “He had a good night for us.”
Holmes, the only player to 
score in double digits, ended the game with 23 points, seven re-bounds, two assists and a perfect percentage from the free-throw line, making both of his shots.The Saints lost their last home 
game against Central Florida Community College on Jan. 21, their only MFC loss in two years. The Saints team that played Wednesday night was far differ -
ent from the one that played on the same court a week earlier.
“Tonight, defensively, we did 
a really great job. We rebounded 
the ball well,” Mowry said. “We 
executed our stuff, and our guys were unselfish. We did a good job pulling away down the stretch.”
There were multiple scoring droughts for the Falcons. It took 
them just less than 15 minutes in 
the first half to score 10 points. For the last 6:48 of the game, the Saints went on an 11-4 run.
The Falcons shot less than 30 
percent from behind the 3-point line and from the field and only managed 53.8 percent shooting from the free-throw line.
SFC sophomores Charlie 
Lytle and Roderick Emanuel scored 9 points each and shot 4 for 9 from the field, while bench players Marvin Davis and Jake Blakenship provided a combined 
14 points.
The Saints will travel 
east Saturday to face Florida 
Community College at Jacksonville at 6 p.m. to begin the 
second half of conference play.
“Right now, we are tied for first 
(in the MFC with Central Florida 
Community College), and now, 
we have to play everyone again,” 
Mowry said. 
“We have to be ready 
for Jacksonville’s energy on Saturday.”
Holmes’ 23 points, seven rebounds lead Saints men to winChalmers
“The kids played hard, but they 
need to execute better on defense 
and play harder.”
Chanda Stebbins
Santa Fe College women’s basketball coachTHURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 19
The Gators opened the second with an 8-2 run and 
never looked back.
Unlike Parsons, junior Dan Werner was well aware of 
his teammate’s accomplishment.
“I saw when he had like seven assists, and I was like, 
‘Wow, Nick’s about to get a triple-double,’” Werner said. 
Call it superstitious, but the Gators were careful not to 
mention the numbers to Calathes before he had secured his final three assists.
“You don’t want to talk about that kind of stuff,” 
Werner said.
After struggling in recent weeks to shoot the ball fol-lowing an avulsion fracture on his right middle finger — 
when a part of the bone tears away from the main mass of 
the bone — Werner scored 11 points and knocked down three 3-point baskets.
“I just concentrated a bit more tonight,” Werner said. 
“I took my time. 
“It had nothing to do with my finger.”UF had four players finish in double figures, including 
center Alex Tyus, who ended the night with 18 points.
Georgia swingman Terrance Woodbury was held to 
only 7 points.Werner finds shooting stroke after recent struggles, finger injury
spectively).
“Obviously you’re doing 
something right if that many peo-
ple are coming in,” junior Steffi 
Sorensen said.
Sorensen has noticed fans be-
ginning to trickle in an hour be-
fore tip-off, and said her friend 
has had trouble finding a parking space and had to wait in long lines to enter the O’Connell Center.
“Look at our (home) record,” 
Sorensen said. “We’re undefeat-ed.”
UF coach Amanda Butler attri-
butes her team’s success at home so far this season to a few differ -
ent things, including a change in attitude.
“Whenever you have any kind 
of streak, it speaks to your con-sistency as a team,” Butler said. “You’re talking about the amount of pride that a team has in their home court.”
Butler has 
obviously found 
the right formu-
la for success.
Her teams 
are 51-9 at 
home, while UF is 25-5 during its coach’s first year and a half at the helm.
The importance of taking care of business on their home court seems obvious, but Butler takes understanding the magnitude of winning SEC home games to the next level.
“The teams that have won our 
league, the teams that will win our league don’t lose ballgames at home. It’s that important,” 
Butler said. “So if you want to 
be in that conversation, then you cannot lose ballgames at home.”
Brooks, a senior, said she has never played in front of crowds this big unless it was on the road at a place like Tennessee’s home court of Thompson-Boling Arena. 
Now, she’s loving every mo-
ment of it on her home court in Gainesville.
“It’s showing that our hard 
work is starting to pay off, that more people are starting to come and enjoy watching us play bas-ketball,” Brooks said.
Gators enjoy record-breaking attendance figures in O’Connell Center
Calathes said. “When he’s going, our team’s going.”
As Calathes stood with his hands 
crossed behind his back for the postgame interview and the Rowdy Reptiles waved their orange-and-blue shakers, Tyus was already in the locker room getting ready to leave the arena. 
For a guy who used to play AAU ball 
with NBA players O.J. Mayo and Bill Walker, Tyus is fine with letting the oth-
ers deal with the hoards of reporters and 
cameras. 
Calathes exits the locker room, report-
ers’ voice recorders come on and notepads come out, while Tyus stands a few feet 
away having a nice chat with the one or 
two reporters who still deem him impor -
tant.
“I’ve always played with a lot of good 
talent,” Tyus said. “So I just try and do my job.”
That’s a pretty simple way to put it.I’ll brag a bit more for him, then.
He had 18 points and five rebounds in 
22 minutes. He did get out-muscled on 
several occasions, but he also outran, out-jumped and outplayed his competition, too.
Tyus is not an elite player, and it’s 
doubtful he ever will be. He has, however, found perhaps the most important role 
on a team probably bound for the NCAA 
Tournament.
“Alex is a totally different player than 
last year,” Parsons said. “He’s so much more involved in the game. He’s more ac-
tive. He rebounds. He finishes a lot better. 
He’s shooting the ball at a crazy-high per -
centage.”
OK, so maybe he has multiple roles. 
The most important impact Tyus has is 
that he’s the lone post presence on a team 
that’s horribly undersized and still lacking in the toughness department.
Keep on shooting the threes, fellas. Tyus 
will do the important work. At least you better hope he does. If he doesn’t, have an-other fun trip to New York for the NIT.CALATHES , from page 20
HomE , from page 20
BRIAN , from page 20Brooks
“I saw when he had like seven assists, and 
I was like, ‘Wow, Nick’s about to get a triple-
double.’”
Dan Werner
UF junior forwardSports
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
POLL QUESTION I DID NOT KNOW THATCalathes’ triple-double keys Gators rout
Charles Roop / Alligator
UF guard Nick Calathes passes during the Gators’ 83-57 win 
against Georgia in the O’Connell Center on Wednesday night.
By CHRISTOPHER YAZBEC
Alligator Writer
cyazbec@alligator.org
Home-court advantage can 
never be underestimated in col-
lege basketball.
For UF, the orange-and-blue 
court has certainly paid dividends this season.
The No. 12 Gators (18-2, 4-1 
Southeastern Conference) are a perfect 11-0 in the O’Connell Center so far and have won 12 straight games at home dating back 
to last sea-
son.
T h e y 
will have a 
chance to 
extend their 
u n b e a t e n streak to-night at 7 against 
K e n t u c k y 
(12-8, 2-3 SEC) while looking 
to keep pace with Auburn and Vanderbilt at the top of the SEC 
standings.
Playing at home has brought 
the Gators a new energy that has 
come full circle.
The team started winning 
games and drawing larger crowds, and the crowds have spurred UF to more wins as a result.
“I think that we play hard at 
home,” guard Sha Brooks said. “We’re starting to bring in a lot more fans, and we get a lot of our energy from the fans and from each other.”
A lot more fans, indeed.UF has already notched the 
third- and eighth-largest crowds in school history in just two of 
its first three SEC home games 
(against Mississippi State on Jan. 8 and Mississippi on Sunday, re-UF still 
without home lossUf mEn’S BASkETBALL
By mIkE DifERDInAnDO
Alligator Staff Writer
mdiferdinando@alligator.org
Nick Calathes drove 
down the lane, put up a pass 
so high that only Alex Tyus 
could get to it and brought 
down the house.
The sophomore’s alley-
oop pass with just over eight 
minutes left in the game not 
only provided UF (18-3, 5-1 Southeastern Conference) with a highlight-reel mo-ment in its 83-57 win against 
Georgia (9-11, 0-5 SEC) on 
Wednesday night in the O’Connell Center, it also put an exclamation mark on a ca-
reer night for Calathes.
The point guard scored 20 
points, grabbed 13 rebounds 
and dished out 10 assists on his way to the second triple-
double of his career.
“I just try and fill the stat 
sheet up,” said Calathes, 
who stopped to sign score-
cards for fans following the 
game.
Calathes now owns two 
of the three triple-doubles in school history.
His first came during last 
season’s NIT win against Creighton.
The other belongs to Corey 
Brewer, who accomplished the feat against Jacksonville on Dec. 18, 2005.The crowd began count-
ing down assists when it was apparent Calathes was clos-ing in on the mark.
Fans let out a euphor -
ic cheer when he found Chandler Parsons (12 points) for his 10th of the game with 4:40 to play.
UF coach Billy Donovan 
called a timeout on the Gators’ next possession, and Calathes walked off the court 
to a standing ovation.
“I’m glad I wasn’t aware 
he had nine assists, or I might 
have botched that layup,” Parsons said.
The forward said he didn’t 
realize Calathes was close to a triple-double until he saw the scoreboard after his bas-
ket.
“The kid can’t jump over 
a newspaper, but he had 13 
rebounds tonight,” Parsons said. 
It was the Gators’ 11th 
straight win against the Bulldogs, who have lost their last seven games and are still 
without a win in conference 
play.
UF had the game in hand 
well before Calathes neared his historic mark. 
The Gators went on a 20-9 
run to close out the first half and took a 42-30 lead into halftime. 
Alex Tyus’ shoulders better be even broader than they appear.
They have to carry UF all the 
way into the NCAA Tournament. 
On a night when Nick Calathes contin-
ued to show he has become one of the na-tion’s elite players, Tyus proved he is one 
of the most valuable. When the Gators 
threw up every 3-point shot available, Tyus would be the lone orange-and-white jersey going up for the rebound. As fans fawn over Chandler Parsons’ good looks, 
Tyus takes a well-timed midrange jump 
shot.
Calathes is UF’s most talented and skilled player, but let’s examine why he gets all those 
open 3-point looks 
that he did in the Gators’ 83-57 romp against Georgia on 
Wednesday night. 
Opponents would be able to rotate a whole lot better on the perimeter 
defensively if they didn’t have to worry about Tyus inside or a Calathes pass go-ing over the top to him for an alley-oop.Let’s be honest, however.Tyus has replaced a player in Marreese 
Speights who was bigger, taller and way 
more of a center than Tyus will ever be. 
Tyus still gets manhandled, but he does much better than any of UF’s other post players do on the inside.
That’s what makes him so valuable. 
Calathes could have another triple-dou-ble any night, and the Gators could still lose. 
But if Tyus makes no impact, the 
Gators will lose. 
“He’s a huge piece to the puzzle,” Tyus must shoulder burden for team to make TourneySEE CALATHES, PAGE 19
SEE bRIAN , PAGE 19 SEE HOME, PAGE 19Women's
Bask etball
 Former UF men’s basketball player 
and current New York Knick David Lee is 
presently No. 14 on the NbA’s list for top-selling jerseys this season. This marks the first time Lee has made the list in his four-year career.SCOREbOARD
NCAA Men’s basketball
(1) Duke 70
(6) Wake Forest 68
LSU 79
Tennessee 73Today’s question: Could UF get to the NCAA Tournament without Alex Tyus?
Previous question:  Do you follow recruiting? (see right for results) Percent (Votes)
Yes 87% (53)
No 13% (8)
61 TOTAL VOTES
Brian Steele
Steele-ing Bases
bsteele@alligator.org