the independent floridaalligator
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
We Inform. You Decide.
1Vu10ReCYcW
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009
4 resign after fraud accusation
* AUTHORITIES BELIEVE THEY
SPENT ABOUT $30K OF UF MONEY.
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligator org
Four UF employees resigned after being
accused of using university money to buy
about $30,000 worth of DVDs, cameras, fur-
niture and other items for personal use.
A yearly audit found the employees
charged the items to their purchasing cards,
known as PCards, which UF gives to some
faculty and staff to use for small purchases.
Though all four employees involved re-signed, according to UF spokeswoman Jan-
ine Sikes, it appears criminal charges have
only been filed against three of them.
Sikes wrote in an e-mail that she believes
the State Attorney's Office decided not to
file charges in the fourth case because the
woman didn't steal much. Re-
Special cords show her purchases to-Report taled at least $468.
Spencer Mann, spokesman
for the State Attorney's Office, confirmed
that no charges have been filed against the
fourth employee in the Eighth Judicial Cir-
cuit, which includes Alachua County, but
could not say if charges have been filed else-
where.
The former employee responsible for themost fraud is Brian Manning, who was an
IT specialist in UF's ophthalmology depart-
ment. Manning began at UF in 2005 and
earned a salary of about $42,000.
UF's investigation found he used about
$16,400 of university money for nearly 150
fraudulent purchases in 2007 and 2008. In
many cases, he submitted receipts with
handwritten descriptions that turned out to
be false.
Manning spent more than $5,300 on
video game systems -including Xbox 360s
and a Playstation 3 -and accessories, more
than $2,300 on cameras and equipment,
about $1,600 on DVDs, about $1,400 on fur-
SEE FRAUD, PAGE 5
ON CAMPUS
About 1,700 attend 'secret' event
By ALISON SCHWARTZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Frank Warren can't keep a secret.
That would defeat the point of PostSecret, the art proj-
ect Warren spearheaded in 2005 to celebrate the deepest
and darkest of the estimated 200 secrets he receives every
day.
Warren spilled a few secrets of his own to about 1,700
people Tuesday night at the Phillips Center for the Per-
forming Arts.
His introduction was brief.
"My name is Frank, and I collect secrets," he told the
audience.
Warren said his fascination with secrets stems from his
own observation.
"I think we all have secrets," Warren said. "And I like
to imagine each one of us here tonight keeping them in a
box. We make a choice -we can bury it deep down, or
we can find it, bring it out into the light, open it and share
our secrets like gifts."
The original concept behind PostSecret arose from a
dream Warren had while taking a trip to Paris in Decem-
ber 2003.
"I was looking for a way to take the parts of myself I
was hiding from others, and I found it through the cour-
age of strangers," Warren said in a press conference be-
fore the event.
Now, anyone can anonymously contribute his or her
secret by sending in a 4-by-6-inch postcard.
Warren encourages creativity when visually express-
ing the secret, emphasizing the project's artistic nature.
"Sometimes I get postcards with artwork that's been so
painstakingly created, or secrets themselves with words
so carefully chosen, they read like a song or a poem," he
said. "And for those people, I think there is a deeper rea-
son [for sending the secret]."
Warren has received secrets ranging from shout-outs Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator Ito former lovers to cries for mental help.Dance
team to
perform
at Growl
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewa rt@alligator org
JabbaWockeeZ, a 10-man dance
group made famous by appearanc-
es on "America's Got Talent" and
"America's Best Dance Crew," will
perform at this year's Gator Growl,
organizers announced Tuesday.
The group will be paid $20,000,
said Matt Sloan, Gator Growl pro-
ducer.
"I feel like we've got some-
thing for everybody. There
should be no reason that any
Gators don't want to come to
Gator Growl."
Matt Sloan
Gator Growl producer
The group became famous after
it appeared on the first season of
"America's Got Talent" in 2007. The
following year, it won the first season
of "America's Best Dance Crew."
JabbaWockeeZ will join comedian
Dana Carvey and musical act O.A.R.
Sloan said the show is looking to
hire a host for the event and is nego-
tiating with a former star athlete, but
he wouldn't say whom.
The announcement should be
made in a week or two, he said.
"I feel like we've got something for
everybody," he said. "There should
be no reason that any Gators don't
want to come to Gator Growl."
The event is Oct. 16. Students, fac-
ulty and staff tickets are $15, and gen-
eral admission tickets are $25.
SEE ACCENT, PAGE 5OSteecret creator Frank en for he rseTueda nh
audience at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts Tuesday night.
Man arrested for riding motorcycle while naked
A 45-year-old man was arrested in
Marion County for riding his motorcycle
drunk and naked early Tuesday morning.
J. Dante Krauss was driving north-
bound on 1-75 when he was spotted by
Captain Moshoji "Mike" Rolls. Rolls fol-
lowed Krauss onto Highway 40 toward
Ocala and pulled him over after he ran a
red light, according to a Marion County
Sheriff's Office press release.
Krauss admitted that he was drunkbut couldn't explain where he had been
or why he wasn't wearing any clothes, ac-
cording to the report.
After failing field sobriety tests like
reciting the alphabet and standing on one
leg, Krauss was taken to the Marion Coun-
ty Jail. His blood alcohol content was .178.
Florida's legal limit is .08.
Klauss was released at 1:17 p.m. This is
his fifth DUI, according to the report.
-KAT BEINToday
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9
ThunderCROSSWORD 11 storms
SPORTS 14 89/72
visit www.alligator.orgVOLUME 103 ISSUE:
0 Florida's defense
has yet to allow a
touchdown through
two games, and
linebacker Ryan
Stamper (right)
said the Gators
hope to keep the
streak going as
long as possible.
See Story, Page 14.tal
2, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Florida Alternative Breaks
Free Snow Cone Day
Today, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Plaza of the Americas
For more information visit
www.leadershipandservice.ufl.
edu/studentorgs/fab/.
UF Music Entertainment Industry
Student Association meeting
Today, 6 p.m.
Turlington Hall, Room 2306
Gators for HIV Education
(GHIVE) meeting
Today, 6 p.m.
Turlington Hall, Room 2305
Got an event?
And want to post it in this
space? Send an e-mail to bkel-
ley@alligator.org with "What's
Happening" in the subject line
and a synopsis of the event.
CORRECTION
The Sept. 15 edition of the Al-
ligator incorrectly reported the UF
Privacy Office Hotline phone num-
ber. The correct number is 1-866-
876-4772.
"Deliclouslwom
Snacks and Beer
b San es Plates Pastrie_ a morel
371 2000 * An m 8 sec
1371-000, ne urty Nallys
CHALLE-NTGE2
September14 -18
UF Campus
LIFEjsouth
CommunityBloodCenters
FREE
4-session
Self Defense
Course for Women
Beginning September 20th
Classes are held on Sundays
from 4:30 -6:00 p.m.at
Renshinkan
Martial Arts Academy
4000 W. Newberry Rd.
For more information,
contact Jason Dodd at 371-1007FORECAST
TODAY
THUNDER
STORMS
89/72THURSDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
89/72
ON CAMPUS
Hillel to hold service
UF Hillel will celebrate more
than a rivalry football game this
weekend as the Jewish New
Year, Rosh Hashanah, begins
Friday at sundown.
Services are scheduled from
7 to 8 p.m. on Friday at UF Hil-
lel and will be followed by a
holiday meal, said Rabbi Yoni
Kaiser-Blueth, Hillel's associate
director for Jewish student life.
A special service, "Pray for
your Soul; Pray for the Gators,"
will be held Saturday from 10
a.m. to 1:30 p.m.
"The service is our way of
saying that you can be Jewish
and a Gator at the same time,"
Kaiser-Blueth said.
Kaiser-Blueth, who leads
conservative services, said heFRIDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
88/72SATURDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
88/72SUNDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
87/71
hopes the Reform community's
ceremonial blowing of the Shofar,
a ram's horn used to incite spiri-
tual awakening, on Saturday will
help inspire a Gators victory over
the Volunteers.
"If I was part of the Reform
community, I would be blowing
the Shofar up and down Univer-
sity Avenue," he said.
For more information on High
Holiday services at UF Hillel, visit
www.ufhillel.org.
-MOLLY LARMIE
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the independent florida
Not offi ciall
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 16 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill, astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkeger@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
alligatorsports.org Editor Bobby Ca Ilovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Allie Conti, aconti@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Allie Conti,
Brian Kelley, Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry, Emily Blake,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Ashley Cruel,
Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Joe Holzer, Amanda Milligan,
George Pappas, Jennifer Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-3764482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director
Advertising Office Manager
Advertising Assistant
Intern Coordinator
Display Advertising Clerks
Sales RepresentativesRose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Victoria Livingston,
v1ivingston@a11igator.org
Melissa Bell
Sara Ingebretsen
Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie, Caitlin Dilks,
Brittany Fayne, Jon Levine,
Joaquin Martinez, MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-3764446 (Voice), 352-3764556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Andrea Almeida, Amanda Miller
Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-3764446 (Voice), 352-3764556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions IncHealth & Fitness'
Month to Month Memberships
NEWBERRY ROAD 377-4955 -TIOGA 692-2180 -FOR WOMEN 374-4634
GHFC.com
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
SPECIAL REPORT
SG transparency initiative raises validity questions
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Staff Writer
ctillo@alligator org
Questions on the validity of Student
Body President Jordan Johnson's trans-
parency waiver have been raised since its
Sept. 1 debut.
Johnson introduced the waiver dur-
ing a Student Senate meeting and said it
would make Student Government records,
including meeting minutes, recordings of
meetings and Senate voting records, avail-
able to the public.
Johnson said the waiver offers senators
the chance to give up their rights under
the Family Educational Rights and Priva-
cy Act (FERPA), which requires schools to
protect student educational records, such
as grades, from disclosure.
He encouraged, but did not require, SG
officials and senators to join him in signing
the waiver.
Johnson said so far about 70 of the 94
senators have signed it.
In a guest column that appeared in the
Sept. 8 edition of the Alligator, UF alum-
nus and former Keg Party President FrankBracco criticized the waiver and said FER-
PA applies to student grades and academ-
ic records, not to the public records related
to SG.
Bracco sued UF in August for failing
to allow him to make copies of audio and
video recordings of Student Senate meet-
ings.
"The real initiative behind this
is to engage students. This is all
positive. There's no negative to
what they're doing here."
Jordan Johnson
UF Student Body president
He said in his column that, since FER-
PA was enacted in 1974, nearly every re-
cord related to SG has been open to public
viewing.
"This suddenly changed two weeks ago
with this new transparency policy we're
seeing at Student Government," he said.
However, according to an e-mail sent
by UF spokesman Steve Orlando, SG re-
cords with information that identifies in-dividual students are protected by FERPA
and Florida law because they are main-
tained by UF.
With the waiver, students in SG give
permission to disclose any information
identifying them in the SG records, ac-
cording to the statement.
Johnson said the waiver follows up
with one of his campaign promises, and
he hopes it will give students a chance to
watch Senate meetings in their dorms.
He also said he hopes the waiver will
increase student interest and involvement
in SG.
"The real initiative behind this is to
engage students," Johnson said. "This is
all positive. There's no negative to what
they're doing here."
Mark Fenster, a UF law professor, said
he thinks the waiver is an unnecessary step
because he does not believe Student Sen-
ate records are similar to the educational
records FERPA was initially designed to
protect.
"The everyday records of a student-run
organization -one that is setting policy
and spending student fee money -is a far
cry from the grades and punishments met-ed out to individual students," he wrote in
an e-mail.
In Senate, students act as executives or
public officials, not students, Fenster said.
He said FERPA could apply to SG offi-
cials if an official committed an offense in
his or her SG work but was given a student
punishment, such as suspension.
"When those two things begin to merge,
when something they did as an official of
Student Government allows them to be
punished as a student, then I think you're
back into FERPA territory," Fenster said.
James Sullivan III, a Gainesville attor-
ney representing Bracco in his suit, said
the waiver is beneficial for UF.
He said the waiver protects the univer-
sity should a dispute arise over the revela-
tion of private student material during a
public Senate meeting.
"It's really not designed to protect the
senators or put them on notice," Sullivan
said.
Sullivan said the waiver also has the
added advantage of helping senators real-
ize they can expect less privacy than regu-
lar students.
Sarasota dentist develops toothpaste for Gators fans
H IT CAN BE PURCHASED AT
THE UF BOOKSTORE, CVS.
By CHELSEY JOINER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Thanks to Andrew Martineau,
Gators spirit can be taken to the
next level: personal hygiene.
Gator Paste, which is approved
by the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, is a fluoride protection
toothpaste made especially for
Gators fans.
The 6.4-ounce tube of tooth-
paste can be purchased for about
$3 at the UF Bookstore and local
CVS and Walgreens stores.
Martineau, a dentist from Sara-
sota, said his love for dentistry
and college football led to its cre-
ation.
"It was natural for me to make
a toothpaste called Gator Paste,"
he said. "There will always be
toothpaste, and there will always
be Gator fans."
David Ford, the general mer-
chandise coordinator at the UF
Bookstore, said Gator Paste is asuccess. They also carry a Gator
toothbrush to pair with the tooth-
paste.
Amber Atkins, a UF architec-ture junior, said she likes the idea uct, but it's fun. Honestly, just be-
of Gator Paste. cause it's Gators."
"I would buy it," Atkins said. Martineau has tapped into the
"I don't know if it's a great prod- mindset Atkins shares with other
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
Tubes of Gator Paste toothpaste are available at the UF Bookstore in the Reitz Union.members of The Gator Nation.
"Gator Paste puts a smile on
people's faces," Martineau said.
"People see a Gator toothpaste,
and they go nuts."
The Collegiate Licensing Com-
pany and the University Athletic
Association have licensed Gator
Paste, and a portion of the sales
goes back to the UAA.
Gainesville is not the only
place Gator Paste is picking up
popularity.
Martineau set up a Gator Paste
booth at the Florida National Den-
tal Convention, where other den-
tists can buy Gator Paste and give
it to their patients.
"One dentist gave it to a pa-
tient, and the patient refused to
use it because it was Gators," he
said. "The client then gave it to
one of his friends who is a Gator
fan, and now the friend is order-
ing it straight from me."
Gator Paste's success has
caused Martineau to think about
the future. He said Gators fans
can expect an all-natural Gator
Paste soon.
UF curator studies human evolution through lice research
Researchers received nearly $1M for the study
By JARED MISNER
Alligator Writer
David Reed has never had lice, but now as an assis-
tant curator at the Florida Museum of Natural History, he
is spending nearly $1 million on a global study of these
parasites.
Empowered by a $934,498 grant from the National Sci-
ence Foundation, Reed and about 14 researchers are con-
ducting a worldwide effort to study and trace the evolu-tionary biology of humankind through lice.
The study, which competed with other proposals in a
National Science Foundation competition, will allow Reed
to understand human migration patterns
U F by following the dispersion of lice out of
Research Africa.
Reed said lice share the same evolu-
tionary history with humans, adding that modern human
origins can be traced back to Africa some 100,000 years
ago."We're their only host, so they're stuck to us like glue,"
Reed said.
"Wherever we go, they're going to follow us around as
long as they can survive, and we've been unsuccessful in
trying to eradicate them."
Head lice, according to a Healthline Web site, is the
second most common communicable health issue in chil-
dren behind only the common cold, affecting 6 million to
12 million children a year.
"I'm sure people will be surprised when they find out
these yucky parasites have such an important story to
tell," Reed said.
4, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009
Dunkin' Donuts opens new branch near campus
* THE STORE WILL BE OPEN
24 HOURS.
By MALIKA WRIGHT
Alligator Contributing Writer
A giant cup of coffee sloshed
down the West University Ave-
nue sidewalk across from campus
Tuesday. Across its middle read
"Dunkin' Donuts."
A new branch of the restau-
rant chain opened across from the
Murphree Area on Tuesday, of-
fering students food, coffee and a
place to study.
Store owners David and Steph-
anie Hass said they will be open
24 hours, but hours may change
depending on student demand.
UF sophomore Greg Manis
said he prefers Dunkin' Donuts
coffee and food choices over Star-
bucks and plans to dine there at
least once or twice a week.
"I think it's great that they have
provided an off-campus breakfast
dining experience," Manis said.
The restaurant has an outdoor
patio and offers wireless Internet,
By KATHERINE BEIN
Alligator Writer
Mid-September 1945: Authorities in
Washington reveal the UF engineering de-
partment's key role in creating what they
call the second most important develop-
ment in weapons technology.
The Engineering Experiment Station at
UF created an electronic fuse for detonat-
ing a bomb or projectile automatically as it
reaches its target.
The device, a miniature radio, is no big-Stephanie Hass said.
She said there's a need for plac-
es that serve breakfast, but some
people don't realize that Dunkin'
Donuts has lunch options, too.
Dunkin' Donuts has four kinds
of sandwiches, according to the
company's Web site.
"We pride ourselves on a great
product and great prices," she
said.
Its healthy menu, called DDS-
mart, makes it easy for people to
be health-conscious
Local when they are on the
News go. It has items with
at least 25 percent
fewer calories and 25 percent re-
duced sugar and fat, according to
the Web site.
But freshman Stephanie
Manone said she'll stick with Star-
bucks for its tea and greater drink
variety.
She said Starbucks and Dunkin'
Donuts are so different that she
can't really compare the two.
"Starbucks is a classy place to
hang out and do homework, while
Dunkin' Donuts is a go-and-come-
out kind of thing," she said.7
I
Customers order at the new Dunkin' Donuts on West University Avenue near 18th Street on Tuesday. The
location features an outdoor dining area.
ger than a teacup and gathers energy from tributes the blue bins and collects trash,
a wind-driven generator. said it makes 85,000 monthly pickups from
In February 1945, more than 1,000 bombs 37,000 homes.
were detonated by the "The good citizens of
device over Iwo Jima .. Gainesville are participat-
by Seventh Air Force ofGaiesville ing more than I expected,"
bombers. The mission than I expected." BFI operations manager
was a sucess, authori- -Kirk P Kirk Payne said.
ties said.
September 18, 1990: Gainesville becomes
the nation's most successful participant in
the Big Blue recycling campaign.
Browning-Ferris Industries, which dis-September 15, 1992:
The Hispanic Student Association kicks off
its first Hispanic Heritage Month.
In the past, the celebration was limited
to a week due to lack of funding.This year, Student Government stepped
up to directly fund the group, giving about
$3,500 to the association.
Karen Guerrero, vice president of HSA,
said there would be at least two activities
per week, providing entertainment and
education.
"It's not just for this culture," she said.
"It's for everyone to learn about our cul-
ture."
Guerrero said the group chose to cel-
ebrate during September and October be-
cause that's when most Latin American
countries celebrate their independence.
ON CAMPUS
UF to offer HINt vaccine in October
By JESSICA CHAPMAN
Alligator Writer
As the HINI virus, known as swine
flu, looms in the minds of UF students,
faculty and staff, the number of infected
UF students continues to rise, according
to the UF Student Health Care Center.
The U.S. Food and Drug Admin-
istration announced in a press release
Tuesday that a vaccine for the virus has
been approved and is expected to be
distributed within the next four weeks.
Student Health Care Center director
Dr. Phillip Barkley said UF will offer
HINI vaccines sometime in October.
Barkley said the majority of students
coming to the Student Health Care
Center with flu-like symptoms have the
HINI virus.
The center had 154 students visit the
clinic last week with symptoms of theflu, and the number continues to rise
each week, Barkley said.
"Cases of the flu have increased sig-
nificantly," he said. "If someone has the
flu, more than likely they have HINi."
Influenza, especially the HINI flu,
-often causes upper
Barkleyrespiratory prob-
lems, a high fever
and stomach-related
problems, such as
vomiting and diar-
rhea, Barkley ex-
plained.
Despite the rise in
student visits to the
health center, the increase still doesn't
give them an idea of how many UF stu-
dents will contract the disease.
The center projected about 25 per-
cent of students would get the flu with-
in eight weeks, but the percentage is a"best guess," Barkley said.
Because college-aged students are
not at a high risk like younger and older
generations, most students should still
be OK, he added.
"If [students] have no previous
medical complications, there is a very
low risk of complications," he said.
"People have done well managing it on
their own. The severity level is usually
mild."
The Student Health Care Center will
also conduct a survey of about 1,500
students later in the semester to get a
better idea of how many students have
had the HINI virus, Barkley said. Stu-
dents will receive a notification about
the survey via e-mail.
Barkley said students who think
they have the flu should avoid being in
public areas and do their own research
on the HINI.liVr %T'tm% 7o 7
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"h .a a"GAINESVLLE HISTORY
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Two students travel to Gitmo
Report aired on ABC, WUFT-TV
By STEVE JOHNSON
Alligator Writer
After President Barack Obama
announced the impending clo-
sure of the detention camp at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, two UF
student journalists decided to tell
its story.
Telecommunications majors
Miles Doran, 21, and Patrick
Fleming, 25, made the three-
hour journey on a twin-engine
Air Sunshine plane Sept. 7 and
returned Sept. 10 with hours of
video, hundreds of photos and
an idea of what it's like to be con-
sidered one of the world's most
dangerous people.
"It was really kind of strange
that you are just a few yards away
from what the U.S. says is the
worst of the worst," Doran said.
"At the time, you don't think
about it much because you're just
trying to get your shots and do
your job."
After returning to Gainesville,
Doran and Fleming rushed to fin-
ish editing their censored video
for reports that aired Friday on
ABC News and WUFT-TV.
"You basically have to follow
all of their rules, and they're go-
ing to show you what they want
you to see," Doran said.Getting the trip rolling was
a complex process, said Doran,
who pitched his idea to WUFT-
TV news director Mark Leeps.
But after contacting a National
Guard spokesman and filling out
a stack of paperwork, his dream
of reporting in Guantanamo Bay
was going to be fulfilled.
"Don't feel that just be-
cause you're a student
journalist that doesn't
mean you can't report real
big stories like this one."
Miles Doran
UF telecommunication senior
"It's much more than just a de-
tention facility," Doran said. "It's
an actual naval station that has
been in operation for more than
100 years."
Once their trip was approved,
Doran contacted Fleming about
filming the trip and started mak-
ing plans with Leeps.
"We had a lot of faith in them
that they would come back with
good material and that it would
be worth the investment and the
travel," Leeps said.
"It's something that not your
average college student gets to
do."While in Guatanamo, Doran
and Fleming toured the three
detention camps, the hospital,
library and food preparation fa-
cilities.
"It was actually pretty tasty,"
Doran said about the food, add-
ing a Gitmo official said the U.S.
spends $37 a day on food for the
detainees and only $17 for the
guards.
In addition to their tours, the
journalists reported on the hard-
ships the guards face while on the
job and the difficulties they face
as the prisoners use any method
imaginable to get into the guards'
heads.
"Anything you think can come
out of their bodies they will throw
at them," Doran said.
"Many of the detainees who
are being held there are really,
really smart; guys with degrees
from the London School of Eco-
nomics, MIT and ASU."
Their report was aired on ABC
World News Now during an
early morning newscast and on
WUFT-TV at 5:30 p.m. Friday.
"Don't feel that just because
you're a student journalist that
doesn't mean you can't report
real big stories like this one,"
Doran said.
"Throw the fish line out there
and see if you get any bites. We
got a pretty good one here."/
tA~
Courtesy of WUFr
Miles Doran, left, and Patrick Fleming stand with a camera by the
fence around the Guantanamo Bay prison.
Purchases included 'Perfect Hips Belly Dance'
FRAUD, from page 1
niture, almost $1,400 on iPods and almost
$2,500 on other items like GPS navigation
systems.
In an interview with UF officials in
April, Manning admitted he had been
making personal purchases with univer-
sity money for several years. He said he
knew what he was doing was inappropri-
ate and agreed to pay the university back.
Manning was charged with felony
fraud. On Thursday, he agreed to a deal
with the State Attorney's Office under
which he would reimburse UF $15,844 -
the amount he stole minus shipping and
handling -and pay the University Police
Department $918 for investigation costs.
Manning would also be required to do
50 hours of community service.
Mann said if Manning follows the terms
of the agreement, the State Attorney's of-
fice would not prosecute him.
Kelly Lewis, who was charged with
the second-highest amount of fraud, spent
about $8,800 of UF money on personal
items from 2007 to 2009, according to the
investigation.
Lewis, who was an office assistant in
the soil and water science department, had
been at UF since 1981 and earned a salary
of about $38,000.
She spent about $2,500 on digital cam-
eras and accessories, almost $2,000 on 126
DVDs and about $1,600 in electronics and
yard equipment, among other things.
Her DVD titles included "Sex and the
City" and "Perfect Hips Belly Dance."
Lewis told UF officials she used UF
money for personal purchases but de-
clined to offer more information.
She was charged with felony fraud,pleaded not guilty in June and agreed to a
deal with the State Attorney's office in Au-
gust under which she would reimburse UF
almost $8,600 -the cost of her purchases
minus shipping and handling -and more
than $2,500 for investigation costs.
She also agreed to 50 hours of commu-
nity service and, like Manning, will not be
prosecuted if she follows the terms of her
deal.
Sheila Springs, the third and final
former UF employee
charged with a crime,
used about $3,400 of
-UF's money on personal
items.
She told police she
bought things she
wanted for her family
Sikes but couldn't afford.
She said she had
never been in this kind of trouble before
and expressed an interest in reimbursing
UF.
Springs, a former fiscal assistant in UF's
chemistry department, worked with UF
since 1999 and earned about $28,000.
Her fraudulent purchases included
about $1,600 in digital cameras and acces-
sories and about $1,300 in other electronics
like a Nintendo Wii and a DVD player.
Her prior criminal history includes
dozens of charges, dating back to 1992, for
passing worthless checks.
Springs pleaded no contest to grand
theft in August in exchange for 18 months
of probation. She has already reimbursed
UF for the full cost of her purchases.
Roberta Peacock, the fourth former UF
employee accused of fraud, was found to
have used about $468 of UF's money for
personal items, including a Weight Watch-ers starter kit and diet books as well as a
number of purchases from the Family
Christian Store.
Investigators noted that many of the
receipts had been modified with a type-
writer to make items listed look like World
War II books used by the department, and
many had hand-written descriptions that
didn't match the actual purchases.
Matt Fajack, UF's chief financial officer,
said UF has taken steps to prevent further
PCard fraud.
Most purchases must now be made
through online catalogs. Those that aren't
will be subject to more scrutiny, he said.
"You need to look at things like Ama-
zon(.com) a little closer," he said. "Yeah,
you can get your book on soil samples at
a good price, but you can also get a flat
screen TV."
UF will continue the practice of audit-
ing suspicious transactions, as it did with
this year's investigation. Previously, audits
of PCard purchases were random.
UF employees that use PCards will also
be given more training, Fajack said, and
UF will end the practice of allowing subor-
dinates to verify their bosses' purchases.
Even though they can be risky, Fajack
said UF won't stop using PCards, adding
the reduction in paperwork for the cards
saves UF $6 million to $7 million a year.
UF employees spent about $78 million
with about 4,900 PCards in 2008.
As for the four employees accused of
fraud, Fajack said they may have resigned,
but a note will be added in their files that
indicates UF would not rehire them, which
should deter potential employers.
"That's the kiss of death," Fajack said.
"Everybody knows that's the code word
for don't hire this person."Warren earned
$25K for show
ACCENT from page 1
"Some [secrets] are funny, some sexual,
some hopeful," he said. "Some are filled
with despair and darkness."
Some secrets never get sent.
One woman wrote Warren about a post-
card she opted not to send, instead tearing
it to shreds and vowing to overcome her
secret.
"I like imagining what that secret would
have been," Warren said. "Sometimes when
we think we're keeping a secret, that secret's
actually keeping us."
At the end of his presentation, Warren
encouraged members of the audience to
share their questions and, if brave enough,
their own secrets.
UF psychology junior Victoria Reynolds
was one of the students who stepped up to
the microphone.
"It was nerve-racking, kind of liberating
and also a little bit embarrassing," Reynolds
said. "My knees were shaking, but I had
moral support [from my boyfriend]."
Warren described the outcome of PostSe-
cret as transformative and said he's still sur-
prised at the positive response he receives
nearly five years after he began the project.
"I accidently tapped into something that
had been there the whole time," he said.
"[It's] something full of mystery and wonder
that I still don't completely understand."
Warren was paid $25,000 to speak, Ac-
cent officials said.
6, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009
Paint it Black
Obama should nix
color-coded terror alerts
T1he Obama administration should do away with the color-
coded terror-alert system instead of trying to tweak it.
After a 60-day review of the current system, a special
task force is expected to recommend reducing the number of
colors from five to three, according to an article by The Associ-
ated Press.
Besides not following the natural color spectrum, the col-
or-coded system is unnecessary and arbitrary. What purpose
could a color alert possibly serve? Are there people who decide
not to leave the house when the terror rainbow moves from yel-
low to orange?
Not only is the task force expected to recommend making
ineffectual changes to an already broken system, they are ex-
pected to recommend that the federal government hire more
people to manage fewer colors.
Color us confused.
If the government wants to alert the public about a possible
or impending attack, they can do so with words, not colors.
A system that can influence the country's collective anxiety
without explanation is a potentially dangerous, almost Or-
wellian, political tool that should be nixed.
Columbia University academic Brigitte L. Nacos published a
study that showed a direct correlation between increases in the
terror level and former President George W. Bush's approval
ratings in 2006. No other president should be able to wield such
power with a vague system that has no published criteria for its
threat levels.
The terror-alert color codes system does nothing to protect
Americans and only hinders public understanding of home-
land security.
On 'Gard'
veryone has the rightto decide what to put
in their bodies, but a
17-year-old girl from Port St.
Joe, Fla., is facing possible de-
portation for refusing a Gar-
dasil vaccine.
Simone Davis refuses to
take the vaccine on religious
grounds because her devout-
ly Christian adoptive family
believes that taking a vaccine
preventing human papillo-
mavirus, a sexually transmit-
ted disease, implies that she is
sexually active.
Because the United States
requires female immigrants
between the ages of 11 and 26
to receive a Gardasil shot be-
fore they can become citizens,
Davis will be deported to her
native England if she contin-
ues to refuse vaccination.
Facing deportation may be
the furthest extreme any teen-
age girl has gone to in order
to convince her parents of her
virginity. However, regard-
less of the motive, the federal
government should not be al-lowed to mandate a vaccine
on anyone.
Religion aside, Gardasil
is known to cause side ef-
fects such as paralysis and
seizures. So even if it is falla-
cious to assume that taking a
Gardasil shot suggests sexual
promiscuity, Davis and her
family have other legitimate
reasons to be wary of getting
the vaccine.
We wonder why Gardasil
shots aren't mandatory for
natural-born citizens if the
need to administer them is so
great. We also wonder how
the government can mandate
a shot that helps prevent cer-
vical cancer, a disease that
would only afflict the individ-
ual who refused preventative
measures.
At its best, mandating a
vaccine is an infringement of
personal liberty. At its worst,
it's eugenics. Under no cir-
cumstance should the United
States make this unnecessary,
potentially dangerous vacci-
nation mandatory.
l the independent florida
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORSAllie Conti
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names wiii be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University A , or send them to PO Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions
Arguing over facts
// fou have a right to your own opinion," my mother
likes to say. "You do not have a right to your own
facts."
Somehow, people still want to pick fights over facts.
Barack Obama was not born in Kenya. Health care reform
would not create death panels. There is no evidence that vac-
cines cause autism or that fluorinated water causes cancer.
These are fairly well-documented facts that people choose
to debate.
I'm well aware that much of the American public doesn't
trust the mainstream media to give them the truth.
The media have contributed to that, I'll admit. Plagiarism
scandals and ideologues have damaged the news industry's
credibility.
But I have to wonder how much of that distrust is people
not being told what they want to hear.
If you don't like what you're hearing from the major net-
works, you can find a cable network to fit your opinion. If
you don't like what you read in the major newspapers, just
read the blog of your choice or tune in to AM radio.
It's not a conservative or liberal issue. Both sides are
guilty. From Ann Coulter to Keith Olbermann, both view-
points have their outspoken bobbleheads.
It frightens me, though, that bobblehead syndrome has
infected the public.
It's not worth arguing with people who believe things
regardless of proof. That's the entire point of an argument:
to convince people of your point of view by presenting evi-
dence. But evidence seems to be worth less and less.
Just ask Rep. Joe Wilson. You'd have to be pretty con-
vinced to call the president a liar during a televised presiden-
[ial address. Subsequent research has revealed, though, that
his accusation that health care would be provided to illegal
immigrants was baseless.
Or think of Sarah Palin, who used the words "death pan-
els" to describe health-care reform.
Then there's Vice President Joe Biden, who said crazyALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/opinions
prevents progress
things about avoiding all confined
spaces because of swine flu. One
sneeze cannot infect a whole plane,
sir. This is HINI, not tuberculosis.
It happens outside of politics, too:
Jenny McCarthy, former Playboy
Hilary Lehman bunny, uses her celebrity to claim that
letters@alIigator.org vaccines caused her son's autism. I re-
spect McCarthy for doing everything
she can to protect her child. But claim-
ing that vaccines are dangerous is irresponsible. Childhood
vaccinations have saved millions of lives, and studies have
not indicated any link to autism.
These people use their national spotlight to make baseless
accusations that the public pays attention to.
I won't completely blame the politicians and celebrities
for these fanatical beliefs. People will buy anything hook, line
and sinker if they want it to be true.
There are valid reasons to not be happy with the health
care plan, but the death panels story is too good to pass up for
those who simply want something to latch on to and hate.
Parents of autistic children want a cure, and that's com-
pletely understandable. But so much effort and publicity is
directed toward vaccines when research could be directed
toward finding a viable solution.
Arguing over these issues isn't only pointless. Arguments
over facts or falsehoods -for instance, debating whether
health care reform would euthanize your grandparents -
prevents productive discussion and compromises that could
help everyone.
Life has shades of gray. But facts are black and white. And
it's your responsibility to find the facts, not what you wish
the facts were.
What you choose to do with those facts is up to you. After
all, you do have the right to your own opinion.
Hilary Lehman is a journalism senior. Her column appears on
Wednesdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Should Obama Tuesday's question: Does this 83% YES
eliminate the terror-alert system? generation have a commitment 17% NO
problem? 139 TOTAL VOTES
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgUWn
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Guest column
Middle Eastern children show
compromise on the horizon
hat causes human beings to hateso much that they are willing to
end the lives of others?
In a society where our biggest conflict of
the day might be over a roommate not doing
the dishes, it is almost impossible to under-
stand.
When I lived and traveled throughout
the West Bank this summer, I witnessed the
raw emotion that drives people to violence
on both sides of the Palestinian-Israeli con-
flict. Nowhere were these feelings more pro-
nounced and the situation more precarious
than in the city of Hebron in the southern
part of the West Bank.
Hebron is home to more than 100,000
people. It is the burial place of Abraham, the
patriarch of three of the world's great faiths.
Among the residents is a small group of ex-
tremely ideological Jewish settlers who be-
lieve that it is their duty to inhabit the land
at all costs.
When I arrived in this city, I felt as if a
war was about to break out. I looked above
and saw sniper positions and fortified ma-
chine gun nests all around me. Many of the
settlers live on floors directly above Pal-
estinians. When I was walking the streets,
I saw fish netting that covered the space
above me, and it was holding up trash
thrown from above. I discovered that the
nets were there to catch the trash and debris
the Israeli settlers would throw on Palestin-
ians, though it missed the occasional urine
and feces that they would drop. While we
were walking, I think one of my Norwegian
friends was mistaken for a political activist
and was hit in the head by a rock thrown by
one of the settlers.
I finally made it to the city center where
the settlers live. I saw boys digging up the
olive trees that had been there for many
years so they could replace them with palm
trees. The landscape had been changed to
something that reminded me more of Amer-
ica or Europe than the desert. The settler
community gave us literature with pictures
of a Palestinian woman giving them the
middle finger and an Israeli woman beingTravis Hornsby arrested by Palestinian
Spea king Out police. These photos
were striking because
earlier that day I had
seen a photo in a local shop of a Palestinian
man being carried through the streets by Is-
raeli forces while he was bleeding. I walked
around this neighborhood for a little while
and saw the children of settlers taunting and
jeering at some elderly Palestinian women
passing by.
I walked immediately outside the bound-
ary of the settler community and climbed to
the rooftop of a Palestinian home. There was
a machine gun nest maybe 30 yards away
from me when I looked around. The roof-
tops were covered in barbed wire to sepa-
rate the Israeli and Palestinian homes. What
I saw next I will never forget.
A little Israeli boy walked up to the
barbed wire and sat down on top of the
roof. A little Palestinian boy ran over and
sat next to him, though they were separated
by the barbed wire. They began talking like
friends would. My friends and I were quite
perplexed. The Israeli soldier at the nearby
machine gun nest motioned for the Israeli
boy to come back, but he ignored him. The
Palestinian boy turned to one of my friends
who spoke Arabic and told her that many of
the Israeli and Palestinian children play with
each other through the barbed wire. He said
many of the children are good friends, but
they aren't allowed to go on the other side
of the wire, so they can never have physical
contact with each other.
A chill went up my spine. Here were the
children, each from different sides, whose
parents hated each other more than is de-
scribable in words, playing like they were
schoolmates. However, the older children
had contempt for each other. What changes
them? Why can't these children live together
as adults in peace? I don't have an answer,
except that if their societies have any moral-
ity, for the sake of these children each side
must make peace the priority over all else.
Travis Hornsby is an economics and a politi-
cal science sophomore.AH4'
-~WIE INTCPJUPr-
-'wS MUSICAL
p&ZOG QATo
6PNtO YOMA
NF't 00 ep
Kr*6
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
8, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009
SG votes
to extend
Hub hours
H IT WILL NOW BE OPEN
FROM 8 A.M. TO 4 A.M.
EVERY DAY.
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
Students will be able to cram
in a little extra on-campus study
time, after senators voted Tuesday
to allot $30,000 of Student Govern-
ment reserve funds to keep the
Hub open 20 hours a day.
The bill, which was presented
by Student Body President Jordan
Johnson, will extend the Hub's
hours from 8 a.m. to 4 a.m. starting
Monday.
Johnson said Starbucks will also
be open during those hours, and
the Student Night Auxiliary Patrol,
or SNAP, will run until 4 a.m.
Johnson said the center will
serve as a pilot program for a pos-
sible $12 million, 24-hour study
center on cam-
Student pus, which
Government would use
stimulus funds
to renovate an
already existing building.
Progress Party Sen. Dave Sch-
neider, who represents Rawlings
Hall, asked Johnson if the Hub
could replace the proposed 24-
hour study center in order to save
money.
Johnson said the Hub does not
have as much space for students as
a new center would.
Senators also passed the final-
ized version of the $14 million Ac-
tivity & Service Fees budget after
about 20 minutes of debate.
Some Senators expressed con-
cerns left over from the two-hour
debate during last week's meet-
ing.
Schneider said he felt uncom-
fortable voting for a budget that
makes SG officials' cell phone re-
imbursements a priority over dis-
tributing the Wall Street Journal on
campus.
However, James Tyger, who
represents UF's Levin College of
Law, said he did not see the ben-
efits given to SG officials as perks,
adding officials needed them to do
their jobs.
SG lobbyists Ron LaFace and
Nick larossi gave a presentation
describing two new potential rev-
enue sources being discussed to
make up for the cuts to education.
larossi said that under the Sem-
inole Gaming Act, tribal casinos in
Florida would provide about $150
million a year to Florida education
funds.
A proposal for offshore oil drill-
ing in the Gulf of Mexico could also
bring in more than $3 billion, most
of which will go to higher educa-
tion, larossi said.Feed your future
See how more than 29,000 people are
working together to help inspire change.
Begin at www.pwc.tv
2CA9 PicewaterhouseCoopers LLP, All rights reserved. "PriwaterhouseCoopers" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware limited liability partnership) or, as the context requires, the PricewaterhouseCoopers
global network or other member firms of the network, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer.4tl
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
LIVE FOR $319!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
*TheLandingsUF.com 336-3838
*3801 SW 13 St
12-9-75-1
SUPER HERO SAVINGS
HULK-Smashing Prices!
As Low As $299/person!
3515 SW 39th Blvd
Let Greenwich save you Green! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75 1QThfr,4
at Santa Fe
Walk to Santa Fe College!!!
Limited Time Only
Rates starting at $399 or
Receive a $1000 rebate check on us!
4/4's or Brand New 3/3's!
Fully Furnished, Free Ethernet
Free Cable and Utilities
Roommate Matching, Free Tanning!
352-379-9300 www.thecrossingatsantafe.com
12-9-75-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-12 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-1
WWW.TheFloridaRenterslnsurance.COM
Renters Insurance from $9 per month
Online Quotes 9-16-09-31-1
Univ. Terr. Gainesville, 3921 SW 34th st., 1st
fir., 4 bd, 4 ba, cent A/C, cable, wash., dry.,
full kitch., Sept rent free! $300/mo.ea., $25/
person finders fee, owner/manager/gaines-
ville Immediate occupancy. 352-472-9778
9-18-09-36-1
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Beautiful 3/3 condo
Windsor Park, dir on bus route, new furn.,
beaut. remod. bathrooms and hardwood
floors, upstairs, front bldg, 1300/mo, 772-
349-3221, bdduf86@comcast.net 9-23-
09-30-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
1br/1ba in 4/4 luxury condo $369/mth,
all inclusive (utilities, internet, tv, phone,
washer/dryer), fully furnitured. very close to
campus. contact 352-235-4762 or
toxapheneufl@yahoo.com 9-16-20-1
3 ROOMS FOR RENT
$525-$650/mo All utils incl. Near SFC, Oaks
Mall & UF 786-325-7941 9-21-09-20-1
NEED FEMALE ROOMMATE
for 3BR/2BA townhouse. $550/mo all inclu-
sive. W/D, on direct bus route, minutes to
campus. No pets. Please call 813-892-3996
9-23-09-20-12BR/2PVT BA AVAILABLE IN ROCKWOOD
VILLAS 3 BR unit- $400 per room plus 1/3 of
utils. FREE Internet and Cable! W/D in unit.
On bus route close to Oaks Mall. 352-514-
0372 or email Carmen4909@yahoo.com
9-25-09-19-1
2/2 gated townhome with attached ga-
rage, cable w/hbo,sho,alarm. Close to
Shands.$980 mo. furn.opt.321-698-7579
myhomesoon@gmail.com. 9-25-09-17-1
Townhome 2/2 end unit,fenced
SW near UF/Shands,bus;avail.
now;vaulted,w/d,deck,icemkr
$850mo/$400sec 352-256-6158
doxie.dogs@hotmail.com 10-1-09-21-1
2 bedrm 2.5 bath, granite counter tops,
SS appliances, dishwasher, washer/dryer,
alarm, close to Campus & Shands Ready for
move in. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-5-09-
19-1
DUPLEX EFFICIENCY Private entrance
1BR/1 BA, full kitchen, double stainless sink,
garbage disposal, microwave, ref/freezer,
Dish TV, covered patio, shed, utils incl $495/
mo Tower& Archer Rd. 352-372-6466 9-16-
09-5-1
Furnished., WINDSOR PARK .ROOM $
420 and APT 1/1 $ 600 .2 mi from UF.All
inclu. Elec, TV, Internet,Gym,Pool, W/Dry,
Basketball, Soccer & tennis courts. 305-
408-4330 -305-962-2525, 305-408-4330 -
c2000_1@msn.com 9-18-09-6-1
**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $299/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 9-18-5-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-21, 2, 3's *SUPER RENT DISCOUNTS!
1BR $509 * 2BR $579* 3BR $775
HUGE FLOORPLANS!* Pets Loved!
Bus Stop * Pools * Green Courtyards!
Park Free Across From UF! 335-7275
12-9-09-75-2
Downtown Living -Limited Availability!
One Bedrooms from only $699
2/2 Townhouses with W/D from $819
Only 5 lift! Don't miss out on the best location
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
352.338.0002-arlingtonsquare.org
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 Iv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
WALK TO UF!
Studios & 1 Beds starting at $499!
Pet friendly, Free Parking Near UF
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Affordable Living -Convenient to Everything!
Spacious 2/1's Available Immediately
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now!!! 3/3 for $336/person.
Cable w/HBO and Showtime included!
Private Dog Park-Tanning-Fitness Center
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
BIVENS COVE
1/1 -From $649 2/2 -From $699
3/2 -From $824 4/3 -From $1099
Close to UF/Shands * Pet Friendly
(352) 376-2507 * 3301 SW 13th Street
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
2/2 & 3/3 with GARAGE!
W/D, Alarm, Huge patio!
We love pets! $875-$1012
372-0400*MadisonPointe.org
12-9-75-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
10, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
*POLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
Get it while it's HOT!
Starting at $299
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
3813 SW 34th st
Call NOW! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
SORORITY ROW 2BDs!
2br/2.5ba from $899
W/D included. No Move-in Fees!
Pets welcome! FREE Parking!
372-7111 CollegeManor.org
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $695
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
75-212-9-
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Across From UF! PET FRIENDLY!
Two Bedrooms starting at $599!
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!!
303 NW 17th Street, Ste A
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 10-9-
09-82-2
We have REAL 1/1s
Dump your roommate & save on gas!
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $575 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450 -Only 4 left!
1600 NW 4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $475 -Just a few left!
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
9-30-09-66-2
* NANTUCKET WALK *
*UPPER WEST SIDE*
Brand new luxury apartments! Walk to class!
All-inclusive! nantucketwalk@cmcapt.com
352-240-6961
12-9-09-74-2
large 4 bed 3 bath house for rent. near uni-
versity and 34th, pets ok, washer & dryer, first
and security 1500/mo. Available June 1st.
yearly. Call 727-430-3094 7-19-09-21-2
BIKE TO UF! 1st mont free!
5BR 3BA, lawn service incl,
Fireplace, carport, w/d hkups, $1800/rent
3920 SW 20th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
48-2
VICTORIA STATION! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2.5 BA TH, washer/dryer, high ceilings,
separate Dining room, pool,
$800/rent, 3552 SW 30th Way #146
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
44-2
WALK TO UF! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR duplex, CH/AC, will consider small pet,
$695/rent 120-A NW 10th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
44-2GREAT MOVE-IN SPECIALS!
1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 BR Houses & apartments!
Contact us for pricing & availability!
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
44-2
* 3BR $99 Moves you in! $750
Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D, fenced yards,
pet friendly, wd firs, 352-505-9264 or 352-
870-0904 9-21-09-45-2
* 4/2 $99 Moves U in! $1000/mo
Super Special, Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D
hkup, carpet & wd firs, extra room, large
fenced yard, pet friendly 352-505-9264
9-21-09-45-2
@2/1 Apt. $99 Move-in $500 total
Historic downtown, cent AC, W/D hkup,
10min bike to UF, front porch, pets ok,
great size. Yes $500 whole apt! 505-9264
9-21-09-45-2
ORoom $299. $99 first month
has everything, walk-in closet, pvt BA,
W/D, DW, built-in micro, tile & carpet, pool
on site, 505-9264 or 870-0904
9-21-09-45-2
SOUTHFORK OAKS! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 1.5 BA TH, Pool, w/d hkups, close to
everything! $675/rent,
2300 SW 43rd St #1-3
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
42-2
STEPS TO CLASS! 4 BR 2.5 BA house,
Living, dining & sunrooms, w/d hkups,
CH/AC, $1800/rent, 1107 SW 1st Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
44-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
ARBOR
Ask about our move-in specials!
Close to UF & Shands
2411 SW 35th PL
866-604-7097
M-F 9-6, Sat 10-2
www.arborgainesville.com
12-9-09-74-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off. 2/2 Close to UF &
bus route. Great for grad students! Builiding
is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev tenant. W/D, D/W,
tile & carpet in BDs $800 for the whole place
Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
9-18-09-36-2
GREAT LOCATION! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2BA in Concordia, w/d, pool, quiet loca-
tion! $750/rent, 405-B NW 39th Road
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
34-2
Downtown House 110 SE 4th PI 3BD/1.5BA
Central heat/air. On street parking, fenced
yard, w/d hookups. Walk downtown & bike/
bus to campus! $730/mo + 1st, last $500 dep
Call 373-6551 9-22-33-2
WWW.TheFloridaRenterslnsurance.COM
Renters Insurance from $9 per month
Online Quotes 9-16-09-31-2
LAS PAMPAS! 2 BR 2 BA townhouse,
Wood laminate floors, screen porch, pool,
loft $800/rent, 3482 NW 37th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
30-2GREAT HOUSE BIKING DIST TO UF!
1st month free 3/2 in quiet area, fireplace,
garage, washer/dryer, $995/rent,
3919 SW 28th Terrace
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-
09-23-2
LOTS OF SPACE! 1ST MONTH FREE!
3 BR 2 BA w/ living, family & dining rooms,
2 car carport, fenced yard, w/d, lawn svc,
$1000/rent, 126 SW 40th St.
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-
09-28-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 9-16-09-25-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 9-16-09-25-2
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $550 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
GRANTWOOD 2 MONTHS FREE!
2 BR 2 BA Townhouse, loft, wood laminate
floors, Washer/Dryer, pool, courtyard,
$750/rent, 2508 SW 35th PI #47
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-
09-28-2
ROCKWOOD VILLAS 2 MONTHS FREE!
3 BR 3 BA Townhouse, wood laminate floors
& ceramic tile, porch, Washer/Dryer,
$895/rent, 858 SW 58th Terr
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-
09-28-2
CUTE 3 BR HOUSE! 1st month free! Garage,
Newer flooring, w/d hkups, $775/rent
1730 NW 31st Place
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
28-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D hk-
ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/mo
Phone (352) 359-8311 9-30-09-34-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
1/1s from $392* 2/1s from $491*
(Rate includes specials)
Close to UF & Oaks Mall.
Pine Rush Villas 375-1519
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
2/1s from $491* (Rate includes specials)
SW Archer Rd
Homestead Apts. 376-0828
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE* +$200 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
2/2s from $605* & 3/2s from $695
(Rate includes specials)
Close to Oaks Mall & Newberry Rd.
Ashton Square Villas 333-1120
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st MONTH FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Private Patios
1/1s from $472* (Rate includes specials)
Gator Village 372-3826
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Studios from $384* 1/1s from $425*
(Rate includes specials)
Walk to Butler Plaza
Sundowne 352-377-2596
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-21st TWO MONTHS FREE* + $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!!
1/1s from $401* (Rate includes specials)
1/2 mile to UF
Sunrise 352-372-4835
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
* Totally Renovated 1 Bdrs
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees
*$507 Month*lncludes Specials*
2 MONTHS FREE + $300 Gift Card
Free Tanning/Cyber Cafe
Great Location!
Courtney Greens 375-3077
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*I
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Great Location
1/1s from $417* (Rate includes specials)
Summer Place 372-2818
3316 SW 41st Place Just off SW 34th Street
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
$99 Moves You In!
1, 1 w/den, 2 & 3 Bedroom
Call About Two Months
FREE RENT
352-331-2966
Rent start at $750.00
2625 SW 75th St, Gainesville, FL 32608
Equal Housing Opportunity.
9-30-09-21-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosed front patio
W/D, Wood floors, Fireplace
3 blocks from UF! Pets loved!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10th Street
12-9-09-75-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home on shady
lot. From $345-$425/mo incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th St. Last month free. 376-
5887 10-9-33-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
Downtown Bed & Breakfast District: historic,
huge 3/2, 2/1, and 1/1. Water inc. Laundry
inc. $1900, $700, and $650 respectively.
Walk downtown! 373-7566 M-F 9-5. 9-17-
14-2
AVAILABLE NOW or JAN 1. 3BR/2BA nice
house. Pets ok, washer/dryer provided. Quiet
dead-end road. 4100 NW 14th Pl. $975/mo.
Fenced yard. 352-339-2342 9-21-09-15-2
WE'RE HERE TO HELP! FOCUS ON
SCHOOL Must see upgrades new carpettile
& more.from a disc. rate of $390 Move in to-
day Pets ok
15 mins from UF Call for specials 352-332-
8225 10-12-30-2
2BR/1BA 1 month FREE. Oak Condo by
Oaks Mall. $695, screened-in porch, W/D,
community pool & gym, water & trash includ-
ed. 321-948-6327 or americana@cfl.rr.com
9-28-09-20-2
4 bd/ 4 ba condo at Countryside, only $850,
1200 sq ft. Rented furnished or unfurnished,
washer & dryer incl, Community pool, fitness
center and basketball courts Call Bosshardt
Property Management Today! 352-371-2118
9-24-09-15-2
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 11
For Rent For RentVForVRent Roommates Real Eunfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
MOVE IN NOW -1BR/1BA condo walk to
UF $850 with utilities, cable, & Internet or
3BR/2BA home with large yard & carport
$850 Keller Williams Realty 352-240-0600
Tiffany McKenzie, Realtor @ 352-871-3890
9-25-09-15-2
2BR1.5BA townhouse for rent near UF,
Shands, VA. W/D hook-ups, fireplace, en-
closed backyard. $900/mo +. 904-524-3063
9-30-09-18-2
Cute & Clean! Studio apt. in quiet NW area
near Ward's & Publix. Close to shopping &
busline, bike to UF. for $375/mo. Visit www.
cozygator.com, call 352-338-7670, or email
shepley@cozygator.com 9-22-09-10-2
1bedr, 2bedrms, 3bedrms, & 4bedrms close
to Campus. Call to see your new home today
Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-20-09-
30-2
MOVE IN NOW -1BR/1BA condo walk to
UF $850 with utilities, cable, & Internet or
3BR/2BA home with large yard & carport
$850 Keller Williams Realty 352-240-0600
Tiffany McKenzie, Realtor @ 352-871-3890
9-25-09-15-2
1BR/1BA EFFICIENCY
with A/C, $320/mo. No pets. Year lease.
Shady lot. 1022.5 NW 4t Ave. 352-376-5887
9-25-09-13-2
Room for rent near Archer Road. Non smoker
$500/month includes utilities.Sec dep. $500.
Call 352-213-1567. 9-17-6-2
.- 6 00,0$240/MO INCL UTIL.
ONE BEDROOM FOR RENT!
2 miles east of UF NE 9th St & 3rd Ave. On
bus route. Share full bath. Non-smoking fe-
male. Clean. Cat ok. Call Jane 871-6065
9-17-09-5-2
Homes Available for Immediate Occupancy.
Low Payments! $99 Deposit!
Call Today! 352-378-4411
9-30-09-15-2
We Love Pets &
Ready to Move in Today
Regency Oaks
1,2,3, Bedrooms
3230 SW Archer Rd
352-378-5766
Rocky Point
1,2,3 Bedrooms
3100 SW 35tth Place
352-376-1619
Archer Woods
1,2, Bedrooms
3020 SW Archer Rd
352-373-8727
Country Gardens
1 & 2 Bedrooms
2001 SW 16th St.
352-373-4500
12-9-09-65-2
2/2 Condo 2508 SW 35 PI
Gated Comm.w/Pool Near University
$750/Month Call Mike 786-299-4403 9-18-
09-7-2
Se e e . 0
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
Cet"o
I
so U
I B*2 MONTHS RENT FREE*
Beautiful 2/2 Apt for $840/month located in
downtown Gainesville 1 mile from campus.
Includes washer, dryer, dishwasher, balcony,
pool, and alarm. Available now. Call 561 827
5358 or email zurich7@ufl.edu 9-18-09-6-2
1 Block to UF! GREAT LOCATIONS
1 BR and 2BR Apts. See our list at
www.merrillmanagement.net
or call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 9-25-09-11-2
2BR 1BA Apt 1BLK TO UF!
Grad I I Apts Special: $650/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 9-25-09-11-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 9-25-09-11-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $500/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 9-25-09-11-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 9-25-09-11-2
FREE SEPT 2BR/2.5BA CONDO $775
w/d,parking,dog walk area,quiet
1.5miles to uf.352-281-0733 or
thuy carroll@yahoo.com 10-5-15-2
1BR/1BA POLOS. 3mo lease
avail/can renew. Oct 1st
move-in W/D, on bus route
24hr study room and gym.
petsok 847-722-0171 $729 9-22-09-5-2
Utilities Included! STUDIO (no bedroom!) for
rent $600 month $1000 security 2490 Sw
14th Drive Available Oct 31 386-527-6923
9-22-09-5-2
Sublease available immediately
Free-first month rent
free furniture & household stuff over $500
At 2811 SW Archer Road, Brandywine
Apartment
call at 352-213-1448 for more discounts
9-22-5-2
*Spacious new 2BR/2.5BA Townhouse near
UF. Apple. AC/Heat, Alarm Sys. Internet for
only $875/m @ 885 NW 21st Ave. Call 954-
805-7827 or 561-912-6223,
dennismiller@tycoint.com* 9-30-09-11-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172
12-9-09-50-2
3/2 home in northwest gainesville with fire-
place, large yard, garage. 850 a month. first
and security required. 6431 nw 26th terrace.
Call 352-871-2379. 10-27-30-2
-subleases
Spring 2010 College Park 1BR/1BA Studio
Apt Sublease. Walking distance to campus
and unfurnished. Rent is $625/month. Call
321-223-7867 or kmurph@ufl.edu 9-22-09-
15-3
1br apt, $575/month. Walking distance to UF
and 34th St Plaza. No move in charges; 1
1/2 months free. Call 502-608-3817 or e-mail
ozhegov@ufl.edu. 9-16-09-5-3
1BR/1BA $550/mo. Unfurnished.Spring 2010
Walking distance to campus.1 Month Free.
Move in October 2009. Call 352-870-7947 or
e-mail jihyun@ufl.edu 9-21-09-5-3Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 10-1-09-26-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-4
Male college student preferred. 4BR/4BA
Countryside condo. Own bathroom, W/D,
hi-speed internet, on bus rte. Utils included.
$415/mo. 863-634-1893. Available immedi-
ately. 9-24-09-25-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
9-21-09-15-4
Grad student seeking two female roommates
(NS/ND) to share a new 4/2 house in a quiet
neighborhood 3 mi. W of 1-75. With cable,
internet & security alarm. 475/mo., util. nc.
Please call 352-331-8794. Rooms are avail-
able immediately. 9-30-20-4
Female wanted to share brand new
3br/3ba home near campus. Washer
& dryer included. On bus route. Non-
smoking, serious students only. $450 plus
utilities. 813-610-1698 9-17-10-4
2BRs available for serious students, each
with private bath in completely remodeled,
fully furnished mobile home. 6 mins to UF -
Archer & 1-75. Very clean. $325/mo each +
1/2 utils. Call 352-256-0999 9-21-09-10-4
Close to UF. Lg rm in a nice NW home.
Fenced back yard. 395/mo. Washer/dryer.
Cable internet/TV. Mike 352-316-3930
9-21-09-5-4
BARGAIN Share furn T/H w/ UF U/G.
3BR/2.5Ba M-M lease. Screened pa-
tio.Pool.$200 or $300 for Lg. Upstairs.
CasaBlanca West. (786) 299-8626 or
macsen.latimer@ufl.edu 9-23-09-6-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name
brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490
will deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6right thru our website! Bank Owned Properties -Must Sell!
Just go to $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
www.alligator.org/classifieds See ALL bank owned homes and condos @
Visa and Mastercard accepted. www.allisonables.com/foreclosures
Allison Ables -Keller Williams Gainesville
11-2-38-5
Countryside Share 4BR/4BA upgraded furn
condo 1.5 miles to UF on bus rte, pool, W/D, Furnishingscable & utils incl. $425/mo. Call 386-672-
6969 or 386-295-7929. 10-16-09-55-4
12, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009
Furnishings Motorcycles, Mopeds Wanted Help Wanted Help Wanted
STACKED WASHER & DRYER
1 yr old -4 yr warranty -$800. 352-486-3226
9-17-09-5-6
QUALITY MATTRESSES at GREAT prices!
FREE delivery available. Try out your new
bed, in our brand new, family owned & oper-
ated showroom, at 3741 W. University Ave.
Call 352-505-6551 for more information.
www.gatormattress.com 9-18-09-5-6
Computers
CASH PAID: Laptops Cameras Cells
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
C 0 ITl P U T E R 5
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
09 Brand new 49cc gas motorized bicycle.
never used, must see to appreciate. Red w/
lots of extras, papers, $550 obo call 352-495-
0770 or email bobbytrek@yahoo.com 9-21-
09-5-9
L For Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
PLAY & BUY DRUMS, GUITARS, MORE
@ STUDIO PERCUSSION
www.STUDIOPERCUSSION.org
(352) 338-8302 9-18-20-10***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
**Www.B~uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
2001 Suzuki MarauderVZ800. Well cared for,
good condition. 800cc, custom Cobra pipes,
15 0 il J(( kI I h, f k I tThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
Looking for someone to help me learn to rake
knit a hat, second and fourth wednesdays of
each month. These hats are made for peo-
ple in Haiti. Come and have fun with Lenora.
Call 219-6948. 9-25-09-74-13
EZ TENNIS
352-372-2257 9-30-17-13
SILENT PARTNERS and INVESTORS
Sought for Record Label,
Recording Studio, ( 10) Acts,
Hip Hop, R&B, Comedy, etc.
CD Sales, Concerts, Marketing!
CONTACT: 352-870-1892
9-18-09-5-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
, m es. ac e , new e me , mo orcy- h needn lrdcle cover, and 3 heavy-duty locks included
Original exhaust included. Asking $2500 or fflfl
best offer. Email UF1853@msn.com with
"Motorcycle" in subject. 9-21-4-11
'flII Autos RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!0
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
WE BUY JUNK CARS Now you can easily
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980 submit your classified ad
12-9-75-12 for print and/or web editions
Homes Available for Immediate Occupancy. rignt tnru our websie!
Low Payments! $99 Deposit! E1 Wanted Just go to
Call Today! 352-378-4411 www.alligator.org/classifieds
9-30-09-21-10 LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS: Visa and Mastercard accepted.
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings BARTENDING
Mtrycles, MopedS * ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade * $20A AYPTNAL a ETCO t To Cash $$$ oTrdOZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10- $250 A DAY POTENTIAL
74-13 No experience necessary, training provided.
74_________________________ 800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM** _ ____________
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 9-25-09-74-13FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
Movie Extras, Actors, Models Wanted -Up
to $300/day! All Looks Needed! Call NOW
1-800-458-9303 9-21-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
We are looking for business leaders to help
us build our college database, earn bi-weekly
cash & monthly residual income. Graduate
debt-free. Please call 1-800-577-2021 for a
confidential interview. 12-9-68-14
LIFE SKILLS COACH -needed for after-
school activities/care teenage boy with au-
tism. 2:30-6:30 M-F. References and reliable
transportation required. Experience and train-
ing preferred. Call 246-2353. 10-16-30-14
Tutors needed 1-on-1 at-risk elem, mid
school students. 1-4 afternoons per wk. $10/
hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed wk study req
for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally
352-384-1155, st23@cox.net 9-16-09-15-
14
BOOKKEEPER/RECEPTION IST/
ASSISTANT
FT for Law Office. EXP in QB, with A/P, A/R
& trust accts. Client intake skills a must.
Email resume to: lisa@striplinglawfirm.com.
10-12-09-30-14
Female smokers ages 19-25 needed for con-
fidential phone interview. Call 404-324-6836
leave your name, number and the brand that
you smoke. Earn $50 for phone interview.
10-13-09-30-14
Geek your way to wealth & earn cash while
attending college. For a confidential inter-
view, call 1-800-577-2021 & please leave
your name & number TWICE 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
Attention Smokers! Smokers are needed
to participate in a smoking cessation study.
You will be compensated for your participa-
tion. If interested, call the UF Smoking Lab
and Clinic at 352-273-2151 or e-mail us at
ufsmokelab@gmail.com. 9-22-10-14
INTERNET WORK! $6.75-$139+/Hr. Flexible
Hours!. Use any computer! $25 Starting
Bonus. Tinyurl.com/FLAlligator 9-16-09-5-
14
OFFICE ASSISTANT
PT Quickbooks, financial accounts experi-
ence a must. Flex hrs around class. Evenings
&weekends possible. $7.25/hr up? 359-6785
9-16-09-5-14
Embroidery Machine Operatorexperience
req.Design & produce emb designs & logos.
Knowledge of computers & digitizing pro-
grams. Able to stand for long periods of time.
call 352-226-8868 M-F 7AM-4PM 9-21-09-
8-14
We need people to post ads
online. Social networking
knowledge a plus. Get paid
every Friday. For details see
paycheckonfriday.com 11-12-45-14
**MARTIAL ARTS INSTR. WANTED**
For growing TKD/MMA school
in Gville. Friendly, energetic
person. Experience preferred.
Leave msg at 352-375-0700
9-16-09-5-14Homework Coach Wanted for bright ADHD
7th grade girl, $8/hr, flexible hours afterschool
or weekends, 4-8 hrs/week. Email qualifica-
tions to tracydz@cox.net 9-16-5-14
DENTAL ASSISTANT
Certified with expanded functions. Good x-
ray skills a must. Mon-Thurs. Fax resume to
352-375-4268 9-16-09-5-14
DENTAL FRONT DESK
Scheduling & insurance billing for local den-
tal practice. Self-starter with experience.
Mon-Thurs. Fax resume 352-375-4268
9-16-09-5-14
Babysitter/Childcare Needed in my SW home
M-F. 8 am- 5 pm.
Approx. 20 hours a week
Must have own transporation and references
$8/Hr. (352)494-8848 9-18-6-14
HOMEWORK COACH for 8th grade High
Springs Community School ESE student w/
special needs (ADHD). Sun. thru Thurs., 2 to
3 hours/afternoon & additional time as need-
ed for projects. Some driving req'd. $10.00/
Hr. Great opportunity for someone pursuing
degree in special education. Send resume to
terryl_42@yahoo.com 9-17-09-5-14
Childcare/mother's helper needed to
help care for infant twins
Next to SFCC, perfect for student!
M,W,F 9am-noon
352-256-3715 9-17-5-14
PT SWIM COACH
Afternoon & evening hours available. Call
Perrin Foerster 352-359-0160 or email
coachperrin@yahoo.com 9-17-09-5-14
A Cash Machine $1000 cash paid daily for
returning phone calls. Easy to do, no selling,
not mlm, strong residuals.1-800 662 1961
ext. 8610 9-18-09-5-14
Seeking part time telemarketer for veterinary
division. Flexible schedule, $10/ hour, work
from home with company provided phone.
Please send resume to
michael.mumaw@pulevet.com 9-18-09-4-
14
Great student job!
Exciting opportunity
to work as a luxury sedan chauffeur.
Interested? Please send your resume to
Jeremy@FabulousCars.com.
9-22-09-6-14
FT Office Assistant/Executive Assistant with
heavy emphasis on mail duties. Experience
is required. Email resume to
Stephanie@holbrooktravel.com 9-22-09-
6-14
Interships available. No pay to start though
you may be able to help change that
with hard work. Flexible Hours. Business
Management, Accounting/Finance, Market-
ing, Communications, etc. Email:
cpledger@naybor.us for more details. 9-17-
2-14
Nanny needed after school for driving, home-
work help and fun. Three busy children: 16
(with special needs), 14 and 8. About 9 hours
per week, $12 per hour. Experience and ref-
erences a must. Respond to
macphaulkids @ bellsouth.net 9-17-09-2-
14
HOUSEKEEPER 12 HRS/WK.
EXPERIENCE AND REFERENCES.
RESPOND TO
housekeeper.clean@gmail.com
9-29-09-10-14
NANNY requested p/t M-F 1:30-4:30,
Wednesdays 12:30-4:30 until Mom & Dad
get home. Own transportation required, ref-
erences please. Great neighborhood.
505-4535. 9-24-09-7-14
F Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
Services Services IF ces Health Services Event Notices
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 10-28-
09-90-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
Laser Hair Removal, Electrolysis, & Skin
Care @ Advanced Hair Removal & Skin
Institute- 352.331.6797- Ask about student
discounts & sorority specials. Check out our
website @ www.hairskininstitute.com
9-30-09-27-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
9-25-20-15
"Copyrighted Material
yndicated Content
Available from CommrFcial Mews Providers"
U
a.* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS * *
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
EZ TENNIS
352-372-2257 9-30-17-15
STRINGING -Best machines in town. Huge
selection of strings -Ready in 24 hrs or free.
The same day service available and/or 1
hour. It is the EZ Thing 372-2257 9-30-
17-15
Need tutoring help in MAC 1105,
MAC 1140, MAC 1147, MAC 2233,
freshman physics courses, and select
Mechanical Enginnering courses? Contact
www.DrHasansTutoring.com for details.
9-16-5-15
*Splendid Image Hair Salon*
$25 shampoo & deep condition
$55 relaxer & conditioning w/ends clip
Call for appointment 373-9600 Mon-Thurs
9-17-09-5-15
For Thorough & Dependable cleaning of your
Home, Apartment or Office
Please call J&B Cleaning Services
at (352) 278-8571
9-22-09-7-15
Personal Training
with Austin Wolfe
Call today for an appointment 321-960-5739
10-26-09-30-15
NEED EXTRA WRITING HELP?
Sharpen your skills with Ambassadors Ink:
experienced college writing assistants!
Visit us at www.ambink.com or contact us
at either ink@ambink.com or 440-376-4247
for proofing, revision, and tutoring services.
Highly competitive student rates available!
10-20-30-15
Premed in Physics 2053?
Professional Exam Review. (Space limited.)
VegaPhysics.com
9-18-09-3-15
Advertise in the country's
largest college newspaper.
With a daily circulation of 35,000
and a daily readership of 50,000,
reach every market in Gainesville.
FEEL TIRE BENEFITS.
-Contact us at [352] 373.4482. -
alligatorHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
Affordable Therapy at Stillpoint
This months Specials:
1 Hour Massage Therapy or.
1 Hour Acupuncture/Acupressure/Herbal
Consult. or Chiropractic Treatment Session
$ 40.00!!! Licensed, Experienced
Professionals 10 minutes from campus on
39th ave. schedule today. 376 1320 9-17-
20-16
E3Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
EZ TENNIS
352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
FREE OVERGRIP with any stringing. Free
can of balls with purchase $20+. Lowest
prices on everything we sell. Where? At EZ
Tennis 352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
B-4-U buy or order any squash racket, check
out EZ Tennis for the lowest price in the
world. If any store can go lower, EZ 10-s can
go lower 352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
B-4-U buy or order badminton rackets check
out EZ Tennis for the lowest price in the
world. Yes, we will match & beat any lower
price. 372-2257 9-30-17-18
CREDIT CARD & BANKRUPTCY LAW
Helping debtors in consumer debt cases
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
10-7-21-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards -Employment Visas
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
www.ruthlaw.com
10-20-09-30-18
EVICTIONS
Sharon Ruth, Esq.
352-494-8848
9-28-14-18
3ConnectionsE
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
Secret Girlfriend for 39 blond male with a
carribean hook bracelet.Harry's between 2-3.
Mon. thru Friday. 9-18-5-19IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
Bring any lower price u-find on any racket,
EZ Tennis will match & beat that price. And
yes, including e-bay buy it now. Please bring
the print-out. 372-2257 9-30-17-21
We're looking for Title -Town's Top Talent!
The Gaineeville Civic Chorus wants singers,
dancers, musicians, actors and magicians
to participate in a showcase for individuals
and ensembles. The show will take place on
Friday October 23 in the Oak Hall Auditorium
at 7pm. Prizes include a studio quality CD or
DVD and a television appearance.For details
on registration and auditions visit
www.gcchorus.org 9-22-09-5-21
WJL Tickets
BOOSTER CLUB BUS PACKAGES
include hotel and tickets for LSU, MS State,
and South Carolina. DON'T WAIT -GOING
FAST! Call Betty 386-462-0404 9-30-09-
18-22
R ides
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
CHARTER BUS / CHARTER BUS RENTAL /
LIMOS / 352-494-1734 ask for Harold
WE BEAT ALL COMPETITOR PRICING
ASK ABOUT SPECIAL DISCOUNT OFFER
www.reliancecoach.com 9-22-20-23
WIZPets
Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
Lost & Found
FOUND: WATCH
In Tigert Hall parking lot very early on Fri
9/11. Call to idenify 273-2818 9-18-3-25
Sports WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Defense looks to make it three straight without TD
0 UF HELD THREE TEAMS
WITHOUT A TD IN 2008.
By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kmaistri@alligator org
Through the first two games
of the season, Florida's defense
has held its opponents to only
nine points on three field goals.
Tennessee comes to
Gainesville on Saturday having
scored just 15 points at home in
last week's loss to UCLA, and UF
linebacker Ryan Stamper thinks
the Gators can make it at least
three games in a row without
allowing a single touchdown on
defense.
"To be honest with you man,
I think about that a lot," Stamp-
er said. "We haven't allowed a
touchdown and hopefully we
can take that real far, just try to
shutout for a long time.
"With the defense we have,
the sky is the limit, we can pretty
much do anything. I think we
have a shot at shutting down a
lot of teams."
Florida held Tennessee to sixpoints in Knoxville last season.
RUN DEFENSE VITAL: UF
coach Urban Meyer said the key
to shutting down the Volunteers
offense will be stopping the
run.
Tennessee quarterback Jona-
than Crompton threw three in-
terceptions against UCLA while
running backs Montario Hard-
esty and Bryce Brown combined
for 123 yards on the ground.
"They run a lot, especially
the UCLA game. That's all they
did was run the ball," Stamper
said.
The Gators had a lot of suc-
cess using the Joker package
against Troy, but three-down
linemen isn't a conventional
run-stopping formation.
Meyer, however, said the Jok-
er package works well against
the run even with 264-pound
Justin Trattou lined up at the
nose tackle position.
"He's not going to sit and
play up against the center,"
Meyer said.
"He's certainly fast enough to
get in gaps and create issues."r
141
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF linebacker Ryan Stamper (right) thinks the Gators' defense has a chance to extend its streak of games
without allowing a touchdown. Stopping Tennessee's two-headed rushing attack will be key.
UF SOCCER
Kirkup adds unique outlook
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@a IIigator org
Within the Trafford borough of Greater
Manchester, England, is the home of one
of the most hallowed soccer clubs in the
world: Manchester United.
More than 4,000 miles from Trafford is
James G. Pressly Stadium in Gainesville,
home to the UF soccer team.
UF assistant coach Alan Kirkup has
called both places home.
Kirkup played for Manchester United
from 1972 to 1976 before returning to
school and receiving his bachelor's degree
from Loughborough University in 1981.
Kirkup then broke into the college
ranks and coached at various levels be-
fore joining the Gators in 2006.
"Part of the thrill of coaching is watch-
ing some things and some ideas that you
might have brought to the team actually
take place out on the field," Kirkup said.
Having played for one of the most
reputable soccer clubs in Europe and then
coming to the United States and compil-ing a 224-137-19 (.614) record as a head
coach, it's fair to call Kirkup a soccer nut.
"He brings a ton of expertise and expe-
rience," UF coach Becky Burleigh said.
Kirkup's player past seems to leap off
the page to any soccer aficionado and the
UF players were no less impressed.
"Part of the thrill of coaching
is watching some things and
some ideas that you might have
brought to the team actually
take place out on the field."
Alan Kirkup
UF assistant coach
"He's a guy who respects how beauti-
ful you can make soccer," said midfielder
Lindsay Thompson, who immediately
recognized Kirkup's deep-seeded passion
for the game.
She pointed out how Kirkup worked
with the team on the first touch because
SEE SOCCER, PAGE 15Rivalries deserve smack talk
t was a pretty simple question.Is hosting Tennessee this week-
end a special way for Florida to
open its Southeastern Conference
schedule?
Why, of course it is.
This is, after all, the same Tennes-
see that has kicked off the Gators' SEC
slate all but once in the last 13 seasons.
It's the same Tennessee that holds a
prominent place on the "Beat" board
in the UF locker room, which features
bulletin-board material and a count-
down to kickoff.
And it's the same Tennessee that
features new coach Lane Kiffin, who
breathed new life into the rivalry this
offseason after replacing Phillip Ful-
mer, whose pictures used to serve as
targets for medicine-ball workouts
during practice.
But when Jeff Demps got that ques-
tion after Saturday's win against Troy,
he saw it differently, and he gave aneven simpler an-
swer.
"Nah. No com-
ment on that."
Really?
I don't mean
Mike McCall to make fun of
McCall-in' It Demps here, he's
Like I See It just doing what
mmccall@alligator org his coach asked
of him.
And he wasn't
the only one. Just about every player
who hears the T-word in a question
puts up a wall.
This is what rivalry weeks are re-
duced to. Another gag order. More de-
nials and fifth-taking that won't make
a yard of a difference in The Swamp
this weekend.
There's only one thing these rivalry
restrictions do, and that's suck the fun
SEE MCCALL, PAGE 15
alligatrSport Podeast
E Kyle Maistri, Mike DiFerdinando
and host Adam Berry recap the Troy
beatdown and discuss the atmo-
sphere surrounding Lane Kiffin and
the Vols. Check it out on iTunes.alligatrSports Fantasy Challenge
E The second week of the season, real and
fantasy, is in the books. A writer, our sports
editor Phil Kegler, and a reader are currently
tied for the league lead at 2-0. Check out this
week's recap on our Web site.TEEING OFF WITH BOBBY CALLOVI
U Apparently, Bills fans have high expectations for the team because some took
Monday's loss to the Pats hard enough to vandalize CB Leodis McKelvin's lawn
because of his costly late fumble. .I'm glad Pat Riley and Erik Spoelstra took
pay cuts to save money and jobs for the Heat. If only some players were so gen-
erous, then maybe the team wouldn't be $12 million over the soft salary cap..-- - I ff
iJ
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
Tressel takes heat after USC loss
"Copyrighted Materialj
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
4-2-3-1 adopted from Man U
SOCCER, from page 14
a weak first touch can be the differ-
ence between a shot on goal and a
defender stealing the ball.
Burleigh noted Kirkup's love for
the tactical aspect of soccer, likening
him to a head coach along with as-
sociate head coach -and Arsenal
fan -Vic Campbell.
"He's definitely a student of the
game and loves the actual X's and
O's of coaching and you just can't
ask for more from an assistant coach
than that," Burleigh said.
Freshman Kayla Bala got a
glimpse of Kirkup when she worked
with him in the summer as part of
the Olympic Development Pro-
gram.
"He's pretty intimidating at first
because you know he knows the
game and you don't want to mess
up in front of him," Bala said.
Bala said she has already gone to
talk to him this season in order to
learn from him about mistakes she
made.
Currently in his fourth season as
a Gator, Kirkup has been integral tothe team's success and structure.
UF's system, the 4-2-3-1 (mean-
ing four defensive backs, two de-
fensive midfielders, three offensive
midfielders and one striker), was
Kirkup's idea as a result of seeing
Manchester United play the same
formation.
"It seemed a natural fit for a team
that wanted to be a
little more possession
oriented but still had
some great physicalSoccer and athletic qualities,"
Kirkup said.
He said initially the 4-2-3-1 for-
mation wasn't meant to be the regu-
lar system, but the team ended up
adopting it as its own style.
Kirkup still visits England an-
nually for tips and tricks on soccer
where he sees different people work
with different age groups doing dif-
ferent things. He said it is refreshing
to see new ideas for a worldwide
game, in another part of the world.
"The game is constantly evolv-
ing, it doesn't stand still, so those
trips are really, really important to
me," he said.MCCALL, from page 14
restrictions do, and that's suck the fun out
of college football.
It's fun when Brandon Spikes says
the Volunteers gave up during the 59-20
whooping in 2007, repeats it before the 2008
contest, backs up his talk on the field and
then says they quit again.
I understand coach Urban Meyer's desire
to avoid giving UT motivation, but do the
Vols really need it? They shouldn't, and nei-
ther should the Gators.
So why should Meyer let them talk? Be-
cause it's natural.
It's fun, and it's a part of sports and the
players' mindsets.
On Sunday, offensive lineman James
Wilson had the guts to tell the simple truth
-that the players are aware of Kiffin's off-
season comments and using them as mo-
tivation -so he was cutoff after a brief,
three-minute interview.
I can't understand why Meyer and the
media relations staff are so paranoid about
this stuff. It's not like the Vols are going to
come upset Florida, and when asked about
what motivated them to pull off the win,say, "Oh, it was that James Wilson saying he
was excited for this game and he was upset
that our coach called his coach a cheater."
This is childish.
I respected Meyer's comments on Mon-
day that he will never let a rivalry be about
him or any other coach. He wants to keep it
about the players on the field, not the guys
with the headsets.
Except that's not what's going on.
There are signs all over the locker room
with Kiffin's remarks on them, the same
signs that were there this summer, photo-
graphed and posted online.
So it is about Kiffin, and that's how it
should be. There's a line when it comes to
smack talk, and he crossed it. He will most
likely have to pay for that on Saturday, but
you know what? Even if he never said any
of that stuff, Florida would still win eas-
ily this week, it'd just be less interesting.
And even if every UF player came out and
said they'd like a piece of Layla Kiffin, it
wouldn't change the outcome of the game.
Football games are decided on the foot-
ball field, not in press conferences, and lim-
iting what athletes can say serves no pur-
pose other than to strip away one of the best
parts of sports.
16, ALLIGATOR 0 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009
~i Spi~rr yrt r~t n n S
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
Hicikboxing & Boxing Special
Gainesville Dojo
3 nights of Boxing
or Kickboxing
$60.00
(must have coupon)
536 SW 2nd Ave 378-3070
gators march for babies
UF
,n supprq of the m-,h of dme
Sunday, November 8th, 2009
Register, Raise Money and
Jai Us to Help Save Babies!
www.gatorsmarchforbabies.org
TURLINGTON PLAZA
REGISTRATION 1:00 PM
KICK-OFF 2:00 PM
AWARDS 3:00 PM
www.gatorsmarchforbabies.org
WITH SUPPORT FROM
The Collier Companies adligtiir
RECYCLE
YOUR NEWSPAPER.The Original Fast Food
Fruits and
veggies are
already in
their own
wrappers!
They are
a quick,
cheap, and
easy snack
to pack.
392-1161,ext.4281 http://www.shcc.ufl.edu/gatorwell
Takes Time to Et ~ell1 ht
Bar & Grill
HOUSE352-378-7033
1718 W. Univ. Ave.
Live,6'
A -A,.
