From
ToptheBy ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator.org
When Ali Gardiner steps into the batter’s 
box, she only hears one voice resonating 
from the stands.
It’s the same voice she heard as a 12-year-
old working on her game in the basement of her home in New York — the voice that not only helped teach her how to perform on 
the field, but off the field as well.
Whether they are words of encourage-
ment after a strong hit or disappointment 
over a missed opportunity, Ali can hear the words of her father, Wally Gardiner.
“We can have a packed house, and if I 
swing and miss and mess up, I can hear him,” Ali said. “Or if I get a hit, I can hear him say, like, ‘Thatta girl.’ And I’m very 
good at blocking out stuff.”
Wally, who played for the UF base-
ball team for four years, began helping his 
daughter train during the long, cold win-ters in New York from the time she was 12 
until she entered high school. They worked 
together for three or four days a week for a few hours a night, splitting time between pitching and hitting.
“She always had an aptitude for it,” 
Wally said. “I do expect a very high level from her because she is that good.”
Gardiner, now a senior first baseman 
for the Gators, has met — even surpassed 
— those expectations, as she broke record 
after record on the way to being named an All-American last year on UF’s 70-5 softball team.
“Ali’s always had one trait, and it’s that 
she’s always won,” her father said. 
This season, Gardiner hopes to continue 
her winning ways and help lead the Gators to the top of the college softball world.
Family Matters
Growing up in a baseball family, Gardiner 
learned a lot of things about the sport from her father. 
One of the most important things he 
taught her, however, was not how to swing the bat, how to throw a strike or how to make a play at first base. It was to never 
take things for granted and to work hard to 
achieve her goals on or off the field.
“In life, you have to realize that when 
you learn things, it’s not an all-of-a-sudden thing. It’s a process,” he said. “You don’t 
become a good writer overnight, you don’t become a good hitter overnight and you cer-
tainly don’t become good at anything else without going through the process of get-
ting better. You’ve got to work hard, stay 
consistent, and you can accomplish any-thing.”
Gardiner made her first step toward suc-
cess in third grade when she began playing slow-pitch softball, where coaches pitched to the players. A few years later, when her father realized she had a better feel for the game and more potential than he thought, Gardiner began playing travel ball in Katonah, N.Y., a few miles away from her hometown of Waccabuc, N.Y.
By her second year of high school, she 
had decided she wanted to play softball in 
college, which meant taking her game to 
Gold-level travel ball, the highest tier of the sport.
The list of players who have taken the 
field for her team — the Virginia Shamrocks  —  over the last few years reads like a who’s 
who of NCAA softball players.
Angela Tincher, the 2008 NCAA Player 
of the Year, played for the Shamrocks in 
2004. All-American shortstop Courtney Bures, who now plays at Mississippi State; Arizona State pitcher Megan Elliott; and Maddy Coon, the starting shortstop for 
Stanford and Gardiner’s best friend, played 
alongside Gardiner in 2005.
But since team practices were held in 
Leesburg, Va. — a five-hour drive from the 
Gardiners’ home — Ali gave up her week-
ends to be a part of the Shamrocks.
“Every weekend in December and 
January, my dad and I would drive five-and-a-half hours to practice for three 
hours, where all we did was hit, and then 
we’d drive back up. So I sacrificed a lot,” Gardiner said. 
“There were these little things that I 
missed, but in the long run, obviously, I wouldn’t change it for the world.”
The Perfect Fit
The Shamrocks had just become the 
first east-coast team to ever win the Gold Nationals, a point at which most players 
would have rushed the mound, screaming 
and dogpiling on top of each other.
Gardiner and her teammates displayed a 
different kind of postgame emotion.
“We all just kind of like looked at each 
other, and we were like, ‘It’s over. The sea-son’s over. We’re now all going to college, and we will never play together again,’” Gardiner said. “It was a bittersweet mo-
ment. We did it, we’d made it all the way to 
the end, but we would never play together again.”
So the Shamrocks went their separate 
ways, and Gardiner enrolled at North 
Carolina-Wilmington, which she chose over 
UF before her freshman year because, at the time, she would have been relegated to the role of designated hitter.
“I was looking for a place where I could 
pitch, play first and hit, and Wilmington was on the beach. The school’s beautiful,” Gardiner said.
It was an ideal playing situation in the 
perfect place. Or so she thought.
“I loved the school, I loved the coaching 
staff and I loved the girls, but the competi-tion just wasn’t what I wanted,” she said.
Gardiner transferred to UF, where she 
made an immediate impact, starting all 72 games and tying for the team lead in RBIs with 40. That season, the Gators, in their sec-ond year under coach Tim Walton, finished 
50-22. Gardiner finished with the team’s 
third-highest batting average (.290).
“She came here very highly touted as a 
hitter,” Walton said. “A couple people told 
me, ‘You’re getting a very good hitter, but 
she’ll probably just be a DH for you.’ That’s what they told me, and that’s what I told her. We really worked with her to become a better, more complete player.”
Gardiner attributed her quick improve-
ment at UF to Walton’s style of coaching. 
“He called me, and it clicked,” she said. 
“He’s a hitting coach. He focused on hitting, 
and that’s why I love the game so much. 
There was a spot for me, it fit and my dad and I were ecstatic.”
Although Gardiner and the Gators were 
moderately successful in 2007, it was only a 
hint of things to come in 2008.
One Last Step
Even though Gardiner led the team in six 
offensive categories last season, she can’t  
remember herself hitting that well. Instead, 
she remembers her teammates’ ability to 
build on each other’s success.
“When one person did well, the next per-
son followed because we wanted to play 
with them,” she said. “It reminded me of the 
summer when I was with the Shamrocks, when everything was going our way be-cause we were all there to have each others’ backs.”
Gardiner had a team-leading and single-
season school-record batting average of .407 and led the team in hits (88), doubles (18), on-base percentage (.508), slugging percent-
age (.616) and walks (42).
But teammates praise her consistency, 
not her gaudy statistics.
“Even when she’s not clobbering the ball or hitting home runs, she finds a way to put the ball in play,” senior pitcher Stacey 
Nelson said. “As a teammate, you love to see someone like that up to bat because they’re always going to give you a chance, 
and that’s so comforting.”
Gardiner could be counted on at the plate 
during her junior season no matter who she 
was facing. She hit good pitching. She hit bad pitching. She even hit great pitching, as 
some of her best at-bats came against upper-
level competition. 
She took her hitting to the next level in 
conference play, as she batted .500 with four 
hits in the SEC Tournament and went 2 for 
3 with a triple in the conference champion-ship game against Alabama.
“I call her a professional hitter,” Walton 
said. “That’s her nickname from me. She 
knows how to hit. She knows how to set 
a pitcher up, and she knows how to make adjustments when she feels like she’s being set up.”
With Gardiner leading the offense and 
Nelson in the circle, the 2008 Gators cruised to an NCAA-record 70 wins but fell short of a Women’s College World Series champi-onship after their loss to Texas A&M in the 
semifinals.
After such unprecedented success, 
Gardiner will enter her senior season — her 
last chance at a national title — with the same attitude she’s had when facing any 
other challenge life has thrown her way.
“Although we have the confidence from 
last year, we’re still starting at the same 
place when it comes to not looking ahead,” 
she said. 
“It’s in the back of our minds, but we’re 
taking it one game at a time.”
Taking everything one step at a time and 
nothing for granted — just like her father taught her.The
ShowAli GSOFTBALL SEASON PREVIEW
Editor Evan Drexler        Cover photo Harrison Diamond
Alligator, Friday, February 6, 2009
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff 
UF first baseman Ali Gardiner throws the ball during the Gators’ 6-1 win against LSU at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium on Mar. 29. 
Gardiner is entering her senior season at UF.
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
TOP: Gardiner swings during the Gators’ 12-1 win over Mercer in the second game of a 
doubleheader at Pressly Stadium on Feb. 13.ABOVE: Gardiner reaches second base during the Gators’ 6-1 win against LSU at Pressly Stadium on Mar. 29.
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff 
Gardiner waits for the batter to swing during the Gators’ 7-2 fall-ball win against Chipola 
College on Nov. 13.
Senior first baseman learns game 
from father on way to winning career
Harrison Diamond / Alligator StaffTodayWe Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 102 ISSUE 97 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaRecycle
visit www.alligator.orgBy JACQUELYN WEINER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sorry, freshmen.
Underage drinking will likely only get hard-
er in Gainesville, thanks to a new ordinance that punishes local bars, clubs and restaurants for underage drinking violations.                                       
Under the ordinance, passed at Thursday’s 
City Commission meeting, alcohol-serving es-tablishments that exceed a specific number of underage drinking incidents will be restricted from admitting patrons under 21 after 9 p.m. 
The ordinance will be effective immediately, 
but enforcement of penalties won’t begin until April 1, said City Attorney Marion Radson.
“This is really going to hit hard, I think, 
when the next fall season begins,” Radson said.
A major complaint students had about the 
ordinance is that it can restrict the age of guests at private 
events held at penalized es-
tablishments, Commissioner Jeanna Mastrodicasa said.
Mastrodicasa is also assis-
tant vice president of student affairs at UF. 
UF Student Senate 
President Jordan Johnson 
also spoke to the Commission about the effect 
the ordinance could have on student organiza-
tion events.
“These events would not be a success if [the 
bars] were closed down for passing, you know, 
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD 15
SPORTS 20Sunny
63/35Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator
Chilly Crocheting
Lia Cary, a UF anthropology junior, crochets hats in the Plaza of the 
Americas on Thursday afternoon. The temperature on Thursday dipped below 30 degrees in the early morning with an afternoon high of 50.
By THOMAS STEWART and 
LEORA ARNOWITZ
Alligator Staff Writers
UF’s Delta Phi Epsilon 
sorority house reopened 
Monday after closing for near-ly a week due to an outbreak 
of Norovirus, a food-borne 
illness that may have infected 
about 35 members.
The outbreak was first re-
ported to UF’s Student Health 
Care Center on Jan. 28, said 
Paul Myers, assistant director 
of the Alachua County Health Department.
There were no reported 
cases outside the sorority, Myers said.
Myers said the department 
is still investigating the source 
of the outbreak, but he said 
it may never learn how the virus was introduced to the house, located at 1115 S.W. 
Ninth Ave. 
Once inside the house, 
though, he said 
the virus likely spread because 
of poor hygiene.
“Someone who is infected 
with the virus goes to the 
bathroom, does not wash their hands appropriately and then can spread it to ready-to-eat foods such as salads, such as ice,” he said.
In addition to halting 
group meals, he said the 
house’s kitchen was given a 
“total cleandown” and the residents were told to sanitize the bathrooms, banisters and 
doorknobs.
Norovirus, also known as 
the “cruise-ship virus” be-
cause of outbreaks on cruise ships, is possibly the most 
common cause of food-borne 
illness, he said.
Symptoms include nausea, 
vomiting, headaches and di-
arrhea.
UF freshman Shayna Brant Norovirus outbreak 
sickens sorority house
Drinking ordinance passes
Violators cannot admit under-21 patrons
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By CHELSEA KEENAN
Alligator Writer
Much like their real-world coun-
terparts, UF’s student political par-
ties and their candidates are out to win, using  tactics to gain an extra edge and stirring up controversy in 
the process before the elections on 
Feb. 24 and 25.
 The Orange and Blue Party 
filed 13 election violations in one day against the Progress Party last week.SG’s Supervisor of Elections 
Dan Siegel said accusations include illegal campaigning and announce-ments made by the Progress Party members on Facebook. 
SG’s Elections Commission will 
meet Monday to determine wheth-er or not the charges have conse-
quences, Siegel said, adding it was 
“pretty frivolous” to file so many violations the first day. 
Orange and Blue Party Sen. Sam 
Miorelli, who filed the complaints, said some dated back to actions taken in late last fall.
“If you want an unfair advan-
tage where you get to steal the elec-tion, you do something like this,” he said. “This is unacceptable and unfair.”
SG parties’ candidates use Internet to gain advantageSEE OUTBREAK, PAGE 4
SEE BAR, PAGE 4
SEE TACTICS, PAGE 9
Phelps faces three-month suspension 
(AP) — Michael Phelps was suspended from competition for 
three months by USA Swimming, the latest fallout from a photo that showed him inhaling from a marijuana pipe.
The sport’s national governing body also cut off its financial 
support to Phelps for the same three-month period, effective im-mediately.
“This is not a situation where any anti-doping rule was vio-
lated, but we decided to send a strong message to Michael be-cause he disappointed so many people, particularly the hundreds of thousands of USA Swimming member kids who look up to him as a role model and a hero,” the federation said in a statement.n An RTS bus 
collided with a 
lawn mainte -
nance truck while 
making a turn on 
the UF campus. 
No one was hurt. 
See story at 
alligator.org.Hanrahan
NewsLocal
n Stacey Nelson 
(left) and the UF 
softball team be -
gin their season Friday against Baylor with na -
tional champion-ship aspirations.See Story,Page 20.News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 102 ISSUE 97 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.FORECAST2, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009
saturation details compared to 
normal days.
— THOMAS STEWART
ADMINISTRATION
Veep finalists announced
Eight finalists for the position 
of UF’s senior vice president for health affairs were announced Tuesday.
They will be interviewed in 
Gainesville on March 18 and 19, and UF hopes to have a new vice president no later than fall se-mester, said Win Phillips, UF’s vice president of research and chair of the search committee charged with finding a replace-ment for Doug Barrett. He an-nounced in March he was step-
ping down and but postponed 
his departure in June.
The new vice president 
will have new responsibili-ties, Phillips said. Instead of simply overseeing UF’s Health Science Center, which includes six colleges — dentistry, medi-cine, nursing, pharmacy, public 
health and health professions 
and veterinary medicine — the vice president will be chair of the Shands HealthCare board of directors.
“It’s a big job,” Phillips said. 
“One of the most important in the U.S.”
The Health Science Center 
generates over half of all of UF’s research awards and has over 6,000 students enrolled in its col-leges.
Shands HealthCare includes 
eight hospitals which logged more than 1 million outpatient visits in the 2008 fiscal year, ac-cording to its Web site.
— THOMAS STEWART
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at (352) 376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.SG Election Absentee Ballot 
Request Deadline
Friday, Feb. 13, 5 p.m.To request an absentee bal-lot, please visit the SG Web page and click on “Election Page Updates  - Spring 2009” then click on “Absentee Ballot Application.” You can e-mail your request to 
the Supervisor of Elections 
at elections@sg.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
And want to post it in this 
space? Send an e-mail to kbjorn-sen@alligator.org with “What’s Happening” in the subject line.
CAMPUS
UPD details to continue
Nearly 100 tickets and 
warnings were issued by the 
University Police Department on Wednesday as part of its second saturation detail, where 
the department increases the 
number of officers on campus and focuses on educating stu-dents about a specific law.
UPD will conduct a detail 
each Wednesday this semester, giving warnings to most first-time offenders, said UPD Lt. Stacy Ettel.
This week’s focus was 
scooter helmets.
Of the 92 tickets and warn-
ings issued, none were for fail-ure to wear a helmet, while 61 warnings were given for other motorcycle and scooter violations, including not using headlights or wearing eye pro-
tection.
“Our goal here is educa-
tion,” Ettel said. “If we write a 
$104 ticket for no helmet then how do they afford a helmet?”
Last week’s detail, which 
targeted skateboarders riding illegally in the street, saw 113 tickets and warnings.
Of those, 29 were warnings 
for skateboarding. No skate-boarders were ticketed. 
Ettel said about 60 percent 
more tickets are issued during WHAT’S HAPPENING
Bob Marley Celebration
Today, 7 - 9 p.m.
Reitz Union ColonnadeJoin UF’s Jamaican-American Student Association (JAMSA) in celebrating Bob Marley. Come to the Colonnade dur-ing Gator Nights for free birthday cake, trivia, Bob 
Marley-themed karaoke, reg-
gae music and more.
SG Image Applications
Due Today, 4:30 p.m.Reitz Union Room 305Student Government Image Agency is accepting applica-tions for directors and vice 
chairmen. Image is in charge 
of videotaping Senate meet-ings and special events for SG. To apply for a position, visit www.sg.ufl.edu and click on “Apply Here” or come to the SG Office in Room 305 Reitz Union.
The Society of Professional Journalists Presents:  Carlos Frias
Monday, Feb. 9, 7:30 p.m.Leigh Hall Room 207SPJ welcomes “Palm Beach Post” reporter Carlos Frias, author of “Take Me With You.” Frias will talk about 
his memoir and delve into 
what he experienced while reporting in Cuba. Books will be available for purchase on site, and there will be a book signing after the presentation. This event is free and open to the public.
Gainesville Holistic Health Fair
Saturday, Feb. 710 a.m. to 5 p.m.United Church of Gainesville, 1624 N.W. 5th Ave.Local practitioners and ven-dors specializing in holistic medicine, health care and nutrition will be available to 
demonstrate self-care tech-
niques and healthy food preparation. There will be art, music, dance and children’s activities. A $5 donation at the door is requested, but no one will be turned away for lack of funds. Funds raised will benefit local service organi-
zations, including the Home 
Van that assists homeless peo-ple. For details, go to www.NatureFinder.net.NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Nicole Safker, nsafker@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristin Bjornsen, 
  kbjornsen@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / New Media Rachel Roy, rroy@alligator.org
 University Editor Lauren Baker, lbaker@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Brittany Davis, bdavis@alligator.org
 Freelance Editors Emily Blake, eblake@alligator.org
  Christina McGinley, 
  cmcginley@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Evan Drexler, edrexler@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor Adam Berry, aberry@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Dan Seco, dseco@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Nicole Safker, Kristin Bjornsen, 
  Dan Seco
 Photo Editor Harrison Diamond, 
  hdiamond@alligator.org
  Sarah Hsu, shsu@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, lnieset@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Brian Kelley, 
  Katherine Mojena, Stephanie Slade
 Copy Editors Morgan Collins, 
  Cassandra Fellerman, Joe Holzer,
  Rachael Pino, Jennifer Smith,
  Sara Watson
 Staff Phil Kegler, Mike McCall, 
  Brian Steele
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org 
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Daniel Webber
 Intern Coordinator Sarah Buckwald
 Display Advertising Clerks Sarah Buckwald, Kaela Hill
 Sales Representatives Amanda Freilich, Sara Ingebretsen, 
  Shaun O’Connor, Madeline Ross, 
  Lexie Stout, Kaia Tershowski, 
  Ryan Winkler
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario     
MARKETING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4558 (Fax)
 Marketing Director Brad Smith, bsmith@alligator.org
CIRCULATION
 Operations Manager Scott McKearnan,
  smckearnan@alligator.org
 Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Ramona Pelham, 
  businessoffice@alligator.org
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Jennifer Cavasino, Amanda Clifton
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
PRODUCTION/SYSTEMS
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Editorial Production Supervisors Erica Bales, James Hibbs
 Advertising Production Staff Erica Bales, Aki Chang, 
  Shannon Close, Doug Eastman, 
  Brianna O’Sullivan
 Editorial Production Staff Vidhika Agrawal, Erica Ervin, 
  Kevin Hart, Max WeisslerPARTLY
CLOUDY
77/50TUESDAY MONDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
76/46SUNNY
75/44SUNDAY SATURDAY
SUNNY
72/41SUNNY
63/35TODAY
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 3
ON CAMPUS
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligator.org
This year UF may see the largest increase 
in its utility bill ever, and since the state can 
no longer afford to foot the bill, it means UF will be forced to cut millions from its budget to keep the lights on.
Typically the state covers the cost of utilities 
— gas, water, electricity, etc. — for educational facilities at UF, but with the state short on cash and electricity rates rising, it has decided not to pay the increases this year, said Ed Poppell, UF’s vice president for business affairs.
This fiscal year, the state is supposed to cov-
er about $53 million of UF’s $72 million utility bill. Some facilities, like dorms and Shands at 
UF, are not state-funded.
“We’re short $8.3 million this year because 
utility costs have gone up that much,” he said. 
“That’s like a budget cut.”He said, to his knowledge, this is the larg-
est percentage and dollar-amount increase in utilities over one year that UF has ever seen.
And next fiscal year, in 2009-2010, the in-
crease is slated to be $3 million more, which means UF will have to find another $11 mil-
lion to cut from its budget.
UF has already factored that amount into 
the $72 million to $75 million possible budget 
cut that UF President Bernie Machen asked colleges and administrative units to prepare for in January, said Matt Fajack, UF’s chief fi-nancial officer.
But the $8.3 million shortfall UF is experi-
encing this year will have to be pulled from 
UF’s reserves, Fajack said.
UF’s reserves, which totaled about $80 mil-
lion at the end of June, are used by colleges 
for things like lab equipment and emergency cash, he said.
He said UF’s reserves are already lower 
than they should be. A presentation to the Faculty Senate in December revealed the re-serves are equal to about 15 days of UF’s op-erating expenses, which are about $1.3 billion a year.
Fajack said it would be better if the reserves 
could cover about 60 days 
of expenses.
He also responded to 
critics, like John Biro, presi-
dent of UF’s chapter of the United Faculty of Florida, arguing that UF should ex-
haust its reserves during budget cuts to prevent fac-ulty layoffs.
This year is an example of why that is not 
such a good idea, he said.
“It works for one year but, unless (state) 
appropriations money comes back next year, we’d just have to lay them off next year,” he said. “So all it does is save them a year.”
And depleting the reserves would leave UF vulnerable if utilities were to spike again or if a hurricane hit, he said.
Several factors caused the rate increase.Progress Energy, which sells electricity to 
UF, raised its rates by 28.6 percent starting in January to cover costs incurred from comply-
ing with new environmental standards, in-
creasing fuel costs and the construction of a nuclear power plant. That increase followed a 4 percent increase over the summer.
Fajack said because fuel prices have come 
down, UF may be spared some of next year’s potential utility increases.
But Poppell said the price of coal, used to 
produce much of the company’s electricity, is 
still high because of demand in China.
Still, Poppell said UF is seeing positive re-
sults with its energy conservation efforts.
He said even though UF added many new 
buildings over the past year, including ener-
gy-intensive research facilities, campus energy consumption was up less than 1 percent.Utility rate hikes force millions cut from UF budget
BY KATIE EMMETS
Alligator Writer
Kemmets@alligator.org
A well-known nightclub pro-
moter was arrested Monday and charged with four felonies after an investigation proved he sexually battered two women in September, according to a Gainesville Police Department arrest report.
On Sept. 13, Luis “Luijo” Pereira, 
31, and two girls were drinking al-cohol at local bars and eventually went back to his apartment at 207 
S.E. 2nd Place where they continued 
drinking.
Both women passed out and were carried to Pereira’s bedroom, the report stated.
At about 5 a.m., 
one of the women told officials that when she woke up, 
Pereira was sexually 
assaulting her, but she was unable 
to stop him. According to the report, when 
she got out of bed to leave the apart-ment and call the police, Pereira raped the second woman.
The second woman told police 
she woke up while Pereira was pen-
etrating her with his penis, but she 
was unable to resist him and fell back unconscious.According to the report, both 
women told police they never gave Pereira consent to have sex with them.
Pereira was charged with two 
counts of sexual battery while the 
victim was physically helpless and 
two counts of sexual battery while the victim was incapacitated.
Local nightclub promoter charged with sexual battery
NewsLocalMachen
n TARIFF EXPECTED TO 
BEGIN BY MARCH 1.
By JACQUELYN WEINER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville will be the first 
city in the U.S. to implement 
a solar feed-in tariff, city com-missioners decided in an unani-mous vote Thursday.
“What we’re doing here to-
day is moving to the new way of doing things,” Commissioner Lauren Poe said at Thursday’s meeting.
The new feed-in tariff will 
allow Gainesville Regional Utilities to purchase 100 percent of the energy generated in the 
city via solar panels, commercial 
and residential alike.  
The tariff is expected to be in 
place by March 1.
This energy will be produced 
at $0.32 per kilowatt-hour and sold back to the private citizen or business for $0.12 per kilo-watt-hour.
This full compensation pro-
vides a greater incentive for long-term investment in renew-able energy.
Previously, those with solar 
panels were only partially reim-bursed for the energy produced. 
Gainesville’s feed-in tariff 
is modeled after such tariffs al-
ready in place in Europe.
Because it is the first time 
such a program has been created in the U.S., Gainesville’s feed-in 
tariff has received both national and international attention.
The tariff was a major topic of 
discussion Tuesday at the Florida Alliance for Renewable Energy conference in Tallahassee.
In a display of international 
support, delegates from the European Photovoltaic Industry 
Association attended the confer-
ence in Tallahassee and visited Gainesville.The delegates attended a 
workshop with GRU Thursday morning, said Robert Hunzinger, GRU general manager.
Some of the delegates ex-
pressed their support at the city commission meeting and their hopes for the future of renew-able energy.
“It’s a pioneering day,” said 
Murray Cameron, vice president of the EPIA.
Cameron praised Gainesville 
for being the first to venture into the solar feed-in tariff, an idea which he said has seen great success in Germany.
The feed-in tariff began in 
municipalities and grew to the national level, generating more jobs today than Germany’s coal industry, Cameron said.
If America follows a similar 
pattern, Gainesville may lead the way to the spread of solar feed-in tariffs nationwide, he said.
Cameron predicted that if 
such a pattern plays out, the U.S. could be the No. 1 solar power market within three years.
“The eyes of the solar world 
are on you today,” Cameron said.  
In addition, Gainesville’s so-
lar feed-in tariff is expected to 
have several local benefits.
“This will grow the indus-
try,” said Wayne Irwin, presi-
dent of Gainesville-based Pure Energy Solar.
Irwin said his company has 
already seen growth in antici-pation of the new solar feed-in tariff.
Mayor Pegeen Hanrahan 
said if all works out as planned, the new tariff will bolster Gainesville’s economy and make the city more environmen-tally friendly.
“There are very few com-
munities in this country that can say they will meet the Kyoto Protocol by 2013,” Hanrahan said.4, ALLIGATORn FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009
Katie Tschopp / Alligator
Gainesville Mayor Pegeen Hanrahan listens to a GRU proposal 
at the City Commission meeting Thursday night at City Hall.
Gainesville first with solar feed-in tariffs
that five or 10 drinks the week their 
event was to occur,” Johnson said.
Another issue discussed was the 
number of underage drinking strikes a venue can have before being penal-
ized.
For bars with a maximum occu-
pancy of less than 201, a penalty will 
be enforced after more than five inci-dents of underage drinking, accord-ing to the agenda.
Bars with maximum occupancy 
loads of more than 201 will be pe-nalized after more than 10 incidents. 
The penalty periods will range from 
90 days to one year.
If an establishment fails to follow 
the Underage Prohibition Order, a $500 fine may be issued, according to 
the agenda.
Continued violation may result in 
the arrest of the owner or other em-ployees.
During public discussion before 
the commission’s vote, several local 
bar and restaurant owners voiced their opposition of the ordinance.
“This ordinance is just going to 
place undue burden on responsible business owners,” said Robert Zeller, a co–owner of Grog House, XS, the Copper Monkey and Gator City.
Zeller said he’s already doing 
his best to crack down on underage drinking, holding up a stack of 68 IDs his employees collected over three months to emphasize his point.Penalties to 
start April 1
said some sorority members think the vi-rus came from a bad batch of food deliv-ered to the house.
Brant was the first one to get sick and went to the emergency room.
“I had to go to Shands 
because it was late at night when I got sick, and I 
couldn’t go to the infirma-
ry,” Brant said. “There was a really long 
wait, and it took almost six hours before I got out.”
Jackie Soloff, a UF freshman, said some 
women temporarily moved out of the so-rority house to avoid getting sick.
“Most of the girls in the house got sick, 
but the ones that didn’t went to stay at friends’ houses or hotels,” Soloff said.Some women moved out to avoid getting virusBAR , from page 1
OUTBREAK , from page 1
NewsLocal“This ordinance is just go -
ing to place undue burden 
on responsible business       
owners.”
 Robert Zeller
co–owner, Grog House, XS,            
the Copper Monkey and Gator CityFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 5
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgGuest columnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionsEditorial
Nicole Safker
EDITORKristin BjornsenRachel RoyMANAGING EDITORSDan Seco
OPINIONS EDITOR6, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009
Today’s question: Are you behind in your reading for class?Monday’s question: Are you sad to see Juicy Campus shut down?
27% YES73% NO
169 TOTAL VOTESSuper Bowl commercials not so super
Another Super Bowl came and went, and did any-
thing come from it? Personally, I didn’t learn anything new or surprising.
However, the big game did serve to reaffirm a notion 
I have believed in for a long time: Worthwhile American advertising has lost control of the wheel, pinballed off two highway guardrails and skidded to a halt beneath a 
WWJD billboard.
I watch the Super Bowl for the game itself. For me, 
the commercials are usually the hilarious icing on the 
cake. The problem with most of these new ads is they don’t really make sense. Many of them tried way too 
hard to show us the funny, and all but two of them came 
up lame. 
The 1-second Miller High Life commercial was ab-
surdly hilarious. This easily missed commercial was 
more memorable than any 60-second Pepsi ad.
The other winner of the night was CareerBuilder.com. 
Anyone who has ever had a job knows what it’s like to 
pull into your company’s parking lot wanting to scream your hatred for the building in front of you. 
As for dreams of riding seals and snout-punching ko-
alas slurping coffee, I can’t say I’ve ever felt that strong-ly about a job, but the point remains. CareerBuilder.com wants to find you a job you enjoy.
An ad should make a relevant point and use the 
funny cherry on top to help the audience remember it. Most times, though, the cherry becomes the base of the marketing sundae, and that’s when advertising gets ri-diculous.
I can deal with the fact that advertisers want their 
clients to stick out in viewers’ minds. What’s the point of knowing a company’s name if the audience doesn’t know what good or service they’re providing?
In this sense, public enemy No. 
1 is Geico.
Does anyone remember what 
Geico actually is? Last time I checked it was an insurance com-
pany, but I’m not sure anymore.
If you didn’t know what Geico 
was and you tuned in halfway through one of their new 
commercials, you would have trouble pinpointing what service they provide.
Between Billie Jean King and the googly-eyed wad of 
money, I can’t remember exactly what is “so easy a cave-man can do it.” I see more ads for Geico than for any-thing else, but the real question is whether they work.
Absolutely not. Geico has irritated me beyond the 
point of taking 15 minutes of my life to see if it would save me 15 bucks a month — though I know they wouldn’t, thank you Progressive. In fact, I don’t know anyone who uses Geico.
Way to go, ad wizards, you’ve driven off potential 
clients. Not exactly your goal, was it?
Advertising doesn’t have to be annoying. Commercials 
can be weird, obscure or they can make you laugh till 
you snort, but does any of that matter if they fail to make 
a point?
I like to laugh as much as the next Super Bowl fan, 
but commercials shouldn’t have to shoulder the entire burden when Bruce Springsteen’s 60-year-old package 
thumps against TV sets worldwide.
Adam Wynn is a journalism senior. His column appears 
on Fridays.After a week of weather more akin to the wondrous land-
scapes of New Jersey, we can only pray for warmth to retire our winter wardrobe once and for all. With tem-
peratures dipping into the teens, the Department of Darts & Laurels dusted off our cat mittens (tail included) and discov-
ered a newfound love for down comforters (uh-maze-ing).
While we crank up our space heaters and sip on some co-
coa, we’ll bring you this week’s if-it’s-so-cold-why-won’t-it-
snow-already edition of...
Darts & Laurels
Reports out of Kentucky reveal that the 1.3 million people 
left without power after an ice storm may have received taint-ed food kits from, gasp, FEMA. Specifically, the now-recalled packages included containers of peanut butter which poten-tially contain salmonella. The Department of Darts & Laurels 
groans as we launch an excuse-us-while-we-feign-surprise 
DART at FEMA for its dimwitted emergency meal mishap. 
With the government organization still catching flack for botching recovery efforts along the Gulf Coast, we’d think it would have proceeded with a bit more caution. 
As students in cafeterias statewide continue to devour sug-
ar-laden sweets, one man has emerged with a plan to clean up their diets. Under the “Farm to School” program, school dis-tricts will have the opportunity to incorporate locally grown 
produce onto their current lunch menus. For helping farmers 
and downsizing waistlines, the Department of Darts & Laurels proudly extends a say-goodbye-to-cookies-and-chips LAUREL 
to Florida agricultural commissioner Charles Bronson. And to 
think, we only thought he made action movies.
For years the infield at the Preakness was a mecca for alco-
hol-fueled debauchery as “horse racing fans” descended upon the track armed to the teeth with booze. Word out of Baltimore informs us that bringing carry-in drinks to the event has now 
been replaced with a concert and volleyball tournament. The 
Department of Darts & Laurels chucks a think-of-the-local-liquor-stores DART at Pimlico Race Course for ruining the 
time-tested tradition of binge drinking at its finest. We’d hard-ly be shocked to see Facebook groups spring up over the next few days calling to eliminate the race as the second leg of the Triple Crown.
After paying his dues as a practice player and team man-
ager, a Maine student with autism was afforded the oppor-
tunity to suit up for a recent game. In the starting lineup on 
“Senior Night,” the young man made his presence known with hard-nosed defense, even scoring a bucket at the buzzer in the team’s winning effort. For his stellar performance on the hardwood, the Department of Darts & Laurels smiles as we present a you-truly-are-an-inspiration-to-us-all LAUREL to 
Patrick Thibodeau. What makes the story even more compel-ling is the fact that his father, who recently suffered a stroke, had to beg, borrow and deal his way out of the hospital just to 
see his son play.
For many soon-to-be driving teens, the biggest fear about 
getting their license stems from ensuring they can prop-
erly parallel park their car. But for a 68-year-old woman out of South Korea, the written test continues to throw her for a loop – 771 attempts and counting. The Department of Darts & Laurels can’t help but laugh as we give a why-don’t-you-try-writing-the-answers-on-your-hand DART to “Cha” for 
her utter ineptitude with identifying street signs. Even if she 
does pass, we can’t say we’d be too thrilled to share the road 
with her.
Even though Arizona faced Pittsburgh in the Super Bowl, 
there was no love lost between one player and fans of the ri-val team. Dining with his wife and children in Tampa before the game, Cardinals quarterback Kurt Warner covertly paid the check for a group of Steelers faithful at the restaurant. For picking up the tab for 20 “Iron City” diners, the Department of Darts and Laurels passes a we-were-rooting-for-your-dad 
LAUREL to the Warner family. Even after achieving stardom 
and collecting a hefty paychek, Warner continually sets an ex-
emplary example to be modeled by all professional athletes.
That’s all for this week. Try to stay warm.
Adam Wynn
letters@alligator.org
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Photo too graphic to publish
Have you ever heard the words “jour-
nalism integrity” before? For the last two 
years I have watched the Alligator make a 
mockery out of journalism, but Thursday’s 
story is just too much. 
I’ve sat back and read your crass stories 
and viewed your questionable pictures, 
but what I found on your cover disturbed 
me the most. Why would you ever put a picture of a dead person in your paper, let alone on the cover? 
Where are your ethics?  What if that 
was your friend, brother or your mother? Would it then be too much? 
If you grabbed a paper only to see your 
deceased loved one on the cover, would it 
then be too much? 
Think about other people besides your 
bottom line and your writing staff. I’m not 
even a journalism major, but I understand common sense. So do us all a favor, put on your big-boy-
writing pants, grow up and stop going for 
pure shock value. 
I understand that the Alligator is strug-
gling this semester, but exploiting a corpse 
is not the way to fix it. 
Mallory Ryska
UF student
Alligator should be ashamed of photo
In regards to Thursday’s front cover 
photo I am disgusted that the Alligator de-cided in its infinite wisdom to publish such 
a blatant disregard for respect of the dead. 
The gory portions of the crime scene are 
thankfully undetectable in the photo, but I 
am baffled that a  “photo-journalist” could 
shamelessly snap that sight. 
The collective staff at the Alligator 
should be ashamed of itself for acting so 
disgracefully. Perhaps in the future you’ll use better judgment before you publish.
Meredith Shadwell
UF alumnus
  
Stimulus will ensure future prosperity
I would like to respond to Johnathan 
Lott’s column regarding public schools. As a side note in his column Lott wrote, “I’m still 
not sure how spending over $100 billion in 
deficit money on education will be a short-term economic stimulus.”
I take great issue with the implication that 
this stimulus should be spent solely for short term gains. The economic stimulus plan does need to immediately boost our economy. It does need to put people to work now, but it also needs to ensure that we won’t face this 
problem again in the future.
Rather than slapping on a Band-Aid, we should look for a cure. 
Obviously, we need significant public ed-
ucation reform, but we also need to increase 
education funding. We don’t have to look further than our own colleges here at UF to see the negative effects of the budget cuts.
Then, I would encourage you to look 
beyond the bubble of our campus and see the immense difficulties facing truly under-funded schools across America.
If you give a man a fish, you have fed 
him for today. If you teach a man to fish, you have fed him for a lifetime. It’s time we teach our country to fish. It’s time to prop-erly fund our schools so that every child has equal access to a good education and every 
child has a chance to succeed. 
I can’t think of a better stimulus pack-
age than one that truly invests in our future, 
namely, our children.
Danny Beaulieu
4LS
Biofuels, hybrid cars, conserva-
tion, polar bears, Al Gore … the list of green initiatives is endless.
But a new facet of environmentally 
friendly living has caused quite a stir. 
From PETA ads that are too provoca-
tive to air during the Super Bowl to brand-new markets of safe and savvy toys — yes, that’s right my horny col-legiates, I’m talking about greener sex.
Call it a no-brainer, but numero uno 
on lists of advice from sites like planet-green.discovery.com and greenpeace.org is simply to turn off the bedroom 
lights when you fancy a shag.
On campus, that usually means 
turning up some background music 
for camouflage, but it should go with-out saying that light is not a necessity during such activities. Please, for the sake of Mother Earth and your room-mate’s innocence, flip the switch first.
Remember those stickers that are 
posted all over the mirrors in residence hall restrooms? Well, they forgot to mention one more option for sav-ing water: killing two birds with one stone. Showering together saves wa-ter, and as long as you don’t get too, er, preoccupied, this is a great way to do something for the environment and yourself.
The “no glove, no love” slogan has 
become a hassle in more places than the bedroom. Aside from their pres-ence in landfills, used latex and plastic condoms have become common arti-facts in scenery everywhere.Drainage  
and runoff car-ry these nasty little buggers 
all over the place, and they’ll be around 
for a long time no matter where they 
end up. After all, 60 to 100 million con-doms are improperly disposed of each year in the UK alone.
If you’re adventurous, biodegrad-
able lambskin condoms are available, though you’d be hard-pressed to find them at your local drugstore.
Sales of safer, greener sex toys have 
also skyrocketed as companies have gotten wind of new consumer con-cerns.
Chemicals called phthalates are 
commonly used to soften hard plastics like PVC; treated plastics like this are often the outer layer of sex toys. But there are concerns over the toxicity and health risks posed by these materials.
Even products like personal lubri-
cants have faced changes: Petroleum-based ingredients are being phased out in favor of more natural alterna-tives. Hell, what better way to reduce our dependence on oil than cutting out OPEC’s influence on our private fun?
If you’re willing to give anything a 
try, you can transform sex into a certi-
fied green activity. Add it to your list of 
ways to have good clean fun, and not necessarily at the expense of our natu-ral environment.
Hannah Warren is a student at 
Syracuse University.‘Green’ sex helps conserveGuest column
Hannah Warren
U-Wire8, ALLIGATOR FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 9
The Progress Party’s Student Body presidential 
candidate, Sen. Ben Dictor, said he believes the viola-
tions were filed in retaliation to his and other Progress Party members leaving the Orange and Blue Party.
“We left the party for these reasons,” he said. 
“Frankly, I think the Orange and Blue members who filed the violations are trying to muscle us out of the election.”
Meanwhile, Unite Party presidential candidate 
Jordan Johnson spoke with more than 10 UF or-ganizations starting mid-January, including the Black Student Union, sorority and fraternity houses, the Jewish Student Union, the Hispanic Students Association and the Fellowship of Christian Athletes.
“I made sure to follow the rules,” Johnson said, 
adding he wasn’t promoting himself or the party, but told students about slating and the importance of the upcoming election. 
Dictor and the Orange and Blue Party’s presiden-
tial candidate Sen. Mark McShera said they have also visited different student groups.
Dictor said the Progress Party is targeting smaller 
groups, such as UF’s video game club, which are of-
ten overlooked.
He also said two Progress Party members asked 
random students on campus for their input on issues, 
which the party will take into consideration when completing its platform.
The Internet has also provided a more modern and cost-effective outlet for parties to reach their voters.
Facebook, Web sites and even a YouTube video 
have all been used as a free source to gain student 
support.
“We’re running on people power,” Dictor said, 
joking about how he asked his dad for $20,000 for the campaign and was turned down.
“Student Government shouldn’t be reserved for 
the financial elite who can afford to buy votes,” he 
said. “(Facebook) is very available 
and very affordable.”
Both the Unite Party and the 
Orange and Blue Party have Web sites and Facebook groups.
The Keg Party plans to put up 
its Facebook page within the next week, presidential candidate Frank 
Walch said.
Meanwhile Unite Party President 
Will Harrell posted a YouTube video in the party’s Facebook group.
“We’ve received a lot of feedback,” said Harrell, 
the star of the video. “So there are more to come in the future.” 
The Keg Party, which is slating candidates for the 
executive ticket but not for Senate seats, also plans to use creative tactics to reach the student body, Walch 
said. 
Walch said he has proposed placing a root beer 
keg in Turlington Plaza next to the Dean of Students Office.Facebook, YouTube used to rally support
By JACQUELYN WEINER
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Gainesville Police Department will receive 40 Taser guns 
after the City Commission approved a proposal at Thursday’s 
meeting.
The cost for the Tasers and other equipment will be $47,000 or 
less and will come from the Federal Law Enforcement Contraband 
Forfeiture Fund, consisting of money seized during drug raids.
The current balance of the fund is 
$1,887,015.
“This is not a matter of your taxes,” 
GPD spokesman Keith Kameg said. “This 
is drug dealers’ money that we took.” 
The seized money will fund 40 Taser International Inc. X 26E 
Advanced Tasers and accessories like holsters and batteries.
“We’ve had Tasers for a while now,” she said. “We’re just buy-
ing more,” said City Commissioner Jeanna Mastrodicasa.
Kameg said about 60 officers have Tasers. GPD hopes all of its 
200 to 225 officers have Tasers by mid-2010.
“They have proven to be very successful. These Tasers have 
actually cut back on our own injuries,” Kameg said.GPD to receive 
40 new TasersTACTICS , from page 1
Gainesville Cit yCommissionDictor
CAMPUS
By MARA RUDOLPH 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
In a small production room in 
ivy-covered Bryan Hall, a moppy-
haired man clad in a blue long-
sleeved collared shirt and dark 
jeans appears on eight different 
screens.
“Oh director,” he calls. Many people would identify 
the phrase as part of the regular vocabulary of Mark Rush, profes-
sor of microeconomics at UF.
The eight on-screen clones of 
Rush stand in front of a chalky 
blackboard, speaking excitedly 
about the “Midterm party” he is 
throwing.
He announces to his students 
that along with pencils, they should B.Y.O.B. — Bring your own brain. 
Chuckles emerge from the lec-
ture hall with fewer than 100 peo-
ple in the audience.
But Rush’s lectures also reach 
nearly 2,000 students via the Internet. 
Since he started teaching at UF 
in 1982, Rush has become widely recognized for his humorous lec-
tures and quips with “the direc-
tor,” who oversees the filming of 
Rush’s class.  
Rush even has a Facebook group 
dedicated to him — the “Dr. Mark Rush is a God” group.
He said it is difficult to walk 
around campus without being rec-ognized and stopped.
Rush described his teaching philosophy as simple: a blend of 
lectures and laughs.                                                                  
Because his class is largely 
based on students watching the 
Web lectures on their own time, he 
uses moments of comedic relief to 
keep them focused.
“There is not the same degree 
of attachment,” he said, comparing online courses with those only in 
the classroom. “If I make my lec-
tures more entertaining, they are 
more inclined to watch.” Much of the entertainment 
comes from the daily dueling be-tween Rush and Anthony Bouton, better known as the director. 
Bouton never shows his face on 
camera, but this doesn’t stop him 
from firing insults from his studio 
in the back. 
Though the director often serves 
as the scapegoat for Rush’s jokes, the two have worked together for 
nearly a decade, and this comedic 
routine is just part of the show.“His humor helps the students. 
It relaxes them and refocuses their attention. He just knows how to use the media to do it,” Bouton 
said of Rush. 
Rush has had a lot of time to 
perfect his comedy routine in his 
30 years of teaching. 
Originally from California, 
he got his bachelor’s degree at California State University at 
Hayward. 
Before graduating, Rush, then a chemistry major, dropped out 
to become an eligibility worker, which was when he discovered the 
applicability of economics.
“I realized economics wasn’t 
just this theory. It had a lot of real-
world relevance,” he said.
Rush later applied to the 
University of Rochester, where he earned a doctorate degree in eco-
nomics.
He taught at the University of 
Pittsburgh for three years before transferring to UF. He has lived 
in Florida happily since then with 
his college sweetheart, Susan, and 
their three children.
Over the past year, Rush re-
newed his dedication to healthy living and lost 50 pounds after 
grappling with his weight since he 
was a child.
He cut down on many of 
his regular foods and switched from drinking his favorite soda, 
Mountain Dew, to Diet Mountain 
Dew.
“I was very diligent,” he said. 
“It does suck if the high point of your day that you reach is 10 min-
utes after you wake up when you 
step on the scale to see if you lost 
weight.”
Rush is now not only recognized 
for his humor, but for his 50-pound 
weight loss, achieved without an 
extreme exercise routine.
“I’d rather do other stuff,” he 
said, “like dream up ways to tor-
ture students. That’s time well spent.”Rush captures lecture audience with comedic relief10, ALLIGATOR FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff 
UF economics professor Mark Rush poses in his office in Matherly Hall on Thursday afternoon.
By CHRISTOPHER YAZBEC
Alligator Writer
cyazbec@alligator.org
It looked for a while like UF might get 
caught looking ahead on Thursday night at 
Southeastern Conference doormat Alabama.
Not so much.The No. 11 Gators (21-2, 7-1 SEC) trailed 
for most of the first half, but in the final 6:49 before the break, UF stole the game away and never looked back en route to a 92-71 victory over the Crimson Tide (12-11, 0-8 SEC).
The win marks the best start for a UF team 
after 23 games.
It also sets up a showdown with No. 12 
Tennessee (17-5, 6-2 SEC) on Sunday at 5 p.m. in the O’Connell Center. The game will 
be shown to a national television audience on 
ESPN2.
“Any time you can go on the road in this 
league and win, you’ve got to take your bags 
and get back on the plane and get home as quickly as you can and be thankful,” UF coach Amanda Butler said.
The Gators trailed 30-26 
against the Crimson Tide and were playing porous defense 
until they finally woke up and seized con-trol.
UF tightened up defensively and finished 
the first half on a 22-5 run to take a 48-35 lead to the locker room.
The Gators’ bench ignited the spark dur-
ing the run. Centers Aneika Henry (7) and Azania Stewart (6), and guard Trumae Lucas (5) tallied a combined 18 points in the first half.
“One of our game goals was for our bench 
to score at least 30 points, and when we put it up there, I thought, ‘Gosh, that might be a little lofty goal,’” Butler said.
It wasn’t, as the Gators’ bench recorded 
32.
Sha Brooks, who started slow and had 10 
points in the first half, seemingly could not miss in the second half.
The senior guard lit it up from 3-point 
range, shooting 6 of 9 from distance. She fin-ished with 29 points, just 2 shy of her career high.
“She hit that first one, and I said, ‘Here we 
go,’” Butler said. 
“That’s kind of Sha’s measuring stick. 
She’s one of the best point guards in the coun-try.”
Junior guard Steffi Sorensen also provided 
big shots from deep, going 4 of 5 from long range and totaling 15 points.
UF followed up its record-setting 13 3-pointers on Sunday by shooting 11 of 17 from behind the arc against Alabama.
The Gators must now welcome the 
Volunteers to town on Sunday, the first game in a stretch where UF will face three of the top six SEC teams.
Tennessee coach Pat Summitt, who 
reached her 1,000th career win Thursday night by dismantling Georgia, commented in her weekly teleconference Wednesday on UF’s success this season.“I haven’t had a chance to really watch 
them, but just looking at their numbers and how they’re playing, clearly (Butler’s) got her team playing great basketball,” Summitt said.
“I think just their toughness and how they 
come at people, everyone’s talking about just their aggressiveness offensively and defen-sively. They’re certainly playing well together from everything that I’ve heard.”
A radio broadcast contributed to this report.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 11
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff 
UF coach Amanda Butler talks to guard Trumae Lucas during the Gators’ 75-54 win 
against Mississippi on Jan. 25 in the O’Connell Center.
Brooks’ 29 points end ’Bama upset bid
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
The first road meet of the sea-
son for the No. 8 UF gymnastics 
team didn’t go nearly as well as the team would’ve liked: They lost for the first time in school his-tory against Arkansas.
Tonight, the Gators (3-1, 2-1 
Southeastern Conference) will be competing in Baton Rouge, La., for their second road meet of the season against No. 11 LSU.
The two schools have a tight 
history. The Gators own a 52-28 series record over the Tigers (6-2, 1-2 SEC). But since 1995, 19 meet-ings have been decided by less than half a point. 
If the Gators want to win their 
first road meet of the season, they 
may need to avoid a collapse 
like the one they suffered against the Razorbacks in Fayetteville, Ark., on Jan. 23.
The team had 
a 0.525-point lead heading 
into the last event, balance beam, against the Razorbacks. Three falls later spelled a loss for UF.
“On beam, we just need to start 
having confidence and obviously make our routines with minimal deductions so we can get higher than 195 scores,” junior Maranda Smith said.
The team has scored 195.425 
and 195.925 the last two meets (1-1), respectively, after scoring 196.5 in the first two (2-0).
“We just need to get through 
our competition with lots of con-fidence and hitting 24-for-24 rou-tines to prove ourselves,” Smith said. “If we can go to some other team, with their fans yelling and still perform really well and get 9.9s and above, then that just helps our confidence overall.”
UF coach Rhonda Faehn said 
she wants her team to compete ag-gressively “no matter what.” 
Aggressive competition comes 
from confidence, and a road win would certainly go a long way to-ward boosting morale.
“It’s very important to always 
get a road win,” Smith said. 
“Not only is it important for 
our confidence, but we also need to know how to compete when we’re not in front of our home crowd, when maybe a crowd is against us.”
Because UF is the visiting team, 
it will open the meet with uneven bars, statistically the team’s stron-gest event. 
The Gators come in ranked as 
the country’s No. 1 team on bars.UF heads 
to LSU
UF MEN’S TENNIS
By JOSEPH R. HOLZER
Alligator Writer
In its last home dual match 
before heading north for indoor 
play, the UF men’s tennis team improved to 5-0 on Thursday.
The No. 7 Gators defeated 
Central Florida 6-1 amid a chilly wind blowing through Linder Stadium. They have played the Knights (3-2) every year since 2001, winning all nine matches.
“I thought we played a good 
match under difficult condi-tions,” UF coach Andy Jackson 
said. “We needed to develop our 
depth, and it gave us a chance to do that.”
With Carlos Cueto and Johnny 
Hamui sitting out, Erik Corace and Daniel Cash took courts 5 and 6, respectively. 
Cash and Corace won their 
doubles match 8-3. In singles, Cash beat Danny Colon 6-2, 6-4, while Corace lost to Eugene Dolgovykh 7-6 (7-1), 6-3.
“Both of them were good in 
doubles, and Daniel was good in singles, so it gives us confidence that we have other options,” 
Jackson said. 
“We play four matches in six 
days, and the likelihood one of 
those guys will have to play is high.”
Cash, son of 1987 Wimbledon 
champion Pat Cash, was excited about his first start of the season. He said his game has improved 
by taking a more aggressive ap-
proach.“It’s just recently that I’ve 
been coming in (toward the net),” the junior said. “I enjoy it 
a lot more.
“It was my first match in a 
while, so I was a little bit ner-
vous. But I’m happy to be out there again.”
Alex Lacroix played Court 1 
for the second time this season, defeating Johan Beigart 6-2, 6-2. The sophomore was coming off three consecutive wins over top-100 players.
Lacroix remains humble 
about his recent success, though. He acknowledged that having Cueto and Hamui in the lineup is necessary for the team to con-tinue winning.
“When I get a chance to play 
No. 1, I do it and try to do my best,” he said. “I just do my job.”
UF will head to Champaign, 
Ill., on Tuesday to face No. 13 Illinois before the Intercollegiate Tennis Association Indoor Championships begin Feb. 13 in Chicago.
“We haven’t had much suc-
cess at Illinois, so it’s going to be a big challenge for us,” Jackson 
said. 
“We’re excited about it.”
Cash, Corace impress in Gators’ 6-1 victorySmith
“We haven’t had much 
success at Illinois, so 
it’s going to be a big      
challenge for us.”
Andy Jackson
UF men’s tennis coachWomen's
Bask etball2/3/4 BR’s for Fall From $335/per person
W/D avail, pet friendly, inc water & sewer
1 miile from UF/Bball/Tennis Court
HUGE floorplans, pool, fitness
www.bivenscove.com  352-376-2507
4-22-08-72-2
Beautiful 1,2 & 3 Beds
FREE Cable w/HBO & Internet
LOW Rates starting at $699
W/D in each unit!*Free Tanning!
We love pets: 372-8100
4-22-72-2
Available Today!
$0 Move In Fees! 
1/1-from $649*2/2-from $769*3/2-from $899
(352) 377-7401 * www.theboardwalkapt.com
4-22-08-72-2FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 13
ALL THE SPACE YOU NEED!
At the price you want
No Move-in Fees! Move in TODAY!
1, 1 w/den & 2 BRs - Reduced Rates!FREE UF parking * FREE GymPets Welcome * 352-332-7401
4-22-72-2
PARKING
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-22-08-72-2
YOUR MOM...
...wants you to live here!
AMAZING DEALS!
1, 2, & 3 bdrms, W/D
Gated, Pet friendly, 
Immediate Move-in Specials
(352)372-0400
4-22-72-2
Three Pools!  Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis!  Business Center!
Billards Room!  Fitness Center w/ Free 
weights!  Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts!  Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, I-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!  
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$754 2/2-$440/person 3/3-$350/person 
Washer/Dryer in ALL UNITS!
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-22-72-2
Affordable, Quiet, Comfortable
1’s from $539 * 2’s from $375/person
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
4-22-08-72-2AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Huge 4BR TH W/D inc.
FREE UF Parking*FREE Gym
Call for specials 332-7401      4-22-72-2
Great Pet Place!
Waived Move-in Fees!
Free Cable w/HBO & Internet
W/D in Unit*Free Tanning!
Huge 1,2,3 Beds: 372-8100!
4-22-08-72-2
LOVE GOING OUT?
Luxury 3/3TH Perfectly Located Downtown!
1 month free for fall &
no move-in fees from $500/person!
W/D*Free Parking*Pets Welcome
Live where you play!! 338-0002
www.arlingtonsquare.org
4-22-72-2
MUSEUM WALK
Gainesville’s Best Kept Secret
Leasing for Fall & NOW!
Luxury 2/2 THs and 3/3 Flats
FREE Cable, FREE Tanning, FREE Alarms
Walk to UF *379-WALK
4-22-72-2
THREE BLOCKS TO UF!
2br/1ba from $700
No Move-in Fees! Water included
Wood floors avail! Pets loved!
FREE Parking! 372-7111
4-22-08-72-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $695
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
4-22-08-72-2
 SPYGLASS 
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Incl Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $485
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 10-5:30, Sat 11-2
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
4-22-08-72-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
No Move-in Fees! Pets loved.
Studios - $549, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
372-7111 Collegemanor.org
4-22-08-72-2
* Where in the world is Hidden Lake?
You may want to find these luxury apts!
3/3’s start at $425 person for Immediate
2/2’s are $490 person, Includes Cable & Internet
Call Now 352-374-3866
4-22-08-72-2
3 and 4 BRs STEPS TO UF
From $450/person
Pets loved! W/D avail
Pool, Open late
CollegeParkUF.com 371-7777
4-22-08-72-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $599 - 150 ft from UF!
$0 move-in fees! Move-in Today!
FREE parking! Pets Welcome!
372-7111 CollegeManor.org
4-22-08-72-2
GREAT ODIN’S RAVEN:
Our 4/4’s are classy!!
SIGN TODAY and get $720 off your lease!!
Rates starting at $509!!
CALL: 352.271.3131
GainesvillePlace.com
4-22-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-22-08-72-2NOW FULLY FURNISHED/ALL-INCLUSIVE
Introductory rates starting at $529!
Visit our models and sign for Fall 09
Huge, luxury 1br-4brs with TVs in kitchen
Beach-entry pool*free tanning*pet friendly
*352.376.0696 * www.EnclaveUF.com*
4-22-08-72-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 bed luxury condos for rent.
Granite tops, tall ceilings, private balcony, 
super quiet construction. $1600/mo.
Call Eric Wild at 352-870-94534-22-72-2
4BR/2BA HISTORIC HOUSE
10 blocks to UF. Near downtown. High ceil-ing, wood floor, cent A/C, W/D, tons of char-acter. Avail Now  237 SW 4th Ave. $980/mo  
352-214-9270   4-22-08-72-2
WOODLAND VILLAS 
2BR units starting at 
$695. Gated community.
Private courtyards. 
M-F 10-6 Sat. 10-2
5950 SW 20th Ave.
888-803-7678
www.woodlandvillas.com
4-22-08-72-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on 
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824   2-10-09-55-2
WALK TO UF - AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
1BR/$495 to $999/mo2BR/2.5BA $1499/moGore Rabell Real Estate378-1387  Gore-Rabell.com4-22-08-72-2
RIGHT PLACE, RIGHT PRICE, RIGHT NOW 
Steps from VA, Shands, Vet School & UF.
1 & 2 Bedrooms from $625. Grad student &
VA/Shands discounts Renovated units avail 
Union Properties@Summit House 376-9668
4-22-08-72-2
SUN ISLAND
1BRs from $580  2BRs from $650
Sun Bay  Sun Key  Sun Harbor
352-376-6720
4-22-08-72-2
1 Tour & You’re Sure!
Leasing for Now & Fall
1, 2, 3 & 4 brs, 2br Townhomes
W/D, dishwasher, tennis/bball courts
We love pets! Ask about specials!
pinetreegardens.com*376-4002
4-22-08-72-2
PET’S PARADISE
$375 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-10-08-37-2
100+ Apts: Walk to UF
On 1 website: www.ForRentNearUF.com
Photos & Virtual Tours for 100 apts near UF
Studios $625+ * 1BR $689+ * 2BR $839+
3BR $650/br+ * 4BR $479/br * 352-376-6223
4-22-72-2
2/1 House w/ Big Yard
4 Blocks to UF, HW Floors
Pet Friendly $1200/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-76-2
BRAND NEW FOR AUG 09
CAMPUS VIEW PLACE2BR/2BA OR 3BR/3BALuxury Suites near Shands,
Norman Hall, UF Sorority Row
1240 SW 9th Road
Please visit us at the model1185 SW 9th Road 1-5pmUnion Properties 352-373-7578
www.campusviewplace.com   4-22-75-2
LEASING FOR AUG 09
Quality Student HousingNear UF, Norman & Shands
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR Properties
List Avail Jan 20th!!
Please call or email us to
Receive a list before they
Are all gone!!!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
info@rentgainesville.com
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
CAMPUS VIEW SOUTH
Now Leasing 2BR/2BA
Luxury Dual Suites
1185 SW 9th RD $1000/moClose to UF, Norman Hall
& Sorority Row.
Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
WWW.RENTGAINESVILLE.COM
Check out all of our available listings!
1, 2, 3 & 4BR Properties.
Many have been drastically reduced
For immediate occupancy!
Union Properties 352-373-7578   4-22-75-2
NOW LEASING
2BR/1.5BA MidTown Apts
Parking/laundry hkups
Walk to UF $850/moUnion Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
PET FRIENDLY!
3BR/3BA w room to run
behind Hilton on SW 34th ST
Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
Available NOW
1BR/1BA w/laundry hkupsPets OK w/fee close to UFWater, sewer & trash incl.Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
University Terrace West
1 Female needed $325/moLease through July 2009Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-72-2
POOL HOUSE AVAILABLE NOW!
Bike to UF 4BR/3BA, over 2000 sf, nice area 1 mi to UF. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo now or $1700/mo in fall. Can divide into 3/2 for $1200/mo. Pool service extra376-6183, 352-327-2931  2-12-09-25-2
1BR/1BA w/lg STUDY - Great Location
1blk to UF/Shands Avail Now! Energy effi-cient, some utils. Very spacious, carpet, de-cal park Prefer grad student/mature. $650. postj@bellsouth.net 376-0080, 284-3873   2-27-09-36-2
Immaculate and newly renovated historic 
home. New hardwood flrs, appliances, paint. Walk to campus. 3/1. $800/mo for two occu-pants through July 31st. 911 NW 10th Ave. 215-7199   2-6-09-20-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/2BA nice, large house. Hot tub, privacy fenced yard, W/D provided, 3413 NW 8th Ave. $1600/mo. Screened back porch, other houses available. 339-2342 for more info.  2-13-09-24-2
H2/1 Funky Upstairs AptH
3 Blocks to UF
Pet Friendly $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
H2/1 House w/ Big YardH
4 Blocks to UF, HW Floors
Pet Friendly, Outdoor Kennel
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2H2/1 Apt, 4 Blocks to UF H
Central AC, No Tow Parking,
Pet Friendly, $700/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
H2/1 Apt, 1000 SFH
Island Kitchen, WD hookups
Centr. AC, Pet Friendly $700/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/3BA large house with large bedrooms. House only 4 yrs old. Fireplace, washer/dry -
er provided, vaulted ceilings. 2108 NW 8th 
Court. $1575/mo. 339-2342 for directions.   
2-6-09-17-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/2BA, nice modern house on large pri-
vate lot. Fireplace, washer/dry provided. 
$1425/mo. 2606 NW 34th St. Pets ok. Deck, 
lots of trees. Call 339-2342   2-6-09-17-2
NO FEES and One Month Free!
On Bivens Arm Nature Preserve
Inclusive 2’s, 3’s, and 4’s
MASSIVE Townhomes!
W/D and Jumbo Microwaves in Every Unit
Free Water, Cable, Tanning, Alarms, Pool
336-3838 TheLandingsUF.com
Great Bus Route! 2 Miles to UF
4-22-63-2
LARGE AFFORDABLE CONVENIENT
Serious students upgrade into private condo 
2BR/2BA vaulted ceilings, breakfast bar, tile, 
carpet, smoke-free, laundryroom, fenced 
backyard. $675. SW. 374-4216 appt.  2-12-
09-20-2
HUGE 2BR 1BA
W/D hookups. Pets OK
Walk to Vet School
$595 mo. Move in today!
866-747-8314 CMC LLLP
Lic. Real Estate Broker
Equal Housing Oppty.
4-22-09-61-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1.
Studio, fireplace, washer/dryer provided, wd  floors. Yard area for grill, etc. 1 blk from cam-pus, attached to rental house w/separate en-trance. 106 SW 12th St. $525/mo 339-2342  2-13-09-17-2
*Huge 1BR Loft w/Skylight*
3 Blocks to Mid-Town/Univ Ave*Walk to UF
Cathedral Ceilings*Only $799 at Arbor Lofts
www.ForRentNearUF.com * 352-376-6223
4-22-59-2
2BR WALK TO CLASS!
As low as $380/person!
Pets welcome, wood floor avail
Pool, Open late and weekends
371-0769 CollegeParkUF.com
4-22-09-59-2
WALK TO SANTA FE COLLEGE
2BR/2BA $750/mo til 7/31/093108 NW 79th Court 1 car garageUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-59-2
LARGE HOME NEAR UF
Nice home w/many upgradesReady now! 1789 SF GarageUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-59-2
HISTORIC HOMES
1-3BR apts + 2 houses 923 SE 4th St, 18 NE 10th St. High ceilings, porch, wood floors. $500-$1100/mo. No dogs. 1st, last, sec. Call 378-3704, sallygville@aol.com   2-19-20-2
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS OF GREEEN SPACE. 
2BR/1BA house. $650/mo.
Call 352-378-9220 or mobile 213-3901   2-5-
09-10-2
4/2 HOME PLUS STUDY
corner lot, H/D 2385 sq ft for $1500 + $1500 
deposit. 3608 NW 22nd Pl. Call 352-214-1956   2-19-09-20-2
Summit House 1BR/1BA Available Now
$605 per mouth $250 security Walk to VA or Shands Call 352-672-1482   3-6-09-30-2** Across From UF ** 
$1150/mo Special!
2br/2ba Limited Time Offer  for Fall Luxury Apts w/ Internet & Parking Incl.www.LookingGlassApartments.com111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-22-09-59-2
One month FREE!
1 & 2 BR single-story villas starting from $529Move in costs starting at $139Close to Oaks Mall and Archer Road.Pine Rush Villas 375-1519          4-22-09-59-2
One month FREE!
1 & 2 BR flats starting from $599Move in costs starting at $139Two blocks south of Archer Rd. & 34th StHomestead Apts. 376-0828     4-22-09-59-2
One month FREE! $189 Moves you in!
HUGE 2 & 3 BR single story villasstarting from $759Close to Oaks Mall & Newberry Rd.
Ashton Square Villas 333-1120    4-22-09-
59-2
3BR/1BA apts. 1 Blk to UF - August 1st. 
Renovated historic building. 1227 SW 4th Ave. Wood flrs, cent H/AC, parking, some utils pd. $1475/mo. Call 352-514-5060 cell.   2-9-10-2
WOODSIDE VILLAS off Tower Rd. 7200 SW 
8th Ave. 2BR/1BA + bonus rm. Flex leasing 
terms. 1072 sq ft. Vaulted ceiling, W/D, DW, 
fans, pool, newer carpet/tile, bus rte, NS, no 
pets. $750/mo. Quiet area 352-339-6502  
2-6-09-8-2
LARGE 2BR DUPLEX NEAR UF. Fenced 
backyard, lots of privacy, W/D, screened 
porch & extra large utility room. Only $500 
deposit & $725/mo. Call 352-372-3131. Location: 1710 SW 38th Terr.    4-22-09-58-2
UNREAL LOCATION ON UNIVERSITY 
AVE/LAW SCHOOL2360 W University Ave4 bed/ 2 bth, w/d, Large Yard, Fireplace. Walking distance to UF, 1 block from law school. Call Bill at 615-400-5178$1000.00 a month through July. $1400.00 Starting Aug 1.  2-10-09-10-2
FIRST MONTH FREE OR $300 CASH! $650/
mo, 1/1, quiet friendly complex,2 miles from reitz union.Grad student, moved up north, I need to rent my place! lreiden@hotmail.com, 973-534-3788 for more details.    2-6-09-7-2
Huge 5/3 MH on 5ac 12 min to UF, w/d, no 
pet fee. $1600 mth. 352-213-3943   2-17-14-2
$445-4/4 University Terrace condo; includes 
cable, internet, and utilities. On routes 12 and 35. Immediate occupancy. 352.514.3398   2-12-10-2
1BR/1BA Next to UF Campus
W/D incl in unit. Small pet ok. Pool/exercise 
room. $800/mo 352-378-5801 x 5   2-12-09-5-2
HURRY HORSE PROPERTY!
Cabin, 20 acres, 7 mi south of Newberry. Paddocks, riding trails. $575/mo + $100 per horse, u-feed. Dogs welcome 330-329-8834 writer777@att.net   2-5-09-5-2
Duckpond
2 bd 1.5 ba 1200 sq ft townhouse in heart of 
historic neighborhood.w/d Blocks to down -
town shops & restaurants. 508 NE 4th A ave 
avail immediately  $695/mo 379-4952
2-13-09-10-2
1BR/1BA apt. Large screened in porch, W/D 
hook-ups, pets ok. Rent $525/mo; sec dep $525. 3300 SW 23rd St. Apt. #2. Call 352-371-3473    2-13-09-10-2
2BR/1.5BA Townhouse. Fenced in court-
yard, W/D hook-ups. Newly remodeled kitchen. Monthly rent $700. Pets ok. Sec dep $700. 3935 & 4007 SW 26th Terr. Call 352-371-3473   2-13-09-10-2Downtown Luxury & Cash Back 4 Fall!
Sign now for studios, 1/1, 2/2, 3/3s! Perfect 
Location-Great Price-No Move-in Fees
W/D*Wood Floors*Bring Your Pets!
Great parking-walk to bars-bike to UF
Reserve now! 338-0002
4-22-09-53-2
1 & 2 BRS Avail NOW! NO MOVE-IN FEES!
1/1 - 750 SQ FT - $699
2/2-1007 sq ft for $799 or $899 for brand new 
& w/d. Water & Sewer Included!Call Today! 352-376-2507      4-22-58-2
HCAMPUS EDGE CONDOH
2/2 Waltk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile floor, W/D 
in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate 239-250-
6149   239-992-2449   2-20-09-14-2
Why Pay More?
Great Apartments at a Great Price!1/1 - From $689;  2/2 - From $759;3/2 - From $899 CALL:  (352) 377-7401www.theboardwalkapt.com   4-22-09-56-2
We have REAL 1/1s for Feb ‘09!
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
300 NW 18 St-Large, 575 sq ft only $585!
Bike to UF - CENTERPOINT
1220 NW 12 St-530 sq ft big, only $475!
No Application Fee, Most Pets OK. For info
call E.F.N. Properties, (352) 371-3636 or
email Rentals@EFNProperties.com
2-20-09-14-2
HLive on UF Lake H
Huge 2/2 with Den - 3/2
Fully Remodeled $1275/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-53-2
HLive on UF Lake H
Large Estate, 5 bedrms
Dock & Pool, $2500/mo
352-339-4862
4-22-53-2
2 bdrm/1 bath, Sun Bay Apts. near UF cam-
pus, bus route, 2 pools, workout room, W/D hookup, $685/mo. (negotiable). Contact for more information: slw@hellokitty.com or (352)870-0010.   2-10-09-5-2
2/1.5 Newly Renovated Townhouse. Avail 
Now or Fall 09. Close to Shands, Park N Ride 2, & Shopping. Incl W/D, A/C, Pvt Patio, & Pool. $745/mth & $500 Dep. No Pets Pls. 772-538-5792 or ltsao12@hotmail.com   2-10-09-5-2
2BR/1BA SPACIOUS 
7209 SW 45th Pl, Gainesville. Cent H/AC, 
W/D hk-up. $600/mo, $500 sec dep. No pets. Call 386-462-0994   2-17-08-10-2
3BR/1BA HOUSE
1 car garage. Biking distance to UF. $900/
mo. $700 sec dep. No pets. 825 NW 10th Ave. 386-462-0994   2-17-09-10-2
AFFORDABLE, COZY AND PRIVATE!!!
2bdrmS/1bath apt and 2bdrmS/2baths/1Loft home for rent. Near UF, SFCC, Shands, Restaurants and Shopping. For more info, please call 352-359-0711.    2-10-09-5-2
GOT LATE NIGHT MUNCHIES?
Tropical Smoothie CafeNOW OPEN 24 HOURSCome study with us - Free WiFi3345 SW 34th Street        2-17-10-2
2BR/2.5BA CONDO
with furnished living room, dining room & kitchen. $550/mo/person. utils included. Great location - near UF. Available immedi -
ately. Call 561-753-6972   2-10-09-5-2
HWALK 2 BLOCKS TO UFH
2b,1b * 1 block MidTown * 2 Car Decals, 
WiFi-Internet * Washer & Dryer. Sm pet ok. Jan-July 204 NW 18 St Manny 317 4408   2-18-09-10-2
1/1 Avail 2/15 $585mo dep $300
CentHeat/Air W/D tile & carpetnear Sam’s in a creek settingLease options /can furnish352.224.8163     2-11-09-5-2
Very Nice Mother-in Law Suite Near Haile
1BR, kitchen, dining room, full bath, W/D, cable, utilities all included. $750/mo.  367-0372   3-6-22-2Sorority Row Apts
Luxury Apts Steps from Sorority Row & UF
New 1BR to 4BR * Virtual Tours & Photos *
www.SororityRowApts.com * 352-376-6223    
4-22-50-2
$500 2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE
UF, Shands area. Private parking & backyard; W/D hk-ups, laundromat, buses. Quiet, safe, pvt owner. Ceramic/carpet options. 386-972-4115 moritae@yahoo.com   2-18-9-10-2
2BR/2BA Unfurnished for $600. 7200 SW 8th 
Ave- Unit B#8 Woodside Villas off of Tower 
road. 1YR Leases. Call: Joanne at 808-779-
0714    2-12-09-5-2
1BR apt. w/pvt gated courtyard located in 
small proffesional complex @ 3320 SW 23d St. Single, mature applicants only. $550.00/mo small pets ok @ $25.00/mo 352 377-2150 Please leave a msg.   2-19-09-10-2
H2BR/2.5BA Twnhouse condo near UF. 2 
Master BRs w/ own BA, Ideal for 2 to share. 
Wired for inet + sec sys, W/D hk-up, appli -
ances, comm pool, 1st & sec dep req. $1000/
mo 954-805-7827  dennismiller@tycoint.com  
2-19-09-20-2
Beautiful, spacious 4/4 2 blocks from UF in 
Oxford Terrace. $550/month incl. washer/dryer, electricity, water, cable, and internet. Bus comes every 10 min. Avail in August. 
Call Amy (954) 536-2052 for more info.   
2-25-14-2
BRAND NEW Cricket Club
Phase II, 2BR/2BA Condogated,pool,fitness center,W/D$1100/mo,call mario 352-219-4426or jmacmaster@e-techservices.com   2-19-10-214, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009
DON’T WAIT
TO PLACE 
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 22rd.
CALL TODAY!!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT 
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Arlington Square (2b/2ba) -$1025/mo-
UF Campus/Downtown Gainesville. Avail 
12/18/08. Utils not incl. Must be willing to 
take over existing lease. Security dep free. Contact sean6cly@ufl.edu or 239-410-1603   2-9-08-30-3
First month’s rent FREE!
Fully furnished premium apt. at Gateway at 
Glades. $455/mo., all utilities included.
jbreland@ufl.edu   2-11-15-3
1 BR/BTH 1/2 mile from UF. Near Oaks Mall 
& other attractions. On bus 20 & 21 route. 
$549 a mth. Pet-friendly. Call Vicki at 865-
363-7044.   2-9-09-7-3Subleasing a 1/1 in a 2/2 at Cabana Beach. 
Available NOW-July 31st. First month FREE. 
$614/month includes: Utilities, Gym, Pool, 
Furnished, W/D, Large plasma TV, Balcony, 
Vaulted ceilings, near Buses. $200 deposit 
moves you in today, first month FREE! Call 
954-682-9738.    2-6-5-3
ONE BLOCK ACROSS FROM UF/LIBRARY 
WEST!
$410/month for 1BR/1BA in 2/2 at Looking 
Glass Apts. Great location, price great-
ly reduced! Can lease through August. 
561.261.2249   2-6-5-3
Furnished 1/1 in 2/2 apt @ Lexington 
Crossing. $557/mo. utilities included. FEB FREE, NEGOTIABLE. Avail today through Aug 7. For more info ywpark@ufl.edu or 352-872-8329   2-6-3-3

2OOMMATES
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-22-72-4Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
l1br w/pvt entrance available in 2BR condo 
Central air and heat. 2 pools in complex. 
Walking distance to UF. Rent 375/mo
l1BR hdwd flrs, pvt ba avail in beautiful NW 
house close to UF $395/mo 352-316-3930.    
2-13-09-30-4
Very close to campus 4/2 remodeled condo 
opens to lovely courtyard and pool. $425 w/ 
UT cable and internet included.(for sale or 
rent) call 352-870-0291   2-17-09-30-4
Male roommate needed. Share furn 3BR/2BA 
house w/yng prof $400/mo +1/2 util Directv, 
ph, wireless, Vonage, elec. W/D, ofc space 
pvt BA (morn) lg yd fenced, pets ok, trees, wooddeck, hottub, pond. UF-15 min drive, 
near bus, Lakeview Ests 352-682-6297    
2-10-25-4
2 BRs AVAIL FOR FEMALES ONLY
in 4/2.5 townhouse. $450/mo/room. All in-
cluded: internet, cable, electric, etc. 754-204-1624   2-13-09-27-4
2 Female roommates NS/ND to share a new 
4/2 house in a quiet neighborhood 3 mi. W 
of I-75. w/ cable, internet & security alarm. 
$475/mo. util. incl. Call 352 331 8794   2-20-
30-41BD/1BA avail NOW in 2/2.5 condo near UF. 
Furnished, W/D, pool, open parking, on 4 
bus rts. $400/mo + 1/2 utils. Call Chris 561-
445-9034   2-6-09-17-4
Share 2/2 MH Furn rm $200 N/R dep. $400/
mo; $100/wk incl util.  2wk adv. laun/cook svc 
avail N/S, N/A, N/D. Discount for handyman. 
Car a+ 30 day notice 2 vacate. Nr bus/shops 
Sm caged pet ok 331-0762   2-9-10-4
- :: 2 Blocks To UF :: - 
Room in 4br condo incl utils, internet, cable 
TV, pool. Very Nice $375. 283-8777
www.Gainesville-Rooms-4-Rent.com  4-22-
09-62-4
Master bed w/private bath in 4BR/3BA house 
off NW 16th Ave. DW, W/D, Cox cable w/
networked inernet, new carpet & ceiling fans. 
No cats or dogs. $425/mo incl utils. 328-
4995   2-5-10-4
TWO FEMALE ROOMMATES needed for a 
nice 4/2 house to live with two other gradu -
ate professional women. ONLY $350 & $375. 
Includes util and swimming pool. Great loca-
tion, quiet neighborhood. Call Mr. Kristoff 
352-332-5030    2-10-09-10-4
1/2 OFF 1st MONTH Rent if in by March!
Seeking 2 roommates-1.5 miles to UFeasy ride2 SFCC off-NW 16th-HUGE house,
PoolTable,65”TV Large rooms!sayNo2apts
$495/MONTH per room 561-756-5368   
2-10-10-41BR/1BA avail march 1st in 2Br/2BA for re-
sponsible mature individual. $425-$450/mo + utils. Barandywine on Archer Rd. yttek@yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566   2-6-09-6-4
ENJOY A ROMANTIC OLD HOUSE
Near library downtown. $285-$375/rm + utils. 
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
2-6-5-4
2 female grad nonsmokers seek 3rd F non-
smoker for 3/3 @ new Enclave beg. Aug 1. Clean, quiet, no pets. $510/mo, appliances, pantry, carpet/tile, walk-in closet, 3 bus routes. ebisibe@yahoo.com to SIGN ASAP   2-5-2-4
1 bedroom for rent in 4/2 house near Gville 
Pl. $400 everything included (elect, cable, internet). Looking for mature M or F. Flexible lease period. 727-420-5699   2-12-09-5-4

2EAL %STATE
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD ONLINE AT www.al-
ligator.org.  or please call 373-Find
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551   
4-22-72-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4 
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman, 
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879.  4-22-72-5
Brand new luxury condos starting at $220k. 
Granite tops, tall ceilings, private balcony, steel & concrete construction, alarm system. Call Eric Wild at 352-870-9453    4-22-72-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL 2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF. Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-35514-22-72-5
CONDOS AT UF
www.CONDOSatUF.com
Matt & Tiffany Thomas, Bosshardt Realty(352) 494-0194 or (352) 316-5556  2-17-
60-5
HUGE 4bd/3.5ba NW home in Walnut Creek 
off 39th Ave! Great location to UF or SantaFe! Tons of upgrades, huge porch off 2nd story, 2 car garage & more. $229,900! Please call Dana Fults @ 352.318.0686!    2-18-15-5
3BR/2BA Foreclosure! $11,000! Only $199/
Mo! 5% down 15 years @ 8% apr.  Buy, 4/BR $259/Mo! for listings (800)366-9783 Ext 5798.   2-6-1-5
BIG LOT - SMALLEST PRICE 12 acres just 
$99,900. Best neighborhood in Tallahasseearea! Rare spacious country living close to everything! Great for kids w/horse privi-leges. Best Price EVER, A Must See. Great Financing (866)938-1521    2-6-1-5
South Carolina Bargain Golf Access Lot! 
NOW $39,900 (was $139,900). Rare op-portunity to own beautiful view homesite in area’s finest golf community- NOW for frac-tion of it’s value. Paved roads, water, sewer, all infrastructure complete! Golf front lots available at comparable savings! Low rate financing. Call now (866)334-3253, x 2155   2-6-1-5
Timber Company Liquidation! 50 TO 500+ 
ACRES. Own prime WV acerage at frac-tion of value! Timber Company liquidating over 33,000 acres! So many deer & turkey, natives call them pests! Mountian streams, wildlife ponds, spectacular views, mean-dering trails. Recreational paradise! Own for $1,300 to $2,000 per acres! Perfect for camp/cabin! Financing. Call (877)261-4868, x 26   2-6-1-5FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 15
NOW is the time to buy your TENNESSEE 
lake property. Four seasons & no state in-come tax. Call Lakeside Realty (888)291-5253 or visit www.lakesiderealty-tn.com   2-6-1-5
VIRGINIA MOUNTIANS Brand new luxury 
cabin! On river, private 5 acres, great fishing, ready to move In! Bank Financing. $349,500. Call owner (866)789-8535   2-6-1-5

&URNISHINGS
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-22-08-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846       4-22-08-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490       4-22-08-72-6
BED - KING - $170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  4-22-08-72-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost $1500, sacrifice $450     352-333-7516___________________________________
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg     333-7516
4-22-72-6 
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests 
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100 (352) 372-7490     4-22-08-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846   4-22-08-72-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table, 
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New, still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100. Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588   4-22-72-6 
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-22-08-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516. 4-22-72-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846. 4-22-72-6 
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop 
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516. 4-22-72-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard, 2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.    4-22-08-72-6
FUTON - $60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With 
plush mattress $140. All brand NEW still in box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516  4-22-72-6 
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. 
New in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031___________________________________SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516   4-22-72-6 

#OMPUTERS
CASH PAID FOR LAPTOP’S
Buy - Sell - Trade Any Condition
336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz Joel      4-22-
08-72-7SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-22-08-72-11
***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
 Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
 All on one site! Check the website or call 
336-1271 for more info!  4-22-08-72-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   4-22-08-72-11
SWAMP CYCLES
Closest to Campus. Largest selection,
Best Customer Service.
Motorcycles, Scooters, Accessories, and Service.
633 NW 13th Street    www.swampcycles.com
4-22-72-11
SOLANO CYCLE
Scooters from $799. Largest selection from 
KYMCO, Daelim, Hyosung, Adly, Genuine, 
Estblished 10 yrs,     2 yr warranties
1024 S Main St 338-8450 solanocycle.com
4-22-08-72-11

 !UTOS
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS
Running or not! 
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPSOver 15 yr svc to UF students
Call Don @ 215-7987    4-22-08-72-12
CARS - CARS BuySellTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-22-72-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622 4-22-72-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas  Chevys  Jeeps and more!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 97654-22-72-12
FAST CASH PAID
For any running cars or trucks. 1995 and up. 
Clean or ugly. Segovia 352-284-8619  4-22-72-12
ATTENTION
 SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WHY PAY MORE? YOU COULD PAY LESS!300+ vehicles @ wholesale prices 338-1999      4-22-08-72-12
All Vehicles Must Go!
Liquidation Sale Special60 Days Payoff on Cash Vehicles(Payoff time negotiable)Sun City Auto 352-338-1999  4-22-09-62-12
Over 250 Vehicles Will Be Sold At 
Wholesale Prices to the PublicIncluding Cars, Trucks, Vans & SUVsSun City Auto 352-338-1999   4-22-09-62-12
Bring Your W-2 and Ride Home Today
Why Wait for Your Refund?File Your Taxes Here andDrive Off in Your VehicleSun City Auto 352-338-1999   4-22-09-62-12
Sun City Auto
No Credit CheckAll Vehicles $0 DownBuy Here – Pay Here352-338-1999    4-22-09-62-12
 2003 Saab 93, 60,000 miles fully loaded in 
excellent condition! $10,000.
2002 Mitsubishi Eclipse RS, manual trans-mission, $85,000 miles. $4,800. Call (352) 284-8478 or e-mail jessiesawka@gmail.com   2-18-20-12$$ CASH TODAY! $$
For Your Unwanted Cars
Junk!! Trucks, RVs, & Wrecks!!!
TOP DOLLAR PAID!
386-234-0072 & 386-234-0075
2-27-09-24-12
DONATE YOUR VEHICLE RECEIVE 
$1000 GROCERY COUPON UNITED BREAST CANCER FOUNDATION Free Mammograms, Breast Cancer Info www.ubcf.info FREE Towing, Tax Deductible, Non-Runners Accepted, (888)468-5964.   2-6-1-12
Police Impounds! 97 Honda Accord $500! 94 
Toyota Camry $600! 95 Honda Accord $800!for listings call (800)366-9813 Ext 9275   2-6-1-12
Police Impounds for Sale! 95 Honda Civic 
$800! 98 VW Jetta $900! for listings call 
(800)366-9813 Ext 9271   2-6-1-12

 7ANTED
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
 Gold  Diamonds  Gems  Class Rings 
 ETC  Top Cash $$$ or Trade 
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243.  4-22-
72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090  4-22-
08-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and for walks and shopping as needed. We’ll have lots of fun! And you will make a new friend!  Contact 219-6948    2-12-09-74-13

 (ELP 7ANTED
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-vertiser before giving out personal informa-tion or arranging meetings
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-cord, drug-free, perssonal references. www.carrsmith.com for details.    4-22-72-14
EARN $60 THIS WEEK!
Donate Plasma & Save a Life
$$$$$$$$$$$$
Best part-time job you’ll ever have.
NEW DONORS
Bring this Ad and Earn an
Extra $5 on Your 2nd Donation.
DCI Biologicals 150 NW 6th St.
352-378-9204
4-22-08-72-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  4-22-08-72-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-22-08-72-14CNA TRAINING CLASS: $250! Work at your 
own time & pace in your own home! To get 
program on DVD’s call 352-597-2559. For 
online program visit  www.lapcnatraining.
com Get started right away!   4-22-72-14
Paradigm Properties
Leasing Specialist, PT
Sales & Customer service exp.
EOE, DFWP
Apply on-line at: www.teamparadigm.com 
352-375-2152 ex 301    4-22-67-14
Earn extra money. Students needed ASAP. 
Earn up to $150/day being a mystery shop-
per. No experience required. Call 1-800-722-
4791   4-22-09-65-14
Busy doctor needs professional executive 
assistant 20-30 hrs/week. Experience is an 
absolute must. Ideal applicant able to an-
ticipate need. Compensation based on exp, 
email CV to gm@ehsfamily.com   2-16-09-
22-14
Are you tired of working more for less and less?
Break the cycle & get what you really want: 
1-800-679-7042 Ex.2660   2-16-20-14
Web Designer/Programmer to maintain and 
build web applications. Experienced with 
PHP, ASP, MySQL, Dreamweaver, etc. hr@
alesys.com   2-5-09-11-14
Immediate opening for a
Professional Leasing Agent!Part Time or Full TimeExperience Preferred, Great Pay!
Fax resume to 352-372-0708   4-22-59-14
NO JOBS AVAILABLE,
BUT WE OFFER CASH AND TRADE for 
CDs and DVDs (and we sell them too).
HEAR AGAIN CDs & DVDs
818 W University Ave 32601  2-17-09-20-14
Paralegal/Legal Assistant; Legal office expe-
rience preferred. Energetic, High work ethic, 
good people skills and attention to detail a 
must! Full time, non-smoker. Fax resume with cover letter to Law Office of Carl Carrillo 
(352)371-7127.    2-11-09-14-14
Local Webpreneur sold portfolio of 
companys, looking to do it again with a new 
local team. Exciting Oppty --Contract to 
perm pos. MUST know PHP, MYsql, CSS, 
Flash, Web/Ad Creatives. Resume, portfolio 
and rates to resume@gvilleholdings.com
2-5-09-10-14
400+ Counselors/Instructors Jobs!
3 Coed summer camps in PA.Travel Paid, Top Salary.Cool Nights & Warm Days!1-800-488-4321, www.lohikan.com    4-22-09-59-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-22-09-59-14
Medical Office Assistant PT. Afternoons & 
evenings, Mon-Fri, 4-6pm. Duties incl: medi-cal billing, dictation & scheduling. Some pa-tient interaction. Mail resume to TRC 6400 Newberr Rd, Ste 301, Gville 32605   2-9-10-14
Toddler Teacher Needed. Imagine Learning 
Center info@imaginelearningcenter.com 371-5450. Taking applications from reliable,creative individuals who enjoy work-ing with children.    2-18-09-15-1416, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-08-72-7
4-22-70-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041. www.GatorlandComputers.com  4-22-70-7
HP PAVILLION 524C
For sale including keyboard, monitor & 
speakers. $100/OBO.   352-332-2705   2-10-
5-7

 "ICYCLES
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)   
4-22-72-9

 &OR 3ALE
PARKING :
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-22-08-72-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: http://www.surplus.ufl.edu/online/  392-03704-22-08-72-10
METAL ROOFING. 40yr Warranty-Buy di-
rect from manufacturer 30/colors in stock, w/all accessories. Quick turn around. Delivery available. Gulf Coast Supply & Mfg, (888)393-0335 www.GulfCoastSupply.com   2-6-1-10
100% RECESSION PROOF! Do you earn 
$800 in a day? 25 Local Machines and Candy $9,995.(888)629-9968 BO2000033 CALL US: We will not be undersold!   2-6-1-10
STEEL BUILDING SALE- Low As $3.89/
SF. Commercial 30 Year Warranty. Church Family Life Centers. Garages, Warehouses, Mini-Storage, Factory Erection. Field Service From Our Representative (800)720-6857.   2-6-1-10

-OTORCYCLES -OPEDS
 SCOOTERS 
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974 
4-22-08-72-11
New Scooters 4 Less 
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-22-08-72-11
GatorMoto
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com  4-22-08-72-11
Local established rock band seeks drummer 
and bassist. Must be committed to practice 
and shows. This is a serious band having a 
lot of fun. We have a large practice room with 
full kit and gear. For more info call 352-316-
1199.   2-6-3-14
PT tennis ct & gen maintenance/tennis shop 
person at Haile Plantation CC. Early morn-ing hrs req. Must have proven background of reliability & punctuality. Tennis background a+, enjoys customer relations. Bob 335-4105   2-10-09-5-14
DANCE INSTRUCTORS
FOR POLE DANCING LESSONSCall French Addiction 352-373-6628 or stop by 819 W. University Ave.    2-10-09-5-14
TROPICAL SMOOTHIE CAFE
Come Study with Us - Free WiFi
NOW OPEN 24 HOURS
3345 SW 34th Street     379-9988    
2-17-10-14
CLERICAL/TECHNICIAN POSITION FT
Please apply in person
Institute of Veterinary Spec.
4011 NW 43rd St. Suite A.    2-11-5-14
THE RED ONION
NEIGHBORHOOD GRILL  Now hiring exp 
line cooks & exp  day servers. Please ap-
ply in person, located in Uptown Village at 
Townsend, NW 39 Ave, 3885 NW 24 Blvd   
2-11-5-14
Atttorney needed for will contest. Florida 
Bar certified. Preferably someone new and affordable. 352-332-0515 or 352-222-0267   3-4-09-20-14
HELP WANTED: No Truck Driver Experience-
No Problem. Wil-Trans will teach you how to
drive. Company Sponsored CDL Training. 
(888)368-1205. Must be 23    2-6-1-14
An awesome summer job.
If you’re looking to spend this summer out-doors, have fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a residential camp in Maine, has female/male summertime openings for Land Sports, Waterfront (small crafts, skiing, life guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Cooking, Gymnastics, Dance, Videography, Group Leaders & more. Top salaries plus room/board & travel provided. Call us today toll free at 1-561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.   3-19-09-28-14
EARN Extra Income Mailing Brochures. 
Weekly pay check! Free 24 hour information. (877)220-4470.   2-6-1-14
HVAC Tech Training! GET TO WORK! Avg. 
Tech earns $40K/yr. No Exp. Needed. EPA & OSHA Certified 3-5wks.  Local Job Placement and Financing available. (877)994-9904   2-6-1-14
Driver- Join PTL today! Company drivers 
earn up to 38 cpm. 1/2cpm increase every 60K miles. Average 2,800 miles/week. CDL-A required. www.ptl-inc.com Call (877)740-6262.   2-6-1-14
Over 18? Between High School and College? 
Travel and Have Fun w/Young Successful Business Group. No Experience Necessary. 2wks Paid Training. Lodging, Transportation Provided. (877)646-5050.   2-6-1-14
Pickup truck & Commercial truck drivers 
needed. Deliver RV trailers and commer-cial trucks and buses to all 48 states and Canada. Log on to www.RVdeliveryjobs.com   2-6-1-14
$600 Weekly Potential$$$ Helping the gov-
ernment PT. No Experience. No Selling. Call: (888)213-5225 Ad Code: M   2-6-1-14
Sick of your job? Get paid what you’re 
worth working for yourself. Free 2 min msg: 888.463.8862   2-9-2-14
GENERAL HELP WANTED
Mon-Fri 10am-5pm. Starting $8/hr. No exp req’d. Apply in person 1031 NW 6th St. Suite A-3,  352-379-2812             2-12-5-14IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-22-72-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners. Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250’ x 160’ riding ring, round pen  & jump paddock. 
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175 
everglade-equestrian.com   4-22-74-15
Want to be a CNA? Don’t want to wait? 
Express Training Services can get you certi-
fied under 3 wks! Hands-on exp, no videos. 
Day/eve/wkend. Class sizes limited. 338-1193 for details expresstrainingservices.com 4-22-08-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-22-72-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762. 
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr.   4-22-72-15
GATOR MOVING & STORAGE 
Local and long distance moving
One item or a houseful!
10% off with this ad!       FL Reg IM 19  
Call Now! 352-374-4791, 800-797-6766
4-22-08-72-15
HORSE BOARDING
12 x 12 stall - cement block barn. Good grass 
turnout with room to run! Limited # of stalls 
available. 352-472-2627 for info & directions. 
4-22-08-72-15
HYPNOTIST - Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Elminate bad habits. 
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis. 
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH, NGH certified 379-1079     4-22-72-15
 MOVING? 
 FREEWAY MOVING 
You’ll love our low rates & references. Student 
Discount. Call 352-256-0999. Lic #IM7074-22-72-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
4-22-72-15
Perfect Valentines Day Gift!
Turn favorite photos into unique artwork.
Canvas printing, custom framing available.www.popartworkshop.com   2-6-12-15
Free $10.00 gift Card
coolgiftsbuy.comGet your Valentines Giftcoolgiftsbuy@comcast.net    2-6-09-9-15
Ivy-League Educated Editors!
Use us to help you produce a powerful, well-written and outstanding academic paper or personal statement! Find us at www.onyxwriting.com.   2-10-09-10-15
HORSE BOARDING
Stalls, pasture available. Turn out or full 
board. For information & directions call 352-591-1850, if no answer leave message.  2-12-09-10-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding. Owner  
housing. Dressage, stadium jumping, X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities. Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges. Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie 352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.   2-20-09-15-15
POLE DANCING LESSONS
Call French Addiction 352-373-6628 or stop 
by 819 W. University Ave.   2-10-09-5-15
ENGLISH TEACHER FOR HIRE
Got Writer’s Block? Need an editor?Learn reading and writing skills.I tutor all ages. giselle@alumni.ufl.edu    2-11-09-5-15Beginner Guitar & Piano Lessons for ALL 
ages. My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or email gidonherman00@gmail.com   
2-25-15-15
Post Office Now Hiring! Avg Pay $20/hr or 
$57K/yr Including Federal Benefits and OT. 
Placed by adSource not affiliated w/USPS 
who hires.  Call (866)713-4492.   2-6-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high pay-
ing Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA ap-proved program. Financial aid if qualified - Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (888)349-5387.   2-6-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Computers, 
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. 
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. 
Call (866)858-2121, www.CenturaOnline.
com.   2-6-1-15
NOW AVAILABLE! 2009 POST OFFICE 
JOBS. $18-$20/HR. NO EXPERIENCE, PAID 
TRAINING, FED BENEFITS, VACATIONS. 
CALL (800)910-9941 TODAY! REF #FL08.   
2-6-1-15

(EALTH 3ERVICES
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-22-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-22-72-16
Are you Pregnant??Considering adoption??A 
single woman seeks to adopt and needs your 
help! Financial security.?Expenses paid.?Call 
BECKY or Adam.? (800)790-5260. FL Bar#
0150789.   2-6-1-16

 0ERSONALS
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Family Chiropractic 
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-22-72-18 
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
4-22-08-72-18

 #ONNECTIONS
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
Jack,
Did you see the Pink video,“So What”? Really rocks, right? How would you like me to look like that? The other day was incredible. I want you to know that I’ve never done that before. I’m not cheap you know. Look in the Alligator Heartlines next week. Today is the deadline and I’m putting something special in there for you.
                                            
  Kelly
2-5-09-1-19Models needed for photo and film shoots. 18 
to 25, excellent shape (toned, defined, mus-cular), attractive - no experience necessary. Great cash opportunity. Apply at www.asftal-ent.com/alligator    2-6-6-14
Rep/Model wanted to promote local 
Motocross Track. Some local travel
involved, looking for outgoing,
personable, some computer skills,
dependable transportation. Salary
 Negotiable. Email photo and resume to 
Terri at admin@lcmg.info     2-12-09-10-14
NEED PIANO, GUITAR, VOICE, VIOLIN 
TEACHERS Immediate openings for music 
teachers to drive to clients’ homes to teach. 
Best pay of any studio in town. Refs, Exp., 
Music Degree/pending important. Email 
through website: www.kaleymusic.com.   
2-6-6-14
FLORAL EXPRESSIONS FLORIST needs 
Valentine’s Week helpers with florist exper. 
come join us Top $$.
Call E-Beth @ 375-1234.   2-6-09-5-14
DELIVERY DRIVERS with own vehicle for 
Valentine’s Day 13th/14th. TOP $$$Call Brett 375-1234 @ Floral Expressions Florist.   2-6-09-5-14
DANCERS NEEDED
For adult entertainment company. Make 
$1000+/wk. Flex sched 378-3312   2-6-5-14
Survey Takers Needed:
Make $5-$25 per survey.
GetPaidToThink.com   2-27-20-14
FLOWER SHOP HELPERS
for Valentine’s week. Apply 635 NW 13th St.   
2-11-7-14
DELIVERY DRIVERS
Needed for flower shop for Valentine’s week. 
Must have own car. Apply 635 NW 13th St.   2-11-7-14
Summer Jobs
                    $2100                    Co-ed camp                    Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs male and female summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located off of  Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 8 –  July 25. Please contact Krys  Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267   4-22-09-72-14.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 17
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NOW OPEN 24 HRS ---- STUDY WITH US!
2-1710-20
Play it Safe, Get Tested
The Student Health Care Center and the
Alachua County Health Department will hold 
FREE STD testing on Feb. 11th from 5 to
8p at the Infirmary Bldg on campus. Free
screenings for Chlamydia, HIV, syphilis and
gonorrhea. Gardasil immunization will also
be available for a fee. For more information
call 392-1161 ext. 4281.
2-9-09-2-20
Feb 27 09 An auction will be held at Jolo 
Enterprises, Inc 3530 SE Hawthorne Rd at 1:00 PM 1990 Toyota Celica #JT2AT86F8L0033850    2-12-5-20

%NTERTAINMENT
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-22-08-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public Wed-Fri-Sat-Sun 1pm-6pm
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-19-09-97-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville  Better Prices
Better Fields  Better Call 371-2092
4-22-08-72-21
 BAHAMAS SPRING BREAK 
$189 5-Days or $239 7-Days. All prices 
include: Round trip luxury cruise with
food. Accommodations on the island at
your choice of thirteen resorts. 
Appalachia Travel 1-800-867-5018.
www.BahamaSun.com #ST35585
3-4-08-86-21
GRADUATION HOTEL HOTLINE
Graduating this May? Wehave rooms! 352-278-1595FL. Seller of  Travel Reg No #12618   2-5-15-21

 2IDES
WiFi on buses – New Departures 
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1, 3 & 4:30 
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm – Mon 2 pm -Also 
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra 
charge pay by phone or in person- $35 O/W 
- $45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-22-72-23

 0ETS
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.

 ,OST  &OUND
LARGE HORSE PAINTING by Darien 
Bogart. Predominately black, red. Some horses are skeletons, one’s popping out with open mouth. Given to Goodwill mistakenly. Will pay. 904-434-9320 apc452@yahoo.com   2-10-09-5-25
By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kmaistri@alligator.org
Five minutes of tears washed away four 
months of dreams.  
In September, UF junior left fielder 
Francesca Enea was, once again, diagnosed 
with a torn ACL in her right knee. 
The doctor wanted her to undergo sur-
gery and forgo her junior season. 
“I started to cry because I’m a crybaby, 
and after he saw me cry, he said, ‘Well let’s get an MRI and see how it looks just to see 
what you can do,’” Enea said. 
The meniscus wasn’t torn, which meant 
Enea could play on it, but the doctor warned her about further damaging the 
knee if she chose not to sit out.
For the second time in her college ca-
reer, Enea had to decide whether or not to 
play on a torn ACL.
UF coach Tim Walton tried to educate 
her on the pros and cons of playing and 
redshirting, but the decision was hers. 
“Really, she gave me the options,” 
Walton said. “She said, ‘There’s no way that I’m not playing this season,’ and that was it.”
The Gators start their schedule Feb. 6 
when Baylor comes to Gainesville for a three-game series. Enea will be penciled in for her usual spot in the lineup — batting fourth and playing left field. She will wear a brace on her right knee for the first time since her freshman season.
Hard Times
During fall practice, Enea and the rest 
of the outfielders took part in a drill de-signed to work on throwing runners out. 
Walton hit a deep fly ball, and Enea got 
under it, readying herself to fire the ball to whichever base the runner was heading. 
“When I hit the ball to her in the out-
field, it was just a routine drill, and she made a funny move, and I immediately got this feeling in the pit of my stomach that said she just tore her ACL,” Walton remembered. “She finished practice, went 
about her day, hit and didn’t say another 
word.”
Enea went through a normal week of 
workouts on her sore knee before decid-
ing to get an MRI. It was then the doctor 
told her she had a partial tear of the ACL. And after those five minutes of crying, he told her she could continue to play with-out missing any time if she wore a brace. 
It was a familiar trade-off for Enea, who 
played the second half of her freshman season with a support on her knee.
That first injury occurred after she 
collided with former UF pitcher Stacey Stevens going for a pop-up near first base. Given a similar choice, Enea decided to postpone surgery and took the necessary month off before returning to the field.
The now second-team All-American 
finished her freshman season with a .227 average and just six home runs before go-ing under the knife June 6, 2007 — a date Enea remembers exactly when asked about her surgery. 
“It was a learning experience for me, 
and I always keep that year in the back of my mind to remind me how bad I could do,” she said.
In addition to her on-the-field struggles, 
the Woodland Hills, Calif., native was hav-ing a hard time fitting in with her team-mates. They thought she was too girly and teased her for putting on makeup before 
practices and games. 
“I didn’t know how to cope with the in-
jury and cope with the transitional stage,” Enea said. 
“I loved all my teammates, but I was 
new and I wasn’t that close with any of 
them. Even before the injury, I was having 
problems trying to fit in. 
“With all those things going on and 
being so far away from home, it was re-
ally hard for me to try to figure out who I was at the time. I think it all came down 
on softball, and I put a lot of pressure on 
myself.”
Finding Herself
Enea spent the off-season rehabbing 
and returned to school ready to make her sophomore year memorable for the right 
reasons. 
The Gators won an NCAA-record 70 
games behind ace Stacey Nelson and the 
most explosive offense in school history. 
Enea was right in the middle of that 
lineup and finished the season hitting .336 with 17 home runs and 64 RBIs. 
UF’s cleanup hitter had become the player everyone thought she would be, and the team chemistry seemed to build itself.
In the biggest home series of the season, 
UF swept LSU, breaking an 11-game los-ing streak to the Tigers. After the final 7-0 win, Enea fielded questions about the two-run home run she blasted and the bright 
sun in left field. She explained the long 
ball humbly, saying that she got lucky and hit it over the fence. 
As for the sun? Tan lines, not line drives, 
were the biggest problem.
Enea was still the same girly-girl, but 
her teammates now embraced her bubbly personality. 
“Now they ask me, ‘Franny, do you 
have eyeliner I can borrow?’” she said. “Well, what do you want? I have all dif-ferent kinds.”
Ready to Lead
The close-knit team of a year ago is 
returning every player except for one — right fielder Mary Ratliff, who was the 
team’s emotional leader.
Their historic 2008 run has carried ex-
citement and expectations into 2009. The 
Gators are ranked No. 1 in the nation 
and expected to follow up last season’s 
Women’s College World Series semifinal loss with a national championship. 
“I just couldn’t miss out on this sea-
son,” Enea said. “We’re projected to win 
the World Series. I just can’t see myself 
sitting on the bench not participating. It’s just too weird.”
It’s that kind of attitude that makes 
Ratliff confident the team won’t miss a beat in her absence. 
Enea’s hard work and determination to 
stay on the field is motivational to a team looking to avoid an untimely fall from grace.
“With Francesca, the only way you 
find out she’s injured is somebody telling you — like a doctor’s diagnosis — because she’s not really somebody who lets it slow her down,” Ratliff explained. “She doesn’t 
let it get to her mentally. She hasn’t taken 
any days off, and she doesn’t expect any kind of special treatment. She’s ready to play and ready to get through it again this 
season.”
Walton describes his junior slugger as 
a fierce competitor who will “run through the wall to catch the ball” to help her team 
win.
He admitted the ACL injury likely kept 
Enea from superstar production during her freshman year, but he hasn’t seen any 
signs that she has taken a step back this 
time around. 
If Enea were to re-injure her knee and 
found herself unable to play, Ratliff knows 
she would still be a huge contributor. 
“Something that is overlooked is how 
she helps out teammates,” Ratliff said. 
“She’s the first one to be there to hug some-body or tell them that it’s OK. She’s some-
one who likes to take care of other people, 
no matter who it is — older, younger, best friend, somebody she doesn’t talk to a lot — she’s always looking to help out. It 
doesn’t matter who you are, she wants to 
make sure you’re doing well on a personal level.”
For five minutes, her statistical produc-
tion was in doubt. 
Her value to the team never was.18, ALLIGATOR FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff 
UF left fielder Francesca Enea runs to third base during the Gators’ 6-1 win against 
LSU at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium on Mar. 29, 2008.
NEVER A DOUBT
Junior left fielder to play with second ACL tearFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 19
How did Meyer respond?
After stewing all summer 
in the memory of that embar-rassing celebration, Meyer’s Gators nearly hung half-a-
hundred on Georgia and 
twisted the knife by calling two timeouts in the last min-ute of a 49-10 slaughter.
This summer, Meyer 
has two recruiting failures and the taunts of a rookie Southeastern Conference coach to keep his playmak-
ing brain occupied. If the 
Gators dropped 59 points on the Volunteers two years ago without any motiva-tion other than a rivalry game, imagine what they will do to a team without a quarterback next season.  
And it turns out Kiffin’s 
claims weren’t even factual. 
He must have been high on the love he has been get-ting from Tennessee boost-ers for taking Richardson and Teague from UF that he couldn’t help but embellish a little.
UF athletics director 
Jeremy Foley released a state-ment Thursday to deal with the news that had already begun to explode online. The statement was, well, emphat-ic, to say the least.
After confirming there 
was no rule violation with the SEC, Foley went on to 
defend his coach and all but 
trash Kiffin.
“It is obvious that Coach 
Kiffin doesn’t know that there is not a rule precluding phone contact with a pros-pect during an official visit on another campus during a contact period,” Foley said. 
“His allegations are inappro-
priate, out of line and, most importantly, totally false. It is completely unfair to Urban Meyer, our coaching staff, our football program and our institution.”
If you’ve been looking for 
drama, you found it.
This has the potential to be 
bigger than Georgia’s celebra-tion debacle simply because the coach can’t deny intent this time. Kiffin apologized later on Thursday, saying he was just putting on a show for donors and alumni and didn’t mean to offend any-
one at UF, but he can’t take 
the words back. Behind every joke, there is some truth.
Questions about Kiffin 
will be the first thing Meyer hears at his next press confer-ence. They’ll be the first thing he hears after UF walks over Troy in Week 2. 
And Kiffin will be the last 
thing Meyer thinks about be-fore going to sleep on Sept. 18.
On Sept. 19, Kiffin will be 
the one having nightmares.
nior on the team last year, but this 
season, four of the team’s seven seniors will take the field as start-
ers. Three of them — Nelson, first 
baseman Ali Gardiner and center fielder Kim Waleszonia — were named to the 2009 USA Softball 
Collegiate Player of the Year 
Preseason Watch List.
The Gators have the talent 
necessary to make it deep into the postseason, but senior catch-
er Kristina Hilberth emphasized 
UF’s focus on taking the regular season one game and one series at a time.“Every team that comes 
out here is going to play their best game or like they’re at the 
Women’s College World Series,” 
Hilberth said. 
“And that’s 
good for us. It means that 
there’s not 
one day that we can throw our gloves out 
on the field. 
Even when we 
weren’t at the level that we are now, we tried to maintain that mentality, and now, we’re going 
to be forced to.”
Walton, who won a national championship as a baseball play-
er at Oklahoma and served as the assistant coach on the Sooners’ 
national title softball team, said 
he plans to use his experience to help his players deal with the preseason hype and the pressure that comes with being the na-
tion’s top-ranked team.
“It’s not where you start. It’s 
where you finish. That’s all that 
really matters,” Walton said. 
“We’re going to play with that 
intensity, that mentality, the tar-get on our back every day wheth-er we’re ranked No. 1, No. 2, No. 10, it doesn’t really matter. You 
won’t see a difference in the way 
we play at all.”
freshman Eloy Vargas could see more minutes while 
Chaney recovers. The coach plans to use the time to experiment with different frontcourt lineups.
Don’t be surprised if Dan Werner and Chandler 
Parsons play together on the block  when UF plays Kentucky on Feb. 10.
“There are times when playing Dan and Chandler 
together give us an edge offensively because we can kind of space the floor and those are two good ball handling and passing guys,” Donovan said.
Though the combination of Werner and Parsons 
gives the Gators more offensive firepower, their in-
ability to guard bigger, more athletic post players 
may be too much to overcome defensively.
“You give up a lot on the defensive end of the 
floor,” Donovan said. “You play some zone to mask 
it, but you still have to rebound the ball.”
Donovan has moved away from his traditional man-to-man defense in recent weeks in favor of a 
matchup zone that has helped the Gators camou-flage their lack of defensive speed.
The coach said he has also tinkered with the idea 
of playing center Alex Tyus alongside Kenny Kadji.
“You rebound the ball better, but maybe you’re 
not quite the scoring team you could be,” Donovan said. “Doing 
some unconventional things with 
the lineup is something that could possibly help us.”ALLEN DONE FOR SEASON:  
Sophomore Adam Allen is now of-ficially done for the year.
Allen was hopeful that he may have been able to 
recover from the knee injury that has sidelined him this season in time to make it back on the floor this 
year, but Donovan said Thursday that Allen will be 
taking a medical redshirt. 
“He is definitely, for sure, not playing this year,” 
Donovan said.UF to deal with lofty preseason expectations
Allen out for rest of season with knee injurySOFT , from page 20
HOOPS , from page 20EVAN , from page 20
Waleszonia
Men's
Bask etballSports
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
POLL QUESTION ONLINE INSIDEHarrison Diamond / Alligator Staff 
UF pitcher Stacey Nelson throws a pitch during the Gators’ 6-1 win against LSU in Katie Seashole Pressly 
Stadium on Mar. 29, 2008.
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator.org
After finishing 70-5 and rewrit-
ing the school’s record book last 
year, coach Tim Walton knew his 
team would enter this season with 
a target on its back.
So when the UF softball team 
resumed practice on Jan. 5, Walton 
outfitted his team in blue shirts 
complete with orange bull’s eyes clearly visible on the back.
“I’m not one of those who wants 
to dodge the bullet,” Walton said. 
“What we’re trying to work on 
and learn is how to play with that (target) and to play with a chip on our shoulders, because we need to 
be the best every day.”
In 2008, UF was the best it 
had ever been, breaking or tying 
32 school records and setting the NCAA record for most wins in 
a season, and five Gators were 
named All-Americans.
When No. 1 UF opens its sea-
son tonight at 6 against Baylor, 
the team won’t have to look far 
to be reminded of the success it enjoyed last year. Insignias com-
memorating the team’s Women’s 
College World Series run and second Southeastern Conference championship now adorn the left-field fence of Katie Seashole 
Pressly Stadium.
The Gators are looking to add 
a few more decorations to the sta-
dium’s walls this season.
Reigning SEC Pitcher of the 
Year Stacey Nelson said the team’s first goal, timeline-wise, is another conference championship, but she and her teammates are not shy to 
say that their goal this year is a na-
tional championship.
UF’s title run last year ended 
with a 1-0 loss in the Women’s College World Series semifinals 
to Texas A&M, but after retaining 
all but one key player on last sea-son’s squad, Nelson understands the importance of finishing what 
the team started last year.
Mary Ratliff was the only se-Record-breaking Gators open season against Baylor
UF MEN’S BASKETBALL
By MIKE DiFERDINANDO
Alligator Staff Writer
mdiferdinando@alligator.org
UF coach Billy Donovan revealed 
Thursday that freshman power for-
ward Allan Chaney will be out two to three weeks with a stress fracture in his left heel.
“He won’t be able to practice or 
play in the game against Kentucky right now,” Donovan said.
Donovan said the injury was disap-
pointing and that Chaney had begun to work his way into the rotation in recent games.
“That’s not good for us practicing 
and going forward because I really 
thought he was starting to do some 
good things, and he was starting to do some things in practice where I was gaining some more confidence and giving him some more minutes,” Donovan said.
Chaney was averaging 3.1 points 
and 2.2 rebounds in a little more than 10 minutes of play per game this year.
“Hopefully, someone else in our 
frontcourt can step up and give us 
some more minutes,” Donovan said.
The injury occurred during the first 
half of UF’s 97-93 win against South 
Carolina on Tuesday night.
Chaney scored 2 points and 
dished out two assists against the Gamecocks.
“Now, with Allan being out, that 
eliminates a power forward for us the 
next couple of weeks,” Donovan said. 
“So I think logically Ray (Shipman) 
getting some more minutes seems to 
be the next logical thing for us, and he’s got to respond well here in prac-tice the next three or four days.”
Donovan also said that 6-foot-10 Chaney out 2-3 weeks
Well, that was stupid.
First-year Tennessee coach 
Lane Kiffin has just made himself 
public enemy No. 1 in Gainesville with his mindless bragging to the Volunteers faith-
ful Thursday morning.
After snagging two big recruits from 
Urban Meyer and the Gators — Pahokee 
wideout Nu’Keese Richardson and Paris (Tenn.) defensive back Marsalis Teague — the Vols’ new kid on the block asked for serious trouble.
Kiffin told a crowd that Meyer illegally 
tried to contact Richardson over the phone 
while Richardson was on an official visit to 
Knoxville last weekend. Kiffin said Meyer calling Richardson while the recruit was in Tennessee is not allowed.
After that, Kiffin boldly made this com-
ment:“I love the fact that 
Urban had to cheat and he still didn’t get him.”
Calling Meyer a 
cheater? Idiotic.
Calling Meyer a 
cheater and bragging about your conquest? Suicide.
Getting Urban 
Meyer angry has not exactly proven suc-cessful. Just ask Mark Richt.
Two seasons ago, the Georgia coach 
told his team to celebrate after scoring its first touchdown against UF. While he didn’t plan for his entire sideline to clear and dance in the end zone, that’s what his team did.Kiffin’s comments on Meyer idiotic
Evan Drexler
The Drex Factor
edrexler@alligator.org
SEE EVAN, PAGE 19
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 19SEE SOFT, PAGE 19
Today’s question: Will the UF softball team 
make it back to the Women’s College World Series?
Previous question:  Which recruit the Gators did not sign are you most upset about? (see right for results) Percent (Votes)
Nu’Keese 51% (72)
Trent 28% (40)
Jones 16% (22)
Teague 5% (7)
137 TOTAL VOTES We’ve got more coverage of the softball team 
inside. For Kyle Maistri’s feature on Francesca 
Enea, check out Page 18. We’ve also got cover-
age of UF women’s basketball, gymnastics and 
men’s tennis on Page 11. Go to alligatorSports.org for an epic 
35-minute podcast with Alligator columnists 
and beat writers. We touch on Lane Kiffin, 
UF men’s basketball and the upcoming soft-
ball season while making fun of each other.“What we’re trying to work 
on and learn is how to 
play with that (target) and 
to play with a chip on our 
shoulders, because we 
need to be the best every 
day.”
Tim Walton
UF softball coach24, ALLIGATOR FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2009
