the h V
VOLUME 103 ISSUE:the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
13 We Inform. You Decide.S
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009
ADMINISTRATION
UF adjusts class policies to curb swine flu
By ASHLEY HORN
Alligator Contributing Writer
In an effort to prevent a swine
flu outbreak, UF will require an
e-Learning site for every course to
encourage students who may have
the virus to stay home.
All instructors will be able to
access the e-Learning site Monday,
according to a memo sent by An-
drew McCollough, UF's associateprovost for Internet technology.
By Tuesday, nine auditoriums
will be equipped with Mediasite,
a tool that will assist in lecture re-
cording.
According to UF spokesman
Steve Orlando, the additional e-
Learning use will not add any
costs to the university.
While the e-Learning require-
ment will allow students with the
virus to keep up with class, UF isalso taking measures to prevent
the flu from in-
vading the Stu-
dent Body.
According to
Orlando, the Di-
vision of Hous-
ing has spent
about $3,500 on
McCollough hand sanitizer
for the campus.
There are also three dormrooms where the roommates of in-
fected students can live while the
sick student recovers, he said.
GatorWell, a division of the Stu-
dent Health Care Center, operates
tents in high traffic areas such as
the Reitz Union and Weimer Hall
to hand out free hand sanitizer and
flu prevention fliers.
Orlando said it all comes down
to individual responsibility.
"We ask that you do threethings," he said. "One is to cover
your mouth while you sneeze and
cough, two is to have good hygiene
and use hand sanitizer, and lastly,
if you're sick, stay home."
Orlando also said professors
are encouraged to be lenient with
attendance policies when it comes
to sick students.
Absence is one factor that eco-
nomics professor Mark Rush,
SEE PLAN FLU, PAGE 5
Dean may
face tough
decision
Dirty Job
Police divers U SHE IS ONE OF SIX FINALISTS.
search for the Kathleen Long, dean of UF's College ofoccupant of a truck Nursing, has been tapped as one of six final-
that hit another ists for the presidency of Georgia Southern
vehicle along U.S. University, located in Statesboro, Ga.
441 and then ca- Long will meet with university officials
reened off the road this week for three days and take part in
campus and community forums, includinginto the swamp one today, according to a GSU press release.
in Paynes Prairie Coincidentally, UF announced Wednes-
late Wednesday day that Long will oversee the area of Fac-
afternoon. The ulty Development in Academic Affairs be-
search was called ginning Tuesday.
The position includes responsibility foroff at nightfall programs like the Teacher/Scholar of the
and is scheduled Year award and New Faculty Orientation,
to resume in the according to a memo sent to UF officials.
morning. Long has been dean of the nursing col-
See story below. ~lege since 1995.
E-mails sent Wednesday asking who
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff might replace Long were not returned.
-THOMAS STEWART
Professor charged with assault, placed on leave
By JESSICA CHAPMAN
Alligator Writer
A UF professor was arrested and charged
with sexual assault, stalking, unarmed bur-
glary and burglary with assault or battery
Sunday night after allegedly attacking his ex-
girlfriend.
Herbert J. Houck, a 53-year-old UF biologi-
U Mississippi
State's Dan Mullen
(right) is gearing up
for the Bulldogs'
SEC opener against
Auburn. The Tigers
won 3-2 last year
in Starkville, Miss.,
but both teams
have new coaches.
See Story, Page 17.cal scientist and professor in the department The woman, who is also Houck's neigh-
of pathology, was released from the Alachua bor, gave Houck her house key so he could
County Jail Monday, said Alachua County feed her cat while she was on
Sheriff spokesman Art Forgey. On vacation. She believed he had
Sunday afternoon, the woman he allegedly CampUS returned the key when she got
assaulted was getting out of the shower when
she saw Houck in her bathroom, Forgey said.
She called the sheriff's office after the assault,back, not realizing he had made
a copy, Forgey said.
The woman posted a sign on her door ask-
ing him to "go away," after Houck made sev-
Police to resume search for driver involved in Tuesday crash
Police will resume the search today for a
driver who was ejected into Paynes Prairie
Wednesday afternoon after a crash.
A Chevrolet truck traveling south on U.S.
441 collided with a Ford Explorer at about 4
p.m. near Paynes Prairie State Park, said Flori-
da Highway Patrol Cpl. Rodney Howard.
Howard said the truck struck the Explorer
frombehind before swerving, breaking through
a guardrail and landing in the swamp below.
Workers from ANS Tree Service helped pullthe truck, which was submerged, out of the wa-
ter. Rescue divers searched for the Chevrolet's
driver until nightfall with no success.
The other driver, who has not been identi-
fied, was taken to a nearby hospital and is in
stable condition, Howard said.
Witness Peter Carolin, who notified author-
ities about the accident, believes that whoever
was in the truck never made it out. "The mud
definitely sucked him down," he said.
-CJ PRUNEReral phone calls to her, Forgey added.
Houck also secretly made visits to her
house, which included him lying in her bed
and leaving his shoe behind. He said he would
trade the house key for his shoe, Forgey said.
UF spokesman Steve Orlando said Houck,
who was hired in December 1992, has been
placed on administrative leave per UF proto-
col.
Today
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 12 Partly
CROSSWORD 15 cloudy
SPORTS 17 89/72
visit www.alligator.orgReCY0K6
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
UF Off-Table Tennis
Today, 6 to 8 p.m.
Flavet Tennis Courts
For those who want to play
ping-pong on a tennis court.
Darius at UF
Today, 7 p.m.
Phillips Center for the
Performing Arts
The UF College of Public Health
and Health Professions invites
you to attend the special screen-
ing of "Darius Goes West: The
Roll Of His Life." Movie screen-
ing and talk with Darius Weems
and crew. The event is free and
open to the public. For more
about this event, please visit
www.phhp.ufl.edu/announce-
ments/darius/.
UF Student Investment Club
meeting
Today, 7 p.m.
McCarty Hall C, Room 100
Listen to a financial market
recap, join the Investment
Challenge and grab some free
pizza. For more details, visit
www.ufsic.com.
International Socialist
Organization meeting
Anderson Hall, Room 34
Today, 7 p.m.
The Gainesville branch of the
organization will be hosting its
first public meeting of the se-
mester with reports from local
activist efforts and a discussion
on the true meaning of socialism
and why we need it so badly.
Framing Europe: Location and
Circulation in a Mediated World
Friday, 3 p.m.
Dauer Hall, Room 219
A talk by Deniz Gkttirk,
University of California,
Berkeley. G6kttirk has writ-
ten extensively on literary
and cinematic imaginations ofFORECAST
TODAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
89/72FRIDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
87/71
America and Europe, as well
as on migration, culture and
cinema. This is part of the
Center for European Studies
series, "Engaging Migration
in Europe."
The 28th Annual Dog Days
Run
Saturday, 8 a.m. to 10 a.m.
Westside Park
The UF Student Chapter of
the American Veterinary
Medical Association is host-
ing a 5K and one-mile fun run
for owners and their dogs to
benefit the Alliance for Rabies
Control. There will be free
food, a raffle, goodie bags
and awards for both runs.
Registration forms are avail-
able on floridatrackclub.org
or on the day of the race.
Jamaican-American Student
Association and Iota Phi
Theta Fraternity present the
Second Annual Jerkfest
Saturday, 5 p.m.
Woodlands Apartment Pool
Caribbean-style fun in the
sun. Pool party with a live disc
jockey and food catered by
the Reggae Shack Cafe. Visit
JAMSA's Facebook group for
more information.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this
space? Send an e-mail to
bkelley@alligator.org with
"What's Happening" in the
subject line. Please include a
one- to two-sentence synopsis
of the event.SATURDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
84/72SUNDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
88/72MONDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
86/71
LOCAL
10 bus stops to close today
In the coming days, some Re-
gional Transit System buses will
be delayed and 10 stops will be
closed due to construction.
According to an RTS press re-
lease, the southbound Main Street
stops between North Eighth and
University avenues will be closed
beginning today.
Riders who normally use those
stops should use stops on Univer-
sity Avenue or at Publix on Main
Street until further notice.
Five stops on Southeast Fourth
Avenue between Southeast Sev-
enth and Southeast Tenth av-
enues, as well as the stop across
from St. Francis House on South
Main Street, will be closed for sev-
eral months. Riders should use the
Rosa Parks Downtown Station on
Southeast Third Street until Depot
Avenue reopens.
Buses on routes 6, 15, 407 and
410 will suffer five- to 10-minute
delays because of traffic on Main
Street caused by lane closures, ac-
cording to the release.
For more information on the
closures and delays, visit www.
go-rts.com.-EMILY FUGGETTA
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
IAk-ia
Kin
CO X Bundle SM "Our lives are simplified with our phone, Internet and cable on one, easy
Phone Internet ][V bill -saving us money!"
With the Cox Bundle, you can enjoy a better-than-normal, productive life.mnnRE-IS OTSide effects of the Cox Cure are immediate and may lead to longer conversations
with friends and family, lower rates and faster Internet connections & downloads.
Plus, hi-def TV on your schedule with DVR and On Demand.
tSide effects vary by subscription & usage. Please use excessively.
-,
-WWW.1COX.COM
1-866-961-1102a the independent florida
Notoficill
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 13 ISSN 0889-2423
Notofficiallyassociated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill, astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkeger@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
a lligatorsports.org Editor Bobby Ca Ilovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Allie Conti, aconti@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Allie Conti,
Brian Kelley, Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry, Emily Blake,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Ashley Cruel,
Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Joe Holzer, Amanda Milligan,
George Pappas, Jennifer Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director
Advertising Office Manager
Advertising Assistant
Intern Coordinator
Display Advertising Clerks
Sales RepresentativesRose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Melissa Bell
Sara Ingebretsen
Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie, Caitlin Dilks,
Brittany Fayne, Jon Levine,
Joaquin Martinez, MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-3764446 (Voice), 352-3764556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Andrea Almeida, Amanda Miller
Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-3764446 (Voice), 352-3764556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
New GI bil
U THE BILL OFFERS MORE
BENEFITS THAN THE LAST.
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
ctillo@alligator org
Lauren Cook worked for her ed-
ucation. She couldn't afford college,
so she planned to return to school
after joining the Army.
Now a veteran and a mother,
Cook, 30, attends Santa Fe College
and plans to transfer to UF to pur-
sue a teaching career.
Cook, who works in the SFC
Office of Veterans Affairs, benefits
from the new Post-9/11 GI Bill, a
modification of the older and less
generous Montgomery GI Bill.
The Post-9/11 bill, effective Aug.
1, pays university tuition, fees and
living expenses for disabled veter-
ans and those who served at least 90
days beginning on or after Sept. 11,
according to the U.S. Department of
Veterans Affairs Web site.
This new bill could encourage
more veterans to attend public four-year colleges like UF rather than
public two-year colleges, according
to a new study published by Alex-
andria Walton Radford, a research
associate with MPR Associates Inc.
Radford said the Montgomery
GI Bill only gives veterans about
$1,300 per month to cover living
expenses, books, tuition and fees.
This insufficient amount may have
encouraged veterans to attend com-
munity colleges or go to school part-
time rather than attending four-year
universities, she said.
But UF spokes-
National man Steve Orlando
News said UF has yet to
see an increase in
the number of veterans applying as
a result of the Post-9/11 GI Bill.
He said about 450 veterans at-
tend UF, and the university wel-
comes them because they offer pos-
itive examples for students.
Justin Levine, 26, president of
UF's Collegiate Veterans Society,
served 4 1/2 years in the Army and
is working on an undergraduate fi-
nance degree and a master's degree
in international business at UF.
He said the money offered bythe Post-9/11 GI Bill provides in-
centives for veterans to leave the
military and attend school.
However, Levine said UF's strict
admissions requirements limit the
number of veterans who apply and
attend. He said a high number of
veterans in Alachua County spend
two years at Santa Fe before attend-
ing UF because they leave the mili-
tary with zero credit hours.
"In the case of UF, I think it's
more dependent on the grades and
the academic discipline of the stu-
dent," he said.
Levine does not expect the num-
ber of veterans applying to UF to
increase for another two years be-
cause veterans may choose to spend
that time at Santa Fe.
Brian Sellers, who is completing
a work-study in the SFC Office of
Veterans Affairs, said 108 veterans
are using the new GI Bill at SFC.
For Cook, the bill has other ad-
vantages. The money it offers helps
fund things like tutoring services.
"It's just little factors, little fac-
tors like that they reimburse you for
that just makes or breaks someone's
success as a veteran," she said.
&Xve &4
I yEAR Gu ARANTE
Butler Plaza Newberry Square
335-1232 332-$937Hicliboxing & Boxing
Gainesville Doj
3 nights of Boxing
or Kickboxing
$60.00
(must have coupon)
536 SW 2nd Averewards veterans
Special
0 DON'T DRINK & DRIVE
378-3070
HONEYMOON
C RUI SE
WEDDING DAY
< GIVEAWAYS
E_ $500
GiFT CERTIFICATE'"SUBLIMELY SMART, SEXY
AND SERIOUSLY FUNNY."
Peter Travers, ROLLING STONE
MEE
Roger Ebert, CHICAGO SUN-TIMES
ii-ADriuninrnErn i hE tIrn In K "9JI MnnrlSMl U KUNEE
PG-131 PARENTS STRONGLY CAUTIONEIo I W""Gp
Some Malerla, May Be Inapproprlate 1W U Children Und, 13 e
FORSEXUALMATERIAL AND GUAGE 500 DAYS OF SUMMER.COM
MOBILE USERS -FOR SHOWTIMES -TEXT SUMMER AND YOUR ZIP CODE TO 43 KIX (43549)
NOW PLAYING EVERYWHERE
CHECK LOCAL LISTINGS FOR THEATRES AND SHOWTIMESTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009 .ALLIGATOR, 3
Event promotes
local boutiques
Gators can shop 'til they drop without dropping serious
dough tonight at Fashion's Night Out.
Part of Gainesville Fashion Week, the event will allowbargain-
hunters and fashionistas alike to get to know the city's fashion
scene. Starting at 6 p.m., guests can buy tickets
at Wolfgang Boutique, 1127 W University Ave.,
for $3. The ticket will list the 20 participating
businesses. The stores will extend their hours
and offer refreshments and discounts.
Wolfgang Boutique owner Matthew Turn-
er organized the event based on the Fashion's
Night Out global celebration, which takes place
Turer in major cities from New York City to Tokyo.
Turner hopes the event will encourage par-
ticipants to shop locally and invigorate the local economy.
Those who visit every hotspot on the ticket -even without
making a purchase -will receive a gift bag at the end of the
night with gifts from the participating businesses.
Persona Vintage owner Nava Ottenberg expects the event to
result in exposure to local businesses.
"People don't really know about these hidden treasures," she
said.
-ALISON SCHWARTZ
't -r
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009
Documentary features struggles of disabled teen
By ROBERT HILSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
Dale Ginder is 7 years old. He is from
Gainesville. He loves his Gators.
And he is sick.
So his parents will be at the Phillips Cen-
ter at 7 p.m. Thursday, not for their son's fa-
vorite team, but to watch a movie that may
save his life.
Lelia Cinder, Dale's mother, and the Col-
lege of Public Health and Health Professions
present "Darius Goes West," the acclaimed
story of a teenager with Duchenne muscu-
lar dystrophy, a not-so-rare genetic disorder
that strips the male body of dystrophin, a
structural protein needed to function.
The heart and lungs -both muscles, both
deprived -race each other to see which will
give out first.
Local According to Parent Project
News Muscular Dystrophy, another
20,000 boys like Dale and Dari-
us are diagnosed with the disease each year.
This means, each year, roughly double
this number of parents find that they stand a
good chance of outliving their sons.
The disease progresses with speed and
menace. By 7, scar tissue replaces muscle. By
9, walking requires assistance. By 14, breath-
ing requires assistance.
Most die in their 20s. Some die older.
Some die younger.
For now, DMD kills. Always.
The documentary, winner of more than
25 film festival awards, focuses on Darius
Weems' first trip away from home, a cross-
country attempt to get his wheelchair on
MTV's "Pimp My Ride."
At the end of the film, Weems will take
the stage with his travel partners and adopt-
ed family, the film's cast and crew.
Weems turns 20 on Sept. 27. He has out-
lived his brother, who died of DMD, byDarius Weems, left, and Logan Smalley pose on a beach in Panama City, Fla.
more than a year.
Accordingly, each campus screening
doubles as a celebration.
UF cheerleaders, Albert and Alberta and
Gators broadcaster Mick Hubert will at-
tend.
The event raises awareness and promotes
"One Year. One Million DVDs," a campaign
that generates $17 for DMD research for ev-
ery DVD sold.
The film has sold about 26,000 copies,
according to Logan Smalley, director and
editor of "Darius Goes West." Through ex-
tensive campus touring, the crew has raised
$1.6 million and logged over 100,000 miles
since September 2008.Smalley said research is exploding, and
numerous human clinical trials show great
promise.
"We're extremely hopeful and optimistic
that a treatment or a cure for DMD is on the
horizon," he wrote in an e-mail.
The screening, part of "Darius at UF," is
free and open to the public, and the Ginders
urge everyone to come.
Lelia Ginder said when she took her son
to the pediatrician, the nurse in the office
knew right away of his condition.
"I said, 'You must be mistaken.' Of
course, we were shocked and not believing
it for a while," she said.
There is no cure, only piles of underfund-ed research.
Inside the Starbucks on Archer Road,
Dale Ginder's picture hangs on a bulletin
board above canisters of milk, no amount of
which can make him stronger.
His healthy face and radiant blue eyes
don't tell that DMD can enlarge the heart,
only that Dale's is very big.
"He is still in the exact same body he was
in before he was diagnosed," Ginder said.
"His experience of life has not changed. But
it changed for us."
But there are optimists, like Josh Winheld,
who was diagnosed with DMD at 4.
"When I get up everyday, it seems like a
good day," he said.
Winheld lives longwayfromGainesville,
yet he is like Dale. He is 31 years old. He is
from Philadelphia. He loves his Phillies.
Winheld says he's hopeful for the child.
Realizing that "nothing will happen the next
day" brings freedom.
"You have life ahead of you," he said.
"You just have to go out and live it, because
if you keep worrying about what's happen-
ing down the road, you'll forget what's hap-
pening right now.
He is what Dale can grow up to be -
alive, but more than that.
Winhield is an author, a speaker, an in-
spiration for the kind of event that will take
place at the Phillips Center.
He also blogs about his day-to-day expe-
riences, chronicling both the ups and downs
of life with applesauce limbs.
March 4: Birthday time. Winheld hangs
with the Philadelphia 76ers.
Aug. 1: Hospital run. An internal defi-
brillator sends 18 separate bolts of lightning
surging through his chest.
"I thought there was a distinct possibil-
ity that I would be blogging no more," he
wrote.
These are the kinds of trials that Dale will
face.
--
ONE HOUR SERVICE
Contact Lenses
* Eye Exams
+Eyeglasses
Maddie's
Pet Rescue Project
of Alachua County
presents
6 convenient locations,
10 hours and 200 pets
for you to love
www.MaddiesPetRescueDfAlachua.orgSupport the Red
Cross Services to
Armed Forces and
change a life,
starting with your
own.
Call 1-800-RED CROSSL ! Si or visit redcross.org
Jessica is there for Tom's That way, Tom can be there
wife and kids. for our country.+ AmericanRed Cross
ItAULUbIVt tNUAUtIVItN I IAKI I UIVIUNUWV
Regal Cinemas GAINESVILLE STADIUM 14 3101 SW 35th Blvd 800/FANDANGO 185#
CHECK THEATRE DIRECTORY OR CALL FOR SOUND INFlORMATION AND SHOWTIMES SPECIAL.ENGAGEMENT NO PASSES OR DISCOUNT COUPONS ACCEPTED
MOBILE USERS: For Showtimes Text MYSTERY With Your ZIP CODE To 43KIX (43549)!
Friends don't let friends drive drunk.
Do whatever it takes.HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
.rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShield
of Florida9r N ,mber L8533-.99SU 373-0775
Form Number: 18533-599SU 3669 S.W. 2nd Avenue
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
STATE
Board chairman takes seat
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligator org
There won't be any tailgating.
There won't be anyone scalping
tickets. There won't even be alco-
hol, much less drunk fans playing
beer pong along University Av-
enue with ESPN blaring from a TV
in the background.
When the Board of Trustees
gathers today, there won't be any
of that.
Instead of 90,000 screaming
fans watching 22 sweaty athletes,
there might be a total of 50 people
watching 13 conservatively dressed
board members discussing some of
the biggest issues facing the univer-
sity.
Budget cuts. Tuition hikes. It's
what they do. And as UF's highest
governing body, when the board
talks, people listen.
Now, after a three-month hia-
tus, the board will be led by a new
chairman -W.A. "Mac" McGriff
III, a private investor from Jack-sonville who has been on the board
since 2001.
McGriff, 65, said he never imag-
ined when he was taking classes at
UF in the 1960s that he would one
day end up as head of UF's most
powerful body.
"I was thinking about getting
out of the business school and get-
ting a job," he said. "I had a wife
and a kid."
McGriff, who
graduated with
a bachelor's de-
gree in business
administration
in 1969, was
born and raised
McGriff in Gainesville.
"I've been a
Gator all my life," he said.
He has three children and eight
grandchildren, all living in Jack-
sonville. He splits most of his time
between Jacksonville and a 1,500-
acre farm he co-owns in Quitman,
Ga., a town of about 5,000 on the
southern edge of the state.
"We've got dogs and horses andland that we've groomed up for
quail hunting," he said.
Mcgriff, who's been president
of the Alliance Mortgage Co. and
the Florida Mortgage Bankers As-
sociation of Florida, also serves on
the Shands HealthCare and Uni-
versity Athletic Association boards
of directors.
He's been a registered Republi-
can since age 18 and donated $2,300
to John McCain's 2008 presidential
campaign.
Not surprisingly, he said UF's
budget issues will be the most dif-
ficult thing the trustees will deal
with this year. UF still hasn't cut
about $16 million of the $42.2 mil-
lion budget cut announced in May.
"Any of us that have ever been
in business have been through this
same crap," he said. "And it's not
fun. It's not fun."
At today's meeting, there are
few action items, but the board's
committees will discuss issues like
HINI swine flu and the merger of
UF's Counseling Center and the
Student Mental Health Services.
E DIME BROTHIER5 BLOOM
.II Starring Adrian Brody, Rachel Weisz and Mark Ruffaloci n em a Final night -6:15 and 8:45pm
Tickets and Information 352-375-HIPP I THEHIPPORG
GET YOUR BEAT T-SHIRT
FOR THE SWAMP!
rA cm
Sponsored by
HERFFJONES®
* www.herffjones.com/ufGet yours tomorrow at
Emerson Alumni Hall
1OAM until gone!
FREE for the first 1500
SAA members with
membership card.
352-392-9533 -www.ufalumni.ufl.eduOWNER
FINANCING
ON 19.99 ACRES
IN NEWBERRY, FL
Fenced and cross
fenced, high and dry
Oak trees, zonedAG
and low taxes.
$269K
Call Gigi Taj'all
@ 352-281-0001
Watson Realty Corp.
RAMADAN
FAST-A-THON
September 16, 2009
6:30 pm
the O'Connell Center
For more info, visit:
www.IslamOnCampus.com
_io4$3.5K spent on sanitizer
PLAN, from page 1
whose class is recorded and posted online, has taken into con-
sideration.
"Every year, there is a flu virus, and so far none have im-
pacted my class," Rush said. "My concern about HINI is that
it might turn out to be significantly more contagious then the
typical flu, in which case there is a significant possibility of it
affecting UF classes."
Rush believes UF will do its best to combat the virus.
"I am hoping and praying that the HINI won't turn out to
be more fatal than the typical flu," he said.
Populations most susceptible to the virus include but are
not limited to universities, schools and
U F health care personnel. According to theAdministration Centers for Disease Control, 20 to 40
percent of these populations may con-
tract the HINI virus.
Dr. Phillip Barkley, director of student health at UF, has sim-
ple guidelines for all students feeling flulike symptoms.
"Stay at least six feet away from other people, and don't go
to the dining hall," Barkley said. "Have someone bring you
some food."
Barkley also recommended taking Tylenol and staying home
for 24 hours after fever goes away.
For information on swine flu, visit UF's Swine Flu Task
Force Web site at www.ehs.ufl.edu/hlnl.html
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009
Editorial
Still Split
President's speech fails
to unite parties
If President Obama's Wednesday night speech does not
manage to turn Republican members of Congress on to
major health care reform, it will be a huge political failure
and a huge disappointment.
The speech, which marked Obama's second time appear-
ing before a full Congress since his inauguration, called for
a compromise between Democrats who support a public-op-
tion health care plan and Republicans who support creating
either a nonprofit health care cooperative or no reform at all.
The speech was also his time to address a sharply divided
American public.
However, what he could say to Congress was limited.
In his attempt to unite the Democratic and Republican
parties and refrain from launching any more attacks that
would deepen the fissure between the two, Obama could
only emphasize his desire for a public option and invite
Republicans to contribute their ideas. He could not call out
Republican fear-mongering without couching it in politically
correct rhetoric.
Point by point, Obama addressed the misconceptions of
many Americans that were perpetuated by pundits and Re-
publicans like Sarah Palin. He laughed at the idea of "death
panels" and reiterated that his plan would not insure illegal
immigrants or fund abortions. He asked Republicans bla-
tantly to stop misrepresenting the bill as a government take-
over of health care.
However, we think the American public should be aware
of something that Obama could never bring up to his op-
ponents in Congress. Even though Obama noted how some
members of Congress used Americans' confusion over health
care as way to create fear and gain political clout, he couldn't
fully illustrate their hypocrisy.
Article 31 of the Iraqi Constitution, drafted by the Bush
administration, calls for guaranteed health care for Iraqi citi-
zens.
Now, the same plan that was drafted by the GOP and
shoved onto another country under the guise of "freedom" is
being denounced as socialism in the United States.
The cost of implementing freedom, or at least carrying out
Operation Enduring Freedom, has reached almost $900 bil-
lion, according to the Congressional Research Service. The
cost of Obama's proposed health-care reform has been esti-
mated at about that amount over the next decade.
In essence, the United States has spent the taxpayer mon-
ey it would require to overhaul the health care system to
create a government, complete with a health care system, in
another country.
Obama will have a hard time convincing Republican
members of Congress to change their minds about health
care when their positions are already so steeped in fallacious
thinking. In his speech, Obama told congressmen: "If you
misrepresent what's in the plan, we will call you out."
We wish that Obama reminded Republicans that they
voted to implement universal health care in Iraq. We wish he
could remind them that they did it in the name of democracy,
not socialism. And we wish that he could rebut the Repub-
lican response, which just went on to call Obama's plan a
government takeover of the health-care system and seemed
to completely ignore the preceding one-hour speech.
But then again, we aren't cool-headed enough to be presi-
dent.
Obama's speech addressed the concerns of the people,
appropriately called out Republican fear-mongerers and di-
rectly tied the vote to a moral obligation to constituents.
We just hope it was enough.
0the independent floridaalligator
Kristin Bjornsen Allie Conti
EDITOR OPINIONS EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University A e, or send them to PO Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458pni ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigato r.org/opinions
efoe
#p
~O& -
- W- -ej
Column
Health care debate ignores zombies
n a few years, Sarah Palin will be a hot forty-some-
thing with her own little media empire. The thing
we may remember most about Sarah Smile, though,
could be the way she hijacked the multifaceted debate
about end-of-life care and turned the whole thing into a
screaming match about government "death panels."
Conjecture and hearsay are excellent ammo for radio
rebels and Internet trolls, but now is the time for a criti-
cal examination of the real policies that will shape the
way each one of us lives -and dies. Now is the time for
some frank, honest talk about zombies.
Palin looks to the uninitiated observer like a simple-
ton spouting off the talking points of the insurance and
pharmaceutical lobbies, but her vague comments about
the regulation of health care are not simply misinforma-
tion. Even though insurance companies operate as de-
facto death panels and make hundreds of decisions every
day that regulate care for the privately insured, those of
us united with Sarah Palin yearn for something better.
The only Americans truly fit to serve on a death panel
are those who have already died, as they clearly possess
first-hand knowledge about failed health care and the
end of life. Sarah Palin is obviously setting the table for
zombies to become gatekeepers of health care.
A savvy politician, Palin has never once mentioned
anything even remotely connected to zombies. However,
she has never publicly denied that she has a stake in the
potentially lucrative zombie lobby. Nor has Palin ever
stated her opposition to zombies receiving subsidized
health care.
Zombies, because they are technically dead, may be
the ideal candidates for inclusion into the health-care
system. Their high threshold for pain and inability to
communicate effectively seem to preclude a large major-ity of medical malpractice lawsuits,
thereby rendering the debate over
tort reform a moot point.
Zombified Americans eat less
than their living counterparts do,
and expensive machines regulat-
Tommy Maple ing breathing and the function of
letters@alligator org various organs would be frivo-
lous in a zombie hospital. Zom-
bies would mainly visit a hospital to a) get brains or b)
have their limbs re-attached. Certainly, Sarah Palin knew
these built-in advantages of zombies in health care when
she first bandied about the idea of a government death
panel.
Zombie studies is a growing research field at many
top universities, and a group of four professors in Can-
ada who calculated the damage of a potential zombie
outbreak actually got their study published in a peer-re-
viewed journal. While a rampaging virus infected these
hypothetical zombies, recent stem-cell technology actu-
ally uses dead stem cells to create living organs. We are
going to have zombies, be it by science or by accident
-and we must plan for this extra burden on our health
care system.
All matter of serious talk will now commence about
health care in America, and it will be terribly boring.
Many people will use statistics in an egregious manner,
and they will be at least partially correct.
However, all of this productive governance will likely
spoil the growing debate about zombies, death panels and
health care. Sarah Palin, zombie nation turns its creepy
undead gaze to you. Keep fighting the good fight.
Tommy Maple is an international communications gradu-
ate student. His column appears on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Do you support Monday's question: Does
President Obama's health care plan? "Twilight" send a bad message to
young girls?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org64% YES
36% NO
103 TOTAL VOTES
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Food prices exploit students
Zach Mayo's column in Tues-
day's Alligator, "UF should keep
cheap food options," should set off
a firestorm of protests and lead to
the canning of whoever is respon-
sible for these exploitive food pric-
es. There is no reason for the prices
they gouge from students at UF, ex-
cept greed.
Pollo Tropical is the example
closest to my heart. I have eaten at
the Pollo Tropical at The Florida
State University. The prices there
are cheap. I can get a half-chicken
value meal with a drink for about
$6. UF charges me $10.81.
Further, FSU completely rebuilt
their dining hall to accommodate
Pollo Tropical and Hardee's -yet
that cost is not passed on to con-
sumers.
If FSU can renovate their dining
hall for Pollo Tropical and sell the
food at prices that are as cheap as,
or cheaper than, stores in Miami,
why is UF lagging behind? Why is
UF worse, greedier and eviler than
FSU?
And yes, I would consider over-
charging for that delicious chicken
evil.
Garrett Clifford
1LW
Cheeburger not Cheep
I just have to write about Chee-
burger Cheeburger at UF.
I have been there three times and
all three times there have been prob-
lems. My first time, I tried to order
waffles. Guess what? They don't
make waffles, but they are on the
menu. The second time, for lunch, I
ordered a hamburger. I had to wait
15 minutes because they were wait-
ing on fries.
Guess what? I didn't order fries.
The orders in front of mine had
fries, and they could only make four
burgers at a time. So everybody af-
ter them had to wait even if they
did not have fries. My third time, I
tried to order a salad, and they tried
to charge me $12.79 for one salad.
The salad did not even have meat
on it.
If anybody at Gator Dining reads
this, please either fix the problems
at Cheeburger Cheeburger or bring
back Wendy's.
Tina Priz
3LS
"Twilight" inspires new readers
In regards to the "Twilight" arti-
cle, I agree that the series has no lit-
erary value. But then again, I have
heard no one in my daily travels
claiming that it is of literary merit.
To attack something that isn't
even claimed to be "literary" seems
like too much wasted effort to me.
I read the books when I was afreshman here, and I thought they
were very entertaining. That was
the goal, right?
They had the same effect on
me that "Harry Potter" did, to be
perfectly honest, mainly because
I didn't think "Harry Potter" was
high-quality writing either. And al-
though "Wuthering Heights" may
be great writing, when was the last
time anyone lost themselves in that
book?
If anything, reading "Twilight"
has inspired my friends to read
more, even to read books of "liter-
ary value."
So, out of all the things to choose
that is making the world worse, you
chose to attack a book? Have we ex-
hausted the need to talk about cur-
rent events that actually affect our
lives?
Apparently, people reading has
an extremely negative effect on
our society. Heaven forbid people
stare at a book and not a television
screen.
I would encourage people to
keep reading, but also to branch out
and not become too obsessed.
Dana Connell
3LS
Books do not need to be literary
I picked up "Twilight" because
my roommates told me that I'd love
it and I wouldn't be able to put it
down, not because I was expecting
the next great American novel or
anything of the sort.
While I don't know if "Twilight"
has any literary value (in whatever
sense of the phrase you mean, that
is), I do know that I've never heard
anyone claiming that it does.
So what if high school students
of the future never end up ana-
lyzing examples of conflict in the
books and underlining metaphors
describing Edward's appearance as
akin to David?
And for that matter, "Harry Pot-
ter" isn't scheduled to reach the
classroom any time soon, either.
It's still highly entertaining when
I want to lose myself in a fictional
story.
While Edward has some appeal-
ing characteristics, including his
looks and his propensity to look out
for Bella, I'm not deluding myself
into leaving my window unlocked
hoping my knight in sparkling skin
will climb in and watch me mumble
his name in my dreams.
Maybe if you're so concerned
about your sister and her friends,
you should just remind her that all
who drive Volvos do not sparkle
and then let her and the rest of the
world enjoy an entertaining fic-
tional series about a charming vam-
pire and the girl who's in love with
him.
Caitlin Prichard
3LSALAIE!
-----------------,
please contact:
Allie Conti
aconti@alligator.orgNAME: Smiley Student
AGE: 18 -25
ALIAS: "Cartoonist"
DESCRIPTION: pencil in hand and
always laughing
LAST SEEN: sketching hilarious
caricatures of your professor in
class
REWARD:
a great experience
Guest column
Defending Israel is American
am writing in regard to Travis Hornsby's Rafael Yaniz tion is that the second-
guest column, "Mideast trip reveals need Speaking Out largest recipient of U.S.
for peace." p foreign aid is the Arab
I traveled to Israel during my summer break Republic of Egypt.
in 2008 and experienced first-hand Israeli cul- The "wall" Mr. Hornsby references in his
ture and politics. From security briefings with column is actually a security fence constructed
Israeli and Arab academics, journalists, may- to prevent suicide bomb attacks during the
ors and members of the Knesset, I was able to Second Intifada. I toured the security fence
engage in question-and-answer sessions with with the Israeli Commander who was charged
people who make policy and lead America's with choosing its location and overseeing its
strongest ally in the Middle East. construction. The security fence often is called
Israel is the only democracy in the region a wall in spite of the fact that less than five per-
and helps others in times of need. For exam- cent is made out of concrete compared with
ple, I met with an Ethiopian who was rescued chain-link fencing. Concrete was used only in
from impending death at the hands of radical areas where Palestinians were shooting direct-
Islamists by Israeli Defense Forces. ly into Israeli homes.
Israel strives for peace with its neighbors While in Israel, I witnessed the aftermath
and only responds to violence when necessary, of a terrorist attack. A Palestinian construc-
unlike Mr. Hornsby's assertion that, "violence tion worker hijacked a construction truck and
will bring only more violence," implying that plowed through a pedestrian mall while pur-
Israel is the aggressor in all situations. If only posefully ramming the truck into cafes and a
he were addressing that statement to Hamas' bus full of Israeli civilians.
leaders, who fire thousands of indiscriminate Perhaps the greatest misconception in Mr.
rocket attacks against Israeli civilians and chil- Hornsby's column is his statement that, "Israel
dren in the southern town of Sderot. can only be sustainable if it comes to an agree-
Even President Barack Obama, who by no ment with the Palestinians." This statement
means is considered a security hawk, said, ignores history and the facts: The Palestinians
"If somebody was sending rockets into my have rejected statehood offered to them since
house where my two daughters sleep at night, the 1940s. To be fair, Palestinian extremists are
I would do everything to stop that and would typically the ones who refuse statehood and
expect Israel to do the same thing." Children unfortunately lead their people away from
have been killed, maimed and traumatized by fair deals, such as 1947's U.N. Partition Plan,
living in a state of fear in Sderot where they the 1993 Oslo Peace Agreement and a 2000 of-
only have 15 seconds to run for a bomb shelter fer at Camp David rejected by Yasir Arafat.
when sirens sound off warning of an incoming The blame for the situation of the Palestinians
Qassam rocket. When Israel defends its citi- cannot be solely positioned on Israel -Arab
zens, it uses tactical strikes designed to mini- states in the region have not offered to help
mize collateral damage and harm to innocent their Arab brothers and sisters in any mean-
civilians. ingful or humanitarian way, thereby perpetu-
The Israeli Defense Forces released a video ating the conflict.
this summer showing a Hamas terrorist bury- Any reader of yesterday's column should
ing a roadside bomb then running into a build- be particularly alarmed at Mr. Hornsby's ratio-
ing filled with civilians who then walked out nalization of the terrorist group Hamas when
waving white flags. Instead of bombing the he began a statement, "Even Hamas has said,"
building, the IDF arrested the terrorist and as if they are a pragmatic regime seeking the
avoided mass casualties. best interests of the Palestinians. The conflict
The American taxpayer referenced in Mr. in the Middle East and defending the state of
Hornsby's column supports Israel's security Israel are American issues. I am Roman Catho-
needs because Israel is surrounded by totali- lic and firmly believe in supporting America's
tarian and aggressive regimes. More than only true friend in the Middle East. Columns
three-quarters of every dollar provided to Is- devoid of facts will only perpetuate confusion,
rael in assistance is spent on U.S. goods and misconceptions and ill will toward Israel.
services, thereby stimulating the American Rafael Yaniz is President of Gators for Israel
economy. What Mr. Hornsby failed to men- and is a political science junior.
theAvenue thursday, september 10, 2009
Presenting Bobby Kelley
U.
a.
Bobby Kelley, a local fashion designer, will be presenting his new collection titled "I'm In Love With a
Robot" Friday at Skyy Nite Club as the finale to Gainesville Fashion Week. The collection is featured in his
promotional advertisement above.I I SWA7A
PG 9: Review of the new play
Up and PostSecret preview
PG 11: Pop culture moments
from August
ONLINE: Check out photos and
behind-the-scenes coverage
from Gainesville Fashion Week
www.alligator.org/avenue
REGULA RS:
SEX: Experiment with role-play-
ing, page 11
FASHION: Style tips and ad-
vice for the fall semester, online
COMING UP:
The Avenue speaks to the found-
er of Vans Warped Tour about
the movie premiering Thursday
We are looking forward to shop-
ping the sales and indulging in
free drinks and finger foods at
Fashion Night Out tonight. Tick-
ets are only $3 and include ac-
cess to discounts at more than
20 venues, swag and an after
party at Lux Bar. Tickets can be
purchased at Wolfgang.
Bashoce nw wsn asson
Bobby K collection empowers women, shows passion
By REBEKAH GEIER
avenue writer
Breaking up has never looked so damn
good.
After local fashion designer Bobby Kelley,
or Bobby K, 26, ended a four-year relation-
ship with his significant other, he realized
he'd much rather stitch up a dress than a
broken heart.
Kelley channeled his creativity into coor-
dinating a fashion show that will be the fi-
nale on Friday to Gainesville Fashion Week,
a four-day celebration of fashion and art, and
he is about to leave this town breathless.
"My creativity imitates my life," Kelley
said. "When I started goingthrough this dark
time, I had no way of expressing myself. Yeah
sure, I can go see a therapist or talk to my
friends, but people are biased and it is hard
to talk to people the way you want to be in-
terpreted."
So Bobby K gave himself his own therapy
and did what he knows best, which is design-
ing clothing to show people what he wentthrough and how he got out on top.
Kelley's ex-lover ended the relationship in
a state void of emotion, and left Kelley feel-
ingjust the opposite.
"Every human being knows the feeling
of communicating with someone that can't
communicate back," he said. "And in that in-
stant, the person you are talkingto is subhu-
man, not human -but a robot."
His show is appropriately titled "I'm In
Love With a Robot," and he is not afraid to
prove a point. In fact, that is the point.
Kelley wants his pieces to give women a
sense of strength and independence, which
will support his theme of empowerment.
"It is important for a woman to realize
that (she is) strong enough to take control of
situations and almost say, 'Fuck you, I'm in
charge'," Kelley said.
The show will be set up to replicate the
stages of a relationship. Kelley broke down
his collection into four parts.
The first section is the romance. Models
will glide down the runway wearing fuchsia
tie-dyed fabrics smothered in ruffles in orderto represent that innocent stage of love.
The second section is where things start
to get "rough," symbolized by acid-washed
blacks and whites with structured pieces
that are very 1980s.
"It's important for a woman to realize
that (she is) strong enough to take
control of situations and almost say,
'Fuck you, I'm in elarga."'
BOBBY KELLEY
fashion designer
Kelley's third section is what he calls his
"Wear to Work or Ready to Wear" collection,
which consists of more formal pieces, such
as skirts and tweed dresses with black cum-
merbunds. He interlaced purple satins to
make it feel "grown up" and to represent the
part of a relationship that takes work.
The fourth section is "The Robot," and
it is anything but lifeless. Imagine a fiercemodel in a jet-black fur jacket over a black
one-piece fabric bikini with boots reaching
up to her thighs.
The complete experience will be no trip to
the movies.
"I want people to feel like they are at
MGM," Kelley says. "I want people to experi-
ence the clothing."
The presentation will be darker and edgi-
er than anything Kelley has done. He hopes
that people see the translation between his
shows and real-life situations.
Spectators can anticipate a night of pas-
sion, surprises and models in cages dancing
to the sounds of a violin with the help of their
professional pole-dancing classes.
"Gainesville needs a shot of adrenaline,"
Kelley said. "When people see this, for them
it is going to be shock, like, 'This really ex-
ists and goes on here?' Yes it really, really
does."
And for anyone that can't handle the thrill:
"Don't worry, I'll be handing out Depends at
the door," he jokes.
Up shows real life
By MARGARET GRECO
avenue writer
Just so you know, "Up" is a
play based on the life and fam-
ily of a man who tied balloons
to a lawn chair and ended up
16,000 feet in the air, not a
stage adaptation of the 2009
Disney-Pixar cartoon with the
same name. As long as you
know this, you probably won't
be confused for the entire first
act by the lack of old men, lit-
tle boys and flying houses. Not
that I was. I can just imagine
the confusion it might cause.
At times, "Up" is like a less
annoying version of "Juno."
There's a 16-year-old pregnant
girl who wears quirky, look-at-
me-I'm-an-individual clothes
(that's right, she rocks the
skirt and pants combo) and
her socially awkward male
counterpart. But there is actu-
al dialogue between the char-
acters, not just pseudo-witty
"hip" banter
But "Up" is more than its
teenage characters. It's about
real life, and that's why I like
it.
The small, balloon-lined
stage has a yellow, four-seated
kitchen table to represent the
Griffin's home, and on the oth-
er half of the stage is the red
and gold armchair that is the
home of Maria (the pregnant
girl). Through its set's simplic-
ity, "Up" shows the life of Wal-
ter Griffin, the man who went
up. And with the audience sur-
rounding the stage on threesides, it's easy to understand
how trapped and empty Griffin
feels after actualizing his wild-
est d ream.
The play also tells the story
of an average American fam-
ily's day-to-day life. Walter (Tod
Zimmerman) captures the
awkwardness that comes with
being the father of a teenager,
and his son Mikey (Dylan Kam-
merer) experiences all the
things you wish you could for-
get about being in high school
and livingat home: The girl you
like leaves town, leaving just
a note and an empty house
behind, your dad can't find a
job (or just doesn't want to),
your parents won't stop fight-
ingand sometimes people just
steal your shit.
Maria (Jennifer Smith), a
mysterious, French-speaking,
unwed teen mother, reminds
me of the girls I wasn't allowed
to have sleepovers with in el-
ementary school. Though get-
ting kicked out of the house
by her drunk mother may be a
reason to excuse her from her
consistent shadiness, I'm not
sure if I like her or if her ac-
tions are justified.
"Up" won't give you any
answers, but it will make you
think. Even if you don't like
plays, there are a few hilarious
that's-what-she said moments
in itfor you. Try if you can catch
this one: "I love the way it feels
in your mouth." Hint: it's in the
first act.
"Up" will be at the Hippo-
drome through Sept. 27. Stu-
dent tickets are $12.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009 *ALLIGATOR, 9
Tailgating countdown to kickoff
By JON SILMAN
avenue writer
It is not difficult to describe the palpable excitement of
a Gators game day here in Gainesville. Imagine the day
you were born and the first time you looked into your moth-
er's eyes. The true and immediate comfort. The sense of
belonging. Game day is like that, but with more orange.
People who do not usually mix are at arms
length to lend a helping hand, pick up a fall-
en comrade and lead a thousand-man cheer.
With such a massive celebration, Gators everywhere were
partaking in the revelry with delightful abandon in myriads
of ways. Where were you?
5 hours to kickoff -U F Bookstore
One could blissfully ignore the sorry state of the econ-
omy at the U F Bookstore. Gator gear was selling out faster
than Private Butz sold out to Lt. Aldo Raine in "Inglourious
Basterds." The No. 1 selling item in the store? According
to employee Brett Estenoz, 20, it's the coveted No. 15 jer-
sey.
4 hours to kickoff-The "Pool-bus" House
After some caffeine intake, I headed over to a place
I know has some excitement. The infamous "pool-bus"
crew are hanging out with, as usual, a harem of scantily-
clad girls, and they're playing their own particular brand
of beer pong called "beam to the face." These mid-20's,
ex-frat boys are wild, but welcoming. Due to recent zon-
ing complications, the bus is only back for a "daytime ren-
dezvous," and theytell me adamantly and repeatedly they
plan to move it tomorrow. The inside of the pool-bus house
is carpeted with women's underwear and beer bottles. In-
side, the living room is adorned with the classic deer head,
a stripper pole and the obligatory flat screen. Picture "Ani-
mal House" with more tattoos and less clothes.
3 hours to kickoff -Norman Hall
The field in front of Norman has been transformed into
a used car lot, and Brian Lott, 23, is its salesman. Clad in
an orange jacket, blue tie and blue pants that he bought
special-order from China, he's ready to party. Bleary-eyed,
middle-aged couples sit next to their inflatable Gators and
watch ESPN under the comfortable shade of their gazebos
while sipping Coronas. These are professional tailgaters,
but I want more.2 hours 10 minutes to kickoff -Flavet field
After serious consideration, I decide to crash the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon (lion frat) party. They have a live band that
I can hear from the field, where families are roasting hot
dogs and playing an impromptu pickup dodgeball game.
A man I can only imagine as "Uncle Diego" has obviously
had a few too many and is way too into the game. He's
scaringthe kids.
2 hours to kickoff -The Lion Frat
You would think it would be harder to sneak into a frat
party, but I enter unnoticed. This place has a huge open
courtyard with balconies dotting the walls like a fancy ho-
tel. Moms and girls are everywhere, and everyone is large-
ly ignoringthe band and its sexy brunette singer. Two open
bars and the quote of the century: "Don't shoot your meat
man! It's Satur umm. I mean Game Day!" I could get used
to this, but I duck out of there before someone notices me
4'and I get beat up.
1 hour 30 minutes to kickoff -
Student Ghetto
I'm looking for the craziest party
in Gainesville. Two blocks behind St.
Augustine Catholic Church, I find it.
There are six college-aged hooligans
jumping up and down on the roof of a
black Chevy Z-71. It has a keg in the back and more than
50 people are crowded around it chanting, "Orange! Blue!
Orange! Blue!" My two companions do keg stands while
we sing them happy birthday, and we all become blurry,
fast friends.
30 minutes to kickoff -O'Connell Center
The O'Connell center is the Magic Kingdom of Gator
Country. Urban Meyer is Walt Disney and Tebow is. you
get the point. Crawling with activity on the outside, the in-
side has become a reprieve for weary travelers looking for
respite from the heat.
15 minutes to kickoff -Sad Epilogue
Having personallyfeltthe gripping excitement, but with-
out a press pass or ticket, I pray for a miracle. After various
failed attempts tryingto buytickets, I give up and decide to
take a romantic ride home in the Gainesville equivalent of
a horse and carriage, the bike trailer. As the sun sets and
the breeze whispers at my neck, the sound of the roaring
crowd fades into the dusk.
PostSecret creator inspires
By MEAGAN MCGONE
avenue writer
Can you keep a secret? Well, Frank Warren can.
"I'm starting rabbinical school and I love bacon!"
"I'm 25, and I've never been kissed. It's not that I
don't want to. It's just that no one else does."
"I had not one, but two abortions. I've never felt
guilty!"
These are just a few of the secrets that travel from
all over the world and wind up in his mailbox in Ger-
mantown, Md. Warren, creator of an ongoing art proj-
ect called PostSecret, sifts through more than a thou-
sand secrets per week that are artistically displayed
on postcards and anonymously sent to him. He then
selects some to show in PostSecret's blog, books and
exhibits. He has received more than 250,000 post-
cards from all over the world since the project started
in November of 2004.
Warren said he believes there are two types of se-
crets: ones we hide from other people and ones we
hide from ourselves. His inspiration to start PostSecret
came from a secret he hid from himself.
On Tuesday, Warren will reveal this secret to those
who attend the PostSecret event at the Phillips Center
for the Performing Arts. He will also share images that
were banned from his four PostSecret books, reveal
inspirational stories behind PostSecret, and let audi-
ence members have a chance to tell their secrets too.
Nicole Keimer, an intern for PostSecret who has
been working with Warren for more than two years,said that PostSecret has made an incredible impact
on her life. She used to be conservative and narrow-
minded, but reading thousands of secrets for the proj-
ect has made her more understanding of humanity,
especially the more socially unaccepted side of it.
"Often, when I meet people, I wonder what their
secret is, and I think of some of the most depressing
secrets I have seen. I have a bit more compassion and
patience with people as a result, knowing that we all
have our secrets," Keimer said.
PostSecret doesn't only serve as an outlet for peo-
ple to admit their deepest secrets. It also gives people
the courage to take action after releasing their bur-
dens.
Keimer said that one example of PostSe-
On the cret's effectgives her chills. After attending
a PostSecret event, a woman came home
and put Warren's book on the table. When
her daughter saw it, the woman explained that it is a
book full of secrets. After a while, the daughter asked
the mother if she could reveal one of her own secrets.
She confessed that herfather had been molesting her,
and the mother immediately left her husband.
"It is such a great story about how inspiring Post-
Secret can be, and how it can really open up for the
possibility to share what may never have been shared
otherwise," Keimer said.
Warren didn't expect to touch so many people when
creating the art project more than four years ago, and
he doesn't set limits to where PostSecret will take off
in the future.Photo courtesy of Jessica Hurov
Dylan Kammerer (Mikey) and Jennifer Smith (Maria) perform a scene from
the play "Up" at the Hippodrome, launching the theatre's 37th season
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009 +ALLIGATOR, 11
Cafe Gardens
Cafe Gardens has been just
across from campus since
1976. This quaint landmark
establishment with award
winning courtyard dining
is perfect for any date or
gathering. Open 7 days. For live
music schedule, call 376-2233.
Hours: Mon-Wed llam-lopm,
Thurs -Sat llam-llpm Sun
Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave
Gator Dawugs
Check us out. We have over
20 styles of hot dogs to choose
from. Chicago style, a frito dog,
a Columbia dog,etc. And we
come up with new ones all the
time. Our burgers are prepared
fresh daily and cooked to order.
Our deli sandwiches come with
over a pd of meat and your
choice of toppings. We serve
beer too. For delivery or to see
our full menu- Check us out
at GatorDawgs.com. We are
located at 1023 W University
Ave. 378-4353. Call ahead for
pickup.
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and
Stacks. The only way to
describe the Stack is that is
outrageously delicious! Its
uniquely different presentation-
three 6 inch flour tortillas
stacked high with fresh grilled
ingredients and just the right
accent of cheese- is strangely
inviting to one's palate. Come
out & try our 1/3 lb Burgers,
steak seasoned Panchos, &
Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the Home Grown
and Homemade Black Bean
Hummus! Now serving draft
and Red Stripe beers! We
deliver! Open late to serve
your late night cravings!
Sun-Wed:llam-3am. Thurs-
Sat: llam-4am. 34th St Plaza
(Sweetbay)@ 2124 SW 34th St
672-6111
www.jdoobies.com
Peach Valley Cafe
Experience the freshness in
everything we do. Open daily
from 7a.m. to 8p.m. We have a
full menu ranging from Orchard
fresh Apple Fritters to fried
artichokes and Lobster bites.
Breakfast is served all day here
at Peach Valley Cafe including
Gainesville's best fresh omelets
and Benedicts; mouth watering
Sausage Gravy and Biscuits,
and yes, Mammoth Pancakes
and waffles. Lunch and dinner
are also available any time
with bountiful salads, fresh
sandwiches, Pot Roast and
don't forget to ask your server
about our shrimp-n-grits
(wonderful). We are located at
3275 SW 34th Street directly
behind Hooter's (352) 376-
1834.N
Liquid Ginger Asian
Grille & Teahouse
101 SE 2nd Pl. (behind
Hippodrome Theater
Downtown) Offering Asian
Fusion Cuisine in a relaxing
atmosphere. Wed and Thurs
night $5 martinis. Open for
lunch: Mon-Fri 11:30-2:30 Sun
12-5 and dinner Sun-Thurs
5-10pm Fri-Sat 5-10:30pm.
Call 371-2323 for a reservation.
43rd Street Deli and
Breakfast House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to
for over 25 years-we probably
served your parents!cBiggest
4-egg omelette, French toast,
and daily specials. Not full yet?
Have lunch with us & enjoy a
large selection of sandwiches,
the best Reuben, gyros &
soup all at a reasonable price.
Vegetarian? Not a problem. We
have a selection that is sure
to fulfill your needs. We now
offer free WiFi! Open Monday-
Sunday lam-3pm.
4401 NW 25th Place 373-2927.
3483 Williston Rd 373-5656
conveniently located off 1-75.
Bagels Unlimited
Serving Gainesville for over
25 years. BU is a tradition of
sorts. We offer many breakfast
platters cooked fresh, featuring
omelettes, eggs any style, large
pancakes, French Toast, Knishes,
17 varieties of bagels and a large
assortment of spreads. Also
available are tofu and tempeh.
Over 100 bottles of hot sauces
are available for sampling.
1222 West University Ave.
Open everyday from 6:30am-
3pm.
Golden Buddha
Where eating well meanseating
healthy. Gainesville's best
Chinese food. Now with more
sizes available with more vegan
options. As always, generous
portions, fast service & superlunch/dinner combos. FREE
DELIVERY.
613 NW 16th Ave. 372-4282 or
380-9076. Full menu and specials
@ GoldenBuddhaSpecial.com
Maude's Classic
Coffee
Maude's Dollar Days
$1.00 Let's Go Study Sundays
(Black coffee for a dollar)
$2.00 Iced Mocha Mondays
(Half price iced mocha need we
say anything else)
$3.00 Treat Yourself Tuesdays
(good for one de-stressing
dessert per person)
$4.00 Wine Wednesdays
(any glass of wine)
$5.00 Thirsty Thursdays
(two imported beers)
$6.00 Finger Food Fridays
(any appetizer)
$7.00 Sweetheart Saturdays
(includes one dessert and two
regular coffees)
A limited time offer
Not valid with any other offer
Located downtown next to the
Hippodrome
101 SE 2nd Place 336-9646
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301
D'Lites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
d'licious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly
without the diet taste. We also
feature a whole array of cookies,
chips, and various grocery treats
that appeal to Atkins®, Weight
Watchers, and other dieters.
Our every day daily specialsmake shopping at D'Litesa
special value! Come weigh
options at the Marketplace
at NW 16th Blvd. and 43rd
(next to the Hollywood Vi
or at the Shoppes of Willis
S.W. 34th Street and Willis
Rd. (next to Publix) 375-4L
Find us on Facebook!
Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair
ice cream, coffee, desserts,
beer, with lots of vegan op
Now open 24 hours. Free'V
Located 2 blocks east of ca
at 1025 W. University Ave
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogi
Try our premium self-serv
frozen yogurt as a healthy
dessert alternative. Our yo
has 0% fat and contains li
and active cultures. Choose
any combination of 8 differ
flavors and over 30 toppin
Everything for just 45 cent
ounce. 3841 SW Archer R
to Bento Red) Open from
to midnight daily!
TCBY
Please visit one of our 3
locations to enjoy real froze
yogurt products. Our low
and low-fat soft serve is yo
healthiest choice in Gaines
and it tastes great too. Wa:
Cone Wednesday from S-81
and half-off smoothies froi
5-6p.m. every day! Location
at 34th Street next to Crisp
Thornebrook Village at 43r
Street and Town of Tioga.I
us one Facebook and follo
on Twitter at "TCBYgaines
Manuel's Vintage
Room
This family owned restaun
is perfect for dinner any d
the week. Come in and ch
out one of the best wine li
town. Ask questions and]
while you wait for the che
put out nothing but good
from the kitchen using fre
simple, and local ingredie
Try the Early Dinner Sund
Tuesday-Thursday 5-7pm
wines/$10 bottles. $10 MThUIDToat
a Ask about our Monday Wine
your Dinners and private parties for
Plaza lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
d St. St. (352)375-7372
deo)
ton at Ristorante Deneno
tol With new ownership at the484 helm, Deneno is presenting
great Italian food in nearby
Alachua. Worth the drive!
Open for lunch Tues-Fri 11-2.
Dinner Tues-Sun starting attrade 5pm. Happy Hour Tues-Fri 5-7., and Every Tuesday is 1/2 off bottlestionls. of wine. 14960 Main Street,
WiFi! Alachua. 386-418-1066
campus
Caribbean Queen
urt Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
,e and oxtail. Opened Mon thru
Thurs 11am-7:3Opm, Fri and Sat
gurt 11am-11:45pm.
ve Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
e 352-374-8111
,rent
Jgs.
s an
d (next Bento Cafe
noon Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a
hip, trendy atmosphere. Two
en great locations with outside
calorie eating. Open every day for carry-
ur out or dine-in. Call our Newberry
ville, Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
ffle Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.3p.m. J i
ns
ers,
rd
Find Genesis Juice Bar Bites
w us & Blends
ville" OPEN 7 Days 1109 W. Univ Ave.
2 Blks E of UF Across from B of A
Nutritious Super Smoothies, Pure
Potent Wheatgrass, Raw Juice
Bar, Homemade Soups, Fantastic
Food, Hot Paninis, Luv-Le-
rant Wraps, Stop In. You'll be glad
ay of U did.
ieck
ists in
learn
f to Cabana Cove
iess Key West Grillesh, Open for Lunch & Dinnerfnts. $6.99 Daily Lunch Specialsay, Happy Hour 4pm-7pm w/.$12.50 Buckets of ANY beerenu. Check Out Our New & ExcitingLocated next door to Mildred's
w @mV@ Wo he in~deiet florida
Ingaor
TJ Ientertainment
Pop culture updates Ti ,mo,
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine
agrees, "[the chef] adds visual
flair to every dish to make it as
good-looking as it is flavorful."
NEW Happy Hour Specials!
Every day from 4pm-7pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices &
terrific service.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.
com
12 SE 2nd Ave. 378-6307
Mellow Mushroom
Shroomin' Student Specials
DOLLAR DRAFTS
14" Pizza $9.99
$3 Jager Meister
Happy Hour 3-7
All Apps Price
All Mixed Drinks 2-4-1
Order Online @
mellowmushroom.com
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta, & desserts. All you
can eat buffet available!
Outdoor dining. Visit www.
newyorkpizzaplus.com for
coupons. We Deliver!
490 NE 23rd Ave. 377-2542
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade,
meals, sandwiches, soups,
home-baked desserts. Brunch
Weekends. Specials: Cupcake
Mon., Southern Cooking Tues.,
Greek Wed 6pm, Ethiopian
Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 10am-Spm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
Saigon Legend
Delicious traditional Vietnamese
cuisine with popular Asian
favorites. Pho, Banh-Cuon,
Banh Xeo, Banh Tom Ha-Woi.
Enjoy great food at great prices.
Big new room! Family owned
restaurant. Next to Holiday Inn
Downtown. Dine in or take
out. Catering available. Mon-Sat
10:30am-9:30pm, Sun 11:30am-
9pm
374-0934 1228 W Univ AveBy ALEX ORLANDO
avenue writer
You might have had fun this past
weekend, yelling Asher Roth's "I Love
College" at your buddies across the
beer pong table, but it was no such
party for "Harry Potter" star Joshua
Herdman.
Herdman, who plays the Slytherin
bully Gregory Goyle, was caught red-
eyed and red-handed, smoking a
joint big enough to rival the famous
Cheech and Chong stogie from "Up in
Smoke."
But this isn't the first "Harry Pot-
head" to emerge from the cast. Jamie
Waylett, who plays Vincent Crabbe,
pleaded guilty about a month ago to
growing pot in his bedroom.
What kind of potion requires that
kind of herb? And, more importantly,
what happened to the clean-cut,
bright-eyed and adventuresome group
of young wizards who most of us un-
derclassmen grew up watching
Chris Brown, R&B star and celeb-
rity ass-kicker, appeared onLarry King
Live a few weeks ago for the first time
since beating his former girlfriend,
Rihanna.
In the interview on CNN, Brown
assured King of his nonviolent ten-
Role.-playing fulfillsMenu & Expanded
Sunday Brunch Menu
$4 Martini Menu Wednesdays
$4 Mojito Menu Thursdays
$5 off next $25 purchase
With This Ad
352-377-3278
www.cabanacove.net
2410 NW 43rd St.
Gainesville, Fl. 32606
Located Behind Garden
Gate Nursery
Green Plantains
Happy Hour $2.75
Drink + Appetizer from 3-7pm.
$5 To-Go Dinners. Mon-Sat
from 4pm. Don't miss out $4.95
dinner + soda on Thursday,
student night from 4pm-l0pm.
Visit us at 5150 SW 34th Street
at the new Publix Shopping
Center 7 days a week.
We cater. Check us out on
GatorFood.com 352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.com
Mildred's Big City Food
Eat Gainesville's Best Food at
Mildred's. We support LOCAL
and SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh Dishes
Made From Scratch!
OPEN SUNDAYS!
CONVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371-1711
MildredsBigCityFood.com
New Deal Cafe
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burgers! This l2oz.
Goliath is Naturally Aged and
Fresh Ground. MONSTROUS
Desserts. HUGE Martinis.
A Diamond in the Ruff!
Mon-Thurs. 1lam-l0pm
Fri-Sat. llam-llpm
371-4418Rachel dressed as Princess Leia for
an eager Ross.
Some people insist they cannot un-
derstand the attraction of role-playing
because they don't want to view their
significant other in a radically different
light. In this case, not unlike when en-
gaging in threesomes, it's best to role-
play with someone to whom you aren't
committed.
And though Halloween and themed
parties have groomed college stu-
dents with a keen eye for costumed
fornication, role-playing isn't limited
to skanky outfits. Over rolls of sushi, I
had previously discussed the concept
of role-playing with my friend Ethan
(names have been
changed to protect
the promiscuous).
Ethan laughed
and said he had
engaged in role-
playing before,
though his experi-
ence was decidedly less dressed-up.
He recounted a story in which he met
and brought home a 30-something-
year-old cougar. What followed was an
incestuous game in which the woman
acted the role of stepmother, and
Ethan the role of her 20-year-old step-
son. Clothing was replaced with show-
ering together, an inspection of the
"son's" physical health, and pleads of
"don't tell yourfather, he'll be home in
an hour."
Is such a scenario a little too hard-
core? Perhaps. Yet, role-playing is
about adopting a specific personality
and character. It can be light and coy,
or brazen and edgy. Regardless, it's
about tapping into a fetish and sexual-
ly exploring it. Everyone has a fantasy.
What's yours?dencies as he sat accompanied by
his mother and lawyer. Real gangster,
dude.
When he was asked if he remem-
bered doing it, he replied, "I don't. It's
like it's crazy to me."
First of all, what an intelligent way
to talk on national television.not.
Second, what kind of drugs do you
have to take to not remember beating
your young, hot celebrity girlfriend to a
pulp?
I'm sure she remembers it quite
vividly.
What's the latest thing that nerds
and toddlers have in common? Well
they'll both be looking to Disney for
their entertainment needs.
Last week, Disney bought Mar-
vel Entertainment for $4 billion. That
means all your old favorites like Spi-
der-Man and X-Men are now techni-
cally playing bitch to, you guessed it,
Mickey Mouse.
Picture the Hulk bringing coffee to
Mickey in the office or Goofy as the
newest addition to the Fantastic Four.
Doesn't that make you cringe?
But really, if I see Donald fighting
crime alongside Spider-Man in the-
aters next summer, I'm goingto cry.
This kind of crap would never hap-
pen in Justice League.
By BRANDT WILLIAMS
avenue writer
A good friend of mine was recently
in need of a "sexy librarian" outfit for
a costume party and requested my
expertise in locating the appropriately
slut-tastic attire. After some shopping,
I ensured that my friend was sexed up
in a button-down blouse, tight-fitting
pencil skirt, yellow Calvin Klein glass-
es, six-inch black heels and a neon
blue corset. Weeks later I discovered
that her supposed costume party was
actually a party for two to indulge the
fantasies of her nerdy boyfriend.
Welcome to the world of role-
playing. If you're anything like me,
college life is a barrage of theme
parties in which scantily clad peers
flock to apartments and clubs. Girls
sport devil-red cocktail dresses acces-
sorized with a pair of horns, and bend
over while a boy decked out in preppy
Catholic school attire spanks their
ass with a wooden ruler. Well-versed
in the art of getting dressed up and
pretending to be somebody else, we
don't realize our kinky desires are let
out of the house along with our under-
dressed selves.
While some are sure to be turned
off by deviant behavior like role-play-
ing, they shouldn't be.
One of its advantages is that it al-
lows couples an opportunityto reinvig-
orate an otherwise monotonous love
life by inviting a sense of adventure
and mystique into the bedroom. Can
you imagine your partner playing the
role of a secret spy, burglar, fireman,
sex slave or doctor who wants you to
open up wide and check your tonsils?
Hell, even "Friends" got creative when10, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2009
Man
versus
beast
By ERIK VOSS
avenue writer
Classic "man versus beast"
tales feature bears or sharks.
Mine features a cat named Mon-
key.
Left behind by a cat-breeding
former neighbor, the tom was
a frequent visitor to our house.
Starving for affection, Monkey
would squeeze through ajar
doors and surprise my father in
the bathroom.
"Someone get this damn
cat out of here so I can wipe my
ass!" he would shout.
These intrusions were es-
pecially unwelcome to our own
house cat, Rajah. Her valiant
attempts to defend the home-
land only yielded nasty scars
and missing patches of fur. Con-
cerned for my cat's safety and
my father's rectal hygiene, I de-
cided to intervene.
Scaring Monkey was coun-
terproductive -he'd just hide
under beds. Giving him the cold
shoulder was equally useless -
he'd just climb up on it. When I
(jokingly) suggested euthanasia,
Rajah, covered in gauze like an
assault victim on the witness
stand, seemed delighted with
the prospect of lethal injection.
Finding new owners proved
futile, and I couldn'tturn Monkey
over to those "death panel" ani-
mal shelters.
The humanitarian thingto do,
I decided, was to relocate Mon-
key to a new neighborhood.
When I tried stuffing Monkey
in Rajah's cardboard veterinar-
ian box, he sensed the trap,
hissed, scratched my hands,
and bolted.
Later, wearing protective
oven mitts, I lured Monkey in by
speaking gently, tossed him in
the box, loaded it in the back of
my Jeep, and peeled out.
My heart beat frantically as
I sped down the highway. While
Monkey pawed at the box's air
holes in attempt to escape, I
visualized the next morning's
front page: My perplexed mug
shot dangling from the head-
line, "Kitty-napper caught red-
pawed." I stopped in a charming
neighborhood only to discover a
small hole clawed in the side of
the box. No Monkey.
Terrified, I turned forward
and saw the cat perched on the
dashboard, hissing inches from
my face. Within seconds I was
halfway down the street, wonder-
ing if cats could drive stick.
But when I returned, Monkey
was gone.
Although Rajah and myfather
are now content, the guilt still
haunts me. The beast is gone,
but somehow, he won.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
LIVE FOR $319!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
*TheLandingsUF.com 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13 St
12-9-75-1
SUPER HERO SAVINGS
HULK-Smashing Prices!
As Low As $299/person!
3515 SW 39th Blvd
Let Greenwich save you Green! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1
& The ku
atSnaFe
Walk to Santa Fe College!!!
Limited Time Only
Rates starting at $399 or
Receive a $1000 rebate check on us!
4/4's or Brand New 3/3's!
Fully Furnished, Free Ethernet
Free Cable and Utilities
Roommate Matching, Free Tanning!
352-379-9300 www.thecrossingatsantafe.com
12-9-75-1
STARTING @ $369
$0 to sign, 4 more info text
LEXINGTON to 25278
ALL INCLUSIVE & FURNISHED
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-12 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-1
WWW.TheFloridaRenterslnsurance.COM
Renters Insurance from $9 per month
Online Quotes 9-16-09-31-1
Univ. Terr. Gainesville, 3921 SW 34th st., 1st
fir., 4 bd, 4 ba, cent A/C, cable, wash., dry.,
full kitch., Sept rent free! $300/mo.ea., $25/
person finders fee, owner/manager/gaines-
ville Immediate occupancy. 352-472-9778
9-18-09-36-1
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Beautiful 3/3 condo
Windsor Park, dir on bus route, new furn.,
beaut. remod. bathrooms and hardwood
floors, upstairs, front bldg, 1300/mo, 772-
349-3221, bdduf86@comcast.net 9-23-
09-30-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
1br/1ba in 4/4 luxury condo $369/mth,
all inclusive (utilities, internet, tv, phone,
washer/dryer), fully furnitured. very close to
campus. contact 352-235-4762 or
toxapheneufl@yahoo.com 9-16-20-1
**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $350/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 9-10-12-1
3 ROOMS FOR RENT
$525-$650/mo All utils incl. Near SFC, Oaks
Mall & UF 786-325-7941 9-21-09-20-1FIRST MONTH FREE!!! Aptfor rent. 4bd/2ba.
$400/mo/room. Three blks from campus.
Newly remodeled. Pool, Internet. 813-690-
3781. 9-11-09-14-1
NEED FEMALE ROOMMATE
for 3BR/2BA townhouse. $550/mo all inclu-
sive. W/D, on direct bus route, minutes to
campus. No pets. Please call 813-892-3996
9-23-09-20-1
Live in Luxury @ Windsor Park! Fully fur-
nished 3bed/3private bath poll view. Rent
includes: utilities, cable, high-speed inter-
net, washer/dryer, plus all amenities. ONLY
$399 CALL 305-984-4245 FOR MORE INFO
9-14-09-10-1
2 BR/ 2 pvt Bth Available in Rockwood Villas
3 BR unit- $400 per room plus 1/3 of utilities.
FREE Internet and Cable! W/D in unit. On
bus route close to Oaks Mall. Call 352-514-
0372 or email Carmen4909@yahoo.com
9-16-09-12-1
2/2 gated townhome with attached ga-
rage, cable w/hbo,sho,alarm. Close to
Shands.$980 mo. furn.opt.321-698-7579
myhomesoon@gmail.com. 9-25-09-17-1
Townhome 2/2 end unitfenced
SW near UF/Shandsbus;avail.
now;vaulted,w/d,deck,icemkr
$850mo/$400sec 352-256-6158
doxie.dogs@hotmail.com 10-1-09-21-1
House for rent. Small, quiet and comfortable.
Renovated, open, modern floor plan. All new
fixtures. Ideal for one or two people. 1BR.
$560/mo. Available immediately. 125 SE
10th St. 316-6667 9-11-09-5-1
2 bedrm 2.5 bath, granite counter tops,
SS appliances, dishwasher, washer/dryer,
alarm, close to Campus & Shands Ready for
move in. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-5-09-
19-1
*Room in shared apartment*
Newly furnished, utils and parking incl.
1 blk off University Ave. Smokers welcome.
$110/wk +$110 sec dep. Inq 817-7054
9-15-09-5-1
DUPLEX EFFICIENCY Private entrance
1BR/1 BA, full kitchen, double stainless sink,
garbage disposal, microwave, ref/freezer,
Dish TV, covered patio, shed, utils incl $495/
mo Tower& Archer Rd. 352-372-6466 9-16-
09-5-1QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
1, 2, 3's *SUPER RENT DISCOUNTS!
1BR $509 * 2BR $579* 3BR $775
HUGE FLOORPLANS! * Pets Loved!
Bus Stop * Pools * Green Courtyards!
Park Free Across From UF! 335-7275
12-9-09-75-2
The ONLY Apartments Downtown
Studios-$645*1/1 from $699
2/2 from $900* 3/3 $500/bed
Washers & Dryers*Alarms*We Love Pets
207 SE 2nd Place-Next to Starbucks
352.338.0002-arlingtonsquare.org
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 Iv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
WALK TO UF!
Studios & 1 Beds starting at $499!
Pet friendly, Free Parking Near UF
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Best Price & Great Location
Large 1 & 2's available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now!!! 3/3 for $336/person.
Cable w/HBO and Showtime included!
Private Dog Park-Tanning-Fitness Center
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
BIVENS COVE
1/1 -From $649 2/2 -From $699
3/2 -From $824 4/3 -From $1099
Close to UF/Shands * Pet Friendly
(352) 376-2507 * 3301 SW 13th Street
12-9-09-75-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
Rent For rrRent For Rent For Rent For RentO nFnished unfnished furnished nfurnished ufurnished
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
2/2 & 3/3 with GARAGE!
W/D, Alarm, Huge patio!
We love pets! $875-$1 012
372-0400*MadisonPointe.org
12-9-75-21's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
Get it while it's HOT!
Starting at $299
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
3813 SW 34th st
Call NOW! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
S All Inclusive roommate matching -$6060 L O S ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-212-9-09-75-2
SORORITY ROW 2BDs!
2br/2.5ba from $899
W/D included. No Move-in Fees!
Pets welcome! FREE Parking!
372-7111 CollegeManor.org
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $695
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21 st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com 12-9-
75-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Across From UF! PET FRIENDLY!
Two Bedrooms starting at $599!
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!!
303 NW 17th Street, Ste A
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
**LUXURIOUS 1800 SQ FT HOME**
SECLUDED, UPSCALE NEAR UF. 3/2, SUN
ROOM, COVERED PATIO W/D. $1400/MO
PERFECT FOR GRAD. AVAIL AUG. 1607
NW 12 RD 352-466-4171 LV MSG 9-14-
09-68-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 9-22-
09-69-2We have REAL 1/1s
Dump your roommate & save on gas!
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $575 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450 -Only 4 left!
1600 NW 4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CIENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $475 -Just a few left!
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
9-30-09-66-2
* NANTUCKET WALK *
* UPPER WEST SIDE *
Brand new luxury apartments! Walk to class!
All-inclusive! nantucketwalk@cmcapt.com
352-240-6961
12-9-09-74-2
large 4 bed 3 bath house for rent. near uni-
versity and 34th, pets ok, washer & dryer, first
and security 1500/mo. Available June 1st.
yearly. Call 727-430-3094 7-19-09-21-2
BIKE TO UF! 1st mont free!
5BR 3BA, lawn service incl,
Fireplace, carport, w/d hkups, $1800/rent
3920 SW 20th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
43-2
VICTORIA STATION! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2.5 BA TH, washer/dryer, high ceilings,
separate Dining room, pool,
$800/rent, 3552 SW 30th Way #146
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
WALK TO UF! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR duplex, CH/AC, will consider small pet,
$695/rent 120-A NW 10th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
GREAT MOVE-IN SPECIALS!
1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 BR Houses & apartments!
Contact us for pricing & availability!
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
* 3BR $99 Moves you in! $750
Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D, fenced yards,
pet friendly, wd firs, 352-505-9264 or 352-
870-0904 9-14-09-40-2
* 4/2 $99 Moves U in! $1000/mo
Super Special, Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D
hkup, carpet & wd firs, extra room, large
fenced yard, pet friendly 352-505-9264
9-14-09-40-2
@2/1 Apt. $99 Move-in $500 total
Historic downtown, cent AC, W/D hkup,
10min bike to UF, front porch, pets ok,
great size. Yes $500 whole apt! 505-9264
9-14-09-40-2
ORoom $299. $99 first month
has everything, walk-in closet, pvt BA,
W/D, DW, built-in micro, tile & carpet, pool
on site, 505-9264 or 870-0904
9-14-09-40-2
SOUTHFORK OAKS! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 1.5 BA TH, Pool, w/d hkups, close to
everything! $675/rent,
2300 SW 43rd St #1-3
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
37-2
POOL HOUSE! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR with bonus room or 3rd BR,
Large screen porch & deck, wood floors,
fireplace, Living & dining rooms, $995/rent
includes pool svc, 738 NW 24th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
37-2
STEPS TO CLASS! 4 BR 2.5 BA house,
Living, dining & sunrooms, w/d hkups,
CH/AC, $1800/rent, 1107 SW 1st Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
ARBOR
Ask about our move-in specials!
Close to UF & Shands
2411 SW 35th PIL
866-604-7097
M-F 9-6, Sat 10-2
www.arborgainesville.com
12-9-09-74-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2, Sun 1-5
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off. 2/2 Close to UF &
bus route. Great for grad students! Builiding
is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev tenant. W/D, D/W,
tile & carpet in BDs $800 for the whole place
Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
9-18-09-36-2
GREAT LOCATION! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2BA in Concordia, w/d, pool, quiet loca-
tion! $750/rent, 405-B NW 39th Road
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
29-2
Downtown House 110 SE 4th PI 3BD/1.5BA
Central heat/air. On street parking, fenced
yard, w/d hookups. Walk downtown & bike/
bus to campus! $730/mo + 1st, last $500 dep
Call 373-6551 9-22-33-2
WWW.TheFloridaRenterslnsurance.COM
Renters Insurance from $9 per month
Online Quotes 9-16-09-31-2
LAS PAMPAS! 2 BR 2 BA townhouse,
Wood laminate floors, screen porch, pool,
loft $800/rent, 3482 NW 37th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
25-2
GREAT HOUSE BIKING DIST TO UF!
1st month free 3/2 in quiet area, fireplace,
garage, washer/dryer, $1095/rent,
3919 SW 28th Terrace
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-18-2
LOTS OF SPACE! 1ST MONTH FREE!
3 BR 2 BA w/ living, family & dining rooms,
2 car carport, fenced yard, w/d, lawn svc,
$1000/rent, 126 SW 40th St.
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
LIVE BY THE GOLF COURSE!
1st month free! 3 BR 2 BA TH, garage, vault-
ed ceilings, living & family rooms,
$895/rent, 1627 NE 40th PI
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
CLOSE TO EVERYTHING! 1st month free!
3/2 house, carport, living & family rooms,
newer carpet,
$825/rent, 1901 NW 38th Terr
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
CHEAP RENT! 1st month free! 2/2 MH,
Wood laminate floors, fenced yard, w/d hk-
ups, $595/rent, 5238 SW 66th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
23-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 9-16-09-25-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 9-16-09-25-2
14, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rentu u u U Roommatesunfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $550 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
GRANTWOOD 2 MONTHS FREE!
2 BR 2 BA Townhouse, loft, wood laminate
floors, Washer/Dryer, pool, courtyard,
$750/rent, 2508 SW 35th PI #47
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
ROCKWOOD VILLAS 2 MONTHS FREE!
3 BR 3 BA Townhouse, wood laminate floors
& ceramic tile, porch, Washer/Dryer,
$895/rent, 858 SW 58th Terr
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
CUTE 3 BR HOUSE! 1st month free! Garage,
Newer flooring, w/d hkups, $775/rent
1730 NW 31st Place
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
23-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D hk-
ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/mo
Phone (352) 359-8311 9-30-09-34-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
1/1s from $392* 2/1s from $491
(Rate includes specials)
Close to UF & Oaks Mall.
Pine Rush Villas 375-1519
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
2/1s from $491* (Rate includes specials)
SW Archer Rd
Homestead Apts. 376-0828
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE* +$200 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
2/2s from $605* & 3/2s from $695
(Rate includes specials)
Close to Oaks Mall & Newberry Rd.
Ashton Square Villas 333-1120
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st MONTH FREE I
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Private Patios
1/1s from $472* (Rate includes specials)
Gator Village 372-3826
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Studios from $384* 1/1s from $425*
(Rate includes specials)
Walk to Butler Plaza
Sundowne 352-377-2596
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE* + $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!!
1/1s from $401* (Rate includes specials)
1/2 mile to UF
Sunrise 352-372-4835
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
* Totally Renovated 1 Bdrs
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees
*$507 Month*lncludes Specials*
2 MONTHS FREE + $300 Gift Card
Free Tanning/Cyber Cafe
Great Location!
Courtney Greens 375-3077
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Great Location
1/1s from $417* (Rate includes specials)
Summer Place 372-2818
3316 SW 41st Place Just off SW 34th Street
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2HOUSE avail 1st wk of Aug. 4BR/2BA, 1.5
mis to UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF
bus rte. Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fire-
place, cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $1100/
mo. Call 376-6183 or 327-2931
9-11-09-15-2
RI I I \N
" ..14 ..N .
$99 Moves You In!
1, 1 w/den, 2 & 3 Bedroom
Call About Two Months
FREE RENT
352-331-2966
Rent start at $750.00
2625 SW 75th St, Gainesville, FL 32608
Equal Housing Opportunity.
9-30-09-21-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosed front patio
W/D, Wood floors, Fireplace
3 blocks from UF! Pets loved!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10th Street
12-9-09-75-2
Clean, spacious 3/2 condo. Quiet, yet cen-
trally located just 1.5 mi. from law school.
Very low utilities, W/D, pool. Sorry, no pets.
Just $1000. Call 352-262-9119 9-11-09-
14-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.
one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceiling
fans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, secu-
rity. No dogs. 378-3704 sallygville~aol.com
9-15-09-15-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home on shady
lot. From $345-$425/mo incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th St. Last month free. 376-
5887 10-9-33-2
4BR newer double-wide on 5 acres in
Newberry. 6-stall barn, board fence, horses
welcome. $1300/mo. Call 850-329-7669
9-15-15-2
HALF OFF 1ST MONTH'S RENT. 3Bd1/2Ba
home off of Archer Road, near Pita Pit. $900/
mo with $500 sec. dep. Large deck with
fenced yard. Pets ok with addl dep. Call 213-
1567. 9-14-5-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
Downtown Bed & Breakfast District: historic,
huge 3/2, 2/1, and 1/1. Water inc. Laundry
inc. $1900, $700, and $650 respectively.
Walk downtown! 373-7566 M-F 9-5. 9-17-
14-2
2br/1ba House $795/mo walk to UF!
Located behind Norman Hall. Includes 2
parking spots, high speed internet, shared
washer/dryer. Renovated '09 -tile, paint,
appliances. Private owner 352-375-5975.
9-11-09-10-2
AVAILABLE NOW or JAN 1. 3BR/2BA nice
house. Pets ok, washer/dryer provided. Quiet
dead-end road. 4100 NW 14th Pl. $975/mo.
Fenced yard. 352-339-2342 9-14-09-10-2
WE'RE HERE TO HELP! FOCUS ON
SCHOOL Must see upgrades new carpettile
& more.from a disc. rate of $390 Move in to-
day Pets ok
15 mins from UF Call for specials 352-332-
8225 10-12-30-2
2BR/1BA 1 month FREE. Oak Condo by
Oaks Mall. $695, screened-in porch, W/D,
community pool & gym, water & trash includ-
ed. 321-948-6327 or americana@cfl.rr.com
9-28-09-20-2HUGE 1BR available now
Terrazzo floors, close to UF & SFC. 4022
NW 7th. Flex lease. $425/mo A/C heat, close
to bus lines. 352-318-8822 9-15-09-9-2
* 1BR condo, 2nd fIr. $625/mo;
* 2BR condo, 1st flr w/ patio $750/mo
Both newly remodeled. New appliances incl
built-in microwaves & W/D. 1 mi from UF.
772-801-9884 9-10-09-5-2
Rent reduced Must see!,Quiet,1/2 mile UF,
2BR/2.5BA Twnhs,1200sf,4112 SW15thPI,
fenced yd, A/C,W/D hk-up, DW,Pets OK,
SW20th busline,$775/mo.Open Hse Sat-
Sun10-6, Aval now.352-378-6817,871-8205
9-10-09-5-2
4 bd/ 4 ba condo at Countryside, only $850,
1200 sq ft. Rented furnished or unfurnished,
washer & dryer incl, Community pool, fitness
center and basketball courts Call Bosshardt
Property Management Today! 352-371-2118
9-24-09-15-2
MOVE IN NOW -1BR/1BA condo walk to
UF $850 with utilities, cable, & Internet or
3BR/2BA home with large yard & carport
$850 Keller Williams Realty 352-240-0600
Tiffany McKenzie, Realtor @ 352-871-3890
9-25-09-15-2
2BR1.5BA townhouse for rent near UF,
Shands, VA. W/D hook-ups, fireplace, en-
closed backyard. $900/mo +. 904-524-3063
9-30-09-18-2
1/1 Apartment, Available now! 626 NW 10th
Ave, Gainesville, w/ w-d, hardwood floors,
herb garden, close to campus & downtown,
nice neighborhood-neighbors, quiet, interest-
ed call Lucas 601-421-4987. 9-14-5-2
HUGE 0 Great Rates!
Large rooms/windows, ceiling
fans, porch, storage, pets ok.
Volleyball, 2 pools, fitness ctr,
rec rm. Walk to Shands & UF.
Bus stop at entrance.
AMAZING MOVE IN SPECIALS
372-6535
parksixteen@gmail.com
9-14-09-4-2
Cute & Clean! Studio apt. in quiet NW area
near Ward's & Publix. Close to shopping &
busline, bike to UF. for $375/mo. Visit www.
cozygator.com, call 352-338-7670, or email
shepley@cozygator.com 9-15-09-5-2
1bedr, 2bedrms, 3bedrms, & 4bedrms close
to Campus. Call to see your new home today
Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-20-09-
30-2
MOVE IN NOW -1BR/1BA condo walk to
UF $850 with utilities, cable, & Internet or
3BR/2BA home with large yard & carport
$850 Keller Williams Realty 352-240-0600
Tiffany McKenzie, Realtor @ 352-871-3890
9-25-09-15-2
2/2 apt in the Avenues incl parking, alarm
system, w/d, kitchen w/dishwasher, garbage
disposal, & breakfast bar, dining/ living area
w/picture windows. 1 blkfrom UnivAve, great
for UF. Roommates needed 772-486-0303
9-15-09-5-2.
1BR/1BA EFFICIENCY
with A/C, $320/mo. No pets. Year lease.
Shady lot. 1022.5 NW 4t Ave. 352-376-5887
9-25-09-13-2
Room for rent near Archer Road. Non smoker
$500/month includes utilities.Sec dep. $500.
Call 352-213-1567. 9-17-6-2
$240/MO INCL UTIL.
ONE BEDROOM FOR RENT!
2 miles east of UF NE 39th St & 3rd Ave.
On bus route. Share full bath. Non-smoking
female. Clean. Cat ok. Call Jane 871-6065
9-16-09-5-2
Homes Available for Immediate Occupancy.
Low Payments! $99 Deposit!
Call Today! 352-378-4411
9-30-09-15-2We Love Pets &
Ready to Move in Today
Regency Oaks
1,2,3, Bedrooms
3230 SW Archer Rd
352-378-5766
Rocky Point
1,2,3 Bedrooms
3100 SW 35tth Place
352-376-1619
Archer Woods
1,2, Bedrooms
3020 SW Archer Rd
352-373-8727
Country Gardens
1 & 2 Bedrooms
2001 SW 16th St.
352-373-4500
12-9-09-65-2
2/2 Condo 2508 SW 35 PI
Gated Comm.w/Pool Near University
$750/Month Call Mike 786-299-4403 9-18-
09-7-2
r-subleases
Spring 2010 College Park 1BR/1BA Studio
Apt Sublease. Walking distance to campus
and unfurnished. Rent is $625/month. Call
321-223-7867 or kmurph@ufl.edu 9-22-09-
15-3
Fully furnished/Utilities included Apt. @
The Estates. $520 or Best Offer. 1 Bdr/1
Bath available. Pets are welcomed. Call
678-478-0793 for more information. 9-10-
5-3
1br apt, $575/month. Walking distance to UF
and 34th St Plaza. No move in charges; 1
1/2 months free. Call 502-608-3817 or e-mail
ozhegov@ufl.edu. 9-16-09-5-3
WeRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Countryside Share 4BR/4BA upgraded furn
condo 1.5 miles to UF on bus rte, pool, W/D,
cable & utils incl. $425/mo. Call 386-672-
6969 or 386-295-7929. 9-18-09-35-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 10-1-09-26-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-4
Male, grad student, small furnished apt on
side of private home close to UF. One per-
son only. No pets. Cable, patio, clean, quiet.
$500 pm, utilities included. 336-5808 9-11-
09-24-4
SEMESTER/YEAR LEASE
All utils incl. 1/1 avail infullyfurn 4/4 apt. New
carpet & paint, cable, wireless internet, pool,
W/D in unit. SW area on 2 bus rts. Bus stop
on site. 954-593-3063 9-11-09-21-4
Hate long bus rides? Be in class/Shands/
VA in 5 mins. Share 2/1 at Summit House
Condos, $375/mo + 1/2 util.$200 sec. dep.
No pets per complex, Available immed. Call
Tim 352-843-0220 9-15-19-4Male college student preferred. 4BR/4BA
Countryside condo. Own bathroom, W/D,
hi-speed internet, on bus rte. Utils included.
$430/mo. 863-634-1893. Available immedi-
ately. 9-10-09-15-4
1 BR in 3BR/2BA GREENLEAF
Furnished condo. W/D, free TV cable. $350/
mo + 1/3 utils. Call 352-260-3359 9-10-09-
15-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
9-21-09-15-4
Grad student seeking two female roommates
(NS/ND) to share a new 4/2 house in a quiet
neighborhood 3 mi. W of 1-75. With cable,
internet & security alarm. 475/mo., util. incl.
Please call 352-331-8794. Rooms are avail-
able immediately. 9-30-20-4
Female wanted to share brand new
3br/3ba home near campus. Washer
& dryer included. On bus route. Non-
smoking, serious students only. $450 plus
utilities. 813-610-1698 9-17-10-4
2BRs available for serious students, each
with private bath in completely remodeled,
fully furnished mobile home. 6 mins to UF -
Archer & 1-75. Very clean. $325/mo each +
1/2 utils. Call 352-256-0999 9-21-09-10-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, e-mail or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Bank Owned Properties -Must Sell!
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
See ALL bank owned homes and condos @
www.allisonables.com/foreclosures
Allison Ables -Keller Williams Gainesville
11-2-38-5
OFFrisigs
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name
brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490
will deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
Furnishings Furnishings Computers Motorcycles, Mopeds Help Wanted
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen! king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Wl ompurs
CASH PAID: Laptops Cameras Cells
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
12-9-74-7
0 e e . -. . e '
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"Sm
6
3.8
I I
-pp p
* 3
~ pp -
I IComputer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
rzv Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
MEFor Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
PLAY & BUY DRUMS, GUITARS, MORE
@ STUDIO PERCUSSION
www.STUDIOPERCUSSION.org
(352) 338-8302 9-18-20-10
Homes Available for Immediate Occupancy.
Low Payments! $99 Deposit!
Call Today! 352-378-4411
9-30-09-21-10
LES PAUL STYLE GUITAR
made by Edwards -Japanese made. Quilted
maple top. Excellent player in great cond.
Gibson hardshell case. $500.00. Call Robert
at 352-373-7328. 9-10-09-3-10@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
2005 kaw.zzr600 blue 8,000mi.
one ownermint cond.new tires
tinted windscreen $4,500 obo
ph# 352-372-8656
ask for roger -owner 9-14-09-5-11
M ZAutosE
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!0
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
%UL-PWantedMFmoto rcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***www.B~uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 9-11-09-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
Looking for someone to help me learn to rake
knit a hat, second and fourth wednesdays of
each month. These hats are made for peo-
ple in Haiti. Come and have fun with Lenora.
Call 219-6948. 9-11-09-74-13
E-2 TENNIS
352-372-2257 9-30-17-13This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
the independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
Brand new start-up company is looking
for Reps in ALL areas. We train & support
at no cost. Be your own boss. Make the
fortune you've dreamed of. No $ to start.
http://stokton.org/vacancies.htm 9-10-
09-14-14
PARK PLACE CARWASH
is looking for highly motivated employees,
morning & afternoon shifts available Apply in
person 7404 NW 4th Blvd. No calls please.
9-14-09-15-14
Movie Extras, Actors, Models Wanted -Up
to $300/day! All Looks Needed! Call NOW
1-800-458-9303 9-21-20-14' -n HTV
16, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009
F Help Wanted Help Wanted 7 services Services personal
einstein's OASIS hair salon HAIRSTYLISTS
needed. up to 70% comm benefits 331-4340.
600 NW 75th St. Suite "C". 9-15-15-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
We are looking for business leaders to help
us build our college database, earn bi-weekly
cash & monthly residual income. Graduate
debt-free. Please call 1-800-577-2021 for a
confidential interview. 12-9-68-14
LIFE SKILLS COACH -needed for after-
school activities/care teenage boy with au-
tism. 2:30-6:30 M-F. References and reliable
transportation required. Experience and train-
ing preferred. Call 246-2353. 10-16-30-14
Notes & Note Takers
Wanted Immediately.
Freshman & Sophomores in Demand.
We pay top dollar for Notes & Note Takers.
email: tamunotes@gmail.com 9-10-09-3-
14
Tutors needed 1-on-1 at-risk elem, mid
school students. 1-4 afternoons per wk. $10/
hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed wk study req
for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally
352-384-1155, st23@cox.net 9-16-09-15-
14
Campus Marketing Position
Want to work for HP but haven't got a degree
yet? Be a campus ambassador and get paid
to promote the brand on your campus.
Apply at: www.repnation.com/hp 9-10-09-
8-14
BO O K K E E P E R / R E C E P T IO N I S T/
ASSISTANT
FT for Law Office. EXP in QB, with A/P, A/R
& trust accts. Client intake skills a must.
Email resume to: lisa@striplinglawfirm.com.
10-12-09-30-14
Female smokers ages 19-25 needed for con-
fidential phone interview. Call 404-324-6836
leave your name, number and the brand that
you smoke. Earn $50 for phone interview.
10-13-09-30-14
SHIPPING TECH
Full or part time. Must be dependable. Prior
experience a plus. Please send resume to
hr@gleim.com or apply online at www.gleim.
com 9-15-09-10-14
LEASING AGENT PT
Friendly, energetic person. Experience
preferred. Great benefits. Must be avail.
afternoons & weekends. Apply in person.
Spyglass Apartments. DFWP
12-9-09-67-14
Geek your way to wealth & earn cash while
attending college. For a confidential inter-
view, call 1-800-577-2021 & please leave
your name & number TWICE 12-9-68-14
Fan Photographers needed for UF
football home games! Email to apply
ufphotomanagerl @gmail.com. Fan pho-
tographers motivate and excite fans to take
photos that are viewable on gatorzone.com
in a partnership with UF. $7.50/hour plus
productivity bonus drives hourly rate to $12-
$20/hour. Equipment provided.
9-1 5-09-8-14
SANDY'S SAVVYCHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE
NOW HIRING. Great working environment.
PT/FT positions available. $7.25-$7.50/hr +
incentives. 352-372-1226 -2906 NW 13th St
9-10-09-5-14
Seeking motivated sales coordinator to fa-
cilitate sales teams growth and expansion.
This position requires a detail oriented, or-
ganized motivated individual with a deep
understanding of the sales process and
customer service satisfaction. Proficient in
all Microsoft applications and able to quickly
learn customized software bachelors degree
preferred but not required for the right candi-
date. Please submit resume with cover letter
and expected salary to
tguynn@perryroofing.com. 9-10-09-4-14SDR Auditor
Seeking serious, responsible detailed per-
son for part-time position at corp. Must work
some weekends. send resume to
flhenry@lifesouth.org 9-11-09-5-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
Nail Biters Ages 5-15 needed
UF psychology study
Pay $10 per hour, up to 9 hours
Flexible hours, we come to you!
Contact zawoyski@ufl.edu 9-14-09-4-14
Attention Smokers! Smokers are needed
to participate in a smoking cessation study.
You will be compensated for your participa-
tion. If interested, call the UF Smoking Lab
and Clinic at 352-273-2151 or email us at
ufsmokelab@gmail.com. 9-22-10-14
INTERNET WORK! $6.75-$139+/Hr. Flexible
Hours!. Use any computer! $25 Starting
Bonus. Tinyurl.com/FLAlligator 9-16-09-5-
14
OFFICE ASSISTANT
Quickbooks, financial accounts experience a
must. Flexible hours around class. Call 359-
6785 9-16-09-5-14
Embroidery Machine Operatorexperience
req.Design & produce emb designs & logos.
Knowledge of computers & digitizing pro-
grams. Able to stand for long periods of time.
call 352-226-8868 M-F 7AM-4PM 9-21-09-
8-14
Need extra cash? Can you sell clothing?
Gainesville's newest Men's clothing fran-
chise has an opportunity for you!
262-7920 www.johnisaacsclothing.com
9-14-09-3-14
Gainesville Soccer Alliance seeking part-
time help to line fields. Prior experience pre-
ferred. Always seeking experienced coaches
or highly skilled players willing to be licensed.
Contact: patch87939@aol.com 9-10-09-1-
14
We need people to post ads
online. Social networking
knowledge a plus. Get paid
every Friday. For details see
paycheckonfriday.com 11-12-45-14
**MARTIAL ARTS INSTR. WANTED**
For growing TKD/MMA school
in Gville. Friendly, energetic
person. Experience preferred.
Leave msg at 352-375-0700
9-16-09-5-14
Homework Coach Wanted for bright ADHD
7th grade girl, $8/hr, flexible hours afterschool
or weekends, 4-8 hrs/week. Email qualifica-
tions to tracydz@cox.net 9-16-5-14
SALES REP NEEDED Looking for highly mo-
tivated sales reps for 3 new wireless stores.
We are an authorized dealer for Metro PCS.
We offer a rewarding career in an exciting,
fast-paced environment. Email resumes to
petercolucci@vivawireless.biz 9-11-09-2-14
DENTAL ASSISTANT
Certified with expanded functions. Good x-
ray skills a must. Mon-Thurs. Fax resume to
352-375-4268 9-16-09-5-14
DENTAL FRONT DESK
Scheduling & insurance billing for local den-
tal practice. Self-starter with experience.
Mon-Thurs. Fax resume 352-375-4268
9-16-09-5-14
W services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 9-16-
09-60-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
Laser Hair Removal, Electrolysis, & Skin
Care @ Advanced Hair Removal & Skin
Institute- 352.331.6797- Ask about student
discounts & sorority specials. Check out our
website @ www.hairskininstitute.com
9-30-09-27-15
Private home office experienced childcare.
Close to UF. 3 months to 3 years old. $17.50/
day & pay only for the day(s) you need.
Please call 352-372-1769 9-11-09-14-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
9-25-20-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS**
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
* * PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES * *
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15EZ TENNIS
352-372-2257 9-30-17-15
STRINGING -Best machines in town. Huge
selection of strings -Ready in 24 hrs or free.
The same day service available and/or 1
hour. It is the EZ Thing 372-2257 9-30-
17-15
GREAT MATH TUTOR.
Over 30 years experience.
All classes thru Trig & Pre-Calc
Easy to understand explanations
Call Ed 331-4332 9-15-5-15
Need tutoring help in MAC 1105,
MAC 1140, MAC 1147, MAC 2233,
freshman physics courses, and select
Mechanical Enginnering courses? Contact
www.DrHasansTutoring.com for details.
9-16-5-15IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards -Employment Visas
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
www.ruthlaw.com
10-20-09-30-18
EVICTIONS
Sharon Ruth, Esq.
352-494-8848
9-28-14-18
WJCOnLnections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
Health Services Event Notices
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
Affordable Therapy at Stillpoint
This months Specials:
1 Hour Massage Therapy or.
1 Hour Acupuncture/Acupressure/Herbal
Consult. or Chiropractic Treatment Session
$ 40.00!!! Licensed, Experienced
Professionals 10 minutes from campus on
39th ave. schedule today. 376 1320 9-17-
20-16
PersonalsIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public Wed-Sat-Sun 1 pm-6pm
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
Bring any lower price u-find on any racket,
EZ Tennis will match & beat that price. And
yes, including e-bay buy it now. Please bring
the print-out. 372-2257 9-30-17-21
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING Tickets
Alachua County Health Dept. Call T kl
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Ghiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
EZ TENNIS
352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
FREE OVERGRIP with any stringing. Free
can of balls with purchase $20+. Lowest
prices on everything we sell. Where? At EZ
Tennis 352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
B-4-U buy or order any squash racket, check
out EZ Tennis for the lowest price in the
world. If any store can go lower, EZ 10-s can
go lower 352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
B-4-U buy or order badminton rackets check
out EZ Tennis for the lowest price in the
world. Yes, we will match & beat any lower
price. 372-2257 9-30-17-18
CREDIT CARD & BANKRUPTCY LAW
Helping debtors in consumer debt cases
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
10-7-21-18BOOSTER CLUB BUS PACKAGES
include hotel and tickets for LSU, MS State,
and South Carolina. DON'T WAIT -GOING
FAST! Call Betty 386-462-0404 9-30-09-
18-22
o il Rides
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 C/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-21 5-8196
12-9-74-23
CHARTER BUS / CHARTER BUS RENTAL /
LIMOS / 352-494-1734 ask for Harold
WE BEAT ALL COMPETITOR PRICING
ASK ABOUT SPECIAL DISCOUNT OFFER
www.reliancecoach.com 9-22-20-23
WEIIFPets
Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
Sports THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
AROUND THE LEAGUE
Mullen gearing up for SEC opener
Available from Commercial News Providers"
I
Mississippi State won 45-7 over Jackson State in coach Dan Mul-
len's first game in Starkville. The Bulldogs play Auburn this week.By PHIL KEGLER
Alligator Staff Writer
pkegler@alligator org
Lastyear's Mississippi State-Auburn match-
up garnered plenty of national headlines but
not for good reasons.
The Tigers edged the Bulldogs 3-2 on Sept.
13,2008, with an Auburn 35-yard field goal and
Mississippi State safety the only scoring plays.
Now they're set to square off at Auburn
on Saturday as both teams open their South-
eastern Conference schedule with new head
coaches.
Auburn hired Gene Chizik, and Mississippi
State tapped former Florida offensive coordi-
nator Dan Mullen to head the program.
Mullen remembers watching last year's
Tigers-Bulldogs match-up because the Gators
had a bye weekend.
"Any game that's that close like that you
love," Mullen said. "Even though as an offen-
sive coach, you say, 'Boy what opportunities
are there.' Mississippi State had opportunities
to win, couldn't take advantage."
Mullen and Chizik said they haven't used
any game film from 2008's low-scoring affair
in preparation for this year's game, mainly be-
cause so much has changed.
"I don't put any stock into that," Chizik
said. "That was last year, and for both Missis-
sippi State and Auburn, we've both moved on.
It's a new year, new people, new everything."
Mullen said he was more than impressed
with the atmosphere in Starkville, Miss., dur-
ing the Bulldogs' 45-7 win over Jackson State
in the season opener.
"It was more than what I expected," Mullen
said. "Getting off the buses for the Dog Walk
was unbelievable. Just to see the masses of peo-
ple turning out and the support we had, just
the atmosphere we had -third-largest crowd
in school history to support the team. Our guys
came out and played really hard.
"You get your chance to be a head football
coach and win your first football game, that's a
dream come true."
SEE SEC, PAGE 20No-huddle key to
Florida 's fortunes
Phil Kegler
Phil on the Hill
pkegler@alligator org
ends.
Coach Urban Meyer talked all about Oklaho-
ma's no-huddle offense since the Gators started
preparing for the Sooners in the BCS National
Championship.
I didn't really believe him.
There has been plenty of Meyer's "ideas" that
haven't ever panned out -probably because
the coaches thought about it before deciding it
wouldn't really help the Gators.
This new "Banzai" package -filled with up-
tempo, no-huddle formations -seems to be for
real, and it's one of the best moves Florida could
have made.
New wrinkles to the UF offense have paid
plenty of dividends in the past.
In 2006, there was Tim Tebow garnering Su-
perman fame by converting every short-yardage
situation.
In 2008, there was the explosion of the fresh-
men running back duo Jeff Demps and Chris
Rainey.
Notice any year missing? Yeah, 2007 -a 9-4
record for a team that had a bad defense and a
lack of running backs.
It's all about matchups and creating mis-
matches.
We'll never know, but the idea of Florida run-
ning two tight end sets with Aaron Hernandez
and Cornelius Ingram should've scared defen-
SEE PHIL, PAGE 20e Gators' new no-huddle offense could
w win them the national
championship.
You see, offenses are
like relationships. Each
can run on chemistry for
a while, but if you go too
long without spicing things
up, a stale feeling will creep
in. We all know how that
Gators hoping to avoid any possible spread of flu
0 BEAL WILL MISS A FEW WEEKS
WITH NECK INJURY.
By MIKE DIFERDINANDO
Alligator Staff Writer
mdiferdinando@aligator org
UF coach Urban Meyer said he is taking
precautions to prevent the spread of the swine
flu among his team.
"I'm scared to death of it," Meyer said.
Brandon Hicks missed practice Wednes-day due to dehydration and needed IVs to
give him fluids. Freshman offensive lineman
Nick Alajajian has lost 10 pounds because of
the flu, according to Meyer
BLACK OK WITH ROTATION: Safety Ahmad
Black was replaced in the starting lineup last
Saturday by sophomore Will Hill, but said
that he is comfortable splitting time in the
secondary.
"A lot of us have to get used to it," Black
said. "Coming out of high school we were allgreat players, probably the best player on the
team. Now, coming to college, we have to split
time with other great players.
It will all work out."
Black, who led the nation
F in interceptions in 2008 withFootball seven, rotated with Hill and
Major Wright against Charles-
ton Southern.
INJURY UPDATE: Linebacker Brendan Beal
will be out a few more weeks with a neck in-
"We got the preseason game out
of the way. We are in the real ball
next week."
Ahmad Black
UF safety on the prospect of facing
Troy after Charleston Southernjury.
"It's non-surgical. It's a disc issue that they
seem pretty confident about," Meyer said.
Receiver Carl Moore and corner Jeremy
Brown are both still out withback injuries, and
linebacker Jelani Jenkins is doubtful for Satur-
day's game against Troy with an ankle injury.
Defensive coordinator Charlie Strong said
that defensive end Jermaine Cunningham
missed Saturday's game against Charleston
Southern because of a twisted ankle but that
he is probable to play against Troy.
POLL QUESTION
Today's question: Who do you agree
with more in today's Jumpball on Page
19 about college football fans?TEEING OFF WITH MIKE DiFERDINANDO
U Allen Iverson tweeted Wednesday that "God Chose Memphis" as the place
he would continue his hoops career. Apparently God's not a big A.I. fan. .The
United Football League unveiled its team names and uniforms. Florida's team is
the Tuskers. Are we sure this isn't just a joke? .Seconds after scoring an own
goal Czech soccer player Michal Jezek died of a heart attack. Tough game.
18, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009
UF FOOTBALL
Hines emerges as possible option at wide receiver
By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kmaistri@alligator org
When it comes to playing time,
one player's setback is another
player's opportunity.
With news of freshman wide
receiver Andre Debose's season-
ending hamstring surgery, there
are suddenly a lot more snaps to
go around.
Redshirt freshmen T.J. Law-
rence and Frankie Hammond Jr.,
were thought to be the favorites
to provide depth at the position,
but Omarius Hines, also a redshirt
freshman, has come on strong dur-ing the last week.
"He came out of nowhere.
There was zero plan for him," Flor-
ida coach Urban Meyer said. "We
have Thursday races on kickoffs
where we actually race our kick-
off team down the field. It's where
some guys around here got noticed
all the way back to Reggie Nelson
and Dorian Munroe. (Hines) is
fast, and he's a good guy. He'll see
more and more opportunities."
Meyer noticed the 6-foot, 204
pound receiver just in time to work
him into the game plan for Charles-
ton Southern on Saturday.
Hines responded by connect-
ing with backup quarterback John"I know someday it's going to three months and leaving him
behind Lawrence and Hammond,
to be our turn to play." his roommates, in the rotation.
Omarius Hines The three young receivers knew
UF redshirt freshman wideout there would be playing time for
at least one of them as the posi-
Brantley for three catches and 31 tion was already thought to be
yards in the second half against the Gators' weakness, even with a
the Buccaneers. Only senior Riley healthy Debose. Now, the coach-
Cooper and junior tight end Aaron ing staff is even more intent on de-
Hernandez hauled in more passes veloping some of the young wide
than Hines, a surprising statistic receivers as viable options behind
considering that recently Hines Cooper, Deonte Thompson, David
seemed to be buried on the depth Nelson and Brandon James.
chart. "The wide receiver position is
During spring practice, Hines really short right now," Hines said.
said he hurt the thigh muscles in "We all need to step up and make
his legs, keeping him out for two plays."And the wideout position could
be thin for more than just this year.
Other than Thompson, a sopho-
more, the three top receivers are
all seniors.
That means Hines is not only
working to see playing time in a
backup role this season, he is also
setting himself up for a year from
now when Nelson, Cooper and
James are all gone.
"I know someday it's going to
be our turn to play," Hines said.
"We're just trying to do what we
can to help the team right now and
learn while doing that, and then
next year when it's our turn -just
go ball."
Snead McrCluste among Ole Mss plas er'. wth flu
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
S.teon ,% three vrar citenvon
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
JUMPBALL
Are college football fans overly obnoxious or duly dedicated?
ail me to the cross because I'mabout to say something not ex-
actly flattering to the vast major-
ity of the Alligator readership.
I love college football, a little less than
DiFer, but still quite a bit.
But I don't love the overwhelming
majority of college football fans.
I follow all sports religiously, and col-
lege football fans rub me the wrong way
far more often than any other sport's fan
base. There are certainly knowledgeable,
rational and respectable college football
fans, and if you are one of those people
then please don't take offense at the fol-
lowing.
Here are the five most annoying
things about college football fans in de-
scending order from least to most an-
noying:
5. HATING ON RIVALS WHEN THEY
ARE BETTER THAN YOUR TEAM. I un-
derstand everyone who goes to Florida
hates Miami and Florida State and vice
versa. I even understand talking smack
when a rival school goes down in a ball
of flames. What I don't understand is
how a Miami or Florida State fan is in
any position to mock a Florida fan while
the Gators are winning championships.
I'm not saying they should be congratu-
lating the Gators, but at least save you
obnoxious banter for a time when your
team is relevant.
4. TAKING MESSAGE BOARDS AS
GOSPEL. There are a lot of Web sites out
there that do a fine job reporting on the
day-to-day happenings of college foot-
ball teams. Unfortunately, the Internet is
often a lawless place where speed is val-
ued far more than accuracy. Time and
again, we see things reported online that
turn out to be false. Every time your team
gets a "commitment" from a hot recruit,
I really don't want to hear the endless
bragging about how he is going to lead
your team to four national champion-Hships. He might
just turn out to
pull a Nu'Keese
Richardson and
de-commit on
Signing Day.
3. BEINGKyle Points WASTED ATkma istri@a IIigator org GAMES. I like to
drink. You like
to drink. Sometimes I like to drink too
much, and I'm sure you do too. How-
ever, I hate sitting next to the belliger-
ent drunk while watching my team
play, and I'm sure that you do too. For
some reason, getting wasted and go-
ing to the game has become as much a
part of gameday tradition as chants and
fight songs. And when a team is bad, the
game seems to get in the way of its fans'
binge drinking. Even more perplexing is
getting trashed for big games. One of my
friends once got so drunk at the Florida-
Georgia game that he passed out for the
entire first quarter. That doesn't exactly
spell devotion in my opinion.
2. BOOING THE OFFICIALS NO MATTER
WHAT. Perhaps this bothers me because I
am passionate about the sport of football
itself and not just "my team." There is
no rule that says the officials must make
every call in favor of the home team, so
when you clearly identify a penalty that
happens to be on your own team, take
your anger out accordingly -on the
player and not the official.
1. THINKING YOUR FAN BASE IS SOME-
HOW DIFFERENT. Without a doubt, the
thing that bothers me the most is hear-
ing, "Team X's fans are by far the most
obnoxious." The mentality of every col-
lege football fan is roughly the same -
support your team no matter what, hate
on everyone else no matter what and
don't concern yourself with any kind of
objectivity.s usual, Kyle Maistri chooses tofocus on the negatives and ne-
glects the overwhelming posi-
tives about you, the college football fan.
He fails to understand your unwavering
passion and misconstrues your enthusi-
astic nature for something that it's not.
Forgive him. He doesn't know any bet-
ter. Unlike you and me, he doesn't em-
brace the joy of spending Saturday with
90,000 good friends.
So, Kyle, here are the top-five reasons
why college fans are great:
5. TAILGATING: College fans throw the
best parties. There's nothing like a pre-
game BBQ and a cold beer on a Saturday
morning in the fall.
What could be more fun than throw-
ing the football around the front yard
with your best friends on game day? Or
tossing ping pong balls into red plastic
cups while the sounds of a marching
band play in the distance. Not only are
the food and beverages great but you
couldn't ask for a better backdrop. The
towering stadiums, the ivy covered
brick campuses, flags flying from cars
like they are heading into battle-the
atmosphere just can't be beaten. And is
there any other time in your life when
you can walk around talking to thou-
sands of people you've never met before
and act like you have known them for
years?
4. RIVALRIES: Nothing can even
come close to the rivalries that lit-
ter college football. Oklahoma-Texas,
Michigan-Ohio State, Florida-Georgia-
these are about more than football. They
transcend sport. They divide families.
They're personal.
Texas hates Oklahoma because the
Sooners keep beating the Longhorns
with players from Texas. Oklahoma
hates Texas because the Longhorns win
the Sooners' bowl games.
USC hates UCLA because the BruinsMike
DiFerdinando
Beg to DiFer
mdiferdina ndo@a IIigator orghired a cheater.
UCLA hates USC
because the Tro-
jans still haven't
been caught
cheating.
The ACC
hates that it
hasn't become
the SEC. The SEC
hates that it leads
the country in pa-
rolees.
Fans make rivalries and none are
more heartfelt or hate-filled then college
football's.
3. STUDENTS: The majority of college
football fans are students. The play-
ers they cheer for on Saturday are their
classmates and friends not professionals
they have no interactionwith. They go to
class together. They eat at the same res-
taurants. They drink at the same bars.
2. TRADITION: From the 12th man at
Texas A&M and the War Eagle at Au-
burn to the checkerboard end zone at
Tennessee and Chief Osceola's flaming
spear at Florida State, it's the pageantry
of college football that makes it great.
College fans grow up with exciting and
creative traditions that stay with them
for life.
1. PASSION: College fans care. They
really care. Often times, they care more
than is reasonable or logical. But can you
blame them? They aren't just cheering
for a team in the city they live in. They're
pulling for their school or their alma
mater. But most of all, they cheer for the
memories. For many, college football is
a fountain of youth. It takes them back
to the days when they sat in the student
section. When they were more worried
about where the next party was than
their next paycheck. And isn't that rea-
son enough to love them?Editor's Note:
To tell us who
made the
most convinc-
ing argument,
log on to al-
ligatorSports.
org and cast
your vote.
20, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2009
'lb'I
'aI
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
Jefferson key for LSU
SEC, from page 17
JEFFERSON IMPRESSING
MILES: LSU quarterback
Jordan Jefferson was one
of many young SEC signal
callers taking over their
teams, and now he will
lead his team into its SEC
debut against Vanderbilt.
Tigers coach Les Miles
was happy with the way
Jefferson took care of the
ball and managed the vic-
tory over Washington.
The sophomore com-pleted 11 for 19 passes for
172 yards and three touch-
downs and added 42 yards
on eight rushes.
Miles knows the quar-
terback's play will be key
to his team's success.
"That position, year-in
and year-out, speaks to
the teams that win cham-
pionships," Miles said.
"He's been a playmaker
for us. .I think the way
the he throws it gives us a
great opportunity to win
games."PHIL, from page 17
sive coordinators everywhere .
So when Ingram went down with an injury, the
Gators didn't have much new offensively heading
into the 2008 season -- and struggled until Demps
and Rainey burst onto the scene in the fourth quarter
of the Arkansas game last year.
This year, I was unsure where Florida's mismatch
would come from. Sure, Hernandez is still there but
without Percy Harvin, I see plenty of defenses key-
ing on Hernandez and not letting him be the differ-
ence maker.
And yes, Demps and Rainey ran all over Charles-
ton Southern, but again the loss of Harvin will make
a bigger impact than people expect come conference
play. I'm not sold on Moody staying healthy.
So this year's mismatch will not be wearing a jer-
sey, it will be a scheme instead -- one that Florida de-
fensive coordinator Charlie Strong called the hardest
he's ever prepared for.
From someone who has been around the game formore than 25 years, and the Gators' defensive coor-
dinator for the last six, that means something.
On one play, Charleston Southern had 13 defend-
ers on the field -two were near the sideline jogging
off because Tim Tebow snapped the ball earlier than
the Bucs expected.
UF linebacker Ryan Stamper wasn't surprising,
considering the Gators had similar struggles against
the Sooners in the title game.
"You get the calls in late, the personnel in late,"
Stamper said. "They can call hike, and they're five
wide and we have our base (defense) on the field."
A five-wide offense against a base defense -- that's
a mismatch.
Offensive coordinator Steve Addazio was coy
about how much UF intends to run the no-huddle,
but Meyer said Wednesday the Gators wouldn't ever
run it for an entire game.
And why should they? Its biggest advantage right
now is the element of surprise.
"It's great, we like it," Addazio said. "We choose
when we want to change the pace of the game."
Look for it when the Gators need some spice.i "IN
