the the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 57 ilWe inform. You Decide.S074Rcyle
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2009
LOCAL
Vets honored
at memorial
By OLGA VELEZ
Alligator Contr but ng Writer
About 2,000 people gathered with umbrellas and ponchos at f
the Kanapaha Park memorial to celebrate Veterans Day Wednes-
day.
The celebration was held to honor the veterans from Iraq and
Afghanistan, said James Lynch, director of Alachua County Vet-
erans Services.
Capt. Jonathan Pruden, a wounded veteran of the Iraq war
spoke of the sacrifice veterans and their families made.
"Whether during war or peace, all veterans sacrificed their
personal freedoms," Pruden said. "I can tell you story after story
of families who have given up homes, jobs and communities to
follow their loved ones to trauma centers at Walter Reed."
A Walk Through Time Memorial was unveiled to honor six
Alachua County residents who died in the Iraq and Afghanistan
wars.
The families of four of the men -Christopher Neiberger,
Donald Vincent, John Rivero and Jeffrey Wershow -solemnly Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staffnve led the memorial. The not twpre enter mecaus VBuret Retired Col. John Price, right, and retired Sgt. Domenick Moretti accept the French Legion of Honor medal from
SEE VETS, PAGE 5 retired Army Lt. Gen. John LeMoyne at the Veterans Day ceremony at Kanapaha Park Wednesday morning.
Locals organize to defend arrested Fest partiers
By J. HUNTER SIZEMORE
Alligator Staff Writer
jhsizemore@alligator org
Following a Fest-weekend
clash between house partiers and
Gainesville Police Department on
Halloween that led to five arrests,
a local group has formed with amessage: Drop all charges.
The Alachua Committee
Against Brutality announced
Tuesday at a press conference
that it plans to help two of the
five, Ryan Clarey and Doug-
las Demarest, fight the charges
against them.
"We ask our fellow citizensnot to fall for the divide-and-con-
quer tactics and the smoke-and-
mirrors strategy that
Local [GPD spokesman]
NewS Keith Kameg and
GPD are deploying
to try to cover up their culpabil-
ity in this incident," said commit-
tee spokesman James Schmidt.Clarey was charged with vio-
lently resisting arrest and aid-
ing an escape, while Demarest is
charged with resisting without
violence.
The incident began as two
GPD officers attempted to clear
Northwest Eighth Street, which
was crowded by partiers, accord-ing to Kameg.
The partygoers were drawn by
a house show where bands were
scheduled to play later that night,
an event tied in spirit to Fest 8, a
punk music festival.
As officers tried to clear the
street using horns and sirens, one
SEE ARRESTS, PAGE 5
UF names location for new 24-hour study center
Stimulus funds will cover most renovation costs
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligator org
The almost-100-year-old Newell Hall will
likely be the location of UF's 24-hour study
center.
Built in 1910, Newell is one of the four
oldest buildings on campus and is in need
of renovation.
It's also centrally located and close to food
venues, all of which made it a prime candi-
0 South Carolina
QB Stephen Garcia
is leading the SEC's
second-best pass-
ing attack while
turning the ball
over less than last
year. Now, he faces
UFs pass defense,
best in the SEC.
See Story, Page 17.date for the new study center, which is being
built to give students an all-day study op-
tion and to take pressure off Library West.
The renovation, which could start in June
or July and be finished in the fall of 2011, will
be paid for mostly by $12 million in stimulus
funds.
Because UF is using stimulus funds, the
money cannot be used for new construction,
so an existing building must be modified.
And because the building is in the Na-
tional Register of Historic Places and its his-toric look must be preserved, officials said
they will try to secure extra
funds in case there are any
surprises, said Ed Poppell,
UF's vice president of busi-
ness administration.
As an example, Poppell
noted that when UF had to
replace the windows in Ti-
Poppell gert Hall, another historic
building, it cost hundreds
of thousands of dollars more than expected
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providersbecause they were specially made to look
like the original windows from the 1950s.
To make way for the students in the new
study center, he said, some faculty from the
Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences
who currently occupy Newell will be moved
to nearby Bryant Hall, while some staff from
Computing and Networking Services on the
third floor of Bryant will be moved to an of-
fice in east Gainesville.
Meanwhile, students will still be able to
study until 3 a.m. at the Hub.
The modified hours continue until the
SEE CENTER, PAGE 5
Today
FORECAST 2 12S
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 13 Partly
CROSSWORD 15 cloudy
CROSWORD 68/49
SPORTS 17
visit www.alligator.org
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Heroic Monumentalism: The
State and its Architecture in the
1930s
Today, 6 p.m.
Harn Museum of Art auditorium
This talk by Dietmar Schirmer
for Museum Nights answers the
question "Is there a fascist archi-
tecture or has it only to do with
mass society and culture?"
History and Practice of Ottoman
Miniature Painting and
Illumination
Today, 7:30 p.m.
Harn Museum of Art auditorium
Come to this Museum Nights
talk by Sermin Ciddi to learn
about ancestral painting styles in
Turkey.
RUB Entertainment presents:
Beatles Bonanza
Today, 8 p.m.
Orange & Brew
RUB Entertainment and EA
Games present local superstars
The Shoddy Beatles and a chance
to play "The Beatles: RockBand."
"The Beatles: RockBand" will also
be given away at the event.
Israel Week Kickoff: A Night
of Fun and Laughs with Benji
Lovitt
Today, 8:30 p.m.
XS, 1728 W University Ave.
Entrance to the club and bever-
ages are free.
"Clean Energy: When & How"
Today, 7 p.m. to 8 p.m.
The Dynamo, www.thedynamo.
org/blogl.php, UF's only stu-
dent think tank, will be hosting a
discussion on clean and sustain-
able energy. It is free and open to
the public and will be paneled by
three to six prominent speakers
in academia, business and gov-
ernment.
IDEAL Fall Open House
Today, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Do you have what it takes to be an
official ambassador for the Reitz
Union and Center for Student
Activities and Involvement?
Come to the IDEAL Fall Open
House in the Arredondo Room
and meet current members who
love helping students on campus
find where they belong in in-
volvement. Become a part of the
IDEAL family and become an in-
volved leader on campus. Make
sure to be there for the presenta-
tion at 8 p.m.
American Solar Energy Society
meeting
Today, 7 p.m.
Rinker 230
During this general body meet-
ing, the group will discuss the
upcoming SolarCycle event. They
will then visit the Solar Research
Park to work on various ASES re-
search projects.
Fall of the Wall symposium:
"Good Bye DDR: Memory and
Material Culture"
Friday, 10 a.m. to noon, 2 p.m. toFORECAST
TODAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
68/49FRIDAY
I,
SUNNY
74/51
5 p.m.
Dauer Hall, Ruth McQuown
Room
KMonth Asian Arts and
Entertainment Festival/
Closing Ceremony
Friday, 6:30 p.m. to 11 p.m.
Reitz Union Amphitheater
This year Kaleidoscope Month
is holding the Second Annual
Asian Arts and Entertainment
Festival (AAEF) with the clos-
ing ceremony. This event is free
and open to the public.
Camp Kesem and AED
Ultimate Frisbee Tournament
Sunday, 11 a.m.
Flavet Field
Come out and play Ultimate
Frisbee while helping families
affected by cancer. The cost is
$5 per participant. There will be
at least seven players on each
team. Coed intramural rules
apply. E-mail Carly Blustein
at carlyb28@ufl.edu to sign up
for the tournament. Visit www.
campkesem.org/uf for more in-
formation about Camp Kesem.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this
space? Send an e-mail to bkel-
ley@alligator.org with "What's
Happening" in the subject line.
Please include a one- to two-
sentence synopsis of the event.
Make sure all submissions are
formatted properly.
CORRECTION
It was reported in Tuesday's
edition of the Alligator that UF
has laid off nine faculty mem-
bers and 32 staff. UF has actu-
ally sent layoff notices to nine
faculty and 34 staff.
LOCAL
Orange & Brew to host
'Beatles Bonanza!'
The Beatles will be causing
a crowd to come together to-
night.
Reitz Union Board Enter-
tainment will be hosting "Beat-
les Bonanza!" today at 8 p.m. at
Orange & Brew.
It will feature The Shoddy
Beatles, a local Beatles cover
band, "The Beatles: Rock Band"
competitions and giveaways.
The free event is co-spon-
sored by Entertainment Arts
(EA) Games, who will raffle off
two "The Beatles: Rock Band"
games.
Bailey Parke, a RUB Enter-
tainment Bands Committee
co-director, said she was ap-
proached by the UF EA Games
representative about doing an
event featuring "The Beatles:
Rock Band."SATURDAY
SUNNY
77/52SUNDAY
SUNNY
79/54MONDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
78/59
Parke said she thinks the com-
bination of the two elements will
make this event one of RUB En-
tertainment's most successful.
"For some reason, people love
'Rock Band' competitions, and
people love The Shoddy Beat-
les," Parke said. "So, it's a per-
fect combination. It's going to be
big."
-NATASHA SCHOULTZ
UF alumni among speakers
for Florida Writers' Festival
Three UF alumni authors will
visit UF this weekend for the 2009
Florida Writers' Festival.
The festival, organized by the
English Department's Creative
Writing Program, is in its 25th
year and brings famous authors,
poets and writers to UF.
"The festival gives students a
chance to meet the writers they
have been reading in the under-
graduate program," said David
Leavitt, a co-director of the fes-
tival.
Four authors are visiting
this year: Chris Adrian, Chris
Bachelder, Chris Tusa and C.D.
Wright. Adrian and Bachelder
are novelists, while Tusa and
Wright are poets.
"[Bachelder and Adrian] are
both innovative, adventurous
writers on the cutting edge on to-
day's fiction," Leavitt said.
Adiran, Bachelder and Tusa
have all earned either bachelors
or masters degrees at UF.
"We liked the idea of hav-
ing them because they're all UF
alums and they're all named
Chris," Leavitt said, adding they
would inspire students who plan
to become writers after gradua-
tion.
The authors will each be do-
ing a reading Thursday, Friday
and Saturday night at the Ala-
chua County Public Library and
Smathers Library East.
There will also be an informal
talk with Bachelder, Adrian and
Wright at Smathers Library East
Saturday afternoon.
Each event is free and open to
the public, and food will be pro-
vided.
The festival is being held in
conjunction with Smathers Li-
brary and the Alachua County
Library system. The authors are
being paid about $2,500 each for
the visit.
-ANDREW WYZAN
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the independent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 57 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Flonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Mana
Managing
Assist
Assist
alligator
Assis
tEditor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
ging Editor/ Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
g Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
ant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill,
astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Will Olsen, wolsen@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
ant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
Sports.org Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Brian Kelley,
Jennifer Jenkins, Will Olsen
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
tant Photo Editor Matt Tripp mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
he Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry,
Emily Blake, Joe Holzer,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Sanika Dange,
Ashley Hemmy, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
George Pappas, Paul Runnestrand,
Jennifer Smith, Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Natasha Dykes,
Brittany Fayne, Joaquin Martinez,
Megan Meckstroth,
Samantha Owen, MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Dyana Sanchez
Assistant Bookkeeper Amanda Miller
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , PO Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
Air Force ROTC runs to remember war veterans
0 131 CADETS ATTENDED
THE RUN WEDNESDAY.
By ALISON SCHWARTZ and
MEG WAGNER
Alligator Writers
The light sheet of rain was
enough to remind them why they
were there.
It misted the cheeks of the 131
cadets who gathered Wednesday
at 6 a.m. for Run to Remember,
an event coordinated by the UF
Air Force ROTC to commemorateVeterans Day.
While it wasn't enough to
soak through their uniform gray
T-shirts, it formed trails of dew-
drops in their hair.
Air Force ROTC Cadet Lori Bo-
wen said the rain was a symbol of
wars previously fought.
"It gives us a certain sense of
remembrance," the applied physi-
ology and kinesiology senior
said.
Tyler Holley, an Air Force
ROTC cadet, coordinated the
event in an effort to pay homage
to American veterans."I think Veterans Day is a day
you can recognize and honor the
people that have come before
you," Holley said.
Participating cadets ran from
University Avenue to Fletcher
Drive, trailing
Around west on Sta-Gainesville dium Road and
looping back on
Gale Lemerand Drive.
The runs were spread through-
out the event in groups of 15 to 20
cadets. Between laps, groups per-
formed routine exercises, such as
push-ups and sit-ups.The cadets were also given free
time to play football and Ultimate
Frisbee with their flight mates.
But at 6:45 a.m., everyone
stopped.
The cadets gathered in a horse-
shoe formation for a vigil, observ-
ing a moment of silence just as
the sun peaked through the rain-
clouds.
Maj. James W. Bodnar, anROTC
Air Force instructor, stressed the
importance of respecting veterans
as war wages on in Afghanistan
and Iraq.
"We have two wars going on,and a lot of people forget that," he
said. "People forget that they're
out there every single day in some
pretty austere conditions, often
fighting against a hidden enemy."
And as wars persist around
the globe, Jenicia McFadden, a UF
sophomore and Air Force ROTC
cadet, sees something worth fight-
ing for.
"I think it's just important to
remember that somebody has to
fight for our freedom," she said.
"If we didn't fight for our free-
dom, we wouldn't be where we
are now."
ON CAMPUS
Director discusses success through perseverance
By BRANDON BRESLOW
Alligator Contributing Writer
Director Brett Ratner credits his success to
not taking no for an answer.
From convincing the dean of New York
University's Tisch School of the Arts to ac-
cept him when he was only 16 to pleading
with Universal Studios to let him direct the
comedic drama "The Family Man" in 2000,
his life story is one of determination and tri-
umph.
Ratner, 40, shared stories of some of his
biggest career challenges with a crowd of
about 250 people in the University Audito-
rium Tuesday night at a presentation spon-
sored by Accent.
"I'm here to tell you that if I can do it, any-
body can do it," Ratner said.
Ratner, director of the "Rush Hour" tril-
ogy, "X-Men: The Last Stand," "The Fam-
ily Man" and more than a 100 music videos,
said he knew he wanted to be a director and
attend NYU's film school after he watched
Martin Scorsese's "Raging Bull" when he
was 10.
Ratner was accepted to NYU after meeting
with the dean and showing him less-than-ad-
mirable grades but a lot of passion. He made
connections allowing him to swiftly enter the
entertainment industry.
Among those connections were directorSteven Spielberg, who financed one of Rat-
ner's student films and eventually became a
mentor to him, and hip-hop mogul Russell
Simmons.
"It's important to have mentors in what-
ever area you study," Ratner said. "Get
someone who will let you pick their brain."
It was soon after Simmons held a pre-
miere of Ratner's student film that Ratner got
the opportunity to network with artists and
start directing music videos.
The Miami native went on to direct videos
for Madonna, Mariah Carey, Diddy, Jessica
Simpson and the Wu-Tang Clan.
His big break came in 1997, when he was
asked to replace the original director for
"Money Talks," a feature film starring Chris
Tucker and Charlie Sheen.
Ratner told the audience one of his biggest
challenges came after he read the script for
"The Family Man."
He pleaded with Universal Studios to
let him direct the movie, but that wasn't the
hardest part of his project.
Ratner wanted Nicolas Cage to play the
leading role, but he was told it would never
happen. Still, he continued to pursue Cage.
As a result of Ratner's passion, Cage even-
tually signed on to do the movie.
Ratner was paid $24,000 to attend the
event, according to UF's Student Govern-
ment Finance Office.Director Brett Ratner recalled life stories and gave advice to UF students in the Univer-
sity Auditorium Tuesday night. He was brought by the Accent Speakers Bureau.
AT THE HARN MUSEUM OF ARTPive Cancer
Patients a Reason
to Smile
Donate new or nearly
new teddy bears to
American Cancer society's
Bears for Cares
Bring
donations
to the
Ciainesville
American Cancer society Office or
conact Margaret 5haw at 352-
376-6866 ext. 5063 or e-mail at
N margaret.shaw cancer.org
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2009
Fraternities charged with providing alcohol to minors
The three fraternities face possible sanctions from UF
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewa rt@alligator org
Three UF fraternities are fac-
ing possible sanctions from the
university for allowing underage
drinking at events over the sum-
mer and early fall.
Lambda Chi Alpha, Theta Chi
and Sigma Phi Epsilon have all
been charged with providing al-
cohol to minors.
In perhaps the most serious
case to involve an actual charge
against a fraternity, Sigma Phi
Epsilon is accused of provid-
ing alcohol in late July to two
17-year-old girls -one of whom
was transported to the emergen-
cy room after she vomited inside
of a Student Nighttime Auxiliary
Patrol, or SNAP, vehicle near Fra-
ternity Drive -and one 18-year-
old male UF student.
The student told police he and
ftk1 N WM2Mthe two girls had been at a party
at the fraternity's house, where
they had been drinking.
Brock Hankins, Sigma Phi Ep-
silon president, said that wasn't
the case at all. Hankins said the
student and his two friends fol-
lowed several residents into the
house and began taking beers
from various refrigerators.
They were in the house for
two to three hours, Hankins said,
before they were asked to leave.
He said the fraternity views
the incident as a case of breaking
and entering, but chose not to file
charges against the student be-
cause he meant no harm.
In recognition of the serious-
ness of the event, he said the
fraternity installed electronic
padlocks on all its doors and
unanimously voted to become al-
cohol-free for the rest of summer
until early September, when fall
rush ended.
,f I I tS AiiChris Loschiavo, director of
UF's Student Conduct and Con-
flict Resolution, said while the fra-
ternity may not have encouraged
the behavior of the individuals, it
has a responsibility to make sure
everyone who is drinking alcohol
on its property is of age.
"Even though he got in, that
doesn't change the fact that they
were still
UF providingAdministration alcohol to
a minor,"
he said.
He also noted the underage
drinkers were in the house for
quite a long time.
"If someone walked into your
house and started helping them-
selves to your bar, you would
probably kick them out right
away," he said.
In relation to another incident
in early September, Theta Chi is
accused of hosting an off-campuskeg party with underage drink-
ing.
A UF student pledging the fra-
ternity held the party at his house
and told police after he was ar-
rested he felt he shouldn't get
in trouble because the fraternity
forced him to throw the party for
other pledges, according to a po-
lice report.
Ryan Mills, president of The-
ta Chi, disputed that version of
events. Several new members of
the fraternity decided, on their
own, to host the off-campus par-
ty, he wrote in an e-mail.
The members involved were
suspended, he wrote, and the fra-
ternity's international headquar-
ters and regional counselor also
instituted sanctions.
Loschiavo said there is no evi-
dence to suggest the student was
forced to hold the party and that
he told police the story to try to
get out of trouble.
Composer Julia Wolfe brings the Bang on a Can All-Stars and
Trio Mediaeval together in this exciting world-premiere work
inspired by Wolfe's love for the legends and music of Appalachia.
To purchase tickets, call the
Phillips Center Box Office at 352-392-ARTS (2787).
Tickets may also be purchased from any
Ticketmaster outlet or by calling 800-745-3000.The student could not be
reached for comment.
In the third incident that re-
sulted in charges against a fra-
ternity, Lambda Chi Alpha is
accused of providing alcohol to
minors after several students
were found smoking marijuana
from an empty beer can in the
woods near the fraternity house
in late August.
The underage students told
police they had been drinking at
a party at the fraternity.
Lambda Chi Alpha president
Cameron Heard wrote in an e-
mail that the fraternity did not
want to comment.
If found responsible for the
charges, the fraternities face a
number of possible penalties.
In a similar incident in April
involving the Inter-Residence
Hall Association, the group was
given a written reprimand and
executive members were re-
quired to attend an educational
seminar
r
I & fIEXAMS 
,
(by Independent Optometrist)
N l9th Ave Corner of
A NW 13th St.
& 39th Ave.
Near Publix
EVECARE
I EXPRESS I
L (352)375-6133
Smile.
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
ABiotest
From Nature for Life
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Reitz official proposes student fee to fund fix-up
0 JOSEPH: RENOVATIONS
MAY COST $42.5 MILLION.
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
The Reitz Union's facelift may
be funded through the help of a stu-
dent fee.
Jaleesa Joseph, chairwoman of
the Reitz Union Board of Manag-ers, stopped by Tuesday night's
Student Senate meeting to give a
presentation encouraging senators
to support a student fee that will
raise money for its renovation and
expansion.
She said the Reitz Union was
built for 19,000 students in 1967
and is now overcrowded and ill-
equipped to handle the needs of
students.
Joseph said the renovationswould cost about $42.5 million. She
said some of the building's flaws
include an aging air-handler system
and an inadequate electrical sys-
tem.
Student Unite PartyGovernment Sen. Sadie Dean,
who represents
District D, questioned how students
would be able to afford the fee.
Joseph said the Reitz Union
Board of Managers would try tokeep the fee as low as possible be-
cause they understand that these are
tough economic times.
"We're not trying to break any-
one's back, by any means," Joseph
said.
Senate also passed an amend-
ment to the Activity & Service Fee
Budget that will transfer about
$150,000 from Accent and Student
Government Productionsbudgets to
the budgets of special events groupsresponsible for organizing heritage
and awareness events of campus.
IRHA also uses the funds for its
Residence Hall Week.
Unite Party Sen. Virlany Taboa-
da, the chairwoman of the budget
and appropriations committee, said
moving the money to the organi-
zations' own budgets will allow
the groups to have more say in the
speakers and performers they bring
to UF during their events.
Two WWII vets
got Legion of
Honor award
VETS, from page 1
Services was unable to contact their
families in time for the ceremony,
Lynch said.
Two veterans from World War II
were also honored. Col. John Price
and Sgt. Domenick Moretti were
given Legion of Honor awards for
their assistance in the liberation of
France on D-Day.
According to Lynch, Price and
Moretti were not able to make it to
the official ceremony in South Flor-
ida because of their health, so the
French government was going to
mail the awards to them until Veter-
ans Services acted.
"We thought they deserved more
than that," Lynch said.
Price stood silently and Moretti
sat patiently in his wheelchair as the
awards were presented to them.
Although the event focused
on past achievements, Sgt. James
Brown got to show heroism when
a brown Humvee military vehicle
began to roll downhill with a 9-year-
old inside.
Irena Melvin was in front of the
vehicle to take a picture of her son,
Kile, when she realized it was head-
ing toward her.
"I looked up, and his eyes were
wide open," Melvin said. "I don't
even want to know what hap-
pened."
Brown jumped inside and quick-
ly pulled the break to prevent a ca-
tastrophe.
"I am thankful that the soldier
was able to hit the break in time,"
Melvin said.
Others stayed safely on the
ground as they looked up and
pointed to the three World War II
vintage aircrafts, which flew over
the audience in a triangle formation
before the start of the celebration.
Everyone at the celebration joined in
for a moment of silence in honor of
the Fort Hood victims.
Organizations like the American
Red Cross, the Young Marines and
the U.S. Army pitched tents around
the park to provide more informa-
tion about those organizations.
Gainesville High School had tents
to fundraise for their programs by
selling hot dogs, hamburgers and
refreshments.LOCAL
Failed world record attempt still 'a party'
By DAVID TINTNER
Alligator Contributing Writer
While the rain may have been a pain
in the neck for some people Wednesday,
others spent the afternoon getting the pain
massaged away.
About 240 people gathered at Univer-
sity House apartments on Northwest 13th
Street to break the world record for the
longest massage chain -nearly 200 peo-
ple short of the current record of 430.
In order to comply with the Guinness
World Records standards, participants
had to form a single-file line and give and
receive a three-minute massage.
Although it was drizzling and new ar-
rivals were slowly trickling in, participants
were enticed to continue waiting by scant-
ily clad Hooters waitresses with prizes and
giveaways. Students and employees of
the Florida School of Massage also set up
chairs and gave back and neck massages.
After about an hour, despite franticmass text messaging attempts, the orga-
nizers realized they would not be able to
muster up enough people to break the re-
cord.
"I'm a little disappointed we didn't
break the record, but I'm still going to get
a massage," said Jessica Castillo, a UF se-
nior.
"We just turned it into a party
in the rain instead of t
record."
vice president of market
American Communitie
The herd of participants
into the apartment complex
the after party. Employees fr
FM blasted music as the re
soaked crowd climbed a ro
waited in line for free massage
The event was used tostudent-apartment community to UF and
Sante Fe College students, said Rachel
Kihn, vice president of marketing for In-
land American Communities Group, Inc.,
the parent company of University House.
"We just turned it into a party in the
rain instead of the world record," Kihn
said. "We're a little disappointed we didn't
make it, but we're excited everybody came
out."
he world Steven Goonen, a University House
employee, said the team tried to think of a
creative way to market the apartments.
Rachel Kihn "We started researching records that
ing for Inland would be possible to beat," Goonen said.
s Group, Inc. "It was between this and the world's larg-
est Jello fight."
was steered The organizers of the event originally
courtyard for expected more than 500 people to attend.
om Kiss 105.3 "We wanted to do it on a day wheninisg rain- there were no classes, but I think becausenaming aan- everybody treated it as a holiday a lot of
wes people went out last night, and that prob-
promote the ably hurt us a little bit," Kihn said.
The Hub will keep extended hours through January
CENTER, from page 1
end of January, by which time
the Student Senate will have
decided if it wants to continuethe program.
The extended hours were
made possible this semester by
$30,000 in student funds, and
a similar, but slightly larger,
subsidy will be required next
GPD calls for witnesses
ARRESTS, from page 1
costumed partier refused to move, Kameg said in a Nov.
2 Alligator story.
While officer Steve Jones was arresting the unidentified
man, Ryan Clarey, 25, allegedly interfered by trying to free
the man and telling him to run, according to a report.
Jones then moved to arrest Clarey, while the costumed
partier escaped.
Clarey allegedly tried to punch Jones in the head, and
the officer Tasered him and "took him to the
Local ground," according to the report.
News About six people then attacked Jones with
kicks, punches and thrown objects.
Two other officers called for backup and fought the at-
tackers until 20 more units arrived, according to Kameg.
Two YouTube videos have surfaced detailing the con-
flict.
The first clip shows the attempted arrest of the cos-
tumed man who disobeyed officers, and the second clip
opens with people attacking Jones as he kneels on top of
Clarey. So far there is no footage of the initial interaction
between Jones and Clarey, and GPD and the committee
are calling for witnesses to step forward.
GPD plans to make additional arrests if more of Jones'
attackers can be identified based on the video, Kameg
said.
The committee seeks witnesses to build its case,
Schmidt said.
To view the arrest videos, please visit Alligator.org.semester, said Student Body
President Jordan Johnson.
Last week, the Hub aver-
aged about 50 people at night,
though in mid-October the traf-
fic peaked at about 130 peopleovernight, according to records
Johnson provided.
SG will lobby to have the
hours at the Hub and Library
West extended again during fi-
nals this semester, he said.
Juliana Jimenez/ Alligator Staff
Ryan Clarey, 25, who was Tasered during a clash between partiers
and Gainesville police officers on Nov. 1, talks to a reporter Tuesday
night about the incident at a house five blocks north of where the
fight happened. He is charged with resisting an officer with violence
and announced Tuesday that he plans to fight the charges in court.
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2009
Editorial
Take It Easy
Police, partygoers should
think before acting
r TF1hey think Gainesville is their personal toilet. coming
from behind shows what kind of garbage they are."
These are the words that Gainesville Police spokes-
man Keith Kameg used to describe five individuals arrested for
attacking police at a Fest after party on Nov. 1. He went on to
describe these individuals as a "fringe element" who only vis-
ited Gainesville looking for a place to stay.
For the five men arrested, though, it may not be as cut-and-
dry as Kameg makes it out to be.
Kameg's bitter remarks were made while many of the de-
tails surrounding the incident remained murky. The Gainesville
Police Department initially described the individuals as men
from out of town; as it turns out, two of the men arrested live
in Gainesville.
Those accused of attacking the police claim that they did not
participate in the attack at all. Rather, they were picked out of a
massive crowd as additional police dispersed the estimated 500
people who filled the streets.
The only sure fact about this incident is that an attack took
place. Video available on the alligator.org Web site shows that
a handful of people hit and kicked police as they Tasered and
held down one man accused of interfering with an arrest and of
resisting arrest himself.
Unfortunately, the faces of those involved in the attack are
not clear. If the identities of these individuals are discovered, we
believe they should be prosecuted, and we encourage any Al-
ligator readers who can positively identify them to do the right
thing and rat them out -because that's what they deserve.
But the video does seemingly support the defendants' claim
that it would be difficult to pick the attackers out of a crowd of
500, especially after the fact. Police reports describe the attack-
ers as returning to the crowds before being arrested. We hope
that the police have positively identified the three who were ar-
rested for the attacks, rather than pulling innocent (well, mostly
innocent) partygoers out of a massive crowd and charging them
with serious crimes.
To the question of excessive force raised by multiple Alliga-
tor readers in letters and Internet comments, the videos miss
a few crucial moments that would be necessary to make that
determination. Witnesses claim that by Tasering this person
multiple times, the police crossed the line. But when faced with
what is fairly described as a "mob" of angry partygoers, the
pressure placed on the police must have been intense, and they
will undoubtedly argue that such a response was necessary.
We feel that a better question, and one we can reasonably
address with the known facts, is why the two officers chose to
engage a crowd of 500 without waiting for sufficient backup.
Simply driving through the crowd with horns and speakers in
attempts to disperse them is one thing.
But when some partygoers decided not to move, and the
crowd became more confrontational, the choice to make arrests
and deploy a Taser without waiting for more officers undoubt-
edly emboldened violent elements among the crowd.
The decisions that face police in stressful situations like this
are difficult to question, especially after the fact and without all
the evidence. But as a matter of policy, when faced with crowds
of this size, the police should refrain from acting until enough
officers are present to ensure the safety of not only the police,
but the crowds as well.
Because sometimes people need to be protected from their
own destructive tendencies.
As another matter of policy, Gainesville Police Department
should refrain from throwing around phrases like "garbage"
until all the the facts are known (well, even then it's probably
not the best PR move).
In murky situations like this, it's best not to rush to action -
or to judgment.
a ll te independent forida
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORSWill Olsen
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must includethe
author's name, classification and phone number Names wiii be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University Aye , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator. org/opinions
*. a a * ,Mag .a^ *b M 404
Copyrighted Material
eyfdicated Content 
-
Available from Commercial News Providers
Ir
0
S
*1:
Column
New policies could cut Web freedoms
irst they came for the digital pirates, and I did notspeak out -because I was not a digital pirate.
Under the auspices of "copyright protection,"
40 countries met last week in South Korea to continue
writing the obituary of digital freedom. The Anti-Coun-
terfeiting Trade Agreement, spearheaded by our presi-
dent, is so completely secret that only bigwigs at the
top of the world corporate structure are allowed to see
what is going on -and even then, only after signing a
confidentiality agreement and promising to say nothing
to the public.
Get on the Web while you still can and read about
ACTA and the next big meeting in January. A few blog-
gers are fighting the good fight on this and following
what could be the biggest story of the digital age, espe-
cially James Love from The Huffington Post. Were it not
for what already exists of the many noodly appendages
of the Internet bringing truth to power, this top-secret
global business agreement would never have seen the
light of day.
Our Congress seems to be lying down on this one, so
it is up to other free countries to enforce their own con-
stitutional law and protect the avenues of free speech
on the Internet.
Obama is going above American law and trying to
make your Internet service providers liable for content
that some soulless corporate lawyer decides is infring-
ing on their copyright.
It's sort of like holding 1-75 accountable for speeding
cars, but much more damaging.
On top of that, Obama and ACTA want to hold Web
sites legally responsible for user-generated content.
Vaya con Dios, YouTube.H
Tommy Maple
letters@alligator org
this ACTA mess.This has been an absolute wet
dream of the powerful vested in-
terests of big business since the
Web began a few decades ago, but
it has also been the defining hall-
mark of the Obama era.
Senate bill 773, The Cybersecu-
rity Act of 2009, was introduced in
April and goes even further than
Under the traditional American power grab of pro-
tecting the "free flow of commerce," S.773 wants to give
the president total power to completely shut down the
Internet for a vague "national security emergency" with
no limitations or timelines for removal.
The Patriot Act seems like a pinprick compared to
Obama and his Freddy Krueger fingers slashing up
communications freedoms.
We are living in the Golden Age of the Internet. The
Web will never again be as free as it is right now, nor
will it be as explosively evolving. Don't get used to the
way ideas flash across the world in an instant, or to the
speed that life seems to rocket along at in a spectacular
upward spiral.
The kind of power the Internet now holds scares the
real powers that control the world. If Facebook were a
country, it would be the fourth largest in the world. Not
that long ago, standing armies would be dispatched to
tear apart a group even a fraction of that size. Nowa-
days, we have politicians and lawyers butchering be-
hind closed doors.
Tommy Maple is an international communications
graduate student. His column appears on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Would you pay Monday's question: Do you
$100 to see Brett Ratner? support the troops?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org86% YES
14% NO
147 TOTAL VOTES
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Republicans aren't actually
In response to Tuesday's I
tor "Republicans aren't too con
Kilic really drops the ball. She
"attempts to pigeonhole" R
claiming that they are all "'Bi
overzealous patriots." She furl
Republicans are hurting for
party principles. Well, what
ciples? What goals does the Re
have? Banning abortion? Keep
the military? Making sure th
no matter what he is doing?
Let's imagine a fantasy w
publicans only care about co
ues: They would fight to end M
Security, welfare, minimum w
tures and the public school sys
All public spending is pork, so]
government building and mai
To top it off, they wouldn't c
another about abortion or righ
So please, Ms. Kilic, let's no
Perhaps 40 percent of America
conservative, but how many
would support a Republican
actually conservative?
U U U
Florida teens should get life
This letter is in response
editorial, "Cruel Courts." The
Florida who threw rubbing
young boy should not only be
they should be put in prison
parole. These teens knew exac
happen when they threw then
physical and psychological da
likely, death.
The Editorial Board is treconservative
etter to the edi-
servative," Ms.
says Mr. Christ
epublicans by
ble-thumping,'
her claims that
straying from
are those prin-
publican party
ing gays out of
at Obama fails,teens as the victims, not the boy who may
die from the attack. If these teens were able to
think up an act so heinous, then they should be
tried as adults. No "child" with a conscience
would be able to carry out such an act.
The victim did not deserve to be set on
fire. At what point do we, as a society, punish
equally those who commit the crimes?
Kathryn Beaty Ivey
UFstaff
U U U
world where Re- Teens knew what they were doing
nservative val- I'm writing in regards to Tuesday's edito-
edicare, Social rial, "Cruel Courts." While I agree that the ju-
age, Bright Fu- dicial system should rethink how it tries teens
tem in general. for certain crimes, I was shocked that you de-
forget about the fended the three teens charged as adults for
ntaining roads. lighting another on fire.
are one way or The whole argument is that life sentenc-
ts for gays. es are cruel and unusual for non-homicide
kid ourselves. crimes. How is lighting someone on fire not
ns think they're homicide-related? This wasn't a fight that got
do you think out of hand and went too far
Party that was These guys planned out an attack with
intent. They sought out their victim. They
Frederic Spieler brought the alcohol and matches. One of them
UFstudent poured the rubbing alcohol on the victim and
another lit the match and threw it on him.
There was plenty of opportunity for some-
one's conscience to kick in. And do you hon-
in prison estly believe that in just two or three more
to Tuesday's years these guys would know better? Or
teens in South would they then be beyond rehabilitation?
alcohol on a Maybe your Editorial Board needs some
tried as adults, "serious psychological rehabilitation" be-
for life without cause any 15-year-old knows what's wrong
tly what would with that.
watch: extensive Abigail O'Connell
nage and, most UFstudent
eating the three U E EProposed public option destined to fail
This letter is in response to statements
made by the UF College Republicans' chair-
man, Bryan Griffin, and the Florida College
Democrats' president, Ben Cavataro, in Tues-
day's article "Locals react to House vote."
Mr. Griffin, it is true that Speaker Pelosi
did not listen to the people, but she ignored
conservatives, progressives and moderates
alike. The vocal conservative opposition is
well known. What hasn't been widely publi-
cized is that nearly 60 percent of Americans
want a government-run health care option.
Where is their representation in Congress?
The public option in IR 3962 is a sham. It
will only please the ill-informed Democratic
base and anger the ill-informed Republican
base. The biggest problem is that this govern-
ment program will not be available to all. In
addition, the rates are not tied to Medicare.
The implication is that the government pro-
gramwill have to negotiate rates like any other
insurer. The catch is that when the plan opens,
it will have no enrollees, meaning health care
providers will have little incentive to offer the
volume discounts available to other insurers.
Another problem is that subsidies will be
available to citizens not enrolled in the pub-
lic plan. With this mechanism, the situation
above turns out to be a Catch-22. As the gov-
ernment program is unable to control prices,
very few people will enroll in it, leaving it per-
petually weak and unable to compete in the
market. So no, Mr. Cavataro, the public option
will not help control costs.
With the inclusion of mandatory insurance
requirements and the Stupak-Pitts amend-
ment, I think that I would be OK if Sen. Joe
Lieberman filibustered the bill. And, as a pro-
gressive who believes in the social safety net
and Keynesian economics, that hurts to say.
Clay Hughes
UFgrad studentPublic must take interest in polluted site
The Cabot-Koppers Superfund site is at
the corner of Northwest Sixth Street and
Northwest 23rd Avenue. For those of you
who don't know about this, let me enlighten
you. This property has been used since 1916
for wood treatment. Chemicals from this site
have been found seeping into the groundwa-
ter and surface water, including arsenic, cop-
per and nine other chemicals found to cause
cancers and other health problems. Accord-
ing to EPA testing in 2006, harmful chemi-
cals have already started reaching the upper
portion of the aquifer (not good, considering
nearly 100 percent of the drinking water in
Florida comes from the Floridan aquifer). As
bad as all this sounds, it might surprise you
that nearly 19 years after a cleanup approach
was signed, no action has been taken besides
a few trenches being dug.
As an environmental engineering stu-
dent, it is discouraging to see that people
don't take an active interest in issues like
this, but when they are diagnosed with can-
cer they go complain to public works. I don't
know why I am wasting my time doing wa-
ter treatment research if the citizens will ig-
nore what is seeping into the water around
them.
All I know is that the longer the issue is
left unresolved, the larger it becomes.
Joseph Delfino of the UF Environmental
Engineering Department labels this as "an
uncivil inaction," commenting that "this
has been a disgrace from the local, state
and national politics and agencies. No one
wanted to take leadership. Only now are the
residents feeling more empowered [to act],
but they cannot get it done without political
strength and the politicians' willingness to
act rather than preserve their reputations."
Chris Moody
UF environmental engineering student
theAvenue thursday, november 12, 2009
Roommates Jake Skolnick, 19, and Sami Greenberg, 21, recline and sip Kava while waiting to order a
hookah at Kava Lounge, located on University Avenue.THIS WEEK:
PG 9: Profile on DJ BB, who will
be spinning at Ultra this year
PG 11: Local band The Rooze
releases its new CD
PG 12: A pop culture wrap-up
for November and a humor col-
umn about acting
www.alligator.org/avenue
REGULA RS:
SEX: When does a relationship
become destructive? Online
FASHION: Tips for holiday par-
ty looks, page 11
COMING UP:
Next week, the Avenue speaks
with the bands that won the
mtvU Woodie Awards.
Check out the Avenue blogs for
interviews and photographs
with Bayside, who will be per-
forming for free on Friday at 8
p.m. in the Reitz. Also, follow us
on Twitter for the chance to win
prizes from the upcoming film
"The Lovely Bones."
Ime mm
Kava offers medicinal effects, soothing social atmosphere
By REBEKAH GEIER Kava's botanical name, Piper methysticum, grown by the Vanuatu tribe and tested before it to taste as earthy as it does and for it to have
avenue writer means "intoxicating pepper," according to kava. comes into the states, Ellithy said. a slight numbing of the mouth. He said that the
com. Kava Lounge serves two types of Kava drinks people who say they do not like Kava attribute
Not often do people come across an herbal "We drink Kava because it makes us more in half of a coconut shell -Shaman, $3, or Fire the reason to its strongtaste.
medicine thatworks againststress, calms nerves calm and gives us a better outlook on life," Bit- Island Kava, $4, which is more concentrated and Ellithy said there are ways to dull the strong
and "creates a general feelingof well-being" with- tenbender said. has a stronger taste. flavor, such as adding citrus fruits to the drink.
out it being illegal. But the drink Kava, an ancient Instead of traveling to Hawaii or Papua New " Many first-time Kava drinkers have a hard
beverage crop from the South Pacific, legally Guinea to sample this "South Pacific treasure ,"Kava is more of a soeil thing. People time putting their thoughts about Kava to words.
holds all of those characteristics. Gainesville residents can sip some Kava on Uni- come together and try it together." "Drinking Kava tastes like if you were to drink
Kava is a plant with roots that are used around versity Avenue. Mo Ellithy a rainforest," said Jake Skolnick, 19, a communi-
the world for medicinal effects such as seda- Mo Ellithy, 23, opened Kava Lounge, 1007 owner of Kava Lounge cations major at Santa Fe College, after his first
tion, muscle relaxation, pain relief and diuresis, W. University Ave., nine months ago after mov- taste of Kava.
excess urination. It's also used as a remedy for ingto Gainesville from Cairo, Egypt. Kava Lounge Skolnick and his roommate Sami Greenberg,
anxiety, nervousness and insomnia. serves its customers hookah and Kava drinks in Ellithy said that the lounge sees a mixed 21, come to Kava Lounge to relax, order hookah
"Some people call Kava the drink of peace," a relaxed social setting. crowd. and enjoy the atmosphere.
said Dr. H.C. "Skip" Bittenbender, an extension Ellithy, a UF biochemistry senior, was inspired "After 2 a.m., it is only the kids," Ellithy said "It's a perfect place to come with friends to
specialistfor Coffee and Kava atthe University of to open the lounge after his friends from Papua aboutthe lounge, which is open until 4 a.m. "But recap the night after going out," Greenbergsaid.
Hawaii at Manoa. New Guinea opened one without hookahs in between 8 a.m. to 12 p.m., we see all types of "It's soothing.good music, low lighting and you
He has been growing, drinking and research- Boca Raton, he said. people -neurosurgeons, lawyers -coming in have the choice to lounge back or sit on the
ing Kava for about 11 years. "Kava is more of a social thing" Ellithy said. justto drink Kava and unwind." floor."
Bittenbender said Kava originated from the "People come together and try it together." Kava's mellow effects take about 10 to 15 Whether "drinking the Earth" is a pleasant or
area of Papua New Guinea and Vanuatu. The Ellithy picks up Kava for the lounge every cou- minutes to kick in, but depend on the person and unpleasant experience, Ellithy leaves itto his cus-
crop has been in cultivation for thousands of ple of months in Boca Raton once it gets there whether he or she has eaten, Ellithy said. tomers to decide.
years and is older than coffee or tea. from Papua New Guinea. The Kava is organically Most of Ellithy's customers don't expect it "You either like it or you don't," he said.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1 2, 2009 +ALLIGATOR, 9
Local DJ BBP stays true to his music, Miami influence
By JON SILMAN
avenue writer
Disk jockey BBP's Friday night
lights are green lasers and strobes.
Behind the booth, he is seven caged
tigers condensed into one man. He
plays music out of a classic Buick cut
in half behind a bar at club Spannk.
Completely in control of the massive,
pumping sound and the young, hot
partygoers, he can turn the crowdfrom a breeze to a sandstorm in
about a half-second. In his nonde-
script black "BBP" cap and shirt and
with neatly trimmed facial hair, he
punctuates every collision of hand to
button with a full body thrust.
A Miami native since he was 2
years old -after he moved from
Cuba -Peter Pancho is the consum-
mate self-made man. He plays house
music, a style of electronic dance
music with heavy bassbreaks and rolling changes, every
Friday night and packs the place.
Things were not always so easy,
though.
As a teenager in Hialeah, Pancho
fell in love with the South Beach
electronic music scene. He started
working clubs when he was 17, and
he got good gigs in Miami clubs play-
ing popular music, but he felt he was
wasting his life
Photo courtesty of Peter Pancho
Peter Pancho, also known as DJ BBP, spins at club Spannk and remixes tracks that he sells online Pancho has been
invited to play Ultra Music Festival in Miamiaway.
"I came up to Gainesville for
Gator Growl one year, and I just fell
in love with the place. It's the perfect
party town. Exactly the scene I was
lookingfor," Pancho said.
Pancho struggled and hustled his
way up to Gainesville, saving up the
money he made from those Miami
gigs. He got an associate degree
from Santa Fe College and studied
for one semester at UF before drop-
ping out to pursue his music career
full time.
"School is not for me, bro. Music
is my passion," he said.
Pancho made a name for himself
as a DJ at club Boutiq. He worked
there for a year and a half but had to
leave after a disagreement over the
type of music he should play.
"They wanted more top 40 stuff. I
wasn't feeling that. I wanted to bring
the house music that I heard in Mi-
ami here to Gainesville," he said. "At
the end of the day, I can't do music
that I don't like."
He was back at square one. After
a few months with no work, he ran
into a promoter for the newly opened
club Spannk, and he pitched the
idea of an all house music night at
the club. It was a rocky start.
"At first, no one was showing up.
Over the course of a couple months,
it really started to get hot. By three
months, it was a revolution. The club
is always packed with a good crowd,
and I can bring in artists from all over
to DJ here," Pancho said.
In addition to working at Spannk,
Pancho also remixes tracks and sells
them online at ratedh.net. One of hissignature remixes is of the Gators
fight song with snippets of Tebow's
famous "you'll never see anyone
work harder" speech.
Pancho is passionate about work-
ing hard and chasing his dreams.
"Anythingthat you love or want
to accomplish, you can, no matter
what anyone says. Don't listen to the
negativity or the naysayers," Pancho
said. "It doesn't matter if it's house
music or Chemical Engineering, just
give it your all and don't let anyone
stop you."
All of Pancho's hard work has
recently paid off. He's been invited
to play Ultra Music Festival in Miami,
the biggest electronic music festival
in the world with more than 85,000
people in attendance in 2009.
"Eight years ago I went to Ultra for
the first time, and I knew that I would
work my ass off to get to that stage.
It's an honor," he said.
During his set, Pancho frequently
builds his songs into crescendos,
and it's like being on a perpetual
roller coaster. The rise is slow and
dreamy. There's a pause at the
peak just before the explosive drop
thatyou can feel in the pit of your
stomach.
At the end of the night, when the
crowd is filing out toward the door, a
youngSpanish man in a nice button-
up shirt leans over the bar toward
Pancho and yells,
"You are the bestf***ing DJ I
have ever seen, bro. Thank you so
much."
DJ BBP puts his hands together
and does a short bow.
"No bro, thank you."
HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATE ES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShield
of FloridaFr dbe: -tS 39 .W. d Avee373-0775
Form Number: 18533-599SU 3669 S.W. 2nd AvenueSupport the Red
Cross Services to
Armed Forces and
41 change a life,
starting with your
own
Call 1-800-RED CROSS
or visit redcross.org
Jessica is there for Tom's That way, Tom can be there
wife and kids. for our country. American
T Red Cross
THE MOLD.
Advertise in the country's
largest college newspaper.
With a daily circulation of 35,000
and a daily readership of 52,000,
reach the Gainesville college community.:E ARGURANN
Butler Plaza Newberry Square
335-1232 332-3937
GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF any one GNC ProductL Cannotbecombined.OneCouponpercustomer T
only -aalabl at Butler Plaza loation
DilSec~ias 377-6020 Exp 11/31/09
Dyslexia
.Slow Reading?
-Poor Comprehension?
-Poor Spelling?
Years of gain inweeks of treatment!
Serving Gainesville
for over 22 years.
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 15930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.com
(
.-- .- - -. -
Contact us at [352] 376.4482.----.------
afikaio ErB
10, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1 2, 2009
Cafe Gardens
For over a third of a century,
the Original World Famous
Cafe Gardens has been serving
Gators with delicious food
and a large selection of beers
and wines. Located just
across from campus near the
Florida Book Store, this quaint
landmark establishment with
award winning courtyard
dining is perfect for any date
or gathering. For live music
schedule, call 376-2233. Hours:
Mon-Wed 1 lam-lOpm, Thurs-
Sat llam-llpm, Sun Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave
Gator Dawgs
We have 26 styles of hot dogs
to choose from. Chicago, Heart
attack, Frito, Colombia, etc.
Even create your own. Our
burgers are prepared daily and
cooked to order. Our fresh deli
sandwiches come with over
1/4 lb of meat. Check out our
full menu at GatorDawgs.com.
Several delicious vegetarian &
vegan options. We are located
at 1023 W University Ave.
378-4353
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and
Stacks. The only way to
describe the Stack is that is
outrageously delicious! Its
uniquely different presentation-
three 6 inch flour tortillas
stacked high with freshgrilled
ingredients and just the right
accent of cheese- is strangely
inviting to one's palate. Come
out & try our 1/3 lb Burgers,
steak seasoned Panchos, &
Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the Home Grown
and Homemade Black Bean
Hummus! Now serving draft
and Red Stripe beers! We
deliver! Open late to serve
your late night cravings!
Sun-Wed: 1am-3am. Thurs-
Sat:I ltam-4am. 34th St Plaza
(Sweetbay)@ 2124 SW 34th St
672-6111
www.jdoobies.com
Peach Valley Cafe
Experience the freshness in
everything we do. Open daily
from 7a.m. to 8p.m. We have a
full menu ranging from Orchard
fresh Apple Fritters to fried
artichokes and Lobster bites.
Breakfast is served all day here
at Peach Valley Cafe including
Gainesville's best fresh Omelets
and Benedicts; mouth watering
Sausage Gravy and Biscuits,
and yes, Mammoth Pancakes
and waffles. Lunch and dinner
are also available any time
with bountiful salads, fresh
sandwiches, Pot Roast and
don't forget to ask your server
about our shrimp-n-grits
(wonderful). We are located at
3275 SW 34th Street directly
behind Hooter's (352) 376-
1834.ID)I\
Liquid Ginger Asian
Grille & Teahouse
101 SE 2nd Pl. (Behind
Hippodrome Theater
Downtown)
Offering Asian Fusion Cuisine
in a relaxing atmosphere.
Wed and Thurs night $5
martinis.
Open for lunch: Mon-Fri
11:30-2:30 Sun 12-5 and dinner
Sun-Thurs 5-10pm Fri-Sat
5-10:30pm
Call 371-2323 for a reservation.
43rd Street Deli and
Breakfast House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to
for over 25 years-we probably
served your parents! Biggest
4-egg omelette, French toast,
and daily specials. Not full yet?
Have lunch with us & enjoy a
large selection of sandwiches,
the best Reuben, gyros &
soup all at a reasonable price.
Vegetarian? Not a problem. We
have a selection that is sure
to fulfill your needs. We now
offer free WiFi! Open Monday-
Sunday 7am-3pm.
4401 NW 25th Place 373-2927.
3483 Williston Rd 373-5656
conveniently located off 1-75.
Bagels Unlimited
Serving Gainesville for over
25 years. BU is a tradition of
sorts. We offer many breakfast
platters cooked fresh, featuring
omelettes, eggs any style, large
pancakes, French Toast, Knishes,
17 varieties of bagels and a large
assortment of spreads. Also
available are tofu and tempeh.
Over 100 bottles of hot sauces
are available for sampling.
1222 West University Ave.
Open everyday from 6:30am-
3pm.
Donut Connection
Breakfast sandwiches, bagels w/
cream cheese, fritters, cinn rolls,
and 30 varieties of donuts.
Coffee by the lb. Best coffee in
town. Enjoy our outdoor tables.
Open every day 5a-8p 375-0376
5205 NW 39th Ave, Timber
Village. Wholesale prices
available.I1
N
Golden Buddha
Where eating well means eating
healthy.Gainesville's best
Chinese food. Now with more
sizes available with more vegan
options. As always, generous
portions, fast service & super
lunch/dinner combos. FREE
DELIVERY.
613 NW 16th Ave. 372-4282 or
380-9076. Full menu and specials
@ GoldenBuddhaSpecial.com
The Yearling
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog
legs, and alligator, as well as
USDA Prime beef, seafood, grits,
greens & hush puppies. Open
Thursday & Friday Spm-10pm,
Saturday 12pm-10pm & Sunday
12pm-8:30pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999
www.theyearlingrestaurant.com
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301
D sites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
delicious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly
without the diet taste. We also
feature a whole array of cookies,
chips, and various grocery treats
that appeal to Atkins, Weight
Watchers, and other dieters.
Our every day daily specials
make shopping at D'Lites a
special value! Come weigh your
options at the Marketplace Plaza
at NW 16th Blvd. and 43rd St.
(next to the Hollywood Video)(
or at the Shoppes of Williston at
S.W. 34th Street and Williston
Rd. (next to Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!
Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts, loose
leaf teas, and beer, with lots
of vegan options. Now open
24 hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
blocks east of campus at 1025
W. University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve
frozen yogurt as a healthy
dessert alternative. Our yogurt
has 0% fat and contains live
and active cultures. Choose
any combination of 8 different
flavors and over 30 toppings.
Everything for just 45 cents an
ounce. 3841 SW Archer Rd (next
to Bento Red) Open from noon
to midnight daily!
TCBY
Please visit one of our 3
locations to enjoy real frozen
yogurt products. Our low calorie
and low-fat soft serve is your
healthiest choice in Gainesville,
and it tastes great too. Waffle
Cone Wednesday from 5-8p.m.
and half-off smoothies from
5-6p.m. every day! Locations
at 34th Street next to Crispers,
Thornebrook Village at 43rd
Street and Town of Tioga. Find
us one Facebook and follow us
on Twitter at "TCBYgainesville"
Yogaberry
OPEN LATE-ACROSS FROM
THE UNIVERSITY IN TARGET
COPY! Come build your healthy
treat at Yogaberry! Our yogurt
is 100% fat free and the only
yogurt that is made with real
organic milk. Choose from an
array of fresh fruit toppings cut
daily, candies and fun cereal.
New flavors for you to try daily,
and always free samples! In
addition, we have the finest
organic, free-trade coffee.
Our coffee bar features lattes,
cappuccino's, espresso, cuban
coffee's, yoga mocha's and much
more!Let's Eat Diner
The best kept secret in
Gainesville, Let's Eat Diner is a
small diner just off the beaten
path on 39 Ave at NW 22 Dr.
Open Mon-Sat 7am till 8pm
serving breakfast, lunch, and
supper and Sunday 11am till
2pm with a lunch buffet. We
serve home style cookin'. "Just
like Momma used to fix." 352-
378-0738 www.letseatdiner.com
Oh yeah, we also do catering!
Green Mango
The best Indian food in
Gainesville. Serving Gainesville
since 1991. The best Samosas
in Florida. Offering many vegan
dishes. We are specialized
in catering any group size.
Delivery available-free delivery
on any purchase over $25! Open
7 days Mon-Sat 11:30am-9pm,
Sunday lpm-8pm. Call 352-505-
6200. 7625 W Newberry Rd
Luca's Pasta
Customize your own pasta.
Over 100 combinations, starting
@ $2.99! Choose your pasta,
sauce, & topping. All made fresh
& quick. Vegan & Gluten-free
options too. Open Mon-Sat 11-9.
Delivery/take out/dine in. See
menu online www.lucaspasta.
com.
607 W. University Ave.
352-338-1700
Manuel's Vintage
Room
This family owned restaurant
is perfect for dinner any day of
the week. Come in and check
out one of the best wine lists in
town. Ask questions and learn
while you wait for the chef to
put out nothing but goodness
from the kitchen using fresh,
simple, and local ingredients.
Try the Early Dinner Sunday,
Tuesday-Thursday 5-7pm. $3
wines/$10 bottles. $10 Menu.
Ask about our Monday Wine
Dinners and private parties for
lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
St. (352)375-7372Caribbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
and oxtail. Opened Mon thru
Thurs IIam-7:30pm, Fri and Sat
llam-11:45pm.
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
352-374-8111
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a
hip, trendy atmosphere. Two
great locations with outside
eating. Open every day for carry-
out or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.
Cabana Cove
Key West Grille
Now offering a new bistro
inspired menu.
Open for lunch and dinner.
Full martini and mojito bar.
Voted nicest outdoor dining.
COUPON -DATE NIGHT -COUPON
Choose 1 appetizer, 2 entrees, a
bottle of wine, and share a slice
of Key Lime Pie.
All for only $39.99 (expires
12/1/09)
2410 NW 43rd Street
Gainesville
352-377-3278
Please visit us online at
www.cabanacove.net for
additional savings and coupons.
The Olam Cafe
Mouthwatering, healthy Kosher
cuisine at affordable prices!
Daily $10 All-You-Can-Eat
Dinner Specials. Mexican, Pan-
Asian, Italian, Mediterranean
& American Deli! SUSHI night
every Wednesday at the low
price of $10! NEW this semester-
Schwarma & Falafel Station!
Fresh Salad Bar daily with over
50 + items! Take-out available.
Lunch Specials starting at $5
11:30-2:30 M-F. Dinner 5:30-8:30
M-Th. Located inside the Hillel
building across from O'Dome.
202 W University Ave. 352-248-
2606 www.theolamcafe.com
For event info:
www.myolamcafe.comTo GuoD)jj To
(11 1 r
L.jLocal act The Rooze
releases new CDGreen Plantains
Happy Hour $2.75
Drink+ Appetizer from 3-7pm.
$5 To-Go Dinners. Mon-Sat
from 4pm. Don't miss out $4.95
dinner + soda on Thursday,
student night from 4pm-10pm.
Visit us at 5150 SW 34th Street
at the new Publix Shopping
Center 7 days a week.
We cater. Check us out on
GatorFood.com 352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.com
THE JONES
Gainesville's own indepen-
dently owned community
restaurant dedicated to bringing
sustainable, local, and organic
food to the table. Oh, and it's
really yummy. Herbivores,
carnivores, & omnivores
welcome! *Breakfast & Lunch:
8am to 3pm every day. Dinner:
Friday thru Monday nights
5pm to lOpm.* Check out our
Facebook page for specials and
events. 401 NE 23rd Avenue
352.373.6777
Mildred's Big City Food
Eat Gainesville's Best Food at
Mildred's. We support LOCAL
and SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh Dishes
Made From Scratch!
OPEN SUNDAYS!
CONVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371-1711
MildredsBigCityFood.com
New Deal Caf6
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burgers! This l2oz.
Goliath is Naturally Aged and
Fresh Ground. MONSTROUS
Desserts. HUGE Martinis.
A Diamond in the Ruff!
Mon-Thurs. 1lam-10pm
Fri-Sat. llam-llpm
371-4418
Located next door to Mildred's
Ti Amo!
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine
agrees, "[the chef] adds visual
flair to every dish to make it as
good-looking as it is flavorful."
NEW Happy Hour Specials!
Every day from 4pm-7pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices &
terrific service.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.
com
12 SE 2nd Ave. 378-630709@ @fMQRE
Kickin Devil Cafe
Restaurant
Gainesville's newest treasure.
Locally owned restaurant with
great Cajun and Caribbean
vegetarian food! Enjoy
jambalaya, gumbo, French
crepes, delicious salads and much
more! Groove to a selection of
eclectic music while you settle in
for an evening of delicious food.
Live music most nights after
dinner. It's 4 blocks from Satchels
in the industrial park, 2 blocks
west of Sonnys. Five dollar
lunches, buy 2 get I free drinks,
4 course dinners for 2 for $29.95
Open Tues-Sat 352-505-6660
Book your party here or let us
cater your event!
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy toeGainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta, & desserts. All you
can eat buffet available!
Outdoor dining. Visit www.
newyorkpizzaplus.com for
coupons. We Deliver!
490 NE 23rd Ave.
376-3444
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade,
meals, sandwiches, soups,
home-baked desserts. Brunch
Weekends. Specials: Cupcake
Mon., Southern Cooking Tues.,
Greek Wed 6pm, Ethiopian Thurs
6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 10am-8pm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
Saigon Legend
Delicious traditional Vietnamese
cuisine with popular Asian
favorites. Pho-Banh Xeo, Banh
Tom Ha-Woi. Enjoy great food
at great prices. Family owned
restaurant. Next to Holiday Inn.
Vietnamese subs-pork, chicken, &
tofu. Dine-in or take out. Catering
available. Mon-Sat 10:30am-
9:30pm, Sun 11:30am-9pm
374-0934
1228 W Univ Ave
a'llgatorAdding shine to
holiday outfits
By KARINA GALVEZ
avenue writer
'Tisfinally the season to bring
out your holiday best for every
cocktail party and family gath-
ering. When picking the perfect
outfits for the holiday season,
think versatility and embellish-
ment with key accessories to
create looks that will transition
between friends and family.
The season's most popular
accessories can add holiday
sparkle to dresses already hang-
ing in your closet. Last year's
New Year's Eve black dress can
become this year's Thanksgiv-
ing or holiday office party frock
by pairing it with a jewel-toned
cardigan, animal print or faux
fur cover-up. Wear your dress
to a funkier gathering by pairing
it with a full neck of jewels or a
feathered hair piece.
When shopping for new piec-
es to add to your holiday ward-robe, keep trends and wearabil-
ity in mind. If your celebrations
take you south, a thin, animal
print scarf may be a more sen-
sible option than a fur collar. The
heat will force that fur collar to
stay in your closet and you to
make an unplanned trip to the
mall. If you're headed north for
the holidays, keeping your legs
warm under a cocktail dress
has never been more fun. Pat-
terned tights add an interesting
accent to plainer dresses while
Iam6 or sequined leggings make
a bolder statement. Minimize
accessories by focusing on one
trend and carrying it through the
entire look. A sequined dress or
animal printsilk top is enough to
make a statement without over-
doing it.
The holiday season is by na-
ture full of light and glitter. Ac-
cessorize smartly to avoid the
risk of being confused for an or-
nament.
Holiday Dress Tips
+ Add a new look with a cardigan or fur cover-up
ckae jewel
+ Accessorize with statement necklaces or
head bands
a s drsses with outrageous leggings to
+Layer simple dresses yor took
add a little sparkle to You
+ Don't Combine too many trends -focus on one
key element to make your ensemble popTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2009 + ALLIGATOR, 1 1
By MEAGAN MCGONE
avenue writer
Take one part Beatles, toss in the
sounds of Phish and garnish the mix
with a tad of '80s rock. What do you
get?
The Rooze's new CD, "The One for
Everyone."
The Gainesville band, consisting
of drummer Greg McCracken, guitar-
ist Brandon Cook and singer/bassist
David Farb, released its second al-
bum last week. The members have
been playing roots rock together for
more than a year around Gainesville
and various cities throughout Flori-
da.
"Our music is pretty danceable
and pretty upbeat," Cook said. "A lot
of people tell us it's not like other
music out there, in a good way."
Cook said that the sound of The
Rooze is different than other bands
because each band member has dif-ferent tastes that contribute to the
music they play. While Cook listens
to rock bands like the Foo Fighters,
Farb brings his love for indie music to
the table and McCracken's passion
for '80s hard rock shines through his
heavy drum beats.
"Take all of those [tastes], jumble
them together, then take the best
parts of each, and that's what we
sound like," Cook said.
He also said thatThe Rooze strives
to bring live music back to Gainesville
hangouts, as more clubbers prefer to
listen to DJs these days. The band
play at clubs and bars such as Mar-
ket Street Pub, Common Grounds
and the Atlantic.
The Rooze will perform its next
show at the Deland Music Festival on
Saturday. The festival is the biggest
one-day festival in the Southeast
with over 100 independent acts play-
ing on 21 different stages, according
to its Web site.
12, ALLIGATOR* THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1 2, 2009
November dos and don'ts
By ALEX ORLANDO
avenue writer
Gentlemen, start your follicles.
As we near the end of the second week of No
Shave November, thousands of men are taking
it upon themselves to deter women, cleanliness
and job applications in the month-long event that
supposedly separates the men from the boys.
For those of you who don't know what No
Shave November is, it's the month where men,
and sometimes women, forgo the act of shaving,
trimming or any other sort of shearing of their fa-
cial hair to show hypermasculinity.
But be warned no-shavers, in addition to
catching disgusted looks from women and scar-
ing small children, you may come home for that
relaxing Thanksgiving break to get the ass-whip-
ping of a lifetime from your dad, who thinks the
hairier version of you that just walked in the door
in the middle of the UF v. FSU game is really a
blood-thirsty hobo looking to crash dinner-
By the way, it would probably be a good idea
to stay away from playgrounds or to keep from
buying white vans from the '70s during this time.
You'll already look creepy enough.
If you want another way to put a strain on ro-
mantic and otherwise friendly relationships for
the sake of exhibiting your manliness, you can
always try what Robert Clarkson of Queenstown,
New Zealand, did.
This innovative man decided to stray from the
doldrums of typical suburban living by turning his
house into a pirate ship.
When he proposed the idea to his then-sensi-
ble girlfriend, she scoffed and made an outland-
ish deal with him in which she would only con-
cede if he were able to raise a Facebook group of
one million people in support of the pirate house
idea.
Well, she shouldn't have underestimated the
will of a pirate-at-heart combined with a bunch ofpeople who will back whatever they find interest-
ing.
After two years of gathering members, Clark-
son's Facebook group, "If 1m people join, girl-
friend will let me turn our house into a pirate
ship," reached its goal Oct. 29 of this year.
Now, the 26-year-old Clarkson just has to fig-
ure out how to raise funds and tell the neighbors
what he's up to. Fortunately, his girlfriend has
since warmed up to the idea, so this pirate is still
going to be getting booty. You didn't really think
I'd be able to get through this without such a pa-
thetic pun, did you?
Here's something for the more feminine read-
ers, if you're still with me. I'm sure most of you
have heard about Aerosmith's frontman, Steven
Tyler, leaving the band.
Apparently, the old fogeys all just got so pissy
with each other that he up and quit just before
their 40th anniversary next year. But, the band
thinks, for some reason, that they'll be able to
move on without the raspy-voiced lead singer.
Those dudes need to swallow their pride and
realize what their band's all about. And I know a
lot of you girls are solely attracted to that lanky
guy who has better highlights than your mom but
is old enough to be your father. You are the rea-
son I throw "Aerosmith's Greatest Hits" into my
car's CD player when I go on dates.
Someone needs to tell those guys that Aero-
smith can't physically continue without Steven
Tyler.
The week-long anticipation to find out who
would be involved in the threesome on Gossip
Girl turned out to be not so hot. Don't worry, I
won't give too much away. It's bad enough that
Hilary Duff is on the show, but Lizzie McGuire in a
threesome? I don't want to think about that.Small roles still allow
for humor, revenge
By ERIK VOSS
avenue writer
My first acting role was in a third
grade Valentine's Day-themed play
called "Princess Lonely Heart." It
was one of those low-budget cafe-
torium shows for parents to waste
their camcorders' batteries on their
child's struggle to remember lines.
The show's director was an old,
cranky Australian woman named
Mrs. Kelly. On the surface, her goal
appeared to be fostering the theat-
rical arts in young people, but only
I knew her true plan: to manipulate
the casting process to reward the
students who adored her most.
"Good morning, Mrs. Kelly!" we
cheered in our conditioned Austra-
lian accents upon her arrival every
Wednesday morning.
"Good morning," she'd reply.
"It's nice to see you all."
"And it's nice to see you, Mrs.
Kelly!" lied Tommy.
That stunt landed Tommy the
part of Cupid.
I was denied all the big roles and
instead cast as Cupid's fourth mes-
senger. It was an insignificant role
with few lines, redeemed by the
fact that I got to carry a bow and
arrow, which Mrs. Kelly confiscated
when I tried to assassinate Cupid.
Mrs. Kelly did not trust boys. To
her, we were thugs who refused to
memorize lines and shanked one
another with pencils. The only way
to protect the fairer sex was to con-fine boys to walk-ons and charac-
ters with lines like "Yes, sir" and
"Hooray!"
Her suspicions were partly valid,
however. Everytime she snapped at
the boys to speak louder or smile,
we'd visualize her being mauled by
kangaroos.
"Oy, mate!" she'd wail. "Help
me!"
"I'd love to help, Mrs. Kelly," I'd
respond, "but someone took my
bow and arrow."
Still, as much
as I hated the
woman, I couldn't
help trying to win
her affection. On
the day of the
show, I prayed a
meteor strike or a group of loose
kangaroos might take out Cupid
and his first three messengers, al-
lowing me to ascend into the spot-
light and reveal my superior talent.
"Brilliant! You're way better than
Tommy!" Mrs. Kelly would shout
from the back of the cafetorium.
"Here's your bow and arrow back."
Such a miracle never happened.
Instead, my mother's old VHS tape
shows Cupid's only unarmed mes-
senger mutter his one line:
"Hooray."
In that one, poorly delivered
word, I brought down the whole sys-
tem. Cupid's Fourth Messenger did
not smile. What now, Mrs. Kelly?
With "hooray," I had the last
hurrah.
H CE GI'T GUIDEnlQn THE WINTER 2009
The Alligator offers great gift ideas to
more than 52,000 readers!
This is the perfect opportunity
to promote your business to UF and SFC
2"d ANNUAL students, faculty and staff looking for
TALENT SHOW graduation gifts and holiday shopping.
Doors Open at 6:30pm Feature your gift items on our themed pages!
Rion Ballroom Deadline:
November 14, 2009 Friday, November 13
allCgA, ports
Tune in for the
latest Gators
sports news:
and analysis,
from our beat
writers and
columnists.
Check it out at
alligatorSporls.org
or subscribe on iTunes.Run Date:
Friday, November 20
Call your sales rep today:
352.376.4482
alligatorABring a Manatee
Home
For
The
Holidays
This holiday season, Adopt-A-Manatee, for someone you
love and help ensure the survival of these unique
animals. For $20, "parents" receive an adoption
certificate, a photo and biography of their manatee and a
membership handbook. Your contribution will go toward
efforts to help protect endangered manatees and their
habitat.
Save the Manatee Club -1-800-432-JDIN (5646)
500 N. Mainland Ave., Maitland, FL 32751
www.savethemanatee.orgYour donation is tax-deductibleI
I-
F
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
12-9-75-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$299/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Rms avail in 4BR Call Eric, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Apartment in Windsor
Park. $450/ea. room. FREE Internet and
cable! New W/D. On bus route to UF. 305-
788-5681/windsor5l5@gmail.com. 11-23-
09-45-1
2 bdrm/ 2 bth, fully furnished townhome
in Haile Plantation, SW Gainesville, front
garden, back porch. $950-$1050 for short or
long term. Ideal for visiting scholars, sabbati-
cals. 352-331-3183 11-19-09-30-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $850/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Ready to move in! Ed 305-972-6432
11-17-09-25-1
4 bdr house, tenants needed
$350/month + Util (avg $100/month)
5 mins from SantaFe 15 from UF, free ample
parking, end of cul-de-sac, wooded lot.
Call Zack-813-713-7341 11-17-09-15-1
DUCKPOND -BIKE TO UF.
Fully furnished room upstairs. Share all
downstairs Only $80/week + 1/3 utils. Two
rooms avail. 872-8388 11-13-09-10-13 blks from campus!! For rent 4/2. Each
room $400/mo. Includes utilities & Internet.
Beautiful pool & courtyard. A great place to
live in a great location. 813-690-8989. 11-
13-09-10-1
0
Tradition of Student Living
Fully furnished student suites
Starting @ $399 all inclusive
3700 SW 27th St 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.Com
12-9-09-40-1
Oxford Terrace I -Furnished 1BR/1BA in fur-
nished 4/4 Condo. Near Sorority Row- Avail
Jan-June(or longer) $530/mo inc $30 toward
util. parking spot, washer/dryer, internet
NYFL@aol.com 11-16-09-6-1
Walk to Campus. 'ndiv. leases available at
Oxford Terrace. Private bedroom and bath.
Washer/Dryer, Dishwasher, cable, internet
and utilities included. Campus Realty 352-
692-3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com
12-9-09-20-1
Walk to Campus. $380 per month, cable in-
ternet, utilities included. Indiv. lease, short
term, furnished. Campus Realty 352-692-
3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 12-
9-09-20-1
$385-3 bed/3 baths open in 4/4 Countryside
condo. Rent alone or with friends! On routes
9 and 35, all utilities included, for Spring or
longer. Call Nalini @ 352.514.3398. 11-23.
10-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
Amazing Values @ Arbor Park!
1 brs from $539 732+ sq ft
2brs from $599 1015+ sq ft
3brs from $750 1223+ sq ft
Water Included Pet-friendly
335-7275 * www.arborpark.com
12-9-09-75-2
Tired of Roommates?
Hate Living Far From Everything?
Downtown One Bedrooms Now Leasing!
Move-in TODAY for only $699!
Pool*Free Parking*Blocks to Campus
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR/1 BR $465 * 2BR/1 BA $569
No Move In Fees! *Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Best Location & Great Price
Large 2/1's available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now or Fall 2010.
2 & 3 Bedroom Townhomes.
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
A SPECIAL PLACE TO CALL HOME
1 BR from $585
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $755
Tanning*Fitness*Tennis*Pool*Playground
Washer/Dryer*Fireplaces*Pools
Call us for a tour! 376-2507
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
1, 2, 3's! madisonpointe.org
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
12-9-75-2*POLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 *106 NW 10 Street
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$465, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499- 150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
75-212-9-
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 12-9-
09-75-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921 352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $800/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
11-16-09-76-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Pine Rush
1 bdr. from $459 2bdr. from $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
14, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2009
For Rent For Rent For Rentb sateunfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Homestead
2/1 from $629 2/2 from $749
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Gator Village
1 bdr. from $489
Near Downtown and 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Sunrise
lbdr. from $469
Near UF, Schands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Summer Place
1 bdr. from $459
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$620 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172 888-373-0849
12-9-09-50-2
ONE BLOCK TO UF (WALK TO CLASS)
3 bed 1 1/2 bath House- $1725
3 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utilities)- $1575
1 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utlities)- $645
Near SW 1st & 2nd Ave and SW 12th St.
No dogs (available now or spring semester)
Negotiable lease terms
call 352.337.9600 for more info 11-30-55-2
LARGE 2BR/1BA
Tile floors, except BRs. Covered patio. Close
to Shands. Only $550/mo. 1 yr lease. Call
352-372-3131 12-9-09-41-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
HOUSE avail now. 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles to
UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace, cent
H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo. Call 327-
2931 or 376-6183 11-13-09-28-2
1BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St.
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <50bs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 11-
30-09-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 11-24-
09-30-2
www.AndreeRealty.com
We specialize in rentals, sales & property
management. Try us. 352-375-2900 11-30-
09-30-2
HISTORIC DUCKPOND
1BR/1BA apt in vintage house. Hardwood
floorstile, renovated kitchen, quiet, blocks to
downtown $575 per mo. STUDIO $475/mo.
306 NE 6th St. 379-4952 11-23-09-24-2Holiday Special/Big Time Savings 1BR 1BA, Grad II Apts
NO MOVE-IN COSTS 1Blk to UF! Central H & Air,
Free Rent (Don't Pay Anything until 2010) Carpet, Laundry Fac. On site,
Please Hurry.Only Few More Units Inclds Wtr, Swg, Pst Cntrl &
Garbage. $500/Mo. 1236 SW
Rocky Point Apartments Country Gardens 4th Avenue. Call Merrill
3100 SW 35th Place 2001 SW 16th St Management Inc 352-372-1494 11-25-09-
352-376-1619 352-373-4500 13-2
Regency Oaks South West Villas 1 BR 1 BA Apt, Central H & Air
3230 SW Archer Rd. 3643 SW 20th Ave 2 Blks to UF, Carpet, xtra room
352-378-5766 352-336-9000 1029 Sw 3rd Avenue $500/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc
We Speak Spanish 352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
11-20-09-20-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
First Month Free! Beautiful, spacious 3/2 2BR 1BA Apts $600/Mo
condo, centrally located 1.5 miles from UF. 5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
VERY LOW UTILITIES! Pool, W/D. Quiet; no Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
pets, please. Reduced to $975. Exit Realty 829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Producers 352-316-6842. 10-20-09-7-2 Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
$550/month Large 2/1 Apt close to UF/
Shands W/D hookup,D/W, balcony No pets 2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
625 SW 11th Ln Call 352-231-3002 or Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
email hodgeproperties@cox.net 11-16-09- 1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
15-2 Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 11-25-09-13-2
Summit House across the street. $700/mo +
$200 dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 11-
25-21-2
$550 Roomy 2/1.5 townhalf,Shands
arealaundromat plus wd hookup,adjacent to
Ag campus, city busses,your fenced yard.
quiet, nice, affordable.900 s.f.
386-972-4115. Moritae@yahoo.com
11-18--09-15-2
Baxter Cottage
2 blks to UF campus, 1013 SW 4 Ave
2BR/1BA, Bright, clean, completely remod-
eled, Cent AC/Ht,wood firs, DW, W/D, NS,
NPets. $695+util. ATucker458@aol.com
11-17-14-2
WWW.BIKETOUF .COM
1 BR from $575
2 BR from $625
3 BIR from $745
Tan ning*Fitness*Ten nis*Pool
Washer/D ryer*Pets Welcome!
Call us for a tour! 377-7401
12-9-09-40-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Sundowne
Studio from $439 1bdr. from $479
Walk to Butler Plaza
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Courtney Greens
Totally Renovated 1 bdr. from $599
1 MONTH FREE! Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Ashton Square
2/2 from $739 3/2 from $799
1 MONTH FREE! Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
COTTAGE 1 BR/1BA w/carport
$500/mo Near university in historic district.
Call 352-332-8481 11-18-09-10-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 11-12-
09-5-2
1 Block to UF! GREAT LOCATIONS
1 BR and 2BR Apts. See our list at
www.merrillmanagement.net
or call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 11-25-09-13-2
3BR 1.5 BA with family Room
Tile Floors, Laundry Room,
Central H & Air, Carport
319 NW 16th Avenue
$800/Mo. Call Merrill Management
Inc 352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
2BR 1BA Apt 1BLK TO UF!
Grad II Apts Special: $675/Mo
Central H & Air, Dishwasher
1236 Sw 4th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 11-25-09-13-22901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
3BR House for rent
Wood floors, front/back porch. 2035 NW 35th
Ave. Close to UF, SFC busline. $750/mo.
Available now. Flex lease. 352-318-8822
11-13-09-5-2
3bd/2ba home for rent. Fireplace, huge kitch-
en, walk-in closets, backporch w/ garden,
large yard w/ creek, great view, 2 car garage.
Any pets welcome. 1475 w/o utilities. 561-
818-0103. 11-13-09-4-2
Move In Ready. Close to Campus and
Shands 1,2,3,& 4 bedrooms & individual
leases. Campus Realty 352-692-3800 rent-
als.campusrealtygroup.com 12-9-09-20-2
Two bedroom one bath condo for only $450
per month. Move in ready. On busline.
Washer/Dryer and Dishwasher. Will not last
long. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealty.org 12-9-09-20-2
$475-Female only for 1/1 in 3/3 Campus
View Condos. Furnished living/dining,
W/D,3rd Floor Unit, Newly built. Bedroom
furn available. Lease ends July 2010. Walk
to campus, shands, VA. 727-776-7098 11-
24-10-2
2 BR / 2.5 BTH Townhouse
Kensington North -3870 SW 20th Ave.
BRAND NEW tile & carpet, W/D, D/W,
INCLUDES utils & ethernet, pets welcome
Only $800/mo. Call 561.251.5425 11-23-
09-8-2
2 BR 2.5 Bath Townhouse behind UF Hilton
off of 34th St. Washer/Dryer $600 Call 352-
860-2202 11-20-7-2
2/2 ROCKWOOD VILLAS CONDO -$750
Avail Dec. 2009 or Spring 2010.
Gladys or Dan at 786-201-1158 or 305-491-
7333. OR gladysazocar@yahoo.com 11-
19-09-6-2
Isubleases
avail. Dec 1st 2/2 in Treehouse Village with
w/d, gym, pool, on bus line.
Mary Seales: 352-372-3096 or
seales@vanrooy.com ref: L202 11-12-5-3
New 1BR/1BA in 3/2 for spring/summer -2
blocks from UF for $650 negotiable. Female.
Easy to move-in w/parking & furn avail. Util,
W/D, internet included. Call 954-593-6753
11-16-09-6-3
Rent huge master bedroom at Sabal Palms!
2 blocks from UF!
Private bath, granite countertops,
washer and dryer. $710.
Available Spring and Summer 407-496-4610
11-16-5-3DEC FREE: lbr/lba in 2br/2ba. Female to
share in Looking Glass Apts. Walk to cam-
pus. Washer/Dryer, Lease to August. $495/
month + 1/2 utilities. 352-871-0162 11-20-
09-8-3
eRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 11-30-09-55-4
Enjoy A Romatic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
11-23-09-30-4
1 month free-Share 2B/2B MH in Cornerstone.
Furn rm avail now. $200 N/R dep. $400/mo
or $100/wk util incl. Laundry/cook/clean svc
avail. Near bus/shops. 30 day notice to va-
cate. Some pets ok. Call 331-0762 11-16-
20-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail Jan 1st.
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 11-13-
09-16-4
WALK TO UF 1 or 2 rooms in a 4/2 apt.
Ind. leases end 7/31/10. $295/month/room.
No pets. 1740 NW 3rd PL Call 352-231-3002
or email hodgeproperties@cox.net 11-16-
09-15-4
Walk or bike to UF, Shands orVA. Roommate
needed for nice 2/1, $350/mo + half utilities
at Summit House on SW 16th Ave. Recently
renovated. $200 dep. Call 352-843-0220 to
see. 11-25-21-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
11-12-09-10-4
Female wanted to share new 3BR/3BA home
near campus(SW area)2400sf. On bus route.
Washer & dryer included. Furnished, except
your bedroom. $425 plus utilities. Serious,
non-smoking students only. 813-610-1698
11-20-15-4
Female roommates needed. Live in a big new
house w/ bus stop to UF, quiet/relax area,
fenced yard,private pool. 520/month all inclu-
sive. Joyce 941-724-0961. Must see House
Pics: tinyurl.com/mbs77r 11-25-15-4
A clean, preprofessional, non-smoking room-
mate for a 2/2.5 townhome close to UF and
Santa Fe. $400 + 1/2 of the utilities (cable
and internet included), W/D, Bdr unfurnished.
Contact Gene at 561-827-4970. 11-13-09-
5-4
Female roommate needed, 4/2.5 townhouse,
1-75 and Newberry, all included, gated, $400
baezwpa@bellsouth.net 954-557-4769
1-19-09-30-4
$385-Female roommate needed for 1/1 in
4/4 Univ. Terrace condo with all utilities in-
cluded, fully furnished, on routes 12 and 35,
very clean, for Spring or longer. Call Anu @
352-262-0628. 11-23-10-4
Roomate wanted at Madison Pointe fur-
nished 2br-2bath Spring Semester. I am
a male 5th year eng. student graduating in
spring. Contact for more info at
oshea03@ufl.edu or call 352-231-2709. 11-
18-5-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Gator Getaway -Exp old Florida. 20 acre lot 4
miles south of Archer. Century old live oaks,
high & dry, beer & turkey. 15 mins from Gville.
Investment priced $6500/acre. Certified ap-
praisal as of 9/8/09. 352-528-2406 Ten
11-30-09-30-5
4bed/3Bath home in Savanna Pointe, just off
the Prairie. $479,500. Rural setting yet
urban proximity. MLS#308127. Dawn Realty
Visit VernonClouser.com for all the Details.
Off Williston Rd, just West of Country Club
11-17-8-5
Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 15
F Furnishings Furnishings Computers Autos Autos
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
SMALL APT SIZE REFRIGERATOR
Ideal for dorm. Good condition. $40/OBO.
Call 352-336-4493 11-13-5-6
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
12-9-74-7
Want the Inside Scoop onI( A P1A N Medical School?
Medical School Insider
1-800-KAP-TEST Thurs, Nov. 19th 7:00 -9:00 PM
kaptest.com/medinsider On Campus
.* 6 1pe 0 0 11 00 0 -.0
I
Copyrighted Mat
Syndicated Con
Available from Commercial Ne
I
* I
-3-,m~~
mm
I0
erial *IComputer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS 0
ORunning or not!@
uNEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
00ver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS Buy6Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-122003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
Students Guaranteed Financing!
Do you have a valid drivers license?
Do you have a part time job?
Ride today for $750 down!
Call Angie @ 352-672-5048 11-19-10-12
1995 gold Mazda MX-6; 135,000 miles
Manual transmission, fully loaded,
looks and runs great, high mpg.
email:tracker1833@ufl.edu
ph:561-376-9509 11-18-09-5-12
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN) WE BUY JUNK CARS Wanted
12-9-74-9 Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
For Sale
I BUYI CARS & TD RUCKS
*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
THE ORIGINAL RALLY TOWEL. YOU'VE
SEEN THEM IN THE STADIUM, NOW
GET YOUR OWN. THE ORIGINAL RALLY
TOWEL. JUST HOW BIG OF A FAN ARE
YOU? www.therallytowel.com 11-24-09-
14-10
WMtorcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
S***GatorMoto***Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warrantiesws Pro vier included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11S I8 SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
**Www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gvlle's #1 service facility. We
. - repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
W%
I000000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11Call Anytime 352-339-5158
11-16-09-42-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 12-9-49-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 12-9-49-12
92 Nissan Stanza $999 cash
98 Grand Am $999 cash
96 Kia Sephia $1299 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $1999 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $1999 cash
96 Plymouth Minivan $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
95 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
94 Honda Accord $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
IVE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
Z ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 11-20-09-74-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 11-
20-09-74-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
the independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14Computers J fl7 icies
16, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2009
F Help Wanted Help Wanted f Help Wanted Services nnections
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
Graduate debt-free. Earn cash while attend-
ing college. For a confidential interview call
1-800-577-2021 & please leave your name &
number TWICE 12-9-68-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
We need people to post ads
online. Social networking
knowledge a plus. Get paid
every Friday. For details see
paycheckonfriday.com 11-12-45-14
Earn Extra Money. Students needed ASAP.
Earn up to $150 per day being a Mystery
Shopper. No Experience Required. Call
1-800-722-4791 11-20-41-14
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children.
FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA
in education. Benefits available with FT. Call
377-2290 or 373-1481 11-13-09-27-14
STUDENT WORK
GREAT PAY
Customer Sales/Service
Flex Sched, PT/FT Avail,
Work around classes,
conditions apply,
352-371-9675
11-12-09-20-14Telecommunications--Software Engineers/
Programmers C/C++ programmers for
Embedded digital TV software (Cable,
Satellite, Video over IP). Nagravision has
openings in our Atlanta and Gainesville, FL
offices. 2-7 years experience. Competitive
salaries, benefits, relocation. Send resume
or questions to: resumes.atlanta@lw.net
11-25-09-28-14
Transcription/Office Asst
Must be pleasant, enjoy people & have expe-
rience; also admin. & grading psych tests.
Email res. info@villagecounselingcenter.net
11-12-09-10-14
YARD WORK Mowing. Car detailing. Pool
maintenance. Back up shipping. Errands.
Miscellaneous duties. Must have a valid driv-
ers license and good driving record. Own ve-
hicle. Truck preferred. Please apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com 11-13-09-10-14
Hair models wanted for long hair in motion
studies. Hip-length or longer only. No experi-
ence necessary. $70 to $120 and hour. Call
352 792-1824 modelslh@yahoo.com
11-19-09-12-14
Barn help needed 1 day per week
Exchange for boarding or lessons
EXPERIENCE NECESSARY!
Call 359-4149 11-17-09-10-14
Opus Cafe -Coffee Bar
We are searching for fun and active
students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at
a fast paced coffee bar near campus.
Starting pay is $7.75/hour + tips.
To apply, go to our website, www.opus-cafe.
com, click on the employment tab, and
follow the directions.
11-16-09-8-14
Medical Office Manager for mid-sized
Dermatology practice. Duties includeperform-
ing or supervising ICD-9/CPT coding, billing
and collections; A/R; payroll management;
employee supervision and maintenance of
employee records and benefits; insurance
evaluation and contracting; interfacing with
clinical staff and physicians; preparing finan-
cial reports and interfacing with accountant.
Seeking a mature, energetic individual with
experience but will train motivated candi-
date. Salary, benefits and possible incentive
commensurate with experience. Bachelors
degree desired. Email resume ofmgrbeers@
AOL.com or fax to 352-332-2966.
11-12-09-5-14
Spring Design Internship!
352 Media Group is seeking young artists
with experience in
Fireworks or Photoshop to learn from our
Web design
team. Interested? Email
Internship@352media.com for details! 11-
19-09-10-14
Spring Programming Internship!
352 Media Group is seeking talented stu-
dents with experience in Web programming
and development.
Interested? Email
Internship@352media.com for details! 11-
19-10-14
GET PAID TO TAKE NOTES! Email your
course listing and a brief description about
yourself to ufl@sharenotes.com
START EARNING TODAY! 11-20-09-10-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
408 W University Ave. suite 106
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$8/hr + BONUS + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES
09-20-1412-9-
Sales rep for Internet finance company.
Must work independently & meet deadlines.
Strong attention to detail & organization.
Research skills required. Sales experience
a plus. Salary starts at $24k/year + commis-
sion. Send resume to jobs@nationaltech-
mark.com or fax 1-866-728-4579 w/Financial
Sales in subject. 11-23-09-10-14Programmer needed w/experience in ASP
&/or ASP.net, Javascript programming, re-
lational databases, Perl &/or PHP, Ajax,
JSON, & semantic web development w/
CSS. $32,000/yr commensurate w/exp. Fax
1-866-728-4579 or jobs@nationaltechmark.
com w/"Programmer" in Subject. 11-23-
09-10-14
Bench Scientist: Self-motivated individual
with strong problem-solving skills to work in
analytical testing. Knowledge of ELISA meth-
odology and basic immunology is desirable.
Basic laboratory skills, attention to detail, and
ability to manage multiple projects required.
B.S. in scientific field preferred; laboratory ex-
perience may be substituted. Email resume
to info@elisa-tek.com. 11-16-09-5-14
Sitter/math tutor needed for 2nd & 6th grade
girl & boy. Transport from school to home.
week days: M T W F 3p to 6:30p, sometimes
to midnight. Some Sundays: 1 la to midnight.
Contact 352-332-6465 11-16-09-4-14
PRC NOW HIRING
Find a job you'll love. Immediate Openings
for Customer Care Representatives. $10.00
to $10.50 per hour. Paid Training and mul-
tiple schedules available. For more informa-
tion contact us at 386-326-5030 or 386-326-
5008 or apply online at www.prcnet.com
1-5-09-20-14
$10 Gift Card to Sign Up!
The first 50 women and 50 men that sign up
for www.takemeintrade.com with a real photo
and detailed profile with receive a $10 iTunes
Gift Card. 11-20-09-7-14
LF serviCes
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 1-7-09-
120-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS*
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
mail gidonherman00@gmail.com 11-19-
45-15
FLOOR COVERING
James R. Langford Inc.
Carpet Vinyl Repairs
Restretches Installs
Call Jim 352-222-8827
12-1-14-15
F Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
Think you're pregnant?
Free pregnancy tests & referrals
Free, confidential advising
For appt., call 352-367-2716
A IA Md l; C 1 12Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
S Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ZUMBA Party and Food Drive to benefit
Bread of the Mighty Food Bank. Friday, Nov.
13, 5:30-7pm. Doors open 5pm. Donation $7
+ 3 canned goods or $10 cash. 601 S. Main
St. 904-742-0188 www.ZumbaGypsy.com
11-13-4-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
W JZRides
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
oman s nswer e ca ener -
38-16 G F Pets
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards
Employment Visas & Naturalization
www.ruthlaw.com (352) 335-6748
2-2-40-18Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
M 1 .ost & Found
LOST: FIRE OPAL RING
On 10/30 around Publix on 34th St/Williston
Rd. LARGE REWARD. Call Donna 376-3439
11-16-09-4-25
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
Sports
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Garcia stepping up in
first year as sole starter
South Carolina quarterback Stephen Garcia is averaging 242.1 passing yards per game,
good for second best in the SEC. He split time with Chris Smelley last year against UF.By BOBBY CALLOVI
Alligator Staff Writer
bca llovi@a Iligator org
Last year, Stephen Garcia was splitting
time with Chris Smelley at quarterback
for South Carolina when the Gamecocks
traveled to Gainesville.
Smelley's transfer to Alabama to play
baseball left Garcia as the team's only op-
tion for the starting quarterback job, and
Garcia has grown from the lost player
who was just 6-of-13 passing for 28 yards
and an interception in the Gamecocks'
56-6 loss to the Gators in 2008.
"He has a pretty good idea of what's
going on now," South Carolina coach
Steve Spurrier said. "We asked him the
other day if he knew what was going on
in The Swamp last year, and he said 'I
had no idea what was going on.' He was
a lost Gamecock down in The Swamp last
year."
Garcia will face his biggest challenge
this season against Florida's pass defense,
which ranks first in Southeastern Confer-
ence and second in the nation. The Gators'
134.4 pass yards per game are about 25
yards less than the next-best team.
UF coach Urban Meyer has taken no-
tice of the Gamecocks improved aerial at-
tack, though.
"They aren't running the ball quite as
well, but they are throwing it much bet-
ter," Meyer said.
Garcia has increased the team's pass-
ing average more than 20 yards per game
to 246, good for second in the SEC, and abig reason has been his decision making.
The redshirt sophomore has thrown
just six interceptions this season in his 341
attempts compared to eight interceptions
in 2008 in just 122 passing tries.
Although the Gamecocks were third
in the SEC in passing yards per game last
season, they were the worst in the nation
in interceptions thrown with 27.
Garcia and Smelley combined to toss
three picks in South Carolina's last meet-
ing with Florida.
Spurrier knows that number will have
to stay down against the
top interception team
in the conference if his
Gamecocks will have
any chance of pulling
off the upset.
"Hopefully, he goes
out there and makes
good decisions and
Spurrier takes care of the ball,"
Spurrier said. "He has done a good job of
taking care of the ball this year. Our turn-
overs are way down from where we were
this time last year."
Spurrier said Garcia's improvement is
largely because of his year of experience
and not having to share reps this season.
Even though Garcia has made strides
this year, he is still far away from being a
premier quarterback in college football.
"He needs to continue making the com-
mitment to learn the game, learn how to
play, learn how to audible here and there
and get out of a bad play and get to a good
play," Spurrier said.
Meyer will unseat Spurrier as
best coach in Florida history
t's time to start the debate again.
As Urban Meyer-Steve Spurrier
IV is set to kickoff Saturday, dis-
cussion over who is the best Florida
coach will ensue.
At this point, it's really an argu-
ment over what means most to you.
Spurrier built the Florida football
program, on and off the field, from
1990-2001. He is the old guard.
On the gridiron during his reign,
UF had never-before-seen success.
The Gators won nine games in
every one of Spurrier's 12 seasonsU
Phil Kegler
Phil on the Hill
pkegler@a Iligator org(a feat no other
SEC school has
achieved). They
had previously
done that only
eight times in
their first 83 sea-
sons.
Florida is
one of only two
schools (Nebraska) to finish in the top
15 of the polls during that time pe-
SEE PHIL, PAGE 19Tide get taste of spread
0 ALABAMA FACES DAN MULLEN'S
OFFENSE AT MISSISSIPPI STATE.
By MIKE McCALL
Alligator Staff Writer
mmcca ll@a Iligator org
Florida coach Urban Meyer said this
week his team won't start preparing to face
Alabama in the Southeastern Conference
Championship until the week of the game,
but the Crimson Tide will get a feel for the
Gators this week.
No. 3 (AP)/No. 2 (BCS) Alabama (9-0, 6-0
SEC) will travel to Mississippi State (4-5, 2-3
SEC) on Saturday to face former UF offensive
coordinator Dan Mullen's offense, giving the
Tide a preview of what to expect on Dec. 5.
"I think their offense is similar in some
ways to Florida in terms of how they can run
the ball," UA coach Nick Saban said. "I thinkthey're very effective running the ball, and I
think the No. 1 objective we're going to have
is to try to stop the run.
"It's a challenging offense to defend. I
think coach Mullen has done a great job over
there installing the offense and teaching it,
and the players are doing a wonderful job of
executing it."
The Bulldogs boast the nation's No. 12
a rushing offense and a talent-
ed running back in Anthony
S -Dixon, but Saban's defense
should be up to the task.
Alabama is ranked in the nation's top six
in four defensive categories (rushing, passing
efficiency, total and scoring) and can rely on
playmakers like cornerback Javier Arenas.
In his second season as a defensive starter,
Arenas has shown himself to be much more
than just a deadly kick returner. Arenas aver-
SEE SEC, PAGE 18
TEEING OFF WITH BOBBY CALLOVI
0 Brady Quinn should start, Derek Anderson should start, Quinn should start,
Anderson should start, Quinn should start! I'm pretty sure Eric Mangini chooses
his starting QB the way a young girl decides whether her crush loves her. .Chad
Ochocinco's most recent ingenious attempt to piss off the NFL was foiled by his
coach. The WR wanted to send boxes of mustard to the Steelers, whose stadium is
named Heinz Field.UF WOMEN'S HOOPS NEWS
E The Gators have signed four re-
cruits to National Letters of Intent:
G Jaterra Bonds, G/F Kayla Lewis,
G Brittany Shine and F Deaundra
Young.alligatorSports FANTASY CHALLENGE
U Reader Ben Volin routed writer Kyle Mais-
tri last weekend, keeping Volin in first place
at 8-2. Writer Bobby Callovi sits one game
back at 7-3 with two others at 6-4.
Check out our Web site for a recap.
18, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2009
Cusack interns with UAA
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Writer
achiang@alligator org
There is no secret to senior libero Elyse
Cusack's success.
"She is determined, she is punctual,
she is extremely thorough, she double
checks everything to make sure it's right,
and she's always asking if she can help out
more."
But this quote isn't from coach Mary
Wise. Instead it came from Cusack's boss,
Samantha Scales, the coordinator for base-
ball complex & operations.
The attributes that have made Cusack
successful on the court have translated to
an internship opportunity with the Uni-
versity Athletic Association's Baseball Op-
erations.
In her senior year, Cusack is not taking
any classes in order to focus on the intern-
ship. Some of the things she works on in-
clude recruiting questionnaires, helping to
schedule recruiting visits and writing the
contracts that were sent out to next year's
visiting baseball teams.
Cusack takes her work seriously, espe-
cially because of the desire she has to be-
come a coordinator of operations.
"We have a person, Kelley Kish, who is
our director of operations, and I was able
to see what she does for us from planning
our team's travel, traveling with us and
working with our camps," Cusack said. "I
just thought it would be a fun job and a
great way to stay in sports."She is not the only volleyball player
working with the UAA, however.
Former UF opposite hitter Amber Mc-
Cray works directly for Lynda Tealer, the
senior associate athletic director for wom-
en's sports.
Both interns believe their experience
as athletes has helped them thrive in their
positions.
"I knew that was a huge asset that I
would use in my interview," McCray said.
"Being an athlete and knowing what an
athlete goes through is just always a good
asset to have on a support
staff because you will
have that perspective."
While Cusack admit-
Volleyball ted it was weird to gofrom work to practice at
first, she has gotten used
to working for a team and playing for one
at the same time.
As her time as a collegiate athlete is
winding down, she hopes her career in
sports is just getting started.
"Sports is something I've known my
whole life, it's something that I enjoy and I
would love to have a career in sports later
on," she said.
GATORS LAND TWO TOP RECRUITS: The
Gators may have found a replacement for
their senior libero as they have received a
letter of intent from libero Taylor Unroe.
Setter Chanel Brown has also decided
to sign with Florida. Both players will be
eligible to compete in 2010.21
UF libero Elyse Cusack
her senior year.Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
is currently interning with the UAA's Baseball Operations during
Kiffin credits recruiting coordinator Orgeron; Saban talks about movie appearance
SEC, from page 17
ages more than six tackles and more
than one tackle for loss per game,
and Saban believes his playmaker
has shown enough to warrant a high
selection in the NFL Draft.
KIFFIN CREDITS COACH 0: Tennes-
see coach Lane Kiffin and defensive
coordinator Monte Kiffin garneredmost of the attention during the Vol-
unteers' coaching shakeup last year,
but Lane believes another coach
should be getting spotlighted for his
efforts as well.
Defensive line coach and re-
cruiting coordinator Ed Orgeron,
who formerly coached at Ole Miss,
hasn't just been an invaluable tool
in recruiting and coaching, he has
also been the go-to assistant when itcomes to keeping
players in line.
"He deals
with a lot of our
discipline and
has done a phe-
nomenal job with
that," Kiffin said.
Kiffin "Our first semes-
ter here we have our highest GPA, I
believe, in five years."We've had zero arrests in 11
months here."
SABAN A MOVIE STAR?: Saban plays
himself in "The Blind Side," a movie
about Baltimore Ravens tackle Mi-
chael Oher's journey from poverty
to Ole Miss, and he had no problem
being directed around instead of
calling the shots.
"It's easy to take orders whenyou don't know anything about
what you're doing," he said. "In fact,
I was seeking guidance from every-
one there who would give me any.
"I don't think I need to switch
professions or get rid of my day job
to [act], but it was a wonderful ex-
perience."
The film, which also stars Sandra
Bullock and Tim McGraw, hits the-
aters Nov. 20.
SMART FROM THE START
Thursday
College football night
$5 wine tasting, $6 Buckets,
$4 House wines
from 4-close
Vesna GiveawayThe Alligator has sales intern positions
available for the Spring semesters.You will
receive classroom training, firsthand sales
experience, and an opportunity to improve
your communication skills.This resume
builder offers a flexible
schedule with a
minimum of 10
hours per week.
Call Sara or Rose
at 352-376-4482
or email resume to:
advertising@alligator.org
alligatorIPoefuloma awafDnTNl@U
V
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 19
Meyer not worried about Strong's head coaching offers
* STRONG HAS BEEN A
COORDINATOR SINCE 1999.
By MIKE McCALL
Alligator Staff Writer
mmccall@alligator org
As the season draws to a close
and coaching vacancies open up,
Florida defensive coordinator
Charlie Strong's name is sure tobe associated with head coaching
jobs.
But UF coach Urban Meyer
isn't worried about it being a dis-
traction.
"Every year we go away on
a retreat as a coaching staff, and
I always talk about how when
you're at Florida, that's part of
the deal," Meyer said. "However,
the loyalty is to this football team,these players and this program.
Once the season is over, then let's
handle this professionally.
"We love Char-
lie, and he's obvi-
ously a tremendous
coach," he added.Football "I did talk to him
over the summer in
a brief conversation. And the best
thing is, he mentioned to me thatthe focus is through December
when the season is over."
Strong reiterated those
thoughts after practice Thurs-
day.
"I just have to work and con-
tinue this job right now," Strong
said. "This is my whole focus, just
making sure our defense goes out
and performs."
Meyer has said multiple timesthat Strong, a defensive coordina-
tor since 1999, deserves a shot at
a top position. He said he hopes
race won't be a factor, as Strong,
a black man, said last January
that his interracial marriage had
harmed him in the job market.
"I would hope not, but I don't
live that," Meyer said. "I know it
certainly plays no part at the Uni-
versity of Florida."
PHIL, from page 17
riod.
The Ol' Ball Coach won the 1996 nation-
al title as well as six SEC titles.
When he had arrived in Gainesville,
there were no SEC titles. Zero.
He finished with a 122-27-1 record (.819
win percentage).
He even gave Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
its more common nickname, The Swamp.
Now let's take a look at Meyer's marks.
In four-plus years, the 45-year-old has
won two national titles and might have an-
other this January.He has two conference championships
and will be playing for a third in Decem-
ber.
His current record at UF is 53-9 (.855
win percentage).
He, too, has won nine games in each of
his full seasons so far as Florida's coach.
A win Saturday will give him his first 8-0
SEC year, something Spurrier did in 1996.
I know it's early, and it's easy to get
swept up in the present when comparing
it to the past.
But when I sat down to dwell on this
topic, two things became clear to me:
If Meyer wins another crystal ball in
Pasadena, he will immediately surpassSpurrier.
If Meyer isn't feeling confetti in Janu-
ary, he will probably still end up passing
Spurrier.
What's the biggest thing holding Meyer
back? Time.
Spurrier's marks are so impressive be-
cause he sustained his success, something
not very easy in the business of college
football coaching.
But while Meyer certainly didn't have
the work ahead of him in 2005 that Spur-
rier had in 1990, Ron Zook didn't exactly
leave the program in great shape.
And the Gators have won 19 games in a
row. One more victory and they'll tie Au-burn's 1993-94 streak for third-best in the
SEC since 1960.
Even more impressive is the fact UF has
won 18 of those 19 games by 10 points or
more.
That's a pretty good feather in Meyer's
cap.
Meyer won with defense and special
teams in 2006.
He did it with an explosive offense and
a clutch defense in 2008.
He's poised to take it home in 2009 with
a strong rushing attack and one of the best
defenses ever.
The truth is the debate is already over.
Sorry, Steve.
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
jj1 the idepedeflida
and@III1POrlorg
announces the openings for the positions
Editor,
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
AND
Managing Editor/Online,
Paid positions. Unpaid member of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the reception desk
at the entrance of the first floor of The Alligator Building at 1105 W.
University Ave., each weekday between 1:00 and 4:00pm from now
until November 20. Please do not call. Further written information
is available at the time an application is picked up. Please allow up
to 15 minutes at that time to read information you will need for the
application process. The application must be returned to the same desk
by 4:00 pm, November 23. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at The
Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public beginning at 4:00 pm,
Sunday, December 13. Applicants must be present at that meeting to
be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience at The
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity EmployerFriday, Nov. 13
4@PM VS. ' U
CAN THE TIGERS! Bring (4) canned good items
match to recieve free admission! All items collected will
be donated locally!
Youth Arts Exhibit!
Youth in the 8th grade and younger can submit
artwork to be displayed at the match! Call
00-34-GATOR!
first 800 fans to the match receive free "Gator"
-shirts courtesy of Tobacco Free Florida!
All Im- ma Whe repyd t -h Stehen C 01C .edi Ce.
Al -pa t. .h
Hey Florida fans!
We are your tailgating spot for the
Florida vs. South Caronlina
game November 14.
We are the only bar at
Williams Brice Stadium.
$5 Jager and ice cold beer specials!
Grill will be going all day long.
TLC
S WILLIAMS-BRICE T L
rn1TADSUM CAR SNAALK
GEORGE6 E RBD $. TADC MRL A
gg( FIRG RTNDS
936 South Stadium Rd. Columbia, SC 29201
(803) 251-3087
20, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2009
Cii n-nter
Volleyball vs. LSU @ 7 p.m.
* Can the Tigers -Fans that bring four (4) canned food items will receive free admission!
* The first 800 fans will receive a Gator t-shirt courtesy of Tobacco Free Florida!
., eff Demn s
Women's Basketball vs. Stetson @ 1 p.m
& Football vs. South Carolina Viewing Party
s Must arrive to the Women's Basketball game by 2 p.m. for the football viewing party.
s The first 3,000 in attendance will receive a 2-for-1 admission coupon to the Men's
Basketball game vs. Stetson.
Men 's Basketball vs. Stetson @ 4 p.m./
Sr., Elyse Cus'
Pack the House of Horrors Challenge -The organization (fraternity, sorority, campus organization,
etc.) with the highest percentage of members at the game will receive a private tour of the football and
basketball facilities and have a private dinner with Billy Donovan. Organizations must register to
participate by Friday @ 12 p.m. by calling 352-375-4683 ext. 6600.
All UFStudents are invited to a pre-game BBQ @ Rowdy Town outside of Gate 3 from 1 -3 p.m.
The first 2,000 UF students will receive a Gator Basketball t-shirt!
One (1) UF student will win 2 tickets to the SEC Football Championship!
One (1) UF student will win a trip for two (2) on a Men's Basketball Road Trip!
Iv amesimTem dIptq
Sr., Steffi Sorensenatltli
ii W
K
Jr., Chandler Par s
A.1 1 L I I I L .1 C 1 I IL I I I I 1 11 1 1 j 1 .1 1 1 11
S
