0the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 93 We Inform. You Decide.
AROUND GAINESVILLE
Against Me!
plays Haiti
benefit show
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
About 200 fist-pumping, head-banging punk rock fans
gathered at The Atlantic Sunday night to listen to loud mu-
sic and raise about $3,000 for Haiti.
The 4 1/2-hour Haiti Benefit Concert was headlined by
Against Me!, a Gainesville-founded band that has released
four studio albums.
Along with Against Me!, Grabass Charlestons, Averki-
ou, Whiskey & Company and Holopaw performed.
Fans paid $10 to come to the concert.
But in the spirit of the cause, many donated more.
Grabass Charlestons' drummer and singer Will Thomas
organized the event.
"I was in a unique position to quickly and easily throw
a fun and visible show," Thomas said. ".We're all touched
by the story of Haiti."
Thomas partnered with the American Red Cross, and
all of the proceeds from the concert were donated to the
organization.
SEE CONCERT, PAGE 9
Black history events start
By NATASHA BETTY
Alligator Contributing Writer
"A Love Story," the theme for this year's
Black History Month, is not a reference to a
Taylor Swift song or Valentine's Day.
"The tale of our love story is not of hearts
and roses but of accomplishments, failures
and opportunities," said Kamali Burke, UF
executive director of Black History Month.
"It is our plight to share the love story as a
testament to those who have blazed the trails
before us."
Cammy Justice, one of the program's
planners, suggested the theme after taking
a class that defined love as full of hurt, pain,
happiness, accomplishment, selflessness and
struggle.Burke said this year's program includes
a poetry night, bingo tournament, comedy
show, step show and a concert by John Leg-
end. The program will also support
three philanthropies and contribute
to Gators United for Haiti.
Most events are free and
open to the public, Burke said.
Shannon McNeal, Black
Student Union presi-
dent, said she is look-
-k -S ing forward to the 21stBlack History annual Florida Invita-
Month tional Step Show.
"Much like Gator
Football games, to me, Black History Month
is a tradition with memories I will never for-
get," McNeal said.- tcY e t
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010
Movie features UF doc
.THE MOVIE STARS HARRISON
FORD AND BRENDAN FRASER.
By ANDREW WYZAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
He's walked the red carpet and so-
cialized with movie stars, but he's also
saved lives.
Dr. Barry Byrne is a pediatric cardi-
ologist and director of the Powell Gene
Therapy Center at the UF College of
Medicine.
He is spending time in the spotlight
while his research on Pompe disease, a
rare genetic disorder resulting in infant
mortality, is showcased in the new mov-
ie "Extraordinary Measures."
Byrne said the movie, which de-
scribes a father's efforts to find a cure for
his children with Pompe disease, has a
simple message.Byrne said he met with producers
of the film as well as its stars, Harrison
Ford and Brendan Fraser.
As shown in the movie, the disorder
causes paralysis and can force patients
to breathe with a respirator. The pa-
tient's heart eventu-
ally shuts down.
Byrne participat-
ed in the clinical trial
that led to the ap-
proval of Myozyme,
the first form of en-
zyme replacement
therapy for Pompe
disease and the treat-
ment featured in the movie.
Byrne is also working on clinical tri-
als for gene therapy of Pompe disease.
Byrne said gene therapy is the treat-
ment that he and his team have the best
hope for, and they are gearing up for
human trials of the treatment.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers,T today
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD 16
SPORTS 18A Knight's Tale
Ryan Scammon,
suited up as Sir Orin
Dayne, races toward
his opponent, Sir
William Dudley, in
a joust tournament
Saturday afternoon
at the Hoggetowne
Medieval Faire.
Dayne went on to
win the contest.
Hoggetowne
Medieval Faire
organizers expect
about 50,000
people to visit during
the two weekends
the event will run.
The fair will continue
Feb. 5-7.
See story, Page 5.
* Tennessee guard
Scotty Hopson hit
the game-winning
shot with 21
seconds remaining
in the Volunteers'
61-60 win over the
Gators on Sunday,
ending UFs four-
game win streak.
See Story, Page 18.Rain
63/54
visit www.alligator.org
2, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Ayn Rand Birthday Tribute
Tuesday, 12:30 p.m.
Plaza of the Americas
UF's libertarians will be serving
cake on the Plaza of the Americas
Tuesday in honor of Ayn Rand,
author of "Atlas Shrugged". Come
join Students for the Preservation
of Freedom in conversation about
Rand, an amazing woman and a
defender of individualism.
Got something going on?
And want to see it in this space?
Send an e-mail with "What's
Happening" in the subject line to
efuggetta@alligator.org. Please
model your submissions after the
events listed above. Improperly
formatted "What's Happening"
submissions may not appear in
the paper. Press releases will not
appear in the paper.
ON-CAMPUS
Construction causes delays
Students can expect 10- to
15-minute traffic delays due to
construction starting today at the
intersection of Southwest 23rd
Street and 35th Place.
Regional Transit System bus
routes 9, 35, 36 and Later Gator
B can expect delays, rerouting
and temporary closures while
a roundabout is constructed.
Students riding bus routes 9,
35 and 36 during the weekdays
should be prepared to take an ear-
lier bus route.
"We are going to continue
to provide our service with the
least amount of impact," said
Chip Skinner, RTS spokesman.Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
RTS is temporarily clos-
ing five bus stops serving
Route 403 and Later Gator B.
According to a press release
from RTS, westbound stops on
Southwest 35th Place between
23rd Terrace and 27th Street and
southbound stops on Southwest
27th Street between 35th Place
and 38th Place will be closed.
The roundabout construction
is projected to take about four
to five months and should
be completed by July, ac-
cording to Gina Hawkins
of the City of Gainesville
Public Works Department.
The project, which will cost
about $400,000, will consist
of the roundabout and about
1,600 feet of sidewalk along
Southwest 35th Place.
-LAUREN BUFFINGTON
Garage gets 'green' award
UF's Southwest Parking Ga-
rage Complex has been certified
as one of the greenest facilities in
the nation.
The 313,000-square-foot com-
plex, which was completed in
August 2009 and cost $20 mil-
lion, is the first parking garage
in the nation to be given LEED
(Leadership in Energy and En-
vironmental Design) Gold certi-
fication.Scott Fox, director of UF
Transportation and Parking Ser-
vices, credits the success of the
project to the team's dedication.
The building contains carpool
parking and electric car charging
stations and was built with recy-
cled asphalt, low-emitting prod-
ucts and reflective roof material.
According to the Sustainable
UF Web site, the university adopt-
ed LEED standards in 2001 for its
new construction and renovation
projects. As of today, the campus
has one Platinum-certified build-
ing, four Gold-certified buildings,
two Silver-certified buildings and
10 standard-certified buildings.
Fox said the facility missed
Platinum certification, the high-
est rating, by a point or two, but
things are being tweaked, and UF
is submitting the facility for a reas-
sessment. If certified, it will be the
first Platinum-certified parking
garage in the U.S.
-MELINDA CARSTENSEN
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org
all~t'ggtor ~ orts ,,iCheck it out at STUDENT LOANSa11:g tg po rt s allgatorSports.org N v 2&
Tune in for the latest Gators sports or subscribe on Cash For Anything!
news and analysis Gor ort iTunes. Best Jewelry and Loan
writers and columnists. 523 NW 3rd Ave -3714367 -371-CMS
SFas Cas Fo FatTms
The Adventures of_
A section of the
to giving stud
Living C
Place your ad in the Fan
and Fitness section, and n
change your business
from a zero.
Deadline: Thursday, Feb. 18
Run date: Wednesday, Feb. 24
Contact the Alligator today!
352-376-4482Alligator dedicated
ents tips on healthy
nd exerC!a the independent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 93 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Flonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Mana
Manag
Assis
alligatorEditor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
ging Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta @alligatororg
ing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner, jmisner@alligator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, ctillo@alligator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
tant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
rSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Corey McCall, Amanda Milligan,
Emily Morrow, Andrew Pantazi,
Paul Runnestrand, Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Shaun O'Connor
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
ON CAMPUS
Students get kick out of fundraiser
By LYN KRAMER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Project Makeover, a UF organiza-
tion that seeks to improve the educa-
tional environment for low-income
students, kicked its fundraising efforts
into gear Sunday with a kickball tour-
nament on Flavet Field.
About 100 UF students participated
in the tournament, which raised about
$630, said Julianne Scherker, Project
Makeover's executive director.
The money will go toward Project
Makeover's beautification project at a
local elementary school.
Kickball teams included the Ad So-ciety, the Florida Cicerones, sororities,
fraternities, the Freshmen Leadership
Council and other UF organizations.
"It's so critical for all stu-
dents to have an equal
education."
Julianne Scherker
Project Makeover Executive Director
The Ad Society took first place.
The kickball tournament is just one
part of the group's fundraising efforts.
Scherker said the group has also
tabled at Super Wal-Mart and held
fundraisers at local restaurants.Project Makeover hopes to raise
more than $5,000, which includes
monetary donations as well as land-
scaping equipment and paint dona-
tions, Scherker said.
Scherker said the beautification
project will run from Feb. 26 through
Feb. 28.
Project Makeover volunteers will
paint educational murals, decorate
sidewalks, plant trees and flowers,
make a butterfly garden and renovate
a baseball diamond, Scherker said.
Last year, Project Makeover raised
more than $3,000 for its project at Wil-
liams Elementary. More than 800 stu-
dents volunteered.
Lawyer offers free help to Haitians
* THE UF GRADUATE IS HELPING HAITIANS GET
TEMPORARY PROTECTED STATUS.
By GWEN RAHN
Alligator Contributing Writer
A local immigration lawyer is offering more than his
support after the earthquake devastation in Haiti.
Evan George, a UF graduate, is offering pro bono ser-
vices and legal assistance for Haitians eligible for Tempo-
rary Protected Status, a short-term visa for immigrants from
other countries residing in the United States only offered to
certain countries in severe times of trouble, such as ongoing
warfare or a severe natural disaster.
On Jan. 15, United States Citizenship and Immigration
Services designated Haiti as an eligible country for Tempo-
rary Protected Status.This is the first time the service has offered protected sta-
tus to Haitian immigrants in the United States.
"This is a good way for me to give back to my commu-
nity after all the years I spent here in school," George said.
"I am in a good position and have knowl-
edge of the law, and it is a time we des-
perately need it."
George will continue to offer his
.111free services to Haitian immigrants in
Gainesville until situations begin to im-
prove in Haiti.
.Ai "I just want to help in whatever way I
George can," George said. "Even though I do not
have any personal ties to Haiti, this earth-
quake disaster has hit home for all of us."
To contact George about his services, call the Law Office
of Evan D. George at 352-378-5603 or e-mail George at edg-
law@gmail.com.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
Health fair offers
'new' remedies
By MINCH MINCHIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The mythical cities of Shangri-La and Shambhala
merged with the Mayo Clinic Saturday afternoon at
the United Church of Gainesville.
About 30 representatives from health and New
Age-related organizations displayed pamphlet-cov-
ered booths and tables inside the church's atrium.
They used the materials to promote their businesses
at the Gainesville Holistic Health Fair, which is held
every year.
Hundreds of locals braved the rain to learn about
dozens of holistic well-being issues,
Local such as geological healing, positive
News thinking and water birthing.
Vendors talked to visitors about the
histories and scientific validations of their goods and
services.
"There are different approaches for becoming
whole," said 49-year-old Jeanne Dickman-Vuille,
who was visiting from Switzerland. "These are ways
to enhance your life."
And for those less eager than Dickman-Vuille, ho-
listic health practitioners had to find more persuasive
methods, such as free therapy sessions, to entice po-
tential clients.
"The needles are small," said Leona Harter of the
Academy for Five Element Acupuncture. "And we
bribe you with chocolate cookies."
4, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010
ON CAMPUS
Students smash 'taboo' bricks
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Contributing Writer
When the dust settled, students started to
smash.
They approached the fallen wall on the Plaza of
the Americas and began to throw cinder blocks with
phrases like "Treehugger" and "Homos are Sin-
ners."
The Writing on the Wall project ended Friday
when project staff members, watched by a group
of about 100 students and faculty, pulled the wall
dow with ropes.
The project is an annual event in which students
paint offensive or taboo words on cinder blocks.
Project staff build a wall with the blocks, and the
wall is torn down to symbolize the breaking down
of barriers between people.
The a cappella group No Southern Accent per-
formed Three Dog Night's "Joy to the World."
Padma Chamarthy, the director of the project,
said it was introduced to UF eight years ago from
the University of Utah.
Last year, Chamarthy found a brick she didn't
understand. It read, "I'll pay."
Chamarthy said she later discovered the author's
brother had offered to pay for his sister's abortion."It just made me sad for her," Chamarthy said.
tJamie Sipp, a criminology senior, said he's felt
the pain of being called several of the names painted
on the wall.
"Seeing it torn down makes you feel pretty
good," Sipp said. "It makes you feel like you're not
alone."
Gerri Sterne, a project staff member and graphic
design sophomore, said she hopes the project stimu-
lates conversation between people.
Laurie Michaelson / Alligator Sterne said the project is meant to make a long-
Sean O'Brien, 26, smashes a "prick" brick at the Writing term difference, and she doesn't expect the project
on the Wall demolition Friday afternoon. to have an immediate effect on students.
Laptop fundraiser 'Souper Fun'
0 THE COMPETITION RAISED
ABOUT $15,000.
By CINDY TAVERAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Soup was served with a side of
hospitality in the St. Francis Catholic
High School gymnasium Sunday.
Thirty Gainesville restaurants
competed for eight titles at the third
annual Souper Fun Sunday, a soup-
tasting competition held to raise
money so the school can provide in-
coming freshmen with laptops.
Sherry Houston, the department
director of the event, said the com-
petition raised about $15,000. The
entry price for children was $7.50,
and the price for adults was $15.About 700 people sampled chow-
ders and bisques, which were all
made from scratch.
The creations varied from shrimp
bisque and pasta fagioli to cheese-
burger chowder and pumpkin
soup.
Radio personality Storm Roberts,
TV anchor Paige Beck, Sen. Steve
Oelrich, HOMEAround publisher ScottGainesville Costello and lo-
cal activist Nancy
Perry judged the competition.
The Judge's Choice award was
tied between The Flying Biscuit Caf6
for its chicken corn chowder and the
Great Outdoors Restaurant.
The People's Choice award went
to Embers Prime Steaks Wood Grill
for its crab bisque.
June Allen, one of Embers' own-ers, hopes the award will spark busi-
ness for the 6-month-old restaurant.
Storm Roberts, radio personality
for KTK 98.5, favored the Great Out-
doors' New England clam chowder.
"The first thing that hits you is
the aroma," Roberts said about the
soup. "You always taste with your
nose first then with your eyes."
Barbara Grimes, who attended
the competition with her daughter,
who teaches at the school, said she
enjoyed every soup.
"Even the ones that I don't like,
I liked," she said. "There's not one
that was bad."
Grimes drove about 70 miles
from Jacksonville to taste the differ-
ent soups.
"Soup's such a great comfort
food," she said. "Who doesn't like
soup?"Equality director
holds open forum
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
Speaking before a crowd of about 15 people at the
Pride Community Center of North Central Florida,
Gainesville Equal Opportunity Director Cecil Howard
made a promise.
"What I'd like to do is bring together a sense of com-
munity," he said. "We won't be deemed the roach mo-
tel, where a case comes in but doesn't come out."
Since assuming his new role in late October, How-
ard has worked with numerous organizations to ensure
equality for all Gainesville residents.
"Discrimination based on any factor is
wrong and robs Gainesville of its intellect
and talent. When the city discriminates,
it's a loser."
Craig Lowe
Gainesville City Commissioner
Speaking for about an hour, Howard discussed some
of the programs his office is pursuing.
He promised the crowd that acts of intolerance with-
in Gainesville will not be tolerated.
"If someone goes over to an apartment and is told,
'We don't want your kind,' my office needs to know
about it," he said.
Howard said there's much more work to be done,
primarily in racial and gender equality.
Terry Fleming, the co-president of the Pride Com-
munity Center of North Central Florida, agreed with
Howard's notion, pointing out how his office still gets
complaints from those who feel they have been discrim-
inated against.
Although he emphasized the need to educate peo-
ple on their rights and protections, Fleming expressed
much excitement at how much Howard's office has
been reaching out to the community.
Howard also hopes to establish communication with
the Dove World Outreach Center, which has raised con-
troversy with its statements regarding Islam and the
gay community.
Since taking office, Howard has earned the respect
of many of his constituents and colleagues, including
Gainesville City Commissioner Craig Lowe, who at-
tended Sunday.
Lowe praised Howard's work, noting his proactive
approach and his participation in community outreach.
For Lowe, who has championed equal opportunity
initiatives and is gay, the fight to ensure equal rights is
personal.
"Discrimination based on any factor is wrong and
robs Gainesville of its intellect and talent," he said.
"When the city discriminates, it's a loser."
Gainesville residents peruse art on monthly walk downtown
Artists ranged from diploma framers to cellists
By MINCH MINCHIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Panhandlers, Main Street construction
and an economic recession have not been
kind to artists in downtown Gainesville.
But that did not stop 10 downtown art
establishments from participating in the
Gainesville Art Walk Friday night.
The Art Walk, held on the last Friday of
every month, gives local artists a chance to
promote and display their work.The displays ranged from an artisan
who frames diplomas to a tattooed man
who played songs for passers-by on a cello
covered in purple feathers.
Artists and shop owners enticed visitors
to come into their stores with giveaways.
"I used to give out wine until I realized
that I was just attracting underage people
who were coming in here and taking it,"
said Troid Brett, owner of Floating Island
Gift Shop. "Now I just give cookies."
Wine or no wine, getting visitors toparticipate in the Art Walk is becoming in-
creasingly difficult.
Sales are down about 50 percent since
the recession set in, Brett said.
Several artists, however, said they fore-
see brighter days ahead for the downtown
art scene.
The conclusion of the Main Street con-
struction is expected to increase both foot
and vehicle traffic, said Jeff Knee, a pro-
moter for the South Main Community Arts
Center.The completion of the new downtown
dog park and the science museum should
also help revitalize the area, he said, as
should the expected county-wide crack-
downs on homelessness amd vagrant ac-
tivity.
For art-loving locals, the revitalization
cannot come soon enough.
"Art is important," said Nita Garland,
who lives three blocks from downtown
and frequently visits art shows and shops
around Main Street. "The Art Walk is
important. What Gainesville expresses
through the Art Walk is important."
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
LOCAL NEWS
Ye olde faire draws 15,000
By STEFANIA FERRO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Shawn Bauldree is a preschool teacher, but
this weekend, she donned a purple gown and
fairy wings, her identity further concealed by the
swirled and glittery makeup around her eyes.
At the 24th annual Hoggetown Medieval
Faire, Bauldree, 46, goes by Tatiana, this year's
fairy queen.
An actress at the fair, she greeted about 15,000
damsels and knights who came to the festival this
weekend for an afternoon of jousting and fire-
juggling fun.
The festival, organized by the City of Gaines-
ville's Division of Cultural Affairs, featured ani-
mal rides, more than a dozen games and 150 arti-
san booths selling medieval clothing.
Linda Piper, the fair's coordinator, said in the
15 years she has organized the event, it gets big-
ger each year.
Besides the fair's returning entertainment, sev-
eral new acts were added, including Albannach,
a Scottish band, and Menag6 A Cirque, a group of
acrobatic performers.
Piper said she expects about 50,000 people to
visit the fair during the two weekends it runs.
Adam Richards, a UF computer engineering
junior who has gone to the fair for the past twoyears, said he was looking forward to watching
this year's jousting match and acrobatic perform-
ers.
"I just really like the atmosphere, and it's not a
bad price for the experience," said Richards. "It's
really awesome to see everyone dressing up in all
the outfits."
"I just really like the atmosphere,
and it's not a bad price for the expe-
rience."
Adam Richards
UFjunior
And some students like Loren Plunkett drove
three hours to attend the festival.
"It's just a really cool period," said Plunkett,
an art history major at the University of South
Florida. "I love the [medieval] movies, so it's re-
ally cool to see it walking all around you."
For the past three years, it has taken $250,000
to put on the fair, according to Piper.
The fair continues for one more weekend: Feb.
5 from 9:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. and from Feb. 6 to 7
from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. at the Alachua County Fair-
grounds, 2900 NE 39th Ave.
Admission is $14 for adults and $7 for children
5 to 17. Friday admission is half price.UF crackdowns on
energy consumption
0 UF HAD A $40 MILLION
ENERGY BILL.
By NICOLE LYNN GREINER
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is trying to take a bite out of
last year's $40 million energy bill for
UF and Shands at UF.
A new campaign, "Chomp
Down on Energy," begins today and
encourages all UF departments to
take simple steps, such as turning off
electronics, to reduce energy usage.
All departments are asked to
choose a green team captain to help
spread the word.
Anna Prizzia, the director for the
Office of Sustainability, said the cam-
paign is separated into two phases.
The first phase aims to get involvethe entire campus in cutting down
energy use. Prizzia said turning off
copiers and fax machines when they
aren't in use could save the univer-
sity a significant amount of money.
Prizzia said the money saved
from the campaign will go back to
the university.
Students can take part in the
campaign by turning off lights and
electronics and even adjusting the
thermostat in class, she said.
Prizzia said phase two will in-
volve keeping computers and moni-
tors shut off when they are not in
use.
Samantha Evans, a health promo-
tion specialist in the Student Health
Care Center and a green team cap-
tain, said the center will work to
recycle, turn off lights and reduce
the amount of paper it uses for bro-
chures.
UF UNIVERSITY ofFLORIDA
Center for Clinical Trials Research
Phase I Unit
Are You A Healthy Male?
The Center for Clinical Trials Research is evalu-
ating an injectable investigational drug for future
use in the treatment of Type 2 diabetes.
STUDY REQUIREMENTS:
" Males between the age of 18-45
" In good general health
This study will take place over a minimum of a 6
month period and may require 2 screening visits, 16
overnight stays, and 7 outpatient visits with additional
5 overnight stays and 2 outpatient visits at our Phase
1 Unit at 2401 SW Archer Road, Gainesville, FL. You
may receive up to $5175.00 for completing the study.
Food and lodging will be provided.
Drug and alcohol testing will be done
Phase I Director: Bobby Thompson
For more information call:
(352) 273-5500 or toll free (888) 635-0763
Ask for the Recruiting Department
or visit our website:
www.med.ufl.edu/cctr
i This paper used to keep squirrels warm on cold nights.
Please recycle it.
6, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010
Editorial
Janu-weary
Last month was a sore
spot for equality
anuary was a sad month for equality. Hatred and callous-
ness have shown themselves all over the world. In case
you've forgotten the examples of that, let the Editorial Board
give you a recap of the highlights of Dismal January.
Five men in Liverpool were cleared of gang-raping a wom-
an because she had chatted online with one of them and talked
about group sex. She never consented to sex with those men,
but apparently that didn't make a difference to the U.K. judge
who decided group-sex fantasy and gang-rape consent are the
same thing.
A Filipino woman was sentenced to 100 lashes for becoming
pregnant when she was raped in Saudi Arabia. Her rapist went
unpunished, but the woman miscarried due to harsh conditions
in prison, where she awaits her punishment.
Halliburton/KBR continues its attempt to silence a woman
who was raped, beaten and locked in a shipping container five
years ago while working in Iraq. Despite a court ruling allowing
the woman to sue despite the company's arbitration policy, KBR
is stopping at nothing to defame and humiliate her in hopes of
winning its case.
The Hawaii State House killed a civil union bill that would
have given nonmarried (including gay and lesbian) couples the
same rights as married couples. The House voted to stall the bill
indefinitely, meaning it won't see light again this session.
Massachusetts voters rejected the congressional bid of Mar-
tha Coakley, who led a state campaign against the federal De-
fense of Marriage Act, which aimed to destroy attempts at mar-
riage equality in the U.S.
U.S. Congressman Todd Tiahrt introduced a bill that would
take away states' rights to offer in-state tuition to illegal immi-
grants -students whose parents brought them to the U.S. and
who worked their way through the education system and de-
serve to go to college.
Conservative talking head Pat Robertson -who blamed
Hurricane Katrina and the Sept. 11 attacks on homosexuality,
liberalism and secularism -suggested that the devastating
earthquake in Haiti was a result of a pact with "the devil." The
conservative Christian Broadcasting Network immediately is-
sued a statement in Robertson's defense.
The Transportation Safety Administration launched an in-
vestigation after it was found that supervisors at an Orlando
TSA office used a Jeopardy-style board with categories like
"pickle-smokers" and "creatures" to ridicule and humiliate les-
bian, gay and black employees.
What these incidents tell us is that the world is far from
peaceful. Despite the efforts of some people and groups to fight
hatred and injustice, people are nowhere near equal.
The point of this isn't to be a downer. We simply hope that
if people pay attention to the gross injustices that happen every
day, we can stop giving in to the bystander effect and take every
chance we get to prevent them -and we can start by support-
ing President Obama's efforts to repeal the military's "Don't
Ask, Don't Tell" policy.
Obama announced in his State of the Union address that he
would focus this year on getting rid of the discriminatory prac-
tice. As he said in his speech, "It's the right thing to do."
Already, the president is facing Republican opposition.
House Minority Leader John Boehner -who habitually does
all in his power to limit freedom and restrain progress -said
today on "Meet the Press" that this isn't the right time to work
on defeating the policy. Well, we think it is the right time.
Do whatever you can to encourage the death of "Don't Ask
Don't Tell." Tell your lawmakers that you won't sit back and
watch as Americans continue to have their rights denied.
Happy February, Alligator readers. Here's to hoping it'll be
better than January.
fie independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
netters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Aye, or send them to P0 Box 14257,
Gainesvi rle, FL 32604-2257OC olumns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions
~~ou- sV~ otA5V-\f&(M -Z~. k rroMeJ-gi~Vt -NoW &Lobak
c
$O
0"-Ia
Vbo0 0VboD0
S300
$k.{UO sOD
V
here was a torrent of publicity surrounding Apple'sunveiling of its iPad last week. I watched a video of
Steve Jobs presenting it, and needless to say, I wasn't
impressed. Here's a quick rundown of what transpired:
So there's Steve, standing on a stage in front of a giant
screen, dressed to impress sporting mom-jeans with no belt,
looking like a hybrid of casual-Friday Barack Obama and
circa-'93 Jerry Seinfeld. He wears his most cloyingly excited
face as he vaguely describes the device before a digitally pro-
jected puff of smoke reveals its name -iPad.
I had problems with the name from the get-go, figur-
ing Apple would run into some trouble using it, as "iPad"
sounds vaguely like an already-established product. Well,
my intuition was on the right track, although it wasn't Tam-
pax that came calling but Fujitsu, Siemens, Magtek and a
slew of other companies that all have products bearing the
name, with varying locales of trademark registry. (Bravo,
Jobs -I suppose "iSlate" was too edgy.) Jobs whips out a
working iPad, and I can't help but think the thing looks like
a big, fat iPhone, as if they sent it to Wisconsin for a month to
gorge itself on cheese, beer and Packers fans' tears.
To start this high-flying product tour appropriately, Jobs
begins by showing the iPad's unique user-customized back-
grounds. Customizable wallpaper intro? It's like a car sales-
man pointing out, "Hey- this one's got a steering wheel!"
My initial frustration with the presentation's awkward
beginning is briefly lifted by a tour of the iPad's Internet ex-
perience, which Jobs, in his most innocently pretentious tone,
describes as "the best browsing experience you've ever had,"
referring to the iPad's finger-manipulated interface. All right,
I'll take the bait on this one: Instead of browsing or surfing
the Web, you get to massage your way though it. Whatever
scant sense of Apple's all-important consumer affection I'd
adopted was gradually dismantled with Jobs' subsequent
descriptions of the most obvious and mundane features ever
described in seemingly sedative-quelled gaiety.ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org//opinions
-
Or k , r&Ao
-jSr \cvw
i0t ctkc
It's "phenomenal for mail," he said.
(Mail? But what type, Jobs? Don't say
e-mail; I might blush.) Also, the virtual
i s keyboard is "a dream to type on." (Of
course it is, but not because it's tangi-
bly illusory, right?) Jobs makes sure to
Ryan Spencer point out the iPad comes with both a
letters@alligator org calendar and an address book. (Stan-
dard?!) And apparently, with the cal-
endar, "You can see your months' ac-
tivities, or your days' activities and everything in between."
(You mean "weeks," Jobs?) The car salesman continues to
point out "seats" and "wheels."
All things considered, though, awesome job, Jobs. You
proved my initial appraisal of the iPad as a big, fat iPhone
totally wrong, which is to say, it's a big, fat, underachieving,
Cro-Magnon cousin of the iPhone. I think this is the first time
a line of technology has actually devolved, which is to say,
has gotten larger and accomplished less. I mean, your cus-
tomers certainly wouldn't have had any use for a camera to
shoot the thousands of photos they can store on the iPad, and
it's definitely too cumbersome to use as a phone.
Now, to be fair, I realize Apple wasn't looking to replace
the iPhone but rather compete in the e-book market with one
that browses the Web. Mission accomplished. Oh, except for
the fact they're competing in a paperback-sized market with
a large-print-hardcover-sized product that costs up to $829.
You know, why not go the extra mile and make a coffee-
table-book-sized iPad. Call it the iPrude. Instead of five ab-
surdly large, traditionally printed books, you'll just have one
absurdly large e-book that costs, say, your good judgment.
So, is the iPad neat? Sure, that's what Apple does. Is the
iPad revolutionary? Of course not, but making people see it
that way is also what Apple does. Bottom line: I'm not pay-
ing $800 to fingerbang the Internet.
Ryan Spencer is a psychology senior. His column appears on
Mondays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Friday's question: 71% YES
Would you use holistic medicine? Should CBS air ads with opposing 29% NO
views to Focus on the Family? 127TOTAL VOTES
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumn
Apple's release of iPad a letdown0 C).
is w
i hwl Mitori2
vet 0
V818 I tom
- A1r~\uS\lZt ~
O~v~d*XXQ-~SOWI \or Cs
~ojoy rs l sve dCUr
--i
-c 4TaykVWI
01 o,
Commer ia Nws Pfovidostjp4rqO
Islam on Campus
presents
February 2010
Islam Awareness Month
Starting with the Islam Fair
Feb. 1st & 2nd -Reitz Union North Lawn
Free ethnicfood provided!
For more info on all events visit
www.IslamOnCampus.comMONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letter to the Editor
Sex column not appropriate for high schoolers
I am a 43-year-old father of two. My son is a ju-
nior at Gainesville High School, and my daughter is
a ninth-grader. Both of my children are exceptional
students with bright futures, and they both have a
strong desire to attend the UF. While on campus at-
tending sport events and such, they frequently bring
home the Alligator to read the latest news on sports,
music and campus life.
I was disappointed, to say the least, in the article
in the Avenue written by your Amelia Harnish and
Jared Misner titled, "Blowjobs are a boy's best friend,
girls: not so much." Mostly with Mr. Misner.
The views expressed by Jared Misner about rela-
tionships, sex, intimacy and oral sex are extremely
warped and sad. If what he wrote paints a picture
of what the Student Body at UF embodies and be-
lieves, I fear for the next generation of this country.
His idea that oral sex has "evolved to fit the idea of
a handshake more than an act of intimacy," has "be-
come a casual, name-not-necessary greeting among
strangers in a bar and drunken friends alike," is dis-
turbing and frankly disgusting. I've had my share
of drunken debauchery, but allowing myself to be
"serviced" by anyone in a bathroom, a pool, a bar,
etc., as Mr. Misner alludes to, leaves me to believe
he is void of any sense of morality and decency. His
comment that "the casual nature of oral sex is gain-
ing general acceptance across all societal and gender
lines" is preposterous. Have UF students become a
bunch of self-gratifying sexual misfits?
The last thing I want to see is my children read-
ing some misguided writings from some college
"man whore," for lack of a better word, who is going
around Gainesville letting any Tom, Dick or Harry
give him oral sex just because he needs it and it feels
good. I would have hoped after the negative reper-
cussions the Alligator received for the Haiti SexToon
that the writers and staff would have better judg-
ment in what is put into print.
I hope UF students don't fall prey to the depravity
of Jared Misner. Oral sex can transmit STDs in both
men and women, including HIV, Syphilis and Hepa-
titis B. Your newspaper should be publishing articles
on how students can protect themselves from being
exposed to STDs during their drunken stupors and
acts of unprotected sex.
Again, I'm disappointed in the quality of writers
you choose to employ.
Bruce Starren
IsiamOn Campus
Unives ofForda13th Annual
April 10, 2010 at 8 am.
Behind North Florida
Regional Medical Center
Benefiting the student-run Equal
Access Clinic of Gainesville which
provides free healthcare to
underprivileged populations.
For more info:
Call Stephanie Mazariegos at
(813) 484-8031 or go to
ufpremed.org/easc
E a sNTZ,
0
8, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010
LOCAL1,000 hunt air potatoes in rain
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
With rain pouring off their backs
and soil covering their jeans, vol-
unteers throughout Gainesville got
their hands dirty at the 11th annual
Great Air Potato Roundup Satur-
day.
More than 1,000 people traipsed
over soil and through trees inpursuit
of anything resembling Dioscorea
bulbifera, the brown, ball-shaped
lumps more commonly known as
the air potato.
The volunteers, most represent-
ing various service organizations,
were stationed in about 30 differ-ent locations, according to Geoffrey
Parks, a habitat naturalist with the
City of Gainesville's Nature Opera-
tions Division.
"Given the weather, we
were blown away."
Geoffrey Parks
habitat naturalist
Although the number of vol-
unteers was fewer than last year's
Roundup, which drew more than
1,200 people, Parks was pleased
with the turnout. He expected only
several hundred people to show up
due to the rain.
"Given the weather, we wereblown away," he said.
The air potato is considered an
exotic invasive plant, which means
it is not native to the U.S. and can
grow quickly.
According to Parks, January is
the best time to find the air potatoes
since the tubers, the part of the plant
that stores nutrients, begin to fall off
the vines. He said those still attached
are visible enough to be picked out
of the trees.
According to Ronald Lange, who
acted as a supervisor for the UF
Nursery site, the air potatoes pose
a serious threat that, if allowed to
grow for an extended period of time,
can blanket and smother surround-
ing vegetation.
'Divas' group up for NAACP award
* 3 MO' DIVAS UP AGAINST KANYE WEST,
BLACK EYED PEAS AND JAY-Z.
By MELINDA CARSTENSEN
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Gainesville resident Marion J. Caffey describes
the recent success of musical group 3 Mo' Divas, he em-
braces their less-than-mainstream status.
"Underdog," he said, is an understatement.
The group was nominated for an NAACP Image
Award under the category for Outstanding Duo, Group
or Collaboration.
Caffey, the group's creator, said the competition is
steep. The group is pitted against several radio regulars,
including the Black Eyed Peas, Kanye West and Jay-Z.
"Anyone from 8 to 70 would know who the other
nominees are," Caffey said. "The miracle for us is that
the nominating committee actually opened our CD."Caffey, who is also the group's producer, director
and choreographer, said 3 Mo' Divas is the only group
in the category not from a major label.
"Our 'thank God' moment is that somebody really
thought of nominating them," he said. "I hope it helps
the world know who they are."
Laurice Lanier, Nova Y. Payton and Jamet Pittman,
the three women who make up 3 Mo' Di-
Off the vas, are all classically trained opera singers
Avenue who sing music from a variety of genres,
including R&B, jazz and soul, he said.
"They sing in 10 different styles of music in three dif-
ferent languages, and that's unprecedented," he said.
"None of the famous divas we know can do what they
do."
The 41st NAACP Image Awards airs live Feb. 26 on
Fox at 8 p.m.
Voting lasts until Feb. 18.
For more information on 3 Mo' Divas and how to
vote for the awards, visit http://www.3modivas.com.
School Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 1 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.com
Gerar donead in his Hi itpovie y hlter foi
Support the Red Cross and change a life, American
starting with your own. Red Cross
Call 1-800-RED CROSS or visit redcross.org.GHFC.com
Your VIP Pass .'Gainesvill
Bring in this coupon to redeem your pass &
Register to win a free personal training gift card. Health &, Fitness
Newberry Road 377-4955 * Tioga 692-2180 e GHF For Women 374-4634
HSR\,3 First time local guests. IS years and older. Expires February 28, 2010UF Habitat needs
project funding
By ALINA TORRES
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Habitat for Humanity needs some help before it can
help others this semester.
Teng Hui, spokesman for the campus chapter, said the re-
cession has prevented many donors and businesses from mak-
ing contributions, which are vital to beginning construction.
About $20,000 is needed to begin a new housing project, not
including building supplies.
Alachua County Habitat for Humanity and the campus
chapter raise money for the projects, but the
county chapter said it was out of money at
the beginning of the year, Hui said.
Students in the organization will be fo-
cusing on fundraising activities this semes-
ter, he said.So far, volunteers have been working
concession stands at sporting events to re-
Hu. ceive a small portion of the profits.
Stephany Vento, fundraising chairwom-
an for the campus chapter, said the organization is planning
three major events this spring: its annual 5K Hustle for Hu-
manity, a spaghetti dinner and possibly a benefit concert.
Along with the fundraising, the group hopes it can still help
families in need by repairing household items free of cost.
The campus chapter usually focuses on building two to
three houses per semester in Celebration Oaks, a locally owned
neighborhood created by the county chapter of Habitat for Hu-
manity.
"We have a lot [more] UF students signing up to volunteer
than spaces we have provided," Hui said. "Unfortunately, we
have had to turn them away because of what is going on."
Hui said things are slowly picking up and money is being
generated, and Habitat believes it will begin building again af-
ter spring break.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 9
Unite, Student Alliance parties interview candidates
0 SLATING WILL CONTINUE
THROUGH TUESDAY.
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
Interviews for Student Govern-
ment positions with the Unite and
Student Alliance parties began Fri-
day and will continue today and
Tuesday.Fifty Senate seats are available.
Unite Party Sen. Ben Meyers said
the Unite Party interviewed 43 stu-
dents Friday.
Meyers said all of the potential
candidates came with great ideas.
"I think we're seeing the cream
of the crop from every college and
every constituency," Meyers said.
"We're extremely honored that
they've come out and chose to slate
with Unite."Yevgen Sautin, the director of
recruitment and slating for the Stu-
dent Alliance party, said between
25 and 30 students interviewed with
the Student Al-
Student liance Party onGovernment Friday.
" W e ' r e
bringing together a very diverse and
energetic body of students," Sautin
said.
Mary Liu, a sophomore mathmajor, chose to interview with the
Student Alliance party because she
wanted to learn more about SG and
help modernize the way SG handles
its budget.
"I really want to work with Stu-
dent Alliance because they have a
greater connection with the majority
of the Student Body," Liu said.
UF freshman Sam Kahn slated
with the Unite Party because he said
he believes in the platform goals ofdiversity, progression and results.
"Iwant to give back to everything
that UF has given me," Kahn said.
Slating interviews for both parties
will continue Monday and Tuesday
from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in Room 284
of the Reitz Union. Students should
bring a resume and a Gator 1 Card.
Supervisor of Elections Ariana
Alfonso said the Action Party and
the Valence Party are registered but
did not interview any students.
The money went to the Red Cross
Tom Gabel, lead singer of Against Me!, sings at The Atlantic on Sunday night.CONCERT, from page 1
"We love to see the outpouring of
donations on a local level after such a
devastating event," said Laura Mager,
executive director for the North Central
Florida Chapter of the Red Cross.
Mager said the money donated to the
Red Cross is used to bring food and wa-
ter to Haiti.
The Red Cross is partnering with the
United Nations World Food Programme
to feed survivors of the earthquake by es-
tablishing food distribution sites in Port-
au-Prince.
The Red Cross is also bringing buckets
of water to Haitian families.
Thomas said organizing the concert
was easy, and bands were eager to join
the cause.
"Gainesville is the type of place where
all the members of every band hang out
together a lot," he said.
When Grabass Charlestons started the
show at 5:30 p.m., about 80 people wereat the venue, but the number of people
and donations increased throughout the
evening, culminating with the Against
Me! performance at 9 p.m.
"We love to see the outpouring of
donations on a local level after
such a devastating event."
Laura Mager
executive director for the North Central
Florida Chapter of the Red Cross.
The show attracted some people that
simply wanted to listen to local music, re-
gardless of what the cover charge went to.
"To be honest, I came to see the shows,"
said John Eassey, a criminology grad stu-
dent at UF. "Helping Haiti is a nice bo-
nus."
To donate $10 to the Red Cross' Haiti
relief efforts, students can text "Haiti"to
90999.
They can also give any amount of
money to the organization by going to
redcross.org.
Smile.
W17
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us hep those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have vaid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
WireLess Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
A Biotest
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431352-378-7033
1718 W. Univ. Ave.
iA ar & Grill,. r'.
$10 ALL YOU CAN M RINK\
D -JDTrivia Tuesclavs
Win a $50 Bar Tab
$3 Capt & $5 Pitohers
Starts @ 1 Opm U
No Cover
Monday Tuesday Wednesd The Friday
_____ Ak'ne
10, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010
UF TRACK & FIELD
Proctor qualifies for NCAAs with record long jump
By RYAN BUTLER
Alligator Writer
Another meet, another record-
setting performance for a UF
track and field athlete.
Senior Shara Proctor finished
first in the long jump at this
weekend's Texas A&M Challenge
-one of three Gators to win an
event.
Proctor landed a 6.60m/21-8,
breaking her own UF record for
the event and finishing with the
best distance of any athlete in the
NCAA so far this season.
"We expected that from her,"
UF coach Mike Holloway said.
"(Jumps) Coach Brian O'Neal hasdone a great job preparing her
and everything she has done in
practice has shown she could do
this."
Six other UF athletes quali-
fied individually at the provi-
sional level for the NCAA Indoor
Championships during the meet,
joining three Gators who quali-
fied earlier this season.
"We had a good competition,"
Holloway said. "Our goal was
to get better and I think we did
that."
Proctor, a four-time All-Amer-
ican, will join teammate Mariam
Kevkhishvili in the NCAA Indoor
Championships after breaking
the automatic qualifying mark inthe long jump by nearly a quarter
of a meter.
After recording a career-best
throw in the Kentucky Invita-
tional two weeks
ago, Kevkhishvi-
li broke the min-
imum NCAA
q u a l i f y i n g
standard again
with a throw of
18.19m/59-8.25
Proctor in the shot put.She finished
first in the shot put for the ninth-
consecutive time in an indoor
competition.
Distance runner Charlotte
Browning also finished first forUF, winning the 800-meter run in
a career-best time of 2:05:50.
She cut nearly seven seconds
off her previous best and was
only a half-second away from
an NCAA automatic qualifying
mark.
Holloway said he was also
impressed with the performance
of freshman Jeremy Postin. Pos-
tin finished third at the meet in
the weight throw, recording an
18.15/59-6.75.
Sophomore Gray Horn put
together a solid effort in his first
heptathlon of the season with a
second-place finish and score of
5,538. But he was overshadowed
by Oregon's Ashton Eaton'sNCAA-record 6,256 points.
"What can we do about some-
thinglike (Eaton'sperformance)?"
Holloway said. "All we can do is
take care of the Gators."
Thirteen-time All-American
Calvin Smith qualified at the pro-
visional level in his first 400-me-
ter run of the season. The senior
ran a 46.48 to finish second.
Sophomore Rebecca Lowe fin-
ished fourth in the 3,000-meter
run with a provisional qualifying
time of 9:30:69.
Omar Craddock, in his first
meet for the Gators, also racked
up a provisional qualifying result
with a 15.46/50-8.75 in the triple
jump, finishing third in the meet.
HOT SHOTS
Stats shown are
from UFs games
against Georgia
and Tennessee
He missed the potential game-winner in
Knoxville, but Tyus was the only Gator
to turn in two impressive performances
this week. He led the team in scoring
against Georgia (23 points) and Ten-
nessee (18 points) while shooting 68
percent over the two games. He nearly
Alex Tyus led UF to an upset of the No. 14 Vols
despite a horrific showing from the
backcourt, and only one other player scoring in double fig-
ures. The junior power forward is UFs most reliable scorer,
with double-digit points in 1 2-straight games.
Stats: 41 points, 17-of-25 shooting, 10 rebounds, 2
steals, 2 blocks.Beginning with Southeastern Conference play, the alligatorSports staff will vote on the top three UF basketball
performances of the week each Monday. The No. 1 player will receive three points, the No. 2 player two points and
No. 3 player 1 point. At the end of the season, the player with the most points will take home the coveted title of al-
ligatorSports Player of the Year, an honor that still keeps Nick Calathes warm on chilly Greek nights.
Tyus kept the Gators in the Tyus -6
game against the Volunteers, but Walker -6
Parsons nearly recaptured his late- Boynton -3
game magic. He scored seven-straight Parsons -3
points to put Florida ahead 60-59
with 30 seconds remaining, but he
and the Gators came up short. Still,
Parsons was the only other Gator to
Chandler Parsons score more than nine points against
Tennessee, and he showed the ability
to be a reliable late-game scorer. Parsons was not quite as
impressive against Georgia (eight points, four rebounds),
but he didn't have to be. The junior forward also led the
team with 12 rebounds this week.
Stats: 22 points, 9-of-1 3 shooting, 12 rebounds, 4
assists, 3 steals
Il-a MWalker couldn't have started off
the week on a better note notching his first
career double-double against Georgia (21
points, 10 assists). But he came back down
to Earth on Sunday, as the Vols kept him in
check. He finished with just nine points on
3-of-9 shooting (1 of 6 from three) and
more turnovers (six) than assists (four). After
Erving Walker an otherwise-incredible start to Southeast-
ern Conference play, Walker will have to
put the Tennessee game behind him if the Gators are going to
have a chance throughout the rest of their conference slate.
Stats: 30 points, 7-of-1 9 shooting, 5-of-1 2 from three, 14
assists, 3 steals
Erica Ervin / Alligator Staff
Qul"rigfa *tdn Seae
Feb 0, 6n Feb .2 inro .84o hLegalize it. Don't criticize it!
Pd. PoL Adv. approved by Richard Selwach
EvEET w Richard
Flria~alh~vior~cm Selwac Iwww.selwachforrnayor com
...
.
'/
/f
c=
Y Iii
352.338.7467 Only 6 Blocks from UF Campus!
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 11
University of Florida
Student Tickets
are on sale now for these performances!
Odessa Philharmonic Orchestra
Hobart Earle, Music Director
with 2009 Van Cliburn Finalist
Mariangela Vacatello
Wednesday, March 3, 7:30 p.m.
Aspen Santa Fe Ballet
Tuesday, March 16, 7:30 p.m.
Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra
JoAnn Falletta, Music Director
with Fabio Bidini, Piano
Thursday, March 18, 7:30 p.m.
SPONSORED BY MERRILL LYNCH GLOBAL WEALTH MANAGEMENT, MICHAEL CARR, VP
Menahem Pressler and the
New York Chamber Soloists, Winds
Sunday, March 21, 2 p.m.
University AuditoriumAbraham Inc.
Tuesday, March 23, 7:30 p.m.
No Southern Accent
Thursday, March 25, 7:30 p.m.
Sunday, March 28, 2 p.m.
Squitieri Studio Theatre
One Night of Queen
by Gary Mullen and The Works
Tuesday, March 30, 7:30 p.m.
SPONSORED BY HOME MAGAZINE AND 92.5/95.5/107.9 WIND FM
The Kin
Saturday, April 3, 7:30 p.m.
Squitieri Studio Theatre
SPONSORED BY RAIL HOUSE GRILLPAT METHENY:
THE ORCHESTRION TOUR
Sunday, April 11, 7:30 p.m.
SPONSORED BY BLUE WATER BAY AND SARKIS CLINICAL TRIALS
University of Florida Symphony Orchestra
Raymond Chobaz, Conductor
Saturday, April 17, 7:30 pm
Interpreti Veneziani
Sunday, April 18, 2 p.m.
University Auditorium
SPONSORED BY DAVIS MONK & COMPANY AND PLAZA ROYALE ASSOCIATES
Young Concert Artist:
Bella Hristova, Violin
Sunday April 25, 2 p.m.
Squitieri Studio Theatre
All performances above are at the Curtis M. Phillips Center
for the Performing Arts unless otherwise noted.
Events, dates tmes and programs are subject to change.
I
Socalled of Abraham nC Bella Hristovar
* Plus applicable sales tax (final purchase price $10.50).
*$10 student tickets are available at the Phillips Center Box Office and the University Box Office. Each UF student may buy one student-priced ticket per event.
Students must present their valid ID (must be valid at time of purchase and the time of performance) to be sold a ticket. Tickets are limited and subject to availability
* University of Florida Performing Arts is supported in part by University of Florida Student Government.
For more information, call the Phillips Center Box Office at 352-392-2787 or visit
www.performingarts.ufl.eduThe Kin
Background photo: Aspen Santa Fe Ballet
U UNIVERSITY of UFLORIDAVqW
12, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010
UF LACROSSE
Gators drop warmup to U.S.
By TONI-ANN MILLER
Alligator Writer
Florida will have to address consistency and
communication problems before its inaugural
season opener Feb. 20.
UF lost 8-17 to the U.S. National Develop-
mental team in an exhibition match Saturday
in Orlando.
Coach Amanda O'Leary attributed the de-
feat to poor second-half play and the lack of
communication on both ends of the field.
"The first half we played really well; both
offensively and defensively and through the
midfield," she said. "In the second half, we fal-
tered. We got away from our game plan, and
we had some troubles."
After trailing 0-1 early in the first half, UF
rallied and scored two goals to take the lead.
The U.S. team then pulled away, and UF trailed
4-7 at the half.
Things continued to go downhill for UF as
the U.S. team scored five unanswered goals to
begin the second half, en route to the 17-8 win.
O'Leary said the team needs to address
its fundamental and on-field communication
problems."In the second half, we started dropping a
lot of passes, and they weren't even pressured
passes," she said. "We need to do a little bit
better job of communicating; it just hasn't quite
clicked yet."
The match was called using international
rules -playing with one less player for two
minutes if a yellow card is given and 5 minutes
for a red card.
Conversely, college lacrosse rules would
allow another player to be
substituted for the carded
. athlete.
UF played "man down" for
almost 20 minutes through-
out the match, O'Leary said,
and the quality of UF's oppo-
nent made it more difficult.
O'Leary "We can't play man down
against a team like the U.S. National team,"
O'Leary said. "They're just way too talented
and they're just too good, so when we started
to get into foul trouble, it really took its toll on
us.
O'Leary said the match was a great learning
experience for her young team and will pro-
vide film material for improvements.UF closes out regular
season with road wins
STAFF REPORT
Due to inclement weather con-
ditions in Knoxville, Tenn., the UF
men's and women's swimming and
diving teams' meets were moved
from Saturday afternoon and Friday
night, respectively, to both taking
place Friday afternoon.
The change in timing didn't seem
to affect the Gators' performance in
their final dual-meet of the season
as the women defeated Tennessee
170-130 and the men followed with
a 164-133 win.
With the win against Tennessee,
the No. 6 men's team (9-0, 4-0 SEC)
finished undefeated for the first time
since the 1987-88 season. The win
also marked the first time the UT
men have lost in the two-year history
of the Allan Jones Aquatic Center.Conor Dwyer continued his dom-
inance by winning the 100-yard free-
style (44.49) and 400-yard individual
medley (3:49.86).
On the No. 7 women's side, Gem-
ma Spofforth won the 100 and 200-
yard backstrokes,
events in which
she's the defend-
ing NCAA cham-
Swimm oi ng pion.SwimmingOn the div-
ing board, Kara
Salamone notched two first-place
finishes.
The teams will have three weeks
to prepare for the postseason before
they compete at the SEC Champion-
ship Meet.
The meet will take place in Ath-
ens, Ga. on Feb. 17-20 and will be
hosted by Georgia.
BURGER 
&
BREW
DEAL
Buy a 1/2 lb. Certified Angus
Beef Burger and get a Draft
Beer Every Monday Night!
4pm-Close: must be 21 yrs old)
Happy Hour Mon-Fri 4-7pm
2*4*1 Single Liquors Drinks
$1.40-$2.50 Draft Beer
$2.95 House Wine
.ive Music every Wednesday, Friday
and Saturday Nights!
The Red Onion
3885 NW 24th Blvd.
352-505-0088M00000000 aaacaaaaa
a a aa a aa 000MG0000ea aa111111111N DOu (E11"1 '
BACK BY POPULAR DEMAND!
10 MEALS FOR
$60
Save $2.00 off the door price!
Meals are redeeabl uni rthe a ohf Spin 2010 Semester.
Available for purchase at the cafe only.
Monday -Friday
11:00AM -2:00PMReit Unin, 4th Fl r392-3463
'7ww.gatordinmng. cam
es
NV \S
1I
I
0
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
*3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
$419 all inclusive 4/4
$509 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
24hr Fitness Center * 2 Pools
Now Feline Friendly352-271-
3131*GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-1
0
CrossfljeSP .-1. .NT.
OPEN HOUSE ON FEB 6TH
TOUR A 2,3 AND 4 BEDROOM
THERE WILL BE FOOD & PRIZES
GREAT SIGNING SPECIALS!
TOUR! SIGN! ENJOY!
3700 SW 27TH ST 373.9009
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$250/MO
Fully Furnished Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, Campus Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1
REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2*3/3*4/4
Rates from $386*Close to UF
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $750/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432
2-3-09-55-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. 239-250-6149 2-12-10-25-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Unit. $450 ea. W/D.
Property has clubhouse, fitness and busi-
ness/computer ctr. Utilities incl. On bus
route. Windsor Park.
305-788-5681/Windsor515@gmail.com.
2-26-10-28-1ADORABLE VINTAGE HOMES 2BR/1BA.
Minutes from UF. Wood floors, stone tile, util-
ity room. Cats ok. $675, first, last, $200 sec.
352-256-0999 2-8-10-10-1
LUXURY 2STORY TOWNHS. 2B/2.5Ba
FULLY FURN. 2 min to UF, Great bus routes
& parking, Pool/gym, Free wifi, All utils incl.
Both rooms avail June 1st or later, Individual
Leases $540/$520 Martha 786 246-3049
3-5-29-1
Furnished room for rent -flexible lease terms
$299 per month -females only call 704-677-
2018 2-5-10-5-1
For RentF unfurnished
LOW COST MOVE IN
1 BR & STUDY -$395/mo.
372-6881 or 213-3901 4-21-10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
-HUGE FLOOR PLANS-
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
LIVE THE DOWNTOWN LIFE
Steps from clubs-blocks to UF
Studios, i/i's, 2/2's & 3/3's
The best location.GUARANTEED
Reserve NOW for fall! 338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
1 & 2's * AFFORDABLE RATES!
1 BR/1 BA $469 * 2BR/1 BA $569
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Adopted pets live free!! 2 Pools!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 Iv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOW or FALL 2010.
2/2 from $1019 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/-$699 2/2-$799 3/2-$869
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464
4-21-71-2
P OLOS
Three Bus Routes (9,34,35,36)!
1.5m to UF, Shand's, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$799 3/3-$979
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75 SW 75th Street Call 332-7401
71-24-21-No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
SORORITY ROW 2BR
2BR/2.5BA for $1199
W/D & utils included. We <3 pets!
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UFl
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
BRAND NEW REDUCED RATES!
1's, 2's, 3's
Inclusive Pkgs Available
Pet Friendly!
Immediate or Fall Move In
352-374-3866
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $505 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$419 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2*3/3*4/4
Rates from $386*Close to UF
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$600 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 2-19-10-75-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 2-5-10-
62-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -WE'VE GOT IT ALL!
1/1 from $589 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis*1 mile to UF*Huge Laundry Facilities
377-7401 * www.biketouf.com
4-21-09-71-2
0 2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE
7209 SW 45th Pl. $600/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 2-3-10-
38-2
BLOCKS TO UF
Available August 2010. Now showing
multiple houses. 2BR/2BA, 3BR/2BA,
4BR/3BA, 5BR/3BA. www.dalyproperties.
com or call Carol 359-3341 2-26-10-43-2
Move-In Now & Walk to UF
2BR $300/br * 1 BR $599 * Studio $720
Dorm style $509 Roommate Matching Avail
www.ForRentNearUF.com * 352-376-6223
4-21-71-2
14, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For RentO F nfursnished )shed F nfurnished unfurnished lrnished
100+ apts: Live by UF
Affordable & Luxury 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $540;
1BR $465. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $490;
2BR $590 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
$199 Move-In Special
$500-$700 2 bed/1 bath
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or (352)505-9264 2-17-10-
30-2
Holiday Special/ Valentine's Day
NO MOVE-IN COSTS -Free Rent
(Don't Pay Anything til 2/14/10)
Please Hurry. Only A Few Units Avail!
(We speak Spanish) 352 240-9009
2-12-09-27-2
Rocky Point Apts 3100 sw 35th pl- 376-1619
Country Garden 2001 sw 16th st- 373-4500
Regency Oaks 3230 sw Archer rd 378-5766
Southwest Villas 3643 sw 20 ave 336-9000
Archer Woods 3020 sw Archer rd- 373-8727
2-12-09-27-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
Cute & Clean! Vintage 1-BR with wood floors
& great front porch in quiet NW area. Walk to
Ward's, Publix & buslines, bike to downtown
& UF. Avail. NOW! $575/mo. 352-338-7670
or email shepley@cozygator.com 2-5-10-
21-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 2-12-10-25-2
One Block to UF:2/2.5 bath townhouse. W/D,
Dishwasher, Garbage Disposal, wood floors,
ceiling fans, GUARANTEED Parking call
Todd at 514-4915, VERY Nice townhouse
2-26-10-33-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1st Nice large
4BR/2BA house. Big bedrooms, big living rm.
W/D provided, game rm $1425/mo. 2100 NW
8th Court. Call for diretions. Pets ok, fenced
yard. Other houses available 352-339-2342
2-5-10-18-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1075
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111 4-21-
65-2
* One Month Free and $40 Moves you Inf
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $499 2/1 $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/1 from $619 2/2 from $729
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Sunrise Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $509
NO APP FEE. Near UF, Shands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 $599
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Villas at Ashton Square
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/2 $719 3/2 $849
Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Summer Place Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $519
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Sundowne Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Studio $469 1/1 $519
Walk to Butler Plaza and Regal Cinemas
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* One Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Gator Village Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1/1 $489
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Walk to UF. Openings in Feb, May & Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 0 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 0 studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
2-26-10-32-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
2-11-10-20-2*2/1 Brandywine $495 sm. pet ok***
water incl. $495 dep required.Near UF,
Shands, VA. On bus route.
Short term ok. (4-6 or 15 mo)
AVAIL NOW 352.284.2654
2-5-10-15-2
SORRENTO SUBDIVISION
Newer 3BR/2BA 2 car gar, split plan home.
Eat-in kitchen, living & dining rms, fireplace,
high ceiling, lanai, fenced yd, sec sys. $1300/
mo yearly lease. 813-205-0220 lv mssg. 2-1-
10-10-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
2BR/2.5BA 1308 SW 61st St.
$595/mo. $300 sec dep.
Call 352-332-4088
2-2-10-10-2
GOT ROACHES?
Buy Harris Famous Roach Tablets.
Guaranteed to kill. Available at: Zells
Hardware, 3727 West University 3-17-10-
35-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
1001 SW 16th Ave.
2BR IBA APT $560/mo incl. water, sewer,
pest control, garbage. Top floor, carpet, large
windows. Walk to UF or take RTS 13, 16 or
17. 407-922-0029 2-5-11-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 2-4-10-
10-2
Move in Special: No Security Deposit
2/2 Condo with washer/dryer, screened-
in porch, newer condo, near UF. Shands,
located off 34th & Archer Rd. 2 units
available $750/mo. Call 317-5060 215-5996
3-1-10-27-2
a a 0*2/1, 3 Blocks to UF
*Near Sorority Row, HW Floors
Pet Friendly $900/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-55-2
*2/1 Apt, 8 Blocks to UF
*1000 SF, WD hookups
Centr. AC, Pet Friendly $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-55-2
2BR/1BA Duplex, WALK to SF College.
Tile Floors, Newly remodeled kitchen, pri-
vate parking, fenced in yard. Rent $600/mo.
Deposit $300. Pet Deposit $200. Please call
352-278-2897. 2-8-10-10-2
Available now. HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo. All
4BR/2BA $1100/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183
2-8-10-10-2
2BR/1BA Mobile Home. Very clean, tile in
kitchen. Oak Park Village. $650/mo, sec
$500. Landlady pays garbage pickup, water,
sewer & yard maintenance. Call 372-2107
2-1-10-5-2
450/mo -Roommate Wanted in new 2/2 -
On Newberry & nw55th st -cable/net/utilities
NOT included-NO PETS-Grad student pre-
ferred-close to campus-bus route#5 -Email
ajkgator@ufl.edu 2-4-10-7-2
5/3, 1900sf, nice, w/d, no pet fee, no lease,
1st month free, 1500 month, 15 min to UF.
352-301-2403 2-2-5-2
JUNSLI
Coprighed Mai eilLSMALL CABIN 2/1, 20 ACRES
Watermelon Pond views. 27802 SW 120th
Lane, Newberry. Horse pens, dog door.
Needs work. $575/mo. $750 move-in 330-
329-8834 2-2-5-2
***HOUSE 4BR/2BA***
Available 8/1. Lovely, remodeled. W/D. Bike
to UF. No pets. Details: 3532 NW 7th Ave.
$1400/mo. 373-1558 or 246-8645 2-2-10-
5-2
Available Now. 2BR duplex behind Norman
Hall. Cent H/AC, ceiling fans, $625/mo. $500
sec dep. 1117 SW 7th Ave. No dogs. Call
372-4903 or 917-416-6968 2-4-5-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Large 4BR/2BA house,
Wash/dry provided, privacy fenced, pets ok,
full sized hot tub on back screened porch,
dishwasher, carport, $1600/mo. 3413 NW
8th Ave 352-339-2342 2-5-10-5-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. 3BR/1BA house. Nice.
Nine blocks from campus, wash/dry pro-
vided, cent H/AC fenced private backyard,
hardwood floors, detached garage. $1125/
mo. 924 NW 9th Ave. 352-339-2342 2-5-
10-5-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Nice 4BR/2BA house.
Close to campus, hardwood floors, wash/dry
provided, private back yard, fireplace, central
heat/air. 352-339-2342. $1550/mo. 1105 NW
10th Ave. Plenty of parking. 2-5-10-5-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Clean modern 4BR/2BA
house. fenced backyard, pets ok, fireplace,
wash/dry provided, wooded private big yard.
$1425/mo, central heat/air. 2606 NW 34th
Street. 352-339-2342 2-5-10-5-2
, 'I I
mm
Sy ndicated Contentft
Available from Commercial News Providers
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
For RentOFnurih5dSules Suless RoomesRomaeunfurnishe at
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Clean nice 4BR/2BA
house, privacy fenced backyard, pets ok,
hardwood floors, fireplace, plenty of parking,
wash/dry provided, dishwasher, cent heat/air
$1400/mo 830 NW 16th Ave 352-339-2342
2-5-10-5-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. 4BR/2BA clean nice
house 1 block from campus. Hardwood
floors, wash/dry provided, fireplace, modern
bathrooms. $1800/mo 1203 SW 1st Ave.
352-339-2342 2-5-10-5-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. 3BR/2BA house one
block from campus, hardwood & tile floors,
wash/dryer provided, fireplace, dishwasher,
modern baths 110 SW 12th St. $1350/mo
352-339-2342 2-5-10-5-2
829 NW 41 Ave. 3BR/1BA house. Garage,
fenced yard, washer & dryer, pets ok. $800/
mo Deposit $800. Call 352-335-1788, 222-
3056 2-5-10-5-2
3BR/2BA house. Huge fenced backyard. Pets
ok. Nice neighborhood. $925/mo. Please call
Kathie at 378-3082 2-9-10-7-2
Plac
i se
Visit wwv
form beloW
PRANGE'S Your H
Is r i S t pDON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOURSummer Sublease
7 blocks from campus
$500 per month, utilities included
fully furnished
678-315-0500 2-11-10-3
SUBLEASE AD jRoommates
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Gainesville Place sublease $300 per
month including utilities. 4/4 with only 2 cur-
rent roommates. 2 Bus stops within the com-
munity, 2 pools, 2 basketball courts, gym,
tanning center. 305-798-8303 2-5-10-7-3Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $299/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 4-21-09-71-4
I'VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ing your heartline
easier than ever.
.alligator.org or fill out the
to place your heartline today!
eartline will automatically be entered to win
rizes! Judges will vote on the following:
PPFODROME Funniest V Most Sincere ? Mushiest V Best Poem Y Strangest
9M9anuef's
Vintage 'RoomEach Category winner will recieve flowers and candy.
In addition, the Judge's Choice, picked from those win-
ners, will also win dinner for two and theater tickets.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail now
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 2-2-
10-516-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
2-2-10-10-4
Female seeks roommate for 4/2.5 town-
house, cricket club, all included, no pets,
$400 954-557-4769 3-4-10-30-4
Deadline: February 5, 2010 fubliIhed February 12, 2010 Acct. # Exp. /
alligator THIS INFORMATION WILL NOT APPEAR IN THE AD.
BRING TO: Name
BRING TO:CALL IN: Address I
The Independent Fla. Alligator 373-FLIND AySres1105 W. University Ave. C73tyINT Zipy
Must arrive by 4pm Feb. 5, 2010 Phone
Allow I space for each letter, space and punctuation mark. Use 2 spaces for each capital letter.
-------------------------------------- I
-------------------------------------- II I
I-------------------------------------I-------------------------------------- I
I-------------------------------------II I
Use the space below for additional lines at an additional charge of $2.00 per line.
-------------------------------------- II1 I
L--------------------------------------------------------
Attach additional paper for more lines if needed
Five (5) prizes will be awarded by five in-house judges. Deadline for submission is 4pm on Feb 5th. All HearLine messages placed will be automatically entered in the con- p fl,6"
rest. Winners will be notified prior to Feb 12th. Winners will be announced in the Feb 12th edition. Positive ID required to collect winnings. Officers, directors, employees &
their family members of the Alligator, or affiliates of the contest are not eligible to enter contest. You do not need to be present to win. Prized cannot be transfered. Gratuity i gZ IL o r
and sales tax not included. Dinner certificate must be used by March 31, 2010. No purchase necessary to enter. Contact Classified Office for details.Mill Pond/Gainesville Health & Fitness!!
Need roomate to share 2BR/2BA condo
on the water. Completely furnished except
your BR! Move in immediately and receive
free month rent!!! 352-538-5170 ask for Kyle
2-3-10-10-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
2-26-10-20-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-71-
5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
HOUSE FOR SALE-N OF UF-1724 NW
7TH-AVAILABLE IN MAY; 3/2/1 WOOD &
TILE FLOORS W LGE MASTER STE, PKG
& ENTERTAINMENT AREAS; SCR. PORCH
(813)968-5804;(813)956-0487 $299,990
2-5-10-8-5
Won't Last
3/2 -Great Community
Owner Financing
$650.oo/mo
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Only 3 miles from the Ocean
3 and 2 beds avail/low down/low monthly
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
2 & 3 bdrs
>From $599.00/month
Owner Financing
Low down
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Move In Ready
3/2 Adorable
>From $99.00/mo
Westside/owner finance
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
OWNER FINANCING
3 & 2 bedrooms avail
Great Locations
Call 352.378.4411
today! 2-26-10-22-5
Up to $8K tax credit
For 1st time home buyers
3 & 2 bdrs avail
WE FINANCE
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
OPEN HOUSE EVERY SATURDAY
MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITIES
GREAT HOMES, GREAT PRICES
WE FINANCE, LOW DOWN,
LOW MONTHLY 904-400-0421,SUSAN
2-26-10-20-5
Manufactured Home Communities-
Jacksonville Use your tax refund
Get a 42" TV with purchase
Limited offer, call for details
904-400-0421 Susan 2-26-10-20-5lRead & Fill out all information completely
IOThe following symbols can be used and count as one space each: V
IBold, centered or larger type is also available for an additional fee.
loNo obscene or foreign languages, or double entendres
1No last names or identifiable descriptions (last initial is OK)
1 No abbreviations of Valentine's Day
$6.00 for 5 lines. Additional lines $2.00 each.
No refunds or credits after placing the ad.
COST 1 DAY= $6.00
Additional Lines X $2.00 =_
SUBTOTAL $
Centering of type or elements costs an
additional one time charge of $4.00. _
Bold print in any or all of your ad costs
an additional 50% of the subtotal. _
Have your ad published online for
an additional 50% of the subtotal
TOTAL COST $
Charge: MC VISA Cash: $ _ Check# _
16, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010
FFurnishings Computers Motorcycles, Mopeds Autos Aut
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7CERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECHO
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
2-26-10-34-7
Gator Computer Solutions, Inc. On-Site
Service. Microsoft Certified Professional.
UF IT Grad. MCSA, A+, Network+, XP,Vista,
Windows7 Certified. $35per/hr. NO Travel
Cost in G'ville! Call 352-338-0132 2-12-10-
20-7
rz Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
MFFo r Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
Discount Hookahs at www.Hookaa.com.
Value Hookahs at dirt cheap prices.
We offer wide variety of Hookahs and
Hookah Accessories at deep discounts.
Visit us @ www.Hookaa.com
2-2-10-10-10-
Affordable High Quality Recording.
Musical Engineers, Private Setting.
Starting at $25/hr 352 258 8557.
www.medusasounds.com 2-5-10-10
Income For Life! Make $9,330 monthly with
GDI fast track. We help build your business.
http://www.xtracash4us.com 2-1-5-10
Moist Banana Bread, Homestyle Pecan Pie,
Chocolate Chip Cookies fresh baked using
organic ingredients, sweet cream butter and
real vanilla. Delivered overnight to you.
www.DorothysBakery.com 2-2-5-10
MotorCyCIes, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
**Www.B~uyMyScooter.com**
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
11 Z utos
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
1 BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
2-26-09-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
01 Kia Optima $1999 cash
96 Chevy Blazer $1999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
by ChLris Richcreek
1. Who is the Dodgers' all-time
leader in shutouts?
2. When the Texas Rangers had their
first winning season in 1974, who was
the team's manager?
3. Name the last conference before
the SEC to win at least three straight
national championships in college
football.
4. Who is the only player in NBA
history to have four seasons of 100
blocks and 100 three-pointers made?
5. Name the only player to have 600-
plus goals and 2,000-plus penalty
minutes for his NHL career.
6. Who was the last U.S. man before
Mch Keflezighi in 2009 to win the
New York City Marathon?
7. Name the last Grand Slam golf
event Tiger Woods won in consecu-
tive years.
'(LOOZ P1110
900W) ditsuoidwurLD Vd 01 -L
7861 u JUZI13S otiOq1 -9
-uuquunqs utpuaig -g
GO3IIFlAXAPOO)USIj
-t-0t61 Tul ual 21H 011 1
11?l 9L-t8
uL o, s0a2ung J0U p0 u iuw X[&! -Z
-g 11MM uolnS uoQ-
sflMsuV
Cc 2010 King Features Synd., Inc.92 Plymouth Van $699 cash
94 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Kia Sephia $999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
98 Ford Explorer $1900
97 Mits Diamonte $1999
94 Toyota Camry $1499
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
98 Ford Contour $2500
98 Dodge Ram $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
99 Saturn $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2500
00 Mercury Sable $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
02 Kia Rio $3900
03 Buick Century $4900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-122003 Honda Civic, 79k, $8999CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k, $6999 CASH
2005 Chevy Monte Carlo, 43k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k, $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k, $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k, $5999 CASH
2003 Jaguar, 95k, $8999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
W Z FWanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
CopyMghled MMeMaSynd~cMed ~
rAflfAflf1%~Ava~ ab e from Commerda News ProvWers
II
-S-LW
-P
I-w
I
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 17
Wanted Help Wanted Hf3 pntedHelp Wanted Persoas
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 2-11-10-71-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 2-11-
10-71-13
MONEY 4 CLASS
The Social Site that
Pays $2.00 per invite.
www.mysocialclub.info
antonio.marshall35@yahoo.com 2-5-10-
5-13
LOOKING FOR LIVE-IN COMPANION JOB
to take care of the elderly. I have references
and can work up to seven days/week. Please
call 352-495-1438 2-6-10-5-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
MOST WANTED
Ashley Pearson
White Female
(DOB 02/28/83); 5'07",
Brown Hair,
Green Eyes
Wanted for:
Robbery with a Deadly
Weapon and
Aggravated Battery
ALACNUA C OUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOPBARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
UCB
Looking for energized individuals to work part
time as an office assistant mainly for packing
online orders.
High paced environment so attention to
detail is key. Hourly pay $8.50/hr. Very
nice job environment and 10 min from
UF! Preferred bilingual English/Spanish,
but not required. Please send resumes to
universitycollegebooks@gmail.com and
make sure your contact information is in-
cluded.
Thanks 2-2-10-20-14
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
Linux Administrator
Full time career position with a success-
ful 30 year employer located in Gainesville.
Must have strong Linux/Unix background
and should be conversant with the following:
kernel compiling, network configuration, ip-
tables/ipchains, Sendmail, Procmail, MySQL
and Apache. Please apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com. 2-3-10-20-14
GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS
FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY
PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT
JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-6300
2-8-10-20-14STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
PART TIME WORK
Great Pay
Customer Sales/Service
Flexible Schedule
Scholarships/Internships
No experience Needed
Conditions apply,
CALL 352-371-9675
2-16-20-14
Sexy party promotions / Fantasy role play
/ Costume models $50 hr.+ to start, South
FL. Call 954-593-8120 No exp. req. Will
train, Full career support, Safe & legalSexy
only pls. (954)593-8120 for more info.
2-5-10-12-14
LATE NIGHT DRIVERS
$15-$17/hr 10 pm -4am.
Apply @ gatordominos.com 4-21-10-60-14
TECHNICIANS NEEDED
FOR INDEPENDENT FILM
Exp in audio/visual work. Salary negotiable,
based on exp. 386-454-7170, 352-316-5642
2-8-10-10-14
**MOTHER'S HELPER FOR 4 & 6 yr old.
M-F, 3-6pm. Student w/childhood education
& experience preferred. Must have reliable
car w/good driving history. Mileage + good
pay. Send Resume: alligatornanny@gmail.com
2-2-10-5-14
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children.
FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA
in education. Benefits available with FT. Call
377-2290 or 373-1481 2-9-10-10-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Entertainment
352/672/1892 2-23-10-20-14
UF PROFESSOR SEEKS ENERGETIC,
KIND PERSON TO SPEND QUALITY
TIME WORKING WITH OUR 16 YR OLD
SON WITH SPECIAL NEEDS. FLEXIBLE
HOURS/GREAT PAY AND SUPPORTIVE
FAMILY! (352)376-9706 2-3-5-14
Promotional Models-PT
If you want to work for the best agency that
promotes the finest brands then send us
your information. All State Promotions, Inc.
is recruiting promotional models to promote
Jagermeister, Michael Collins Irish Whiskey,
Tommy Bahama Ultra Premium Rum and
other premium brands.
ALL APPLICANTS -
Must be 21 years of age or older
Must be able to create awareness with a
smile
Must be a people person, outgoing with a fun
personality and articulate
Must be dependable and punctual
Must have reliable transportation
Orientation and Full training provided
If interested forward your resume to
jsotto@allstatepromo.com 2-1-2-14
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersP/T babysitter wanted, mainly for 3 and 1 yr
olds. $10/hr. Various hours available: morn/
aft/eve. Experience with infants necessary,
refs required. Email resume and refs to nan-
nyforfam@gmail.com 2-1-10-2-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches is now hir-
ing Counter Help/Bartenders. Accepting
Applications Mon 2/1/10 and Tues 2/2/10
from 9am-llam at both the 2327 N W 13th
St. and the 5156 S W 34th St. locations.
2-2-10-3-14
FARAHS ON THE AVENUE
Now hiring exp waitrons. FT/PT. No calls.
Apply 1120W. Univ. Ave. Mon-Thurs 2-4pm.
2-5-5-14
PAID ON-CAMERA MODELS
M/F starring in live, local HD webcasts of
relaxation/meditation sessions. $20 paid
per 1 hour broadcast. G-rated, 18+ plz
email now to apply -starcasts@yahoo.com
2-3-10-3-14
BARTENDER OPENINGS
Earn $150-250/day. No experience required.
Will train. Call now 352-678-5246 2-26-10-
20-14
E serviCeS
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
FREE CELL PHONE SERVICE! WOW
Mobile. Customers & Reps, Make Residual
Income, $7700/Day Realistically, Joshua:
352-359-3127. www.WOWMobile4all.com
2-5-5-15
F Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
STD/Pregnancy Testing
Confidential, Affordable, Fast and Easy.
www.JustGetTested.com
5% Off with Discount Code UF2010 2-3-
10-20-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards
Employment Visas & Naturalization
www.ruthlaw.com (352) 335-6748
2-2-40-18
Event Ntices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE Zumba Fitness class Monday,
February 1st, 5:30pm. 601 S. Main St.
Parking in rear. Free water and snacks and
lots of smiles. Two instructors for twice the
fun. www.ZumbaGypsy.com 904-742-0188
2-1-10-6-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-21-09-71-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
GIF Rides
-2mo
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
Sports
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Vols sink Gators with late shot
* THE LOSS ENDED FLORI-
DA'S FOUR-GAME CONFER-
ENCE WIN STREAK.
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
All season, Billy Donovan has
talked about making sure his
team has at least a chance to win
at the end games.
The Gators had their chance
Sunday afternoon, but it bounced
off the rim twice and fell to the
hardwood.
Junior power forward Alex
Tyus scored a game-high 18
points but missed a short jumper
with five seconds left, and Florida
(15-6, 4-3 Southeastern Confer-
ence) ended its four-game confer-
ence winning streak with a 61-60
loss to No. 14 Tennessee (16-4, 4-2
SEC) in Thompson-Boling Arena
in Knoxville, Tenn.
"We've been on both sides of
it," Donovan said. "We were on
the other side of it when Chan-
dler Parsons throws in a 75-footer
and made a great shot last week-
end against South Carolina."
UF had a one-point lead with
25 seconds left, but Volunteers
guard Scotty Hopson came out
of a timeout and drained a long
fadeaway jumper over Parsons.
That gave the Gators the ball
with no timeouts and 17 seconds
to go. Sophomore point guard Er-
ving Walker passed out of a dou-
ble team to Tyus, who spun to his
right and put up a shot in traffic
that fell off the iron and into the
hands of Hopson.
Although he couldn't make
his last shot, Tyus was largely
responsible for the game staying
as close as it was. He shot 7 of 11
from the field and grabbed seven
rebounds in 33 minutes.
If not for a late run by Parsons,
Tyus would have been the only
Gator to score in double figures.
Parsons, who finished the first
half with seven points and seven
rebounds, went quiet until the
final minutes, when he scored
seven straight for the Gators and
put them ahead 60-59.
The junior forward went just
2 of 5 from the free-throw lineTennessee guard Scotty Hopson shoots the game-winner in the Vol-
unteers' 61-60 win over the Gators on Sunday in Knoxville, Tenn.
in the final three minutes, but he
also connected on a driving layup
and a three-pointer from the top
of the key with 30 seconds left.
Parsons led the team with
eight rebounds but grabbed just
one in the second half, when the
Vols dominated on the glass.
UF led by as many as 10 points
in the first half, holding UT to
36.4 percent shooting and tak-
ing a 20-14 rebound advantage,
but the Vols outrebounded the
Gators 27-12 after halftime.
Donovan said the blame for the
rebounding disparity shouldn't
be placed on UF's frontcourt. In-
stead, Donovan pointed to poordefense by Walker and freshman
guard Kenny Boynton as part of
the problem.
"Our guards got beat off the
dribble way too much," Donovan
said. "When they were beat off
the dribble, our big guys had to
constantly shut off penetration,
and doing that took them out of
rebounding position."
Walker and Boynton didn't
fare much better on the offensive
end of the floor, shooting a com-
bined 5 of 20 from the field and 1
of 11 from three-point range after
scoring 21 points apiece against
Georgia on Wednesday.
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 19Tebow's future isn't bright
t isn't always easy to hear a net of 4
the truth. yards. He
Sometimes it is shocking; fumbled
other times it is unsurprising. t w i c e :
Either way, it's often un- o n c e
avoidable. Phil Kegler in his
I'm beginning to believe Tim Phil on the Hill throwing
Tebow isn't suited to be an NFL pkegler@alligator org motion
quarterback. and once
That might be one of the on a run
most unpopular thoughts in (only one was lost, though).
this town, but it is something His longest completion was 11
Gators fans might need to come yards. He led the South team on
to terms with. Regardless of five drives that resulted in three
where he gets drafted in April, points.
his pro prospects aren't very None of it should be that sur-
bright. prising.
And while I could be wrong, He was playing with strep
before you start cursing my throat. He was playing with a
name, why don't you think new center and a line that strug-
about why you're so certain he gled all game. He had only one
will succeed at the next level? week to get used to the receiv-
In his first "pro" setting at ers, and the wideouts didn't do
Saturday's Senior Bowl, Tebow the best job of making Tebow
completed 8 of 12 passes for 50 look good.
yards. He rushed four times forSEE PHIL, PAGE 19
POLL QUESTION
Today's question: Where will Tim
Tebow be in three years?SENIOR BOWL
U Former Florida QB Tim Tebow threw for 50
yards on 8-of-12 passing with two fumbles
and four yards rushing on four carries in his
team's 31-13 loss. Former Gators WR Riley
Cooper caught two passes for 37 yards.Florida loses big
lead but holds on
By EUGENO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@alligator org
The Gators got their second win in Mississippi on Sun-
day, but not before they gave Ole Miss a chance at a come-
back.
UF (12-9, 5-3 Southeastern Conference) was led by
guard Steffi Sorensen's 18 points -all coming from three-
pointers on a 6-of-7 effort from down-
town -and surrendered a 17-point lead
before winning 67-64 in C.M. Tad Smith
SColiseum. Women's "I'm just really proud, once again, ofBasketball our toughness," UF coach Amanda But-
ler said. "Not hanging our heads when
some things didn't go our way, but bouncing back and
showing a lot of resiliency."
The Gators shot 48 percent from the floor and 52 per-
cent (11 of 21) from beyond the arc for one of their most
consistent offensive performances in conference play.
"We finally shot the ball like we know we're capable
of, and that felt really good," Butler said.
UF guard Lonnika Thompson and forward Sharielle
SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 19
TEEING OFF WITH PHIL KEGLER
U Nothing is more ridiculous than this golf "scandal" about wedges. If there is
an exception allowing Phil Mickelson's wedge, then other golfers should get the
same 20-year-old club. I'm not buying this "spirit of the rule" nonsense. .Just
when you thought the Tiger Woods saga was bad, there are reports that Chel-
sea's John Terry had an affair with a teammate's girlfriend and got her pregnant.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
UF tops LSU with season-best score
AP Photo
Junior Alicia Goodwin finished first on the uneven bars
with a 9.925 in UF's 196.725-195.05 win over LSU.H IT WAS THE FIRST MEET
ASHANEE DICKERSON DID NOT
WIN THE ALL-AROUND.
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
Friday night in the O'Connell Cen-
ter for the fourth-annual Gators Link
to Pink meet to support breast can-
cer awareness, No. 4 Florida (3-1, 3-0
Southeastern Conference) came out
and put together its best performance
of the season.
In front of a crowd of 9,198 en-
ergized fans -the third-largest in
school history -the Gators toppled
No. 13 LSU (3-3, 1-2 SEC), 196.725-
195.05.
"We had so much energy tonight,
and our whole team was just having
so much fun," junior Alicia Goodwin
said.
Goodwin, whose aunt was diag-
nosed with breast cancer last August,
led the Gators on the uneven bars
with a 9.925 after sticking a double-
front dismount to claim her second-
consecutive win in the event.
She wasn't the only Gator to excel
on the bars, though, as senior Amanda
Castillo scored a season-best 9.875 to
take home second place in the event
and bounce back after falling during
her routines the previous two weeksagainst Kentucky and Arkansas.
The evening began for the Gators
with a solid overall performance on
the vault, putting up a total of 49.225,
which was anchored by a 9.9 by soph-
omore Nicole Ellis and a 9.925 by
freshman Ashan6e Dickerson.
"We had so much energy to-
night, and our whole team was
just having so much fun."
Alicia Goodwin
Junior gymnast
The vault scores were good enough
to give the Gators a .550-point lead
after one rotation.
It was a lead the team would not
relinquish.
"We were just so into our own lit-
tle bubble," UF coach Rhonda Faehn
said. "The girls were just performing
so well and feeding off each other
that there was nobody else there, in
our heads."
Florida's performance Friday night
showed how the team has improved
in such a short time as 11 of the rou-
tines performed by the Gators against
the Tigers set or matched collegiate-
bests.
Among those was a 9.825 by fresh-
man Liz Green on the balance beam,
which was good enough to tie for a
share of the event title with LSU'sSusan Jackson, and also marked
Green's second-consecutive title on
the event.
Jackson, who came into the meet
as the top-rated all-around gymnast
in the nation, scored a 39.525 total for
the event to take home the all-around
title.
It marked the first time this season
that Dickerson did not win the all-
around competition.
Dickerson, however, still shined
Friday in front of what she said was
the largest crowd she had ever been
in front of. Her total of 39.450 was her
second-best score of the season, just
not enough to win.
"I just like being in front of the
crowd and feed off of how loud they
are," Dickerson said.
On floor exercise, she utilized the
crowd's energy to propel herself to
a 9.925 to tie for the event win with
teammate Maranda Smith, who said
she felt great against LSU after bat-
tling back from injury.
"I don't really know what to say
about Ashan6e because every time
she steps out there it's the same thing.
It's amazing," Faehn said. "She's like
a cat on the floor."
Faehn also said she is excited about
the progress the team has made so far
this season, and that she "definitely
thinks" the team is on schedule to
peak at the right time.
Sorenson led Gators with 18 points
W HOOPS, from page 18_
Smith each finished with 11 points,
and center Azania Stewart found the
basket more in the second half, in-
cluding two clutch free throws with
14 seconds remaining.
UM guard Bianca Thomas, the
SEC's leading scorer, hit her season
average with 21 points and added
eight rebounds.
Guard Kayla Melson added a ca-
reer-high 20 points on 8-of-15 shoot-
ing, playing all 40 minutes.
Down 13-9, the Gators fired off a
21-2 run -with 12 points coming via
three-pointers -to take a 30-15 lead
over the Rebels with 5:37 remaining
in the first half.
UF shot 46.9 percent (15 of 32) in-
cluding a 7-of-14 effort from behind
the arc in the first half. Sorensen and
Thompson led the team in the half
with nine points and four assists
each.
The Rebels (14-7, 5-3 SEC) had a
tough time holding onto the ball,
committing 11 first-half turnovers.
Florida was opportunistic, convert-
ing those into 16 points.
Ole Miss came into the game av-
eraging the most assists per game in
SEC play, but it was the Gators who
dished the ball around with 12 assists
in the first half.
Despite trailing 17 with 2:37 in the
first half, UM used a 9-2 run to close
out the half and whittle the Gators'
lead to 10.
Feeding off the end of the first
half, the Rebels came out after in-
termission and went on a 13-4 runhighlighted by three Ole Miss three-
pointers.
Elizabeth Robertson had two
of those and had nine second-half
points.
"Obviously Ole Miss had the bet-
ter halftime talk because they made
some great adjustments," Butler
said.
Florida lost a bit of offensive flu-
idity when Thompson got her second
and third fouls within two seconds
and sat out for a stretch where Ole
Miss tied up the game.
After relinquishing the lead for the
first time since 12:50
in the first half, the
Gators responded
with a Ndidi Madu
bucket that tied up
the game and an
ensuing Sorensen
Butler three-pointer, her
fifth, that gave UF
the lead back.
After a pair of Madu free-throws,
Sorensen hit another dagger and on
the next possession found Smith for
a three from the corner with the shot
clock expiring.
Aside from her team-high 18, So-
rensen also finished with six boards
and five assists.
"The stakes were high for us, and
we knew that coming in," Sorensen
said. "We knew we had to go in and
match their intensity -especially on
their home court -and we definitely
did. We outhustled them. We made
plays when we needed to."
A radio broadcast contributed to this
report.PHIL, from page 18
So if we're judging on a really gener-
ous scale, let's say Saturday's perfor-
mance was average.
Now, let's go back to his three years as
a college starter. We'll use that to evaluate
his pro potential.
Oh wait -he became one of the
best players in college football history
in a spread offense that maximizes his
strengths (and really doesn't give any
idea of how he'll fare in the NFL).
But, some say, Tebow will succeed in
the NFL as long as a pro franchise works
its entire offense around him.
You know why that is so easy to be-
lieve?
Because it hasn't been proven wrong
yet, and it can't be proven wrong unless a
team drafts him and tweaks its entire of-
fensive philosophy for him.
The 6-foot-2, 236-pound quarterback
was great in college at picking up crucial
yards on the ground and bowling over
people.
That doesn't seem like a skill that will
translate when going up against quickerand stronger players in the pros.
He showed this season that he is often
slow reading defenses. Combine that with
a less-than-speedy delivery, and NFL de-
fensive backs will feast on his throws.
But he has all the intangibles, you say.
You're right, he does have the "it" fac-
tor.
That won't make his throws any crisp-
er. It won't make him any quicker. It
won't make him a better decision-maker
in the pocket.
Intangibles take a pretty good quarter-
back and make him great. They can allow
a player to raise the level of his team-
mates.
They won't make him any better at the
physical task of being a quarterback.
I really like Tebow. I think he has
been great for the college game, and I ad-
mire him for being a really great person,
someone who never snapped despite all
the pressures at Florida. But none of that
makes him any more qualified to be a
NFL quarterback.
The truth isn't always easy to swal-
low.
That doesn't make it any less true.
Backcourt logs uncharacteristic day
HuurP , from page 18
The starting backcourt also committed 10
turnovers and dished out only seven assists.
"Those guys are better than that," Donovan
said. "Erving seemed like he had a hard time
keeping his footing tonight. He never really
got into the flow of the game."The part for Kenny and for Erving wasn't
so much the off shooting
night, because that's going
to happen. I didn't think our
Men's backcourt did a great job tak-
Basketball ing care of the ball."
A radio broadcast contributed
to this report.
20, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010
UF senior Antoine Benneteau won his doubles match (8-4) and his singles match
(6-0, 6-2) in the Gators' 7-0 victory over Georgia Tech on Sunday.UF TENNIS
Men and women advance
in tourney to round of 16
By ANDREW OLSON
Alligator Writer
The No. 8 Gators women's tennis team re-
mained perfect (4-0) beating FIU on Sunday
in the championship match of ITA Kick-Off
Weekend, advancing to the round of 16 of the
ITA Team Indoor Championships in Madison,
Wis., on Feb. 12-15.
Coming off of a 4-0 sweep Friday over No.
67 BYU, Florida dominated No. 31 FIU with
another 4-0 win Sunday.
UF's women's coach Roland Thornqvist pre-
pared his players for deeper sets and tougher
competition, but against FIU, the Gators made
quick work in their matches.
In the matches that were finished, his team
won in straight sets with the closest set being
6-2.
"We never let them into the game," Thorn-
qvist said. "If we had not come out as focused,
it could have been closer."
Thornqvist was impressed with freshman
Allie Will's more aggressive play as of late.
"It's easier in practice to be aggressive than
during games," Will said. "I've been learning
to play to my strengths."
No. 13 Will's singles match Friday was tied
3-3 before the weather prevented her from fin-
ishing it on Friday, but she clinch the Gators
victory against FIU with a 6-1, 6-1 win over
Chrissie Seredni.
The Gators' win was their 81st-consecutive
regular-season home victory.
The No. 11 Gators men's tennis team (3-1)will also be advancing to the round of 16.
Florida defeated Georgia Tech in a shutout
match Sunday to earn its spot in Charlottes-
ville, Va., for the ITA Indoor Team Champion-
ships on Feb. 12-15.
Before the match, UF's men's coach Andy
Jackson told his team Georgia Tech was under-
rated.
"We know Georgia Tech is capable of beat-
ing us, so we're excited that we beat them,"
Jackson said. "I told our team that I really be-
lieve Georgia Tech will be in the top 20 by the
end of the year."
A pair of freshmen, Billy Federhofer and
Bob Van Overbeek, got the Gators off to a
strong start by winning the first doubles match
from the No. 3 position.
"For them to play in a match the way they
have been in practice was a huge boost for us,"
Jackson said.
It was the pair's first doubles victory of the
season.
Senior Antoine Benneteau, who won his
doubles and singles matches Sunday, has no-
ticed the freshmen's elevated play.
"We have a lot of fighting spirit," Ben-
neteau said. "Even the new guys on the team
are showing that. They've shown they can play
for a top-10 team."
Benneteau provides Jackson with much
needed reliability on a team with three contrib-
uting freshmen.
"Half our team has experience and the
other half really doesn't," Jackson said. "The
half with experience are showing the way for
us right now."
