VOLUME 103 ISSUE:the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
138 We Inform. You Decide.10
MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010
Students raise $517K for children's charity
0 THE EVENT RAISED ABOUT
$100,000 MORE THAN THE
PREVIOUS YEAR.
By MELINDA CARSTENSEN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The O'Connell Center erupted
with the cheers of 725 sleep-de-
prived dancers Sunday afternoon
when UF's Dance Marathon staff
members announced they raised
a record-breaking $517,260.79 to
help sick children, an increase
of more than $100,000 from last
year's earnings.
The dancers stood for 26.2
hours this weekend in support of
the Children's Miracle Network
at Shands Children's Hospital at
UF.
The network, a nonprofit orga-
nization, raises funds to improve
children's health through educa-
tion, research and medical care.
Each year, 129 U.S. universities
hold a dance marathon similar to
UF's.
Tracy Flack, UF journalism se-
nior and spokeswoman for Dance
Marathon at UF, said the large
increase in the amount of money
raised can be contributed to thethe hard work and passion of the booths to raise money through-
dancers and more than 350 staff out the weekend, and about 60
members. student organizations have been
Team members set up donation raising money from businessesand collecting donations for about
a year.
The teams from Tau Kappa Ep-
silon Fraternity and Kapva Delta
Laurie Hice Michaelson/ Alligator
Yeri Guak, a UF biology senior, and Aly Fernandez, a UF business junior, teach dancers the moves to the
group-dance during Dance Marathon in the O'Connell Center Saturday evening.Sorority received the Miracle Cup
for earning the most combined
spirit points, or participation
points, and for raising the most
money.
Throughout the weekend, more
than 30 miracle families, stood on
stage, shared their stories and
thanked the dancers for support-
ing their children, who have been
treated or are being treated at
Shands Children's Hospital.
One of these families, the But-
lers, stood on stage and told the
dancers about 1-year-old Charli,
who was diagnosed with a brain
tumor when she was 5-months-
old.
"Thank you for being a part of
making miracles happen and real-
izing there's a bigger picture," said
Jamie Butler, Charli's mother.
Jamie, along with her husband
Aaron Butler, who returned from
serving in Afghanistan the day
Charli was diagnosed, visited
their daughter at Shands for more
than seven months. After being
given a one in two chance of sur-
viving and enduring several rig-
orous chemotherapy treatments,
Charli is finally in remission from
her cancer, Jamie said.
SEE DANCE, PAGE 10
Census deadline looms
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
Residents hoping to avoid a knock
on their door by U.S. Census Bureau
officials this summer should complete
their forms today.
The bureau will create a list contain-
ing the addresses of every household
that has not mailed in the 10-question,
government-issued form by the end of
the day.
That list will then be given to cen-
sus takers, who have been hired by the
bureau to go to each house that has notparticipated.
As of Sunday, 63 percent of Alachua
County residents have mailed their
census forms.
The census takers will begin visiting
homes May 1 and will ask
Local the same questions that
News are on the form.
If nobody is home the
first time a worker tries to visit, he or
she will return to the house up to two
more times to get the information.
The bureau, which is financed by
taxpayers, funds the census takers.
SEE CENSUS, PAGE 15AROUND GAINESVILLE
Memorial program focuses
on gay Holocaust victims
By KATIE EVANS
Alligator Contributing Writer
In honor of Holocaust Remembrance
Day, Geoffrey Giles began his dissection
of the Nazi mind with a message not
conventionally tied to the genocide of
six million Jews.
"Adolf Hitler was not particularly
anti-Semitic," he told the audience of
about 350.
Instead of focusing solely on the Jew-
ish demographic, the program remem-
bered victims from the gay community
Sunday night at the B'nai Israel JewishCenter.
This year's Holocaust memorial ex-
amined the persecution and violence
targeted against German homosexuals
by the Nazi regime.
"Adolf Hitler was not particularly
anti-Semitic."
Geoffrey Giles
UF history professor
Holocaust Remembrance Day, or
Yom HaShoah, is a reminder for every-
one across the nation to remember and
SEE HOLOCAUST, PAGE 10
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers0 UF quarterback
John Brantley led
the Blue squad
to a 27-24 win in
the Gators' spring
game Saturday.
Brantley went 15
of 19 for 201 yards
and two touch-
downs.
See Story, Page 22.T day
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
17
19
22Partly
cloudy
80/57
visit www.alligator.org"7
R' Re 8
2, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Impact Autism @ UF General
Meeting
Tuesday, 6 p.m. to 7 p.m.
HPNP, Room 2166
Impact Autism is a new student
organization at UF. Our mission
is to raise funds for charities that
directly affect the lives of people
with autism and to raise aware-
ness about autism in our univer-
sity community. Join us for our last
general meeting of the year and
learn how you can get involved
this summer and fall.
Women & Wars: A Conversation
with Dr. Laura Sjoberg
Tuesday, 7 p.m. to 8 p.m.
The Dynamo, UF's premier stu-
dent think tank, will be hosting a
forum Tuesday focused on inter-
national security and gender roles.
The forum will feature UF political
science professor Laura Sjoberg,
providing a unique perspective on
global security, and a Q-and-A ses-
sion. This event is a great opportu-
nity for political science, women's
studies and all UF students to de-
velop a fuller understanding of the
dynamic security issues that af-
fect so many lives over the world.
Don't miss it.
ON CAMPUS
UF chess tournament draws
50 players
Move the queen. Protect the
king.
These thoughts and more went
through the minds of the partici-
pants at UF's spring chess tour-
nament held Sunday at the Reitz
Union. About 50 people participat-
ed in the tournament hosted by the
Gator Chess Club.
Britt Ryerson, the club's team
captain, acted as tournament direc-
tor and moderated the event us-
ing the Swiss method of playing,
which means no one gets elimi-
nated. Instead, winners advance
to play other winners while those
who lose play others who have lost
matches.
"It allows everyone to play ev-
ery game," he said.
Ryerson was also responsible
for ensuring that the pairings,
which are based on a player's rank-
ing, were fair.
The tournament was part of
a series of changes for the club
this year, including a new faculty
adviser, John Harris, and tourna-
ments for each season.
Jad Helmy, 6, got his start in
a club at his elementary school a
year ago. He came into this tourna-
ment fresh off of a sixth place fin-
ish at the SuperStates tournament
in Miami.
Jad, who has a private chess
coach, said chess isn't that hard toCopyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
play. His mom, Hania, encour-
ages his love of the game and
takes him to about five competi-
tions per year. She said Jad par-
ticipates at the state level and is
going to nationals competition
next month.
Though Ryerson's favorite
aspect of the game is the compe-
tition. He said it offers benefits
to young players, such as good
sportsmanship, thinking before
making a move and enhanced
math and reading abilities.
"It's good for kids to learn for
the life lessons it can teach," Ry-
erson said.
-ASHLEYWILLIAMS
UF to take part in Be Hope
to Her event
Left, right, left, right. Pause.
An African girl shoulders the
burden of retrieving water for
her family. On average, a female
in Africa walks 30 minutes to a
water source, waits in line, fills
up a bucket and balances it on
her head as she trudges back.
Left, right, left, right. Pause.
On Monday, more than 20
UF students will shuffle through
campus with canary yellow
buckets of water teetering on
their heads. UF will be one of
several college campuses in the
nation participating in the Be
Hope to Her event next week.
About 50 more people are ex-
pected to register as the event ap-
proaches. The event is hosted by
Nuru, a nonprofit international
organization whose name means
"light" in Swahili, and its goal is
to raise awareness of the need for
clean drinking water in Africa.
Nuru also strives to raise
funds in support of sustainabil-
ity projects in Kenya to help keep
girls in school. Girls who don't
finish school marry earlier, have
more children and are at a great-
er risk for HIV, according to the
organization's Web site.
The funds raised will benefit
the construction of water sourc-
es, such as wells, closer to com-
munities to limit the amount of
trips females have to make dur-
ing the day.
By limiting the amount of
trips, girls will be able to spend
more time in school and, in turn,
increase their options in life.
"She needs knowledge. She
needs opportunity, and sheneeds hope," said a promotional
video on Nuru's Web site. "Be
hope to her."
Although the event has been
occurring nationally for several
years, it is the first time UF is par-
ticipating.
Jenn Jeske, a 21-year-old UF
student and liaison to Nuru, was
inspired last semester by her pas-
tor to promote awareness and
bring the event to her campus.
"It is my personal belief that
God has called us to do what we
can to help the poor and needy,"
she said. "I can do that through
this organization."
Jeske and five other students
began planning the event in Feb-
ruary. During their weekly meet-
ings, they have discussed funding
issues.
On Thursday from 6 p.m. to 8
p.m., they will have a fundraiser at
Pazza Bistro. The proceeds will be
donated to Nuru.
In addition to fundraising, the
event also calls for an $8 registra-
tion fee, which pays for the ship-
ping cost of supplies, such as buck-
ets and water.
On Monday, participants will
begin their journey on the Plaza of
the Americas.
They will then trek through
Turlington and Reitz Union until
they reach a pile of yellow buck-
ets next to an inflatable pool in
the Tolbert area. They will fill the
5-gallon buckets with the water in
the pool and go back to the Plaza
of the Americas.
Twenty students have regis-
tered on the organization's Web
site, www.nuruinternational.org.
However, the planning team hopes
to have 50 people by Monday.
Cari Walker, a 20-year-old UF
student on the planning team,
hopes the arduous process will in-
spire students to donate to Nuru's
cause.
"It will literally let us walk in
their shoes," she said. "And we
will be able to see how much those
shoes hurt."
-HALEY ROHRER
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
inspiflxtkl qc, insti tutf
"BECOME A YOGA TEACHER AND CHANGE YOUR LIFE"
200 Hour Yoga Teacher Training
Yoga Alliance Certified
' Next One Month Intensive Begins May 18th
www.inspirationyogainstitute.com
(352) 870-7645 -Alachua, Florida -a the independent florida
NotoficiallyoVOLUME 103 ISSUE 138 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligatororg
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner, jmisner@alligator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, ctillo@alligator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Holly Kane, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
Andrew Pantazi, Paul Runnestrand,
Colin Simmons, Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FI ND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSI N ESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
Thomas Plevik /Alligator
Gator Wake and Ski club member Ryan Mocerino performs a
high-flying Method grab at Lake Wauburg Saturday afternoon.MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 3
STUDENT LIFE
Students compete in Wakefest
7By KATHERINE BEIN
Alligator Writer
Saturday was about more than
football for the 23 people who
dragged 70-feet behind a boat and
launched from the waves into the
air at Lake Wauburg Saturday.
The Gator Wake and Ski Club
held UF Wakefest 2010 to raise
money for their upcoming trip to
San Diego, where they will defend
their title in the Jack in the Box Col-
lege Wakeboard Nationals.
The event was free to the public
on Lake Wauburg, which is 8 miles
south of UF campus on Highway
441.
Food, merchandise and raffle
tickets could be purchased on-site
with prizes including T-shirts and
tickets to the Wakegames in Orlan-
do on May 1 and 2.
For a fee of $20, 23 members and
non-members alike competed in
wakeskating or wakeboarding at
the novice, intermediate or outlaw
levels.
Brandon Brouil won the inter-
mediate level and Ryan Mocerino
won the outlaw level, the highest
level.The winners received wake-
boarding boots and grips.
Wakeboarders are strapped
onto their board by boots while
wakeskaters simply balance on
their boards, similar to skateboard-
ers.
Last week the club competed re-
gionally, qualifying to compete in
San Diego on May 15 and 16.
"It's the thrill of it. It's a lot
of fun. You get to hang out
on a boat all day."
Matt Morgan
The Gator Wake and Ski Club
president
Club president Matt Morgan
said Saturday's activities were
more relaxed. The stakes weren't
high and the atmosphere was one
of "playful competitiveness."
Morgan, an electrical engineer-
ing junior, has been wakeboarding
for about seven years and said he
loves the chance to get out on the
water.
"It's the thrill of it," he said. "It's
a lot of fun. You get to hang out on
a boat all day."
Fla. Attorney General candidate makes two-day visit
0 DAVE ARONBERG SPOKE AT THE
REITZ UNION TO ABOUT 25 PEOPLE.
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
For some, the Florida attorney general's
position may be seen as just another politi-
cal stepping stone to bigger and better of-
fices.
For Sen. Dave Aronberg, it's his dream
job.
"The revolving door of professional
politicians has to end," he said. "This is not
Plan B. This is my passion."
Speaking before a crowd of about 25
people at the Reitz Union, Arenberg, whois vying for the Democratic nomination this
August, made a promise to those present.
"If you get me through this primary,
we're going to win this thing," he said.
"We're going to win this together."
The discussion was part of Aronberg's
two-day visit to Gainesville. He also spoke
at the Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student &
Community Center and the Florida College
Democrats' spring convention.
Aronberg, who at 38 is the youngest
member of the Florida Senate, believes
that his experience, particularly his tenure
under Attorney General Bob Butterworth,
makes him the ideal candidate.
Currently, Aronberg is facing FloridaSen. Dan Gelber in the Democratic pri-
mary, which is slated to occur Aug. 24. If
nominated, he will go up against either Jeff
Kottkamp, Holly Benson, Pam Bondi or Jim
Lewis.
Although he is confident about his chanc-
es, Aronberg refused to
Around look forward, saying thatGainesville he will take his campaign
one step at a time.
"The political graveyard is strewn with
people who looked ahead," he said.
Calling the recent passage of Florida
Senate Bill 6 "blatantly unconstitutional,"
Aronberg said that if elected attorney gen-
eral, he would not defend future lawsuitsagainst the bill.
"If you love the FCAT, you'll love Sen-
ate Bill 6," he said. "It's the FCAT on ste-
roids."
Senate Bill 6, which passed the Florida
House of Representatives last week, intro-
duced a system of merit pay for Florida's
teachers.
John Fox, a political science graduate
student, was impressed by Aronberg and
believes that he has the ability to relate to
students.
"He's clearly one of the brightest politi-
cians in the state of Florida, and he'll get the
job done," Fox said. "Dave Aronberg was
born to be attorney general."
North Carolina
Outward Bound
Gain practical, real-life skills like teamwork,
perseverance, communication, problem solving and
compassion on an international course in Patagonia
or a semester-long expedition spanning across
three different course areas.
You'll walk away with a greater understanding
of the wilderness, our world, other
people and how you want your life to be!
Academic credit may be available!
* Use code UNIV at enrollment and we will waive
the $100 application fee at enrollment.EXAMS
W h Av Corner of
NW 13th St
39th Ave.
Near Publix
I EXPRESS
L (352)375-6133
Dedication#$$$$$atEvery Turn
Local & One-Way Truck Rentals
(352) 373-0592
Summer StorageSpecial
3 Months $75
4 Months $80
Call to inquire
(352) 377-3613
Lministorageofgainesville.comAthletes are judged based on the
tricks they pull off, their style on
the water and in the air, as well as
the height of their jumps and flips.
Carolyn Fortson, a senior chemi-
cal engineering student who will be
entering the competition in San Di-
ego undefeated, admitted the sport
can take some time to master.
"It's a hard learning curve," she
said. "It's easy to pick up but dif-
ficult to get better."
But sophomore biology major
Lauren Protzer doesn't think the
difficulties of the sport should turn
people away.
"It's the best feeling," Protzer
said. "Being out on the water, be-
ing on a boat with your friends."
The event raised between $500
and $700, said Cori Lorelli, a mem-
ber of the Gator Wake and Ski
Club.
UF students interested in giving
wakeboarding a shot can take ad-
vantage of the professional instruc-
tors at the lake for free, by calling
and scheduling an appointment,
or by checking out the Gator Wake
and Ski Club at their Facebook
page.
-.
4.k.-
4, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010
AROUND GAINESVILLE
20 compete in kickboxing, Muay
By SAMANTHA DELGADO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Country music and cowboy
boots were replaced by martial arts
fighters at :08 on Saturday night
when Florida Fight Nights took
over the dance floor.
Twenty fighters competed in 10,
three-round fights in both Muay
Thai and kickboxing.
About 850 onlookers crowded
around the boxing ring in the mid-
dle of the dance floor at the club
or watched from a balcony as the
figh's participants showcased their
skills and tactics, according to Matt
Wideman, the fight night event's
coordinator.
Muay Thai is an aggressive fight-
ing style in which fighters can lock
limbs and elbow and knee their op-
ponents below the shoulders.
The fight's participants wear
headgear, mouth guards and
gloves, according to ikfkickboxing.
com.
In kickboxing, fighters are al-
lowed to kick below the waist, and
they can kick or hit each other on
the head.They are not permitted to use
their knees, and headgear is op-
tional, according to ikfkickboxing.
com.
Wideman said the fight nightfeatured continuous music and TVs Gaines
showing the UFC countdown. One and G
TV also showed footage of Florida fights,
Fight Nights. the Int
Participants came from dation
Fighters compete in the Mixed Martial Arts tournament held at :08 night clu
Florida Fight Nights.Thai at fight night
ville, Clearwater, Orlando State Boxing Commission, he said.
eorgia to participate in the Members of the Gainesville
which were sanctioned by Dojo, which not only offers train-
ernational Kickboxing Foun- ing in boxing and kickboxing but
and regulated by the Florida karate and kung fu as well, partici-
pated in the fights.
Standard admission tickets cost
$15, and VIP passes, which includ-
ed free drinks, a view of the fight
from the balcony and free pool
tables, cost $45.
The money was used to pay for
the event, which included insur-
ance, a medical staff, bringing all
of the fighters to Gainesville and
putting them in hotels around the
city.
But Wideman pointed out that
it is not about the money.
"It's more about promoting
Muay Thai and martial arts," he
said.
He said there are not many ven-
ues that provide an opportunity for
amateur fighters to get their names
out to the public, and this was just
a stepping stone for them to take it
to the next level.
Thomas Plevik / Alligator Staff He plans on holding fight nights
b Saturday night as part of at least three times a semester next
year.
Professor, mental illness expert explains Baker Act
Editor's Note: An article published April 8
briefly outlined what would have hap-
pened to Kofi Adu-Brempong had he
been submitted under the Baker Act. This
article offers further clarification about
what this law entails.
U IN 2006, 121,551 PEOPLE WERE
SUBMITTED IN FLA. UNDER THE ACT.
By MINCH MINCHIN
Alligator Writer
Every four and a half minutes, one per-
son in Florida is submitted under the Baker
Act.The act gives law enforcement personnel,
judges and mental health professionals the
ability to send mental patients to hospitals
and clinics against their will for the purpose
of decreasing their chances of being taken
to jail.
Kofi Adu-Brempong, the 35-year-old
Ghanan graduate student who was shot and
arrested in his apartment last month, was
not submitted under the Baker Act.
The law states that people may be invol-
untarily submitted under the Baker Act if
there is reason to believe they are mentally
ill and are likely to either suffer neglect or
cause harm to themselves or others.
"The whole point of the Baker Act is to
protect the vulnerable," said Bruce Stevens,co-president of the local National Alliance
on Mental Illness chapter and a professor in
the UF College of Medicine.
The submitter does not necessarily have
to witness the patient's behavior but must
have a "reason to believe" that harm will re-
sult if nothing is done.
This reason may be based upon the sworn
testimony of a patient's friends
Special or family members.Report The Baker Act states that a
patient should be taken to the
nearest approved hospital or clinic, and he
or she should be examined by a physician or
clinical physiologist.
Treatments may or may not be given, yet
the patient may not leave the facility beforethe 72-hour deadline without written per-
mission of an attending doctor.
Under ideal circumstances, the Baker Act
states that constitutional rights of mental pa-
tients should be maintained, though that can
often be difficult.
"The Baker Act shouldn't be taken light-
ly," Stevens said. "You take their rights
away."
In 2006, 121,551 people were involun-
tarily submitted under the act, according to
the Florida Mental Health Act 2006 report,
which is the most recent report available.
In Alachua County, 2,359 people were
submitted under the Baker Act in 2006 and
sent to one of the county's two Baker-Act-
approved facilities.
STUDENT LOANS ON ANYTHING!!
MscIntues * * * ol
We buy gold & cash checks
BEST JEWELRY & LOAN
523 NW 3rd Aver(352) 371-4367
April 17, 2010
from 8 am to 3pm
at the Martin Luther King Center
Help clean
up trash
and litter,
plant trees,
and paint
over graffiti.
To4 se call 3 371-9444
Ps he kacbCgmaiI corn
fided' Free giveaways'
PresenteI'ylKeep Alrnhua County BeautifulEarn credits your way: more courses, flexible sessions & smaller classes
For a complete summer schedule visit wwWUt.edu/summer
Call or e-mail to make an appointment 9 (813) 253-6249 a scs@ut.eduWI THE UNIVERSITYreGisternow! OFAMPA
OFFICE OF GRADUATE AND CONTINUING STUDIES 401 W. Kennedy Blvd | Tampa, FL33606-1490 1 (813) 253-6249 1 scs ut edugOr ROE IT!
PUNT IT 011
ELENUN ENCNNNUEE. or!
Wondering what to do with all your furniture and
household items when you leave for the
summer? Give your old
stuff a new home through
AlachuaExchange.com.
It's free and easy to usel
Alachua County Office
of Waste Alternatives NIExON
352.374.5213
Embrace L
Was -
MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 5
UF ACADEMICS
Engineering students race hydrogen-run 'cougar'
By VICTORIA ISRAELS "One of my favorite times o
Alligator Contributing Writer weekend was during the com]
tion because our whole team
Comeback came in the form of a the officers were cheering ussatdMb h asoeo hcougar for a group of UF students d Moh, who was one of theSaturday. members allowed in the race ar
te students from For the past five to seven y
Chapter of the American UF has not done very well in
Institute of Chemical Engineers competition due to lack of de
(AIChE) raced their way to victory tion and motivation, Moh said.( h red hei wa cy "This year, the team memat the Chem-E-Car Competition weedictdadgvgra
with their shoebox-sized creation,.grea
"The Cougar."
The team, which traveled to
North Carolina State University for
the competition, was not allowed to
compete last year because the team
did not meet safety requirements.
A group of 15 students from
the organization worked on the
car from last August until compe-
tition time. The team spent about
two months designing the car and
about three months building it, ac-
cording to John Moh, chairman of
UF's Chem-E-Car.
The car cost $850 to build and
runs on hydrogen.
During the competition, the car
must attempt to drive exactly 66
feet, and the car that stops the clos-
est wins. Only three members of the
team were allowed in the competi-
tion area to prep and start the car.f the
peti-
and
on,"
three
ea.
ears,
the
dica-
ers
de-
sign ideas, he said. We worked
very hard and had several no-sleep
nights."
The UF team beat 13 other teams
and won $300, which will be given
to the chapter.
"I can't say that we expected to
win, but the team put in a lot of hard
work and time," said Ben Soucy,
president of UF's AIChE. "Winning
definitely showed us that our hard
work paid off."
"As the president, I couldn't
have asked for a better experience,"
Soucy said. "To see UF win and to
see the excitement of the team -that
was amazing."
The car competition was part of
the AIChE annual conference held
over the weekend, and the victory
qualified the team to compete in the
national competition in the fall.
Local students demonstrate Mandarin Chinese abilities
0 ABOUT 220 MIDDLE- AND HIGH-
SCHOOL STUDENTS PARTICIPATED.
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Olivia Edmundson has been studying
the Chinese language for four years -a
skill she intends to use to prepare for col-lege. The students came from 20 schools Rather than competing face-to-face,
And when she orders at Chinese res- across Florida. students completed evaluations based on
taurants. The competition, hosted by Oak Hall their skill levels.
She was one of the 220 middle and School, almost doubled in at- "It was hard to come up with sentences
high school students from across Florida
who demonstrated their abilities to read,
write and speak Mandarin Chinese at the
fifth annual Florida Statewide ChineseOn tendance from last year, ac-Campus cording to Ginger Lin, the
competition organizer and
Chinese teacher at Oak Hall School.off the top of my head," she said, referring
to the writing portion of the evaluation.
"It was really challenging, but I think I did
well."
Competition on Friday and Saturday in "It's one of the most important lan- For more information, see Alligator.
Gainesville. guages in the world," Lin said. org.
If you are going to
b i Q th Flid ;
Horneforthe for the summer
Sucredits at FAU.earnYou are invited to attend a lecture by
The Honorable Adam Putnam
United States Congressman
Green-Lighting the 21st Century
Land-Grant Mission
York Distinguished Lecturer Series
Monday, April 12, 2010
2:00 p.m.
President's Room of Emerson Alumni Hall
1938 West University Avenue
University of Florida, Gainesville
Lecture is free and open to the public
http://yorklecture.ifas.ufl.edu
Parking will be available in the O'Connell Center parking lot.
UF iBFIiA
DIS1flSMtIFASStudents from the UF Chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers prepare "The
Cougar" for the 66-feet stretch at the Chem-E-Car Competition.
Com.inQ
6, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010
Editorial
Unclean Coal
Mining tragedy reflects
bigger problem
he April 5 explosion that led to the death of 29 miners
in West Virginia was horrific. It was traumatic. And
even to Gators more than 600 miles away, it was heart-
breaking.
As diversified as we are by race, religion, sexual orientation
and socioeconomic status, we Gators always seem to be able
to join hands when it's needed most. We did it for Haiti. We
donate blood in drives across campus daily. And we did it this
weekend, raising more than half a million dollars for the Chil-
dren's Miracle Network at Dance Marathon.
Say what you want about those two-stepping, Macarena-
playing, shoulder-leaning sorority women and fraternity men,
but those kids braved exhaustion and gonna'-need-some-Dr.-
Scholl's-pads-soon warnings in their Sperry's to donate more
than $500,000 to a worthy cause.
The situation in West Virginia, the death of 29 of our fellow
Americans, is just another example of why we need to stand up
like the Boys of Old Florida that we are and act.
The death of the miners was heartbreaking, yes. But the
deaths were also unnecessary and avoidable. The explosion that
sent the miners to an untimely death in the mines that let them
live electrifies exactly why there's no such thing as clean coal.
We must join forces one more time, Gators, and demand for
a more sustainable future in which King Coal does not sit atop
his throne, wielding power unlike any president has ever pos-
sessed. Coal pollutes our air. The mining process often destroys
our mountaintops, and, even if rarely, it directly leads to the
death of our fellow men.
We must demand a future for our children that does not in-
volve air-quality levels lower than an anorexia joke at the Olsen
Twins' birthday party. Because the future of not only coal min-
ers across the world but our Mother Earth depend on it.
Fore-give and Fore-get
Apparently adultery ismore forgivable than
t used to be.
Tiger Woods made his
return to the golf course this
weekend at The Masters in
Augusta, Ga., after a five-
month hiatus, and America,
just like it has throughout
the entire saga, couldn't look
away. ESPN had about 5 mil-
lion viewers for its Masters
coverage, 47 percent higher
than it did for last year's first-
round coverage.
Some tuned in to see what
would happen in the next
chapter of Woods' story; the
same voyeuristic attitude has
prevailed since Woods' wife,
Elin, chased him out of the
house wielding a 9-iron on
Thanksgiving night. But oth-
ers tuned in to cheer him on in
his return. And should we re-
ally be surprised that Woods
is working his way back onto
the public's good side? He is
hardly the first athlete to havehis reputation tarnished and
then returns to the top of his
profession. Kobe Bryant was
charged with rape in 2003 and
since then has been to three
NBA Finals. And he has had
the top-selling jersey in the
NBA the last two years.
And of course, as soon as
the fans are back in Woods'
corner, advertisers are return-
ing as well. Advertisers had
been avoiding Woods like he
had the plague. He doesn't,
but a few STDs may not be
out of the realm of possibility.
But last week Nike unveiled
a new commercial featuring
Woods, with a voice-over by
his deceased father (creepy?).
Tiger is back, he finished
fourth at The Masters, and ev-
erything will be soon be back
to normal. And why would
we expect anything different?
This is America, and stories
like this in the lives of athletes
and celebrities are all too com-
mon.
0 the independent florida
alligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150words (about one letter-sized page) They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Ae , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
Gainesvi rle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigato r.org/opinions
Or. TiAE A YS&ATbSA"4S Is EPY
.-J
~JvnV~L. CA Z. G4H~A~A~.
BALLSUr .C1I. ~ErAA-
KAIE A M ~~~60
Column
Bagram, Kandahar stops on Lame Train
f you've been hearing a low rumble or seeing a faint col-umn of smoke off in the distance, perhaps traveling in the
direction of Afghanistan, be alarmed.
It's The Lame Train, and the next two stops are Ba-
gram and Kandahar Air Bases. This thumbs-up crushing,
awesomeness stifling locomotive was last seen stationed
at our beloved university in the form of a certain game-
that-must-not-be-named, as well as under the guise of a
particular letter's author.
Said author made it very clear to everyone he is a patron
of The New Yorker, and he wasn't pulling any punches
last week in asserting his disappointment with some col-
umnists' lack of seriousness, yours truly included. Well,
point awarded to Culture Queen, because the first thing
readers need on a Monday morning is a strong cup of ce-
rebral pace-putting to start the week off right.
Apparently, it's a real inconvenience if the Opinions
section isn't Gladwelling it up on a daily basis. Long story
short: when it comes to the Opinions section, we're giving
and you're taking.
But I digress.
To many a soldier's dismay, stationing of The Lame Train
was official when it was recently announced that a food or
recreation area in Kandahar dubbed "The Boardwalk" and
its slightly smaller cousin in Bagram, which I'm assuming is
dubbed "Lil' B," will be losing many of their anchor eating
establishments, notably Burger King, Pizza Hut and TGI Fri-
day's, among several others. I was initially caught off guard
by the fact that Burger King was even there in the first place:
It's an army of one; you can't have it your way. Even still, I
wasn't fully aware of how entrenched these microcosms of
gastro-Americana were. If I'd known I could be in the ass-
crack of the world and still be able to get my Orange-Julius
fix, I'd have given at least three more seconds of consideration
toward suiting up before deciding to retreat to Gainesville.It seems this news shouldn't have
come as terribly surprising, given
that the conductor of this, Gen. Stan-
ley McChrystal, had given alcohol
the boot from Kabul headquarters
back in 2008. I'm sure some troops
Ryan Spencer saw this most recent ban on the hori-
letters@alligator org zon and, preparing for the inevitable,
commenced filling themselves with
stuffed crust personal pans in the
mean time. The explanatory statement that's been making its
rounds in the press clearly describes Afghanistan as "a war
zone -not an amusement park."
I find decisions like this, and specifically this one's ratio-
nale, to be unnecessarily condescending, as soldiers need
only to step outside the entrances of those momentary re-
minders of what they're defending (and now completely
sacrificing, as well) to realize they're in "the suck." But why
stop at junk food? Why not ban the USO, photos and family
contact altogether? After all, it's a war zone -not a rock con-
cert or family reunion. At least the level of absurdity in that
case would be, well, absurd in and of itself, thus making the
crazy kind of sense that reeks distinctly of our soldiers being
short-changed, courtesy of The Lame Train.
If those further suggestions don't sit well with you, and
I can only guess why they wouldn't, why not support our
troops the new fashioned way, with a junk food boycott? If
properly executed, once Yum! Brands and friends see their
revenue streams in jeopardy, they'll waste no time in flexing
their corporate muscle (read: dollars) in Washington's direc-
tion with the aim of getting their Afghan franchises up and
running again. One can only dream, though, because despite
the fact that military support is endemic in this country, I
doubt it's enough to overcome the majority of Americans'
inability to fit into anything under a size 40.
Ryan Spencer is a psychology senior. His columns appear on
Mondays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Friday's question: 34% YES
Have you filled out your Census Are you going to the Orange and 66% NO
form? Blue Game? 116 TOTAL VOTES
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
Letters to the Editor
Embracing Confederacy means celebrat-
ing self-government
Paul Murty, to say all people who embrace
the Confederacy are racists is a racist statement
in itself. I have two Confederate flag bumper
stickers on my truck, and I am far from a racist.
To me that flag means that the states were not
going to let the federal government tell them
how to govern. Was slavery a big part of that?
Yes, but that does not mean I fly that flag or
put it on my truck to say that I want that part
of history to change. It just means I don't want
the federal goverment to tell me or my state
what I can and can't do, like making me buy
health care if I do not want helath care. It's my
choice to make.
Kenneth Ringler
Santa Fe College student
Student Body deserves explanation from
UF administration
During my four years at UF, it was obvious
that Bernie Machen's administration had zero
concern for the Student Body. When Andrew
Meyer was Tasered, when the Graduate Assis-
tants United asked for slightly higher pay to
teach classes, and when entire programs were
cut without student input, the administration
stood squarely against the students. Maybe it
is fortunate that the worst offense to the Stu-
dent Body came the year after I graduated and
migrated north. Even if the brutal maiming of
Kofi Adu-Brempong was somehow justified,
it is the administration's duty to stand up for
its students. The University Police Department
exists to protect the Student Body, and when
a student is left with gruesome injuries at the
hands of a UPD officer, the Student Body de-
serves an explanation and an investigation.
Machen and the UF administration haveonce again failed the Student Body; blessing
a handful of students with a meeting is not
enough to fulfill the obligations that Machen
is handsomely paid to perform. It has never
been more clear that this university needs a
new direction and new leadership. We need
a university president whose loyalty and re-
sponsibilities don't end with collecting a mas-
sive paycheck, and we need ju
Student Body.
Reader: naive columnist use
examples
It is unfortunate that Paul
choose to proliferate the "co
racists" narrative, and to do
weak example. Poll after poll sh
jority of Americans (especially
are opposed to the power grab
ic "health reform" bill. The left]
perative to label opposition ra
to arguing against the subs
that dissenters put forth. After
what one has to say once that r
branded a bigot, homophobe, r
Virginia Gov. Bob McDonn
tion would help tourism. Afte
"Virginia is for lovers" was orig
ism ad "Virginia is for history I
was the home to a multitude of
il War battles and the sites are.
remembrance of the ancestors
died in the bloodiest war in A
does not equal a call to the re
But Mr. Murty knows that, a
can use to paint conservatives
most effective way to discredi
tive opposition to this adminicies. Frankly, I've come to expect nothing less
than this sort of naivety from Mr. Murty this
semester.
Rob Myers
Gainesville resident
U U U
stice for the UF Reader angry over obnoxious letter con-
cerning shooting
Peter Laumann I'd like to congratulate Chase Adler, author
UF alumnus of the incredibly juvenile and insensitive letter
to the editor this past Friday, for submitting
the most idiotic note I have seen at my time
at UF. We apologize that this whole hoopla
s weak over Kofi is "tiring" you. It must be hard to sit
around all day and read about the obnoxious
Murty would details of an innocent man's inhumane treat-
nservatives are ment at the hands of an officer with a track
it with such a record of racist acts. It's apathy like yours and
lows that a ma- an unwillingness to gain insight on the facts
independents) (for one, a mental health crisis does not call for
that is the trag- five armed police officers, but rather a trained
has found it im- professional who can properly assist in the
cist as opposed situation) that perpetuates and enables crimes
tantive points such as police brutality. Rather than make a
all, who cares sweeping claim that "There is no such thing
erson has been as police brutality," take off your stupid col-
acist, etc.? lege kid blinders and attempt to really educate
ell's proclama- yourself on the case and the realities that oth-
r all, the slogan ers who are not so privileged as yourself face.
inally the tour- Nina Martinez
verss." Virginia UFstudent
important Civ-
often visited. A
vho fought and
nerican history
urn of slavery.
id anything he
as racists is the
t their substan-
stration's poli-U U U
Romance separates chivalry from good
manners
Thank you Rosette Charles. Chivalry is not
dead, but that is not the issue here.
Amelia Harnish states "some of us still
expect the damsel-in-distress treatment, andMONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
some of us, regrettably, abuse it." While this is
true and sad, it does not relate to most points
mentioned in the column. The responsibility
of buying dinner or drinks falls upon the host,
the person who invites guests to an event and
pays for the guests' (read: date) meals. The
important lesson here is that chivalry is not
required to be a well-mannered individual. I
found it interesting that while Harnish asks
the gentlemen not to confuse manners and
chivalry, she is the one who mixed them up.
The difference between a well-mannered man
and a chivalrous man is simply the romance.
For example, a well-mannered man knows
to bring flowers to a date, but a chivalrous
man will know your favorite flowers. Harnish
states that "[at] the root of the chivalry con-
cept is that we are somehow incompetent."
Why do we, women, only see this antiquated
reasoning and not see the polite man who is
smitten enough to pull out our chair? Come on
ladies, open your eyes and appreciate the man
who is trying to impress you.
Michael Perrone had a more realistic vision
of the modem context of chivalry, albeit slight-
ly offensive in word choice. He was on point
when he mentioned that chivalry is pointless
in a bar, for both sexes. In addition, who is the
host? Gentlemen, your best bet is to talk to the
lady for a few minutes before ordering drinks;
chances are, if she only wants the free drink,
she won't hang around long enough to wait
for it.
Unfortunately, it is usually the ladies who
kill chivalry. Remember, it is not always that
the gentleman must buy dinner but the host
or hostess. Yes ladies, if you invite a man out
to dinner, you should expect to pay and do so
willingly. Only a truly chivalrous gentleman
will insist.
Shannon McGee
UFalumna
Guest column
Democrats drop like
rough I've never fully understood the expression, con-
gressional Democrats are keeping true to the English
idiom and dropping like flies. Most recently on the no-
go list for November is Rep. Bart Stupak (of "Stupak Amend-
ment" fame). Let's have a walk down memory lane, shall we?
By last December 10 House Democrats had artfully announced
their early retirement. With the new year, announcements from
the esteemed Senate had come in: former presidential hopeful
Chris Dodd, North Dakota's Byron Dorgan and Evan Bayh
(former governor of Indiana and rumored 2008 presidential
contender).
Then there was Congressman Eric Massa -thank you,
kind sir, for giving one of the best reasons for retirement in
Congressional history: a ticklefest. While inappropriate ac-
tions toward male staffers are generally frowned upon, in
times of such economic and governmental hardship, one
God-given right Americans cannot afford to give up is tick-
ling. Unfortunately for Massa the pressure was too much,
and he threw in the towel as any self-respecting trend-fol-flies in upcoming co
Brittany Fox lower would do. Even Florida's own
SpeakingOut Robert Wexler (once made famousSpeaking from a Stephen Colbert interview, and
I quote: I enjoy cocaine because, [Wex-
ler] ".it's a fun thing to do.") decided to throw in the towel
last November.
Now, the count is up to 16 retirees in the House, and anoth-
er branch is joining the club. Supreme Court Justice John Paul
Stevens, the backbone of the Supreme Court's liberal bloc, an-
nounced his intent to retire last week. In his defense the man is
turning 90 in a few weeks, so perhaps he isn't a good example
of premature retirement. However, it can't send a good mes-
sage to Democratic voters that a considerable number of their
congressional delegation are, for lack of a better term, "moving
on." Bayh and Massa broke free from this rationale, honestly
telling reporters that the partisanship was too much to deal
with. For America's sake, I certainly hope this isn't the majority
viewpoint. If it were, we'd still be under British control.
On the other hand, I'd say it's fair to wager a number ofngressional election
nameless Tea Partiers and Fox News-ites would easily mourn
the retirement of President Obama should he be willing to fol-
low in his fellow Democrats trendiness. Michelle Obama cer-
tainly has made a name for herself as an exceptional trendset-
ter. And if it's not retirement, there is another trend present.
And this one isn't just the Democrats. Ethical dilemmas have
plagued the 111th Congress: from Rep. Charles Rangel's corpo-
rate-funded Caribbean vacation to Massa's ticklefest and then
the Republicans (not wanting to be left out) with their S&M-
themed nightclub dinners, maybe the time has finally come
for a minority party congressional sweep. Maybe the new Old
Spice guy will give it a go; after all, he has captured much atten-
tion with his horse-riding, boat-sailing and 20-pack abdominal
talents. If there's one trait voters want, it's obviously smelling
good. Why would they want a legislator to to legislate?
Even with their own misgivings, Republicans, with any
luck, will have all their ducks lined up in a row come Novem-
ber. Watch out Dems: I hear the Republicans love a good duck
hunt. Where is Dick Cheney when you need him?
Brittany Fox is a political science junior.
Guest column
Student Body should be more open m
alking around campuslast week, you may have
been confused. Is it Tur-
lington Plaza or a war zone? Is it
the Reitz Union North Lawn or no
man's land? Humans vs. Zombies
has invited students to see things in
a different way. The Student Body
has, for the most part, declined the
invitation.
I have a more positive attitude
toward the situation. As a senior,
I feel above the game. Then again,
I graduate in less than a month, so
I feel above basically everything at
this point. It doesn't mean I actu-
ally disapprove. In fact, last week
I was an innocent civilian walkingthrough Turlington to class when
I heard a voice calling, "arm your-
self! Arm yourself!"
It was a girl with a Nerf gun im-
ploring one of her fellow humans,
who was casually chatting with
someone at the bike racks near the
overhang, to prepare against an
impending zombie attack. The girl
shouting was earnestly motioning
with her hand for the unprotected
human to take refuge with her band
of bandana-wearing compatriots.
They were huddled behind the
brick wall, near the soda machines.
The human, meanwhile, was more
interested in flirting. "It's danger-
ous out there, man!" the girl tried,Will Penman but the one
Speaking Out talking must
pea ing ut_ have been
experienc-
ing blast injury deafness because
she just kept talking.
Bad move. I'm sure she was
killed a few minutes later. I just
played war correspondent and
copied down the exchange on my
way to class. "That girl is in a great
hiding spot," I thought. I'd never
thought of that gap between the
overhang and the brick wall as
being a great place to shoot guns
from. You learn something new ev-
ery day.
It's my guess that the reasoninded toward peers, life
people don't like Humans vs. Zom-
bies is precisely because it suggests
there are other ways to consider the
world. Most college students hat-
ing on it are too old to play games.
This is surprising to me, because
play is the best way we have of be-
ing open-minded. How are we sup-
posed to appreciate other cultures,
value other religions and respect
alternative gender identities if we
aren't willing to practice doing it
around campus with our friends?
Have you ever paid attention
to the potato on Turlington? I hear
it's a 10-ton, 30,000 year old slab
of chert rock that was donated to
the UF Geology Department bythe Crushed Stone Corporation. I
suggest you touch it. Here's what I
mean. All the random crap around
campus, like the art near the new
physics building, gives the impres-
sion that it's delicate. But the Tur-
lington potato is not going to fall
over if you touch it. In fact, you can
climb on it, hang from it, kiss the
top of it for good luck before tests,
and it won't budge an inch.
So if you're not going to throw
socks at people or gun them down
with foam darts while avoiding by-
standers, open your mind and push
the Turlington potato.
Will Penman is an English senior.
His column appears weekly.
8, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010
About 400 undie dashers strip for those in need
By ANDREW PANTAZI
Alligator Contributing Writer
More than 400 students
stripped to theirbras, man-thongs
and underwear for the 11th Great
Underwear Dash Friday night.
The dash is a charity run held
every semester in which partici-
pants donate clothes to the Salva-
tion Army.
At Friday's event, partici-
pants collected enough clothing
to fill 26 30-gallon garbage bags.
Jorge Gomez, a UF electrical en-
gineering graduate student, or-
ganized the nearly naked event.
"I really don't do anything. I
set the date, and I take the clothes
to Salvation Army," said Gomez,
who has run in the dash since his
freshman year. "But the run is
what the runners make of it, and
it's really their spirit that keeps
this going."
Gomez said the event sup-
ports a good cause and makes
runners feel connected to their
fellow students, Gomez said.
"I feel like [the dash] is usu-
ally passed on by people who
have done it before. They tell
their freshmen friends," Gomez
said. "You come here and you
get a real atmosphere and an un-
derstanding of what it means tobe a Gator."
Julia Yip, a UF linguistics and
communicative disorders senior,
ran in the dash for the first time.
"It's an interesting charity
because it's exciting to do some-
thing different," Yip said.
Matthias Gritschneder, a Ger-
man post-doctoral student at Pe-
king University in Beijing, was in
Gainesville for an astrophysics
conference. He spotted the half-
clothed runners while leaving
The Swamp Restaurant.
"I didn't expect it at all, but I
think it's a good idea. It's fun for
the people, and it has a benefit as
well," Gritschneder said.
Gritschneder said he might
have participated if
On he was not travel-Campus ing with a limited
amount of cloth-
ing.
"It is a much funnier way to
donate," Gritschneder said.
Steven McLeod, a chemical
engineering junior, was willing
to strip for the run, but said he
wouldn't run around in his un-
derwear during broad daylight.
"I'm not that spontaneous,"
McLeod said. "I wouldn't throw
off my clothes and run around
campus, but if you give me a rea-
son to, then sure."
BET show host speaks at UF
* JOHNSON WAS PAID $12,000.
By MEG WAGNER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jeff Johnson is not an entertainer.
At least that's what he told an audience of
about 75 gathered in the Reitz Union Grand
Ballroom on Friday night.
Despite being an author, news correspon-
dent and motivational speaker, Johnson de-
scribes himself as an activist above all else.
Johnson's discussion, "Unclaimed Legacy:
Who will lead the next social movement?" fo-
cused on social change and ways to prepare
young people to become strong leaders.
Johnson emphasized the idea that theyoungest generation needs to find guidance
in scholarly mentors, not pop culture icons.
"What makes us think that going plati-
num gives you the intellectual capacity to
mentor a generation?" Johnson said.
Johnson, who serves as the managing edi-
tor and chief correspondent for the BET news
talk show "The Truth with Jeff Johnson," also
spoke about the social revolutions of past
generations, such as the civil rights move-
ment.
"How can a generation that was so active-
ly involved in shifting the legal precedent .
produce a generation of young people who
don't know how to fight?" he said.
He was paid $12,000, according to SG fi-
nanceSTUDENT GROUPS
Club bridges gap with show
By LEANDRA VALENTINE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Rhythmic beats and traditional Af-
rican dance were at the core of the Afri-
can Student Union's 38th annual show-
case held at Lincoln Middle School
Saturday night.
About250peopleattended theevent.
Attendees were encouraged to bring
canned goods or make a donation to
the SOS Children's Villages, a family-
based social aid group, and Gators
United for Haiti, according to Roberta
Roberts, ASU's public relations direc-
tor.
The showcase's theme, Bridging the
Gap, was portrayed through a coming-
of-age story following the journey of a
tribal chief's son. Storytellers narrated,
and all performances were tied into thetheme, Roberts said.
Adetola Ilegbusi, the showcase's co-
director, said, the purpose of the event
was to create a level of understanding
among Africans, African-Americans
and Europeans.
"We want to bridge the gap in
a beautiful, pronounced way."
Adetola Ilegbusi
showcase co-director
"We want to bridge the gap in a
beautiful, pronounced way," Ilegbusi
said.
Mackenzie Robinson, an anthropol-
ogy junior, said the theme lived up to
its name.
"Although I'm not African," she
said, "I felt so welcomed. It was an im-
mersive experience."
tree ouse
VILLAGE
Entire units from $649
-2 Bed/2 Bath, 874 sq. feet units
*Bus Route 16
SWasher/Dryer
No Decal Parking
-No Towing
treehousevillage.co117 SE 16th Ave
(352) 372-3096 (Day)
(352) 494-9724 (Night)
hieales@vanrooy.com
UNIVERSITY AVE.
-~I
SE 16th Avco/anonorr tasnr uonate riasma! inousanus ao.
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6th St Gainesville (352) 378-9204
I ~L ~J"Where It Pays to Care"Andrew Pantazi/ Alligator
UF students Cameron Heard, Bryan Ahistrand and Alex Garmendia stand near the clothes donation pile on
Turlington Plaza Friday night while others prepare for the Great Underwear Dash 2010.
MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 9
LOCAL
Youth art programs see decreased summer funding
By ROBERT HILSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
Dried up grass. Dried up funds. These are
the givens as the summer months approach
in Gainesville, and for William Eyerly, this is
both unfortunate and totally expected.
Eyerly is the executive director of the
Gainesville Association for the Creative Arts
(GACA), and as the final days of this fiscal
year near, he's stuck with the task of parsing
scholarship funds much like a gardener would
ration the final drops from a watering can.
Some of his drama workshop students -
students whose families have paid full tuition
in the past -have already asked for aid.
"I'll be honest with you, this summer I'm
going to have to say, 'OK, you've asked for
two classes. Can you just take one so I can give
a class to somebody else?' Eyerly said.
GACA, a nonprofit specializing in extra-
curricular performing arts, is just one of thehandful of youth-focused arts organizations
straining to make offerings affordable while
still covering operating costs as the economy
continues to stagnate.
"In order for our programs to suc-
ceed, we have to adapt to what's
going on financially."
Gabrielle Byam
camp director for the Hippodrome
The Hippodrome State Theatre is in a simi-
lar fix, tiptoeing the line between compassion
and practicality as it signs up children for
summer camp.
Starting June 14, the theater will open its
doors to three groups of young thespians for
an immersive two- to four-week acting camp.
The session costs $650 for campers older than
6, a price kept level despite rising expenses.
"In order for our programs to succeed, we
have to adapt to what's going on financially,"said Gabrielle Byam, camp director for the
Hippodrome. "If we were able to do them for
free, we would."
The camp runs for eight hours a day and
would require about six instructors if enroll-
ment reaches its ideal number of 75.
"If you were breaking down an hourly
wage of what somebody made, it would be
criminal," Byam said. "We realize that it's a
hard time to come up with money. We don't
want people to suffer, and we don't want to
make it elitist."
For Gainesville Creative Kids, a 2-year-old
multi-disciplined arts foundation, this means
stretching a $35 enrollment charge to cover
six 45-minute classes -among them, hip-hop,
sculpture and theater. It also means relying
heavily on donations and unpaid labor.
"If a parent can't afford to pay for their child
to have class, we try to make an arrangement
where the parent can volunteer for our orga-
nization and the child can come to the classesat no cost," said Heddy Vernon, co-director of
Gainesville Creative Kids.
As the state confronts a financial shortfall,
competition has spiked to land grants.
Gainesville Creative Kids is new to the
process. It became a nonprofit in September
and has applied for six grants this year, five of
which are pending. The other was denied.
GACA's track record suggests that this is a
common response. Fruitless trips to the capi-
tal and pessimistic near-term prospects have
Eyerly considering bypassing state grants al-
together. He's prepping for a large commu-
nity fundraising campaign, which he said he
hopes will secure funds to preserve the arts in
the Gainesville community.
"All of these things are going to benefit
these kids regardless of where they go in life,"
Eyerly said. "We're really looking at the rise of
the creative class. That's where we really need
to start to focus. Unfortunately, I think we're
losing that."
Members of UF science clubs faceoff at paintball match
* ABOUT 30 PEOPLE
PLAYED.
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Contributing Writer
Members of the physics and
astrophysics clubs disagree with
the chemistry club on a lot of
things, among them being which
science is superior and which
group won the annual paintball
match.
About 30 students from the
three clubs went head to head in
paintball Saturday to help deter-
mine which science is better.
The paintball challenge,
which took place at First Strike
Paintball in Newberry, is an
annual challenge between the
chemistry and physics clubs.
The event has gone on for
over five years, said Ron Castel-
lano, faculty adviser to the UF
Chemistry Club and a UF chem-
istry professor.This year, the Undergraduate
Astrophysics Society joined the
Society of Physics Students in
the battle.
Peter Nguyen, president of
the Society of Physics Students,
said participation in the fight has
been low in recent semesters but
improved this year.
"We've decided to inject some
excitement into it by issuing an
all-out challenge," Nguyen said.
The physics and astrophysics
clubs went head-to-head with
the chemistry club,
On but the winner of
Campus the final match re-
mained unclear,
with both teams claiming they
won.
For most of the day students
mingled with other club mem-
bers and just enjoyed a day of
paintball.
"Paintball is awesome," said
Lucas Medwell, a UF chemistry
major. "It's my first time play-
ing, and I love it already."Warring presidents pose for a paintball faceoff. Lance Legel, left, president of the Undergraduate Astro-
physics Club, and Peter Nguyen, right, president of the Society of Physics Students, team up against UF
Chemistry Club's President Emily Nong at First Strike Paintball in Newberry.
299 Lunch Specials GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF any one GNC Product
Cannot be comb ined One Coupon r customer.
39 4SWArcherRd
~ 
%Y 1718 W. Univ. Ave.,TVar & Grill." .sO-4%HOUSE ,
$10 ALL YOU CAN SRINK
D .J.J-Trivia Tuesdays
Win a $50 Bar Tab
$3 Capt & $5 Pitchers
Starts @ 1Opm
No Cover
U ., rI
s-ia COME STUDY
WITH US!
OPEN 24/7
1 3345 SW 34th St. -Behind Hooters
allgg reports
Tune in for the
latest Gators
sports news
and analysis
from our beat
writers and
columnists.
Check it out at
alligatorSports.org
or subscribe on iTunes.
10, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010
Hitler's regime thought gay
men threatened Aryan purity
UF history professor Geoffrey Giles, a leading scholar and educator on the Holocaust, speaks
about homosexuality during the Third Reich at the B'nai Israel Jewish Center Sunday evening.HOLOCAUST, from page 1
learn about the horrors of the Holo-
caust.
"The Holocaust is something that
really concerns us all in terms of the
relative ease with which hate groups
can really gain support and how eas-
ily that can spiral out of control,"
Giles said.
The program, sponsored by the
Jewish Council of North Central
Florida, included a brief history of
the Holocaust, a candle lighting cer-
emony by survivors and liberators,
musical performances and a discus-
sion by Giles, a UF professor who
specializes in German history.
The Hitler regime considered gay
men to be a threat to the purity of
the Aryan race, similar to how Jews
were perceived.
More than 100,000 homosexuals
were persecuted during World War11.
Philip Schwartz, a member of the
Holocaust Memorial Program com-
mittee, said the message of the pro-
gram hits close to home, referring
to the mayoral campaign of Craig
Lowe, who, if elected, would be
Gainesville's first openly gay mayor.
"Recent homophobic events in the
city and the efforts
Around to introduce bigot-Gainesville ry and intolerance
into the mayor's
race showed us that this was a poi-
gnant time for us to introduce this
topic," Schwartz said.
"Nazi Persecution of Homosexu-
als 1933-1945," a traveling exhibit
of the United States Holocaust Me-
morial Museum, will be on display
at the main branch of the Alachua
County Public Library from May 6
through June 30.
Dancers could make Mr. Potato Heads with raw potatoes, googly eyes
DANCE, from page 1
"It's the little things like the double beds
that were donated [by Children's Miracle
Network] that made a difference," Jamie
said in an interview.
When miracle families weren't sharing
their stories, the morale team led the annu-
al line dance, which the dancers performed
once every hour. This year, the 5.5-minute
routine included clips of Lady Gaga's "BadRomance," Ricky Martin's "Livin' la Vida
Loca" and "Jailhouse Rock" by Elvis Pres-
ley, among other songs.
There were also different theme hours
to keep participants motivated. During the
Toy Story-themed hour, participants could
make Mr. Potato Heads with raw potatoes,
pipe cleaners, buttons and plastic googly
eyes. There was also a craft-making sta-
tion where dancers could make green alien
headbands and different game stations"Of all the things I do at UF, I feel
like I make the most of a differ-
ence doing this."
Matt Michel
law student
where they could race toy cars around
cones or play Pictionary.
Dancers could go to the bathroom when
they needed to, and families and friendscould visit, bring food and donate $50 care
packages. But dancers were not allowed
to leave the ground floor of the arena and
had to remain standing until the end of the
marathon at 2:30 p.m. Sunday.
First-year UF law student Matt Michel
danced this year for his seventh time and
said the foot pains are worth it.
"Of all the things I do at UF, I feel like I
make the most of a difference doing this,"
he said.
Smile.
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and Local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
A Biotest
From Nature forLife
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431This paper is yesterday's news. RECYCLE
printed on recycled newsprint allga or YOUR NEWSPAPER.
MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 11
SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
Gifts for the Graduate
By CRISTINA RABAZA
Alligator Contributing Writer
For many seniors, May 1 signifies a
launch into the professional world.
Here are a few gifts for graduates who
want to soften their landing into the turbu-
lent job market.
Newly graduated professionals should
ditch the backpack and ask for a briefcase.
For a modern twist, graduates can opt for
a sleek messenger bag and sophisticated
interview supplies.
"I find portfolios and nice pens to be
useful now more than ever,"graduating
UF senior and microbiology major Brian
Restauro said.
"Anything that will help me toward get-
ting an interview or during the interview
process has definitely
been of use to me as a
graduating senior."
Graduates should also
update their professional
wardrobe.
For men, nothing says clean-cut
quite like a set of cuff links and a groom-
ing kit. For women, an American Express
or Macy's Gift card is their
ticket to a new, polished col-
lection of business clothes.
Interviewees can also makeover
their manners by reading Tiffany's
Table Manners.
This blue, pint-sized book includes tipsfor how to approach lunchtime interviews
and formal business encounters.
Recent graduates should also stayVj\ tuned to news updates
about the career fields
they're hoping to en-
ter.
They can ask for
subscriptions to magazines or journals
relating to their career interests.
The Wall Street Journal and Forbes
Magazine provide business and finan-
cial insight, while Wired magazine and
MEMagazine offer technology updates
and mechanical engineering information.
The Journal of the American Medical
Association and the New England Medi-
cal Journal of Medicine might be help-
ful for future medical students.
,-- And before all of these job-
related staples dry up any
semblance of youth you had
14 left in you, remember that
you might want to ask for
something fun.
If backpacking
rope is not an option, travel
might still be a possibility -
even to Orlando. And let's
be honest: no matter how
many degrees you have un-
der your belt by now, youthrough Eu-
probably still want to expe-
rience The Wizarding World of Harry Pot-
ter this year.ALLIGATOR STAFF REPORT
Before UF students planning on
graduating in May send out those
fancy graduation announcements,
they should take a look at the uni-
versity's checklist to make sure they
actually get their diplomas:
Make sure you have met all
of your degree requirements
with your academic adviser.
If you haven't filled out a de-
gree application form, you're
late. But you can still get a
late application form on ISIS.
Verify your local and home ad-
dresses so you're sure to get
your diploma. Your diploma
will be mailed to your home mailing
address about 10 weeks after gradu-
ation.
Clear your academic record.
Incomplete grades must be
converted to satisfactory let-
ter grades before you can gradu-
ate.Satisfy all financial obligations
(fines, tickets, fees, etc.) with
University Financial Services in
Criser Hall, Room 113. Outstanding
debt will delay release of your diplo-
ma and transcript.
Complete an exit interview
with the Office for Student Fi-
nancial Affairs if you have re-
ceived financial aid, student loans
or scholarships.
Visit the Career Resource Center
for help writing your resume and
to consult other career-related
materials. In other words, get a job.
Order your regalia at the UF Book-
store. There will be a $10 late fee if
you order between today and April
16, and a $15 late fee after that.
Consider joining the UF Alumni
Association. For recent gradlu-9ates, a membership costs $25 a
year or $600 for a lifetime member-
ship. It gets more expensive down the
road: $40 per year or $800 for a life-
time membership.
0
A ALIL PULIZER A SH12P4
Butler Plaza -Next to McAllister's Deli
MENTION
nqv ) YOU'RE A
*P'SENIOR & GET
50% OFF
www.lingeriecompany.com
Spring Dresses for
Easter -Spring Rush -Graduation
Now Open!Make sure you
will graduate6".41al
12, ALLIGATOR 0 MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010 MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 13
SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION57;,
7
The end of the school year is upon us -the time for all the soon-to-be graduates to make the most of their last few weeks in Gainesville.
To help, here is a list of the top 10 things to do before leavisng town.
0 Lake WauburgLake Wauburg offers UF stu-
dents fun -for free. Just bring
your Gator 1 Card to Wauburg, and you and
your friends can go fishing, canoeing, kayak-
ing, sailing and swimming. It's the ultimate
Gainesville outdoor experience. Head down
Southwest 13th Street toward Micanopy and
you'll see the sign for the lake.9 Become a Globetrotter
Salty Dog Saloon on West Univer-
sity Avenue offers one of the best bar
experiences in Gainesville, and becoming a
Globetrotter is something you shouldn't miss.
To become a Globetrotter you have to drink
one beer from each country listed on the beer
menu in 60 days -a total of 30 beers. Not
only do you get a free T-shirt, but you also get
to drink some good beer in a fun atmosphere.8Hare Krishna Lunch
It's not just for vegetarians and hip-
pies. Everyone should try the Krishna
lunch on the Plaza of the Americas. Not only
is the food good, it's cheap. Krishna Lunch has
been served on campus since 1971 and drawshundreds of students each day.
7 Gator Stompin'
This graduation tradition is a must-
do for graduating seniors. For $25 you
spend the night of April 30 cruising restaurants
and barhopping to 32 different locations, in-
cluding Gator City, Fat Tuesday, Dragonfly
and Mellow Mushroom. At each bar you
get one alcoholic or nonalcoholic drink, and
at each restaurant you get a food item. And
there's a free T-shirt.
6 Running of the Bulls
Each Fall, the women of the Panhel-
lenic Council hand out bids for their so-
rorities to excited hopefuls on Norman Field.
And each year, hundreds of people show up
to watch. Why the big turnout? It's pure enter-
tainment. Nowhere else in Gainesville will you
hear more screaming, witness more excitement
and see more tears all in one place. Whether
or not you're a part of the Greek community,
sorority bid day, or "the running of the bulls"
is something you can't miss. Note: This event
takes place in the Fall, so if you're graduating,
make it a reason to come back and visit nextyear.
5 Eat at The Swamp
If you didn't dine at The Swamp
with your parents during your fresh-
man year, it's something you should probably
make happen before you leave town. It's not
so much about the food as it is about the envi-
ronment. So stop by with mom and dad, enjoy
a pitcher of beer and some food, and enjoy
one of Gainesville's most clich6d dining expe-
riences.
Orange & Brew
The Orange & Brew may not be the
No. 1 hot spot for drinking, but how can
you pass it up? Other than sneaking a flask
into a football game, this is really your only
chance to drink on campus. And drinking here
won't get you into trouble. With a wide range
of available beers and late hours (it's open un-
til 1 a.m. on Fridays), it's one place on campus
you shouldn't pass up.
3 Celebrate at Marston
Marston Science Library -the library
that isn't. Before leaving, raduatesshould try to celebrate something (a birthday,
good exam grade, graduation, etc.) in the
enormous library where no one pays attention
to the fact that, yes, this is a library. You aren't
supposed to answer your phone and talk with
"outside" voices. People have already been
seen celebrating birthdays there with friends
and cupcakes, so you won't be the first obnox-
ious person to do it.
2 Ginnie Springs
Only 13 miles north of Gainesville,
Ginnie Springs is one of the best swim-
ming and diving spots around. There are seven
different springs in which to snorkel or dive. It's
also fairly cheap: $10 depending on what you
want to do. There's also a river to tube down
with your friends. This spot will make any hot
Gainesville day a lot nicer.
Watch the Gators win a NCAA Cham-
pionship
Soon-to-be graduates, you can check
this off your list. Thanks to the UF football and
men's basketball teams, we were all here for
some of the greatest experiences of our col-
lece careers.
Lake Alicelsat rouse on ur campus
99 SW 34th St Gainesville
Publix Westgate Shopping Center
DiplomasfbrVisit our store to see w .sosMrtkeinInt.co
professional colleges our entire collection (352) 375-3797Vegetable Tempura.9.95
Chicken Tempura.10.95
Chicken Sawamura.10.95
Shrimp Tempura.11.95
Combination Tempura .11.95
Chicken and Shrimp.12.95Teppanyaka Vegetable.9.95
Shrimp Teppanyaka.11.95
Scallops Teppanyaka .12.95
Sukiyaki and Chicken.12.95
Sukiyaki Steak.12.95
Sukiyaki and Shrimp.12.95
I Em- W I 3th St. G3iesii11c, =L
Z .37Z3.'I 7aPaynes PrarieLaKe Wauburg
Lake Wauburg Climbing Wall
UF Campus7
The Gainesville Experience
14, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010
SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
Where to take the family when they're in Gainesville
ALLIGATOR FILE REPORT
You're getting ready to grad-
uate. The family's coming. You
need to show them what you've
been up to for the past four (or
five or six) years. So here are
a few places to be sure to take
the whole crew or to check out
if you never got around to it:
UNION STREET FARMERS'
MARKET: The market has of-
fered an intimate, vibrant set-
ting and a chance to buy goods
from local farmers since 1996.
Every Wednesday afternoon,
you can browse the organic
produce, baked goods and
handmade pottery while listen-
ing to live acoustic music. Prod-
ucts include organic coffee,
nuts, vegetables, fruits, soaps
and jewelry.
HOMETOWN PIZZA
JOINTS: When it comes to
pizza in Gainesville, there are
some classics that every student
must sample before gradua-
tion. Leonardo's By The Slice
is near campus and is a great
option for lunch in the middle of
a day full of classes. Satchel's
Pizza is a bit farther, and you
might have to wait a little while
for a table. But once you bite
into that first slice, it will be well
worth the wait.
HARE KRISHNA LUNCH:
Even if vegetarianism isn't your
thing, you may be surprised to
find yourself going back for a
free second serving of eggplant,
D UND
A great
haircut is
as simple
as a stop
at the Reitz
between
classes.
Offering Men's &
Women's Services
Hours
Mon -Fri 8-5
Saturday 9-2
Call today
379-4686
or Walk In
Located on Ground Floorrice and coconut cake. Dishes
vary daily but are always "kar-
ma-free." Pick up a $4 plate on
the Plaza of the Americas week-
day afternoons.
HIPPODROME THEATRE:
Founded in 1973, the Hippo-
drome Theatre has been offer-
ing Gainesville residents expo-
sure to artsy shows and films
for decades. For an out-of-the-
box entertainment experience,check out a play on the upstairs
main stage or a foreign flick in
the intimate screening room.
STUBBLE'S SHIRT PUB: For
international flavor and great
service, head over to Stubbie's
Shirt Pub on University Avenue.
The pub features more than 150
types of beer from countries
such as Brazil, Canada, Israel,
Thailand and Namibia -not to
mention dozens from across theUnited States.
OCALA POKER AND JAI-
ALAI: Located about 30 miles
south of Gainesville in Orange
Lake, Ocala Poker and Jai-Alai
offers a plethora of entertain-
ment options in addition to the
popular South Florida sport,
from watching and wagering to
drinking and eating to catching
a sports game on one of more
than 50 high-definition screens.
Max Weissler / Alligator Staff
With beautiful weather for most of the year in Gainesville, students can spend time at Lake Wauburg
relaxing, climbing, sailing, kayaking or even barbequeing while enjoying the landscape.
Read.
Recycle.
Repeat.
RECYCLE
YOUR NEWSPAPER.
alligtte tt ter 
printed on recycled newsprintThe facility recently added pok-
er. Jai-alai is played this spring
from early April to April 30,
and there are two performanc-
es -a matinee and an evening
performance -every Tuesday
through Saturday.
GINNIE SPRINGS: At Gin-
nie Springs, located about 30
miles northwest of Gainesville
in High Springs, you can canoe,
tube, snorkel and scuba dive
in caves amid beautiful natural
surroundings. A campground is
also on site.
LAKE WAUBURG: At UF's
Lake Wauburg -eight miles
south of campus on State Road
441 -you can relax and en-
joy outdoor activities, including
boating, water skiing, volley-
ball, picnicking and climbing
a 55-foot wall. UF faculty and
staff have free access to the
lake, and four guests are al-
lowed per Gator 1 Card.
DEVIL'S MILLHOPPER GEO-
LOGICAL STATE PARK: At
Devil's Millhopper Geologi-
cal State Park, you can walk
around the edge and down to
the bottom of a 10,000-year-
old, 1 20-foot deep sinkhole.
GATORS BASEBALL AND
SOFTBALL: Though basketball
season is over and football sea-
son is months off, UF's baseball
and softball teams are still com-
peting, so you can still show off
your orange-and-blue pride to
your family and friends.
ATTENTION ALL UF GRADUATING SENIORS.
Come celebrate your last 4 years at UF at your first ALUMNI Event with:
* FREE FOOD from Gator's Dockside
The chance to win amazing PRIZES, including a $500 UF Bookstore gift card, autographed Urban
Meyer football and Billy Donovan basketball, iPod shuffle courtesy of Geico, Talking Walls gift certificates,
Visa gift cards courtesy of Marsh, and assorted Gator memorabilia from the Gator Boosters!
Join the UF Alumni Association at a discounted rate of ONLY $25!
FREE FREE * Albert and Alberta FREE FREE
FREE * Kiss 105.3AM Live FREE* and MORE!
A, ~ ~ I 7 1I
U s Monday, April 19th 6-8pm
MARSH Emerson Alumni Hall 1938 W. University Ave. -
To ensure admission, please bring your Gator1 ID GECO o
For more information or questions, please visit www/ufalumni.ufl.edu/events/gradbash
Find your calling.
Alligator Classifieds. [352]373.FINDaa-lao'r
MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
AP Photo
Dorota Ciszewski, foreground second from right, and her daughter Victoria Ciszewski, 6, foreground
right, from the Queens borough of New York, show there respect for Polish President Lech Kaczynski.
Door-to-door visits begin after this semester
CENSUS, from page 1
Households visited by census
workers cost the bureau $57, a
steep hike from the 42 cents the
bureau pays for homes that mail
their forms by today.
"We're trying to be as effi-
cient and cost effective as pos-
sible by urging students to get
those census forms in by April
12," Gainesville spokesman Bob
Woods said.
UF students are expected to
complete the form even if they
are still financially supported by
their parents.Woods said UF students
should complete the Census
because many of them ride the
city's buses and go to local pub-
lic parks.
The city's parks and buses are
funded by federal dollars given
to Gainesville based on Census
data.
Local Results from theNews census also deter-
mine how voting
districts are drawn.
"[The Census] is important
for all residents in our commu-
nity and particularly students,
who become members of ourcommunity for at least four
years and often longer than
that," Woods said.
Students who do not mail
their forms and are leaving
Gainesville this summer will not
be visited by Census workers be-
cause the semester ends before
they begin door-to-door visits.
Besides mailing their forms,
residents can drop their cen-
sus forms off at City Hall, the
Alachua County Administra-
tion Building, the Reitz Union,
Cabana Beach Apartments and
all of the public libraries in
Gainesville.
Pac-a-Dorm
Do you need safe, reliable, and hassle-free summer
storage or shipping? We provide a simple and
economical solution!
Prices as low as $6.99 per mo.
and no long term commitments.
We pick up and deliver to your door.
$ OFFJiffy Lube
Signature Service'13 Oil Change
No Coupon Needed! No expiration date to remember!
Just bring in a valid student ID to any Gainesville Jiffy Lube.
5 area locations.
For the Jiffy Lube nearest you please visit jiffylubesoutheast.com
S storefor redetais Notvaidwi another Lffer. Restrictions ay py Ji b t r iffy Lube design
makand Jiffy Lube Sign ature ri e a re rgitered trademarks of iffy Lube IA tergths re
@2010 Jiffy Lube Internationa, Inc. All rights reerved.
16, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010
UF TENNIS
Gators edge Georgia to earn coach milestone win
By ANDREW OLSON
Alligator Writer
Freshman Bob Van Overbeek
and senior Antoine Benneteau
took the pressure off each other
in a tight match against Georgia
on Sunday to give their coach
Andy Jackson his 100th win at
home during his UF tenure.
After the No. 6 Gators (16-3,
8-1 Southeastern Conference)
got down early, they needed Van
Overbeek and Benneteau to win
their singles matches to avoid
their second loss of the weekend.
Van Overbeek finished off
his opponent not long after Ben-
neteau won a momentum-build-ing tiebreaker early in his match,
clinching UF's 5-2 win over No.
8 Georgia (17-5, 9-1 SEC) in
Gainesville.
"Antoine winning his first-set
tiebreaker was huge," Jackson
said. "That helped take the pres-
sure off Bob's shoulders. That's
team tennis."
The Gators dropped doubles
matches on courts Nos. 1 and 2,
both in 8-6 decisions, to trail 1-0
heading into singles play -the
same way Friday's 4-3 loss to
Tennessee started.
In singles, victories by sopho-
more Nassim Slilam, No. 7 junior
Alexandre Lacroix and freshman
Sekou Bangoura Jr. put Floridaahead 3-1.
Benneteau, Van Overbeek and
sophomore Joey Burkhardt were
the three Gators left trying to win
the fourth point and secure the
victory for UF.
After drop-
ping the first set
6-2, Van Over-
beek bounced
back to win the
second set 7-6
Van Overbeek after a tiebreak-
er.
By the time Van Overbeek's
match entered its third set, his
teammates gathered on the court
to cheer him on, with Slilam fre-
quently motioning to the crowdto make noise for Van Overbeek.
When Van Overbeek won the
third set 6-4 and clinched the
victory, he was mobbed by his
teammates who were excited to
celebrate the win over UF's big-
gest rival.
"I looked around and saw Joey
was in a tough match and An-
toine's was close," Van Overbeek
said. "I knew I wanted to win it
for the team."
Benneteau went on to win his
match in three sets, making the fi-
nal score 5-2 in Florida's favor.
The No. 4 Gators women's
tennis team (20-2, 10-0 SEC) had
a much easier time against No. 14
Georgia (11-5, 8-2 SEC) in Ath-ens.
The 6-1 win that clinched the
regular-season SEC crown for the
Gators started with a sweep of
doubles competition.
In singles, Florida won the
first five matches to go up 6-0.
Georgia won the last match on
court No. 5.
Highlights for UF included
an upset win at court No. 1. No.
14 freshman Lauren Embree de-
feated No. 10 Chelsey Gullickson
7-5, 6-4.
Florida's other freshman sen-
sation, No. 9 Allie Will, remains
undefeated this season with a
6-3, 6-3 win over No. 29 Nadja
Gilchrist.
UF splits road trip after double-overtime loss to Colgate
0 THE GATORS TOPPED LE MOYNE
15-3 ON FRIDAY.
By TONI-ANN MILLER
Alligator Writer
Florida had its first taste of overtime
play Sunday, and it didn't go well.
A two-game road trip in New York
started with a 15-3 victory over Le Moyne
on Friday, but the Gators (9-5, 1-2 Ameri-
can Lacrosse Conference) couldn't hold on
in a double-overtime match against Col-
gate on Sunday. No. 20 UF lost 12-11 to the
Raiders (8-6, 3-1 Patriot League).
Midfielder Caroline Chesterman andattacker Caroline Cochran led Florida with
three scores a piece while attacker Ashley
Bruns added two.
Midfielder Brittany Dashiell and at-
tacker Janine Hillier each dished out two
assists on the day.
UF looked like it would continue its
dominance from Friday when it got out
to a 7-2 lead with 6:19 left in the first half,
but five-straight scores by Colgate tied the
match at seven about eight minutes into
the second half.
At the end of regulation, the teams each
had 10 goals.
In the two halves, Florida took five
more shots than the Raiders and two moredraw controls. However, it had six fewer
ground balls and seven fewer saves.
In the overtime periods, UF continued
its less-than-stellar play, but draw controls
proved to be the downfall for the young
squad as it allowed Colgate to control all
five of the draws in extra
time.
"We struggled with fin-
Lacrosse ishing," UF coach Amanda
O'Leary said. "Against Le
Moyne we went for 44, to-
day we had 35 shots on goal, and scored
11. We need to start finishing our shots,
because we are certainly getting opportu-
nities."She added that on defense, her squad
did not slide to the double teams and did
not stop the one-on-one matchups as it al-
lowed Colgate's Courtney Miller to score
five goals, including the deciding score in
the second overtime.
After losing a commanding lead in reg-
ulation and the effort in overtime, O'Leary
question the Gators' desire.
"Did we want it more?" O'Leary said.
"Could we have won? We had opportu-
nities, and unfortunately we weren't suc-
cessful. It was a tough game overall. Of-
fensively and defensively, we just didn't
play as well as we needed to play to win
the game."
Live off campus?_
The Census needs y 4 K
to return yourE 0
-7There are special programs in place to count students on campus. But if you live off campus, you haveto complete your own 2010 Census form that arrived in the mail. By participating, you're helping futurestudents enjoy some of the same benefits and services that you have today. It's just 10 questions andtakes about 10 minutes. So fill it out and mail it back.
2010census.gov
Paid for by U.S. Census Bureau.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com 336-3838
*3801 SW 13th St*
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
1 MONTH FREE!
Immediate availability
All Inclusive Student Living from $399
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-1
*Rates @ $379*
All inclusive & Fully Furnished
Or Get a New iPad!
TV or new sofa package
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
373-9009
4-21-10-74-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, University Realty'
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
Summer Rates 2010
Summer Free 2011
On 15 month lease
352-376-6720
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-1
Luxury Apartment Homes
Define the Good Life
2/2*4/4* All inclusive
Direct Bus Route to Campus
EnclaveUF.com * 376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
*$200 VISA GIFTCARDO
Townhouse & apts accross the street from UF
all-inclusive & fully furnished from $479/BR.
Sign this week & get a $200 visa giftcard!
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375 mo all inclusive Cable, inter-
net & utils. 239-250-6149 5-11-10-79-1*Move in Today*
Rates @ $299!
2,3 & 4 bedroom suites
All inclusive & Fully Furnished
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
373-9009
4-21-10-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
2/2*3/3*4/4
Experience the Good Life
Text "Enclave" to 47464
4-21-09-71-1
REDUCED 1 BR available in 2BR/1 BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $300/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished 
+
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 4-14-10-46-1
2 Blocks to UF $300/mo
Furnished bedroom in 42D condo.
Rent includes utils, cable TV & internet.
378-4626 / 262-4290 4-21-10-31-1
$339- Fully Furnished fairly new condo
4Br/4Ba spacious bedrooms & living area,
w/d in unit, great kitchen, great bus rts12
& 35 ten min to UF & shopping Discounted
rent Avail. Start fall. 941-232-1960
4-13-1-2-1
$339 rm/mo all utils incl. 4BR/2BA Condo
at University Commons furnished W/D/TV/
Cable/Parking. Immediatley avl. summer/fall
Great Place Great Price 239.253.8701 or
email at: tom@moorelandscape.com 8-16-
10-36-1
4-4 condo will rent monthy, quarterly or
yearly. $500/month/room includes. washer-
dryer, dishwasher, private bathroom/bed-
room, walk-in closet, utilities, cable, wireless
internet, pool, gym, volleyball and basketball
courts. Living, dining and kitchen have wood-
en floors, bedrooms have nice clean carpets.
Bus services every 5-10 minutes. 352-213-
7059 5-20-10-30-1
Roomate needed for 2010-2011 School year
Clean, furnished condo on RTS #8 busline
and close to UF All utilities, cable & internet
included, $500/month
Contact Maurice (mwmascoe@yahoo com)
4-13-10-15-1
3BE/3BA clean and quiet condo for rent. All
utilities included. $400/room or $1000/apt. 1
mile from UF. 2 bus routes available. Must
see!! Call Dory 954-816-1468. 4-13-10-10-
ROOM FOR RENT Lg master suite in new
home, 15 min to VA, Shands & UF. NS, pro-
fessional only. Util, cable TV, garage & wire-
less internet incl.Kitchen & laundry access.
$500/mo. 352-219-3410 4-21-10-15-1
2/2 Woodlands of Gainesville Luxury Apt.
Indiv. leases, $670/room/mo.$360 Cash
Back. Cable, High Speed internet and
Utilities included. On 3 bus routes and close
to major shopping/food areas. summer
201 0(May-July)
(786) 449-7029/rodriba@ufl.edu
4-15-10-1
Townhome for rent.
Spacious 2 x 2.5 in Grantwood, a gated com-
munity. 5 minutes from campus. Contact
Eddie at 954-699-3665 for more information,
or to arrange a viewing. 5-25-10-19-1
4/4 Countryside Condo private bed/bathincl
utilities, wd,cable,wireless int,pool,gated
workout room, great bus rte,$400/mth all
in.Jeff @904-612-3944, will consider semes-
ter lease. 8-5-10-40-1Spacious 4/4 fully furn condo in SW G'ville 5
mins to UF! Indiv. leases, $375/rm/mo. 3 bus
rtes, close to shopping/food areas. Utils incl
up to $200/mo. $200 SD. Avail. immediately/
summer/fall. 352-262-0628 anu87@ufl.edu
4-21-10-14-1
$450 room in beautiful, landscaped house.
Looking for mature adult -owner gone May
to Oct. W/D, wireless internet, full house
amenities, half utilities. Call 352-219-1095
4-12-10-5-1
3BR/3BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room + utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Bball, pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd FIr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, Sebastian 352-874-8905 4-21-
10-12-1
Female roommates needed for 3/3, own bed/
bath, furnished, Windsor Park, close to UF
on bus stop, pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $335,
1/3 utilities; looking for a clean and studious
roommates, 407-361-1154. 4-21-10-11-1
4BR/4BA furn. Countryside Apt. 2nd fIr, pool
view, inc cable, wi-fi internet, and std utilities.
All brms. avail in Aug. $395/BR/mo. flexible
terms avail. Call Chris at 941-726-2204 or
email raginriv@ufl.edu 4-21-10-8-1
O For Rentunfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1 br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901 4-21-
10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
**HUGE FLOOR PLANS**
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
Now Available Downtown!
Luxury 1, 2, and 3 Bedrooms
Alarm*Walk-in Closet*Pets OK
Stay Out Late & Walk Home!
Call today-don't wait! 338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
1BR/1BA $459 *2BR/1 BA $529
Special prices will not last long!
Quite community close to everything
www.frederickgardens com
Adopted pets live free" 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1 br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner $595-
up 352-538-2181 Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOWor FALL 2010.
2/2 from $999 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1 -$709 2/2-$809 3/2-$909
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-71-2
OMore Play, Less Worke
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
BRING IN THIS AD FOR $0 MOVE IN FEES!
2/2s. From $799, 3/3s: From $959
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2Great School Districts!
HUGE 1 Bed- $595!
2 Bed- $729*4 Bed- $949
Tennis*Pool*Basketball
Call TODAY*332-7401
4-21-71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Museum Walk
All Inclusive Roommate Matching -$439
3/3 Flats 2/2 Townhomes & UF LOCATION!
#117 Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave MuseumWalk.com
Call for Specials!*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
2BR/1 BA from $338/person
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
We <3 pets! Wood floors avail!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $635. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court, Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
* SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $515 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$369
INCLUDES UTILITIES
1 month FREE, Move In TODAY'
24hr Amenities & Valet Trash!
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
18, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010
Rent For FrRent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SUN KEY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!)
Student Discount
From $599/mo; Up to 3 Months Free!
Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Special runs until 4-15-2010
352.376.6720 or 352-376-7041
Check out our unbelieveable
bandwidth: 30x10 IPV6
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO UF -AVAIL NOW & FALL!
*1BR $460- $495
* 2BR $485- $600
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -YOUR NEW HOME!
Unique LOFT floor plan only $595!
1/1 from $625 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning* Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis * 1 mile to UF
377-7401 * www.boardwalkapt.com
4-21-09-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 5-11-10-79-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Cal 376-1111
4-21-65-2* One Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1 bedroom from *$457 2 bedroom from *$558
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 bedroom 1 bath from *$549
2 bedroom 2 bath from *$641
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Additional $200 off next month
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 *$549
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
5-11-10-64-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases Pets Loved
376-2507 *www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 2 bd/ 1 ba
Hardwood floors, must see
$900/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Large 5 Bedrm House**
1 full & 3-1/2 baths
Plant Atriums, Unique floorplan, W/D
Plenty of Parking, 8 blocks N of UF
$2,500/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Great Parking! Walk to UF! 4BD/4.5 BA
Located near SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St.
Call today to view @ 352.373.7578
Union Properties www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-25 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
NEWLY REMODELED 1BRs
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D inc. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*00THE OASIS APTS 000
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
6-29-64-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 4-16-
10-45-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 5-11-
10-48-2
2BR/2.5BA townhouse condo, 1 mi from
UF on bus route. Inc W/D, community club-
house, pool & fitness center. Wired for inter-
net & security sys. $878/mo. Avail 5/1 or 8/1.
Call/text 332-8841 lindalu@gatorhomes.com
4-19-10-40-2
P O1LOS
*Resort Lifestylee
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
ALL INCLUSIVE PRICING!
2's: From $546/person; 3's: From $451/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-42-2
2BR HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area. Wood firs, new kitchen
vinyl, Cent H/AC, DW, fenced yard, wood
deck, parking, $975/mo. Pets ok Avail Aug
16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 Iv mssg 5-27-
10-46-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority
Row/Norman Hall area. W/D, ice maker,
ceramic tile. Cent H/AC, DW, parking,
fenced yard. $1485/mo. Pets ok. Avail Aug
16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 Iv mssg 5-27-
10-46-2
HUGE4BR/2BA2BLKStoUF-SororityRow/
Norman Hall area, remodeled baths, new:
stove, DW, disposal & AC, W/D, wd firs. cent
H/AC, parking. $2400/mo Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg
4-21-10-40-2Houses Available for Fall!
2631 NW 1st Ave -$1845
402 NW 36th -$1425
315 NW 17th St. -$875
4 NW 25th St -$1499
717 NW 34th St -$1320
FREE UF Parking!
352.371.7777
4-21-71-2
$199 Move-In Special
$500-$700 2BR/1BA
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or 352-505-9264 4-16-10-
30-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $650/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220. (leave
a voicemail) 4-21-32-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 5-11-10-114-2
$600, 2BR, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet school
& campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furn; Parking; 352 376
0080;352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-27-2
For a Limited Time Only! 1BR/1BA seperate
dining rm, Ig living rm, walk in closet, cent
H/AC, full kitchen, full bath. H20 & sewer
incl. Free pest control. Close to Oaks Mall,
Archer Rd & UF. $395/mo. 2 & 3 BDs avail
in several locations, dif floor plans. 215-7780
6-17-10-38-2
0* Very Nice 1BR 0*.
Full bath, living room, dining room, full kitch.
en, in-law suite, w/ W/D, cable, all utils incl.
$750/mo near Haile. (352) 367-0372
4-13-10-20-2
Walk to UF. Openings in April -Aug.
2BR/2.5BA $850 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
4-21-10-26-2
Available Immediately! Small 1/1
Efficiency apt. W/D avail, new paint & carpet.
10 min walk to UF. Perfect for international/
graduate students! $500/mo + utils. 284-0979
4-21-10-26-2
10houses.com
3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$1000 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
5-11-10-26-2
FREAKSS! DOWNTOWN 414 SE 2nd St
2BR/1 BA DUPLEX apt w/loft, central heat,
window air, off-street parking, $620/mo,
OALSO: Studio/garage apt. $420/mo.
Call 352-373-6551 4-16-22-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
Walk to Campus
1/1 Townhomes from $579
2/1.5 bath townhomes from $699
Check out our unbelieveable bandwidth:
30x10 IPV6
352-376-6720 352-376-7041
Ask about our specials!
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-25-2
SUN BAY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!)
Student Discount
From $599/mo; Up to 3 Months Free!
Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Special runs until 4-15-2010
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-25-2
FREE MONTHS RENT 1BDs
1114 SW 7th Ave $650/mo
Spacious loft style, parking onsite.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-24-2That's what She Said!
"I LOVE Hidden Lake because.
Cable & internet are Included,
roommate matching is available,
furniture & utility packages are available,
I'm just 1.5 miles to UF & midtown,
there's FREE tanning & a 24-hr gym,
a designer pool AND pets are welcome!"
Come see for yourself!
call 374-3866 for a tour or text
HIDDENLAKE to 47464 OR.
Next time you're on facebook,
creep on over to Hidden Lake's page
to see floor plans, pics & more!
4-21-10-25-2
3bed/2bath Creeks Edge condo -just off NW
13th St. W/D, pool & clubhouse. Close to UF
and on bus route. Available August. Seeking
roommates $395/mo/ea. 727-463-0560
6-29-10-35-2
ONE BLOCK TO CAMPUS
ONE MONTH RENT FREE
1122 SW 2nd Ave 3/1.5 $1575
1123 SW 1st Ave 3/1 $1500 includes utilities.
1118 SW 2nd Ave 3/1 $1200
1 & 2 BRs also available. No dogs.
Call Kinetic Properties at 337-9600 4-12-
15-2
ARLINGTON SQUARE (2b/2ba) -$799/Mo,
Luxury Downtown APT, access to main RTS,
NO short-term. Avail 4/21/10, Call Sean,
239-410-1603 5-1 3-22-2
***HOUSE 4BR/2BA***
Available 8/1. Lovely, remodeled. W/D. Bike
to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. $1 100/mo.
373-1558, 246-8645, or 256-8370 5-11-10-
19-2
House,4BR,3BA,LR,FR,recently renovated.
2 Masters w/pvt bth. fenced in back yard.
garage. Off 34th. tander@bellsouth.net 954-
340-2732 5-13-10-20-2
by Chis Richereek
1. Name four of the five left-handed
pitchers to win more than one Cy
Young Award.
2. Between 2000 and 2009, four
Boston Red Sox pitchers each won
20-plus games in a season once.
Name them.
3. Name the last Army head football
coach to win his first game against
Navy.
4. In 2008, Tony Parker became the
fourth NBA player to tally at least 50
points and 10 assists in a game. Name
two of the other three to do it.
5. Which countries share the longest
consecutive streak of Olympic gold
medals in men's hockey?
6. Who won the last Southern 500
NASCAR fall race in 2004?
7. How many Davis Cup titles has
Spain captured since 2000?
'(60, puV 80s '10 'ooo0) mnoj -t
-Uosuqojf OUWuf -9
i-flmo snidmxio O)Alf
-30Suo3 InoJ 4P[M'(9L6 I-t96 I) uoruq
H31AOS Put (E61-o60 UfPUuD *g
-soliLf 1oigo- plun
uLpjot Im DM3N 'uosqoN jegso 7
9961 ut IIIUD WOj E
'(O,
ui 0Z) iiioog qsof pun (pf, u, IZ)
FU!Ill!1-S IynD '(ZO, L1 OZ) 7;)UVlN
o0Pod t(0ZO U! I) AXO1 )J [
'(Oml)
uurnunS Uufof puL (oml) auiAuID
woL'(ooat) x)jnoN (pus '(inoj) uoi
-IJ1D PA^1S '(A1J) uosu1o1 piUj 1-
S4AMSUV
O 2010 Kmg Featres Synd, Inc.
MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Rent For rrRent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2
BR vintage apts. near UF & downtown. All
have wood floors, fans, & blinds. Pets pos-
sible. Rent from $575-$950/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com, 352-338-7670
5-11-10-7-2
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean 2 & 3
BR homes near UF. Some wood floors, all
with CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds, & lawn up-
keep. Rent @ $790-$1275/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com, 352-338-7670
5-11-10-17-2
2 Br Houses near 13th St. Walmart:
Beautiful vintage charmer 2ba $950
available now. Available May:
Pet Heaven, fenced yard 1ba $675
Call owner/agent 352-328-7474. 4-21-10-
16-2
TOP QUALITY -GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to cam-
pus -on N & E sides. Year lease, beginning
summer or fall. K & M Properties. 372-1509
4-21-10-15-2
JACKSON SQUARE CONDO -Annual
rental beginning 8/1/10. Immaculate, new,
2BR/2BA, 1 blk from UF. W/D in unit, un-
dercover parking. Call owner for details 561-
912-0190. $750/mo/room. 4-21-10-15-2
AVAILABLE NOW. 641 NW 34th St. Lovely
4BR/2BA house. 2288 sq ft. Step-down LR,
dining/family rm. Central Heat & A/C, W/D,
private big backyard. $1100. Call 770-822-
9657 or 404-245-1300 4-14-10-10-24BD/3BA HOUSE NEAR UF!
W/D, Central AC, Wood Floors. 3514 NW
7th Place. Available Aug. 1st. Call Manny at
352-317-4408 4-21-10-14-2
4BD/2BA HOUSE NEAR UF!
W/D, Available Aug. 1st. 610 NW 34th
Terrace. Call Manny at352-317-4408 4-21-
10-14-2
*WANT IT ALL?@
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
FURNITURE NOW INCLUDED!
ALL INCLUSIVE rates beginning at
2/2-$546/person, 3/3-$451/person
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-14-2
One month free rent to qualified tenant with
year long lease- 2/1 $575.00 mo, across
from Santa Fe College w/d hkups & central
A/C. Edbaurmanagement.com- 4121 NW
37th PI Suite B, Gainesville, FL 4-15-10-
11-2
Beautiful Northwood Pool Home with large
1/2 acre lot. 3 bed, 2 bath has plenty of room
for summer fun while swimming or hanging
out in the hot tub. Washer Dryer included
with full 2 car garage and lots of storage.
Pets OK, call Jeffrey for more information.
352-246-5801 5-11-10-14-2
Spacious 1 BR apt for rent.
1 BR/1 BA apt near Oaks Mall.
Walk to mall, restaurant and coffee shops.
New appliances. Call 352-258-4695 4-21-
10-13-2
Copyrighted MaterialC .3
Syndicated Content 0
Available from Commercial News Providers
e e0 meB
W~I,Homes Avail for Fall! Pets welcome!
Minutes to UF and Santa Fe.
4/2 3321 and 3236 NW 30 PL $1200/mon
4/2 5402 NW 25th PL $1200
Call April 352-514-1441 for more info! 4-21-
10-13-2
Duck Pond rentals -The NE Blvd Apts are
1/1 units, ~ 850 sq ft w/high celings, wood
floors, ample parking; avail mid July thru Fall
$540/mo; Historic 1/1 at 205 NE 3rd St, $550/
mo, off street parking Edbaurmanagement.
com 4121 NW 37th PIL Suite B 375-7104
4-15-10-9-2
2 bedroom, 2 bath condo in NW Gainesville,
nice quiet complex, screened porch, vaulted
ceilings, washer & dryer,2 parking spots
$725/month (239)851-8948 4-12-10-5-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home.
Shady lot. From $300 -$450/mo
FIRST MONTH HALF PRICE incl water.
No pets. 4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887
5-11-10-13-2
AVAILABLE NOW & AUGUST
*2BR/1 BA fenced bkyd, cent H/AC $745/mo
*3BR/2BA fenced backyard. $1025/mo.
Gore-Rabell Real Estate 378-1387.
www.gore-rabell.com 4-21-10-13-2
APTS and HOMES for rent near UF!
Avail Summer and Fall, visit our website at
merrillmanagement.net or
Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494 x10
4-21-10-13-2
1BR 1BA Apt Grad II Apts
New carpet, paint. Avail Now
Or Fall 1236 Sw 4th Ave $540/mo
Central H &Air, Laundry Fac.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494
4-21-10-13-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue. St. Croix Apts
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie21 @bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
2BR 1BA, Wood Floors, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 or tazzie21@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR or 2BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425-$550/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 or
tazzie2i @bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
8-16-10-37-2
Lovely 2 BE/21/2BA. NW 43rd Ave. Garage.
All appliances, W/D, internet, security, cable
included. Prefer quiet, stable residents. $999/
mo. Available June 1st. Long term lease
available. Ph. 941-776-1767. 5-20-10-15-2
Barn Eff Apt, Rural Living Jonesville
Pets Welcome, Avail Now, 15 Ac prop
$400 mo+util, TV, Wash/Dry Inc
Stalls also avail, 954-292-2244 4-20-10-
10-2
***STUDENTS****
1,2,3,&4 bedroom Houses and Apartments
available for fall. Pets arranged. All near
campus. Call 371-3260 or 870-2760 4-21-
10-11-2
WOODS EDGE SOUTH- 2BR/2.5BA
Recently constructed townhomes, located
off of 34th St. Spacious living room and wide
kitchen area. Bay windows for breakfast
nook. Double master suites and large clos-
ets. Screened back porch. W/D, next to bus
stop, close to UF.
$550/mo/rm + utilities.
Call (305)799-7042 5-18-14-21 Bedroom/1 Bath Apartment for Rent.
$535. Available Immediately. Downstairs
Unit. Country Club Atmosphere. Towne
Parc Apartments, 2930 SW 23rd Terrace,
Gainesville. Cell: 217-553-6045. 4-16-10-
8-2
SMALL CABIN 2/1, 20 ACRES
Watermelon Pond views. 27802 SW 120th
Lane, Newberry. Horse pens, dog door.
Needs work. $575/mo. $750 move-in 330-
329-8834 4-13-5-2
3BR/3BA Condo across st. from campus
on corner of Archer and 13th with all tile
floors and all appliances. $1500/month or
individual leases. Available summer 2010
call 989-980-2807 4-21-10-10-2
4/3, 3000+sf, $1975. HOUSE STAFF. 352-
301-2403 4-14-5-2
4Br/3Ba Large Home w/ 2 car gar, 8 min from
UF, large fenced yard, dogs ok. Exquisite
oaks & landscaping, wood & tile floors, new
appliances. $1,600/mo. 352-466-0358. Avail
summer or Aug. 3120 NW 31st Blvd. 4-21-
10-10-2
Need creative/ open minded people for this
3 bedroom 2 bath house .you'll love this
property in itself close to all Hospital and
Musemum Rd $799/m Avail. April sq 1100
Contact Navyblueshirt@hotmail.com 4-21-
10-9-2
WALK TO UF -NW 6th Ave
3br/2ba adorable home, prvt bkyd,
Ig bdrms, new crpt, appl, a/c, w/d,
pvd drive, lawn/garb/pest incl.
$1725/mo avail aug 941-544-2427 5-11-
10-10-2
Townhouse Rental 4/2.5. Gated, clubouse,
Cricket Club -near Newberry & 1-75. $1200/
mo, 954-557-4769, baezwpa@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-9-2
POOL HOUSE
4BR/3BA @ 2816 W. University Ave. 1 mile
to UF. Avail for fall. $1700/mo. 327-2931 or
376-6183 5-11-10-10-2
Whispering Pines for fall: 2br/2ba with spa-
cious kitchens, breakfast bar, ceramic tile,
paddle fans, across from bus stop, especially
nice for grad students, includes monitored
alarm system, $840 edbaurmanagement.
com 352-375-7104 4-21-10-9-2
Affordable condo-Shellrock Villas, 2br/1.5ba
townhouse, paddle fans, walk-in closet, con-
venient to Oaks Mall/UF, avail May, $545
edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104
4-21-10-9-2
Beautiful Charleston Place, 3br/2.5 ba, simu-
lated wood floors, carpeted bedrooms, wash-
er, dryer, fully equipped kitchen, screened
porch, community pool, avail May, $1100
edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104
4-21-10-9-2
HOMES FOR RENT -CLOSE TO UF
3/2 630 NW 34th Terr. $1150/mo Pets ok
3/2 631 NW 36th St $1250/mo Pets ok
3/2 3404 NW 7th PI $1250/mo Pets ok
4/2 621 NW 35th St. $1250/mo Pets ok
Call Mike 352-665-7316 4-21-10-8-2
Cute studio for rent in the Duckpond area.
Monthly rent $395 inc elec & water. Sec
$450. Ideal for one person & possibly a small
pet. Call 352-371-3473 leave message.
5-27-10-14-2
Townhouse for rent 2BR/1.5BA w/ W/D hook-
ups. French doors open to private patio.
Remodeled kitchen & bathrooms. Monthly
rent $675. Sec $700. Pets ok. 4007 SW 26th
Terr. Apt B. Call 352-371-3473 leave mssg
5-27-10-14-2.
**4/3 18 NW36th St.** Close to campusall
appliances,W/D, cent, heat/air Avail. Aug.1
$1375 333-9874 5-11-10-9-2
*3401 NW 7th Place* 3/2 liv,din,fam rms.All
appliances W/D close to campus, large yd.
small pets ok avail Aug.1 $1325 333-9874
5-11-10-9-2
**4/2 3962 W University Ave.**close to cam-
pus, all appliances, W/D, hot tub, fire place,
screened porch, avail. Aug,1 $1400, 333-
9874 5-11-10-9-2**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**Near GHFC vaulted
ceilings, all appliances, W/D, garage, small
pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1250 333-9874
5-11-10-9-2
**4/2 919 NW 10th Ave.**Close to campus,all
appliances,W/D,Cent.heat&air.Avil.Aug.1
$1400 333-9874 5-11-10-9-2
2 BLOCKS TO STADIUM
1913 NW 2ND AVE,
1BR/1 BA, freshly painted $600
1813 NW 2ND AVE
1BR new paint & flooring $475,
1BR wd floors, fireplace $525
No pets. Call 352-335-4790 or 352-214-3369
4-21-8-2
I Subleases
DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Sublet: Walking Distance to Class!
Right Behind Sorority Row!
Master Bedroom in House/Ample Parking!
Needed May-Mid August / $475 monthly
352-275-2461 4-16-13-3
$375 1/1bed in a 4/4 apt.
May-July furnished & clean
University House 13th&7th ave
6 blocks from UF 2flr poolview
Contact-hannahbananab@gmail.com 4-12-
10-5-3
Free Love-seat and Mattress/Box springs
$350/mo Summer Sublease
1216 SW 2ND Ave
Unfurnished. 1 Bed, 1 Bath
Option to renew. 217-370-6560 4-13-10-
5-3
Summer sublease at Canopy Apartments for
only $495/month(negotiable).
It's a 4BR/4BA with utilities, 42Flat
screen,HBO included.15min to LibWest,5min
to Oaksmall Call 3528713769 4-15-7-3
SPEND SUMMER BY THE POOL
Enjoy a close location and a poolside 4-bed-
room townhouse! Looking for a female sub-
leaser to stay at The Courtyards during
Summer B or C. Call 443-244-1184 for more
info! 4-16-10-7-3
Bar hop then walk home!' 2/2 LUXURY
APARTMENT $799 reduced from $999.
Washer & dryer, private porch, all ameni-
ties. Across from Library West, a block from
Midtown. Call 561-389-4535 4-14-5-3
MOVE IN WITH A FRIEND!
1/1 or 2/2 fully furnished in Lexington
Crossing. $429 per room, all inclusive. May-
August. 954-551-1953 or 305-323-1706
4-16-5-3
READY TO MOVE-IN! Private room/
bath in a 4/4. Oxford Terrace-walk to
campus,semester lease ok. Fully inclusive
-furnished, utilities, w/d cable & wi-fi. Only
$600 mo. M or F, no Sm or pets. call 321-
228-3379 4-16-6-3
Summer Sublease Midtown, College Park
House. 5 bed room 2.5 bathroom but willing
to rent as many rooms as you need. 3 blocks
from campus, pool, and restaurants. Full
kitchen and living room. Free parking. Will be
available from May 2 -Mid July. I'll pay for
the move in fee. Utilities not included. Call
me for prices and/or pictures of the rooms.
(305)720-8577 4-15-4-3
20, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010
Roommates Roommates Furnishings Motorcycles, Mopeds Aut
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4DUCKPOND -BIKE TO UF
Serious student/foreign grad. Fully furn small
room in quiet house. Close to downtown, on
bus line. Utils incl. $90/week. 352-514-3409
4-21-10-11-4
Clean and responsible roommate wanted!
4/2 new 1900SF house. Convenient location
Now you can easily for both UF and SFC. Pool, basketball, grill.
$500/month. Utilities included. Availablesubmit your classified ad Aug 15th. Call Erik @ 954-937-9491
for print and/or web editions 4-21-10-9-4
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES
IN FURN 4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF.
$290/mo incl elec, cable tv, internet, pool,
laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626
4-21-09-71-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
5-11-10-62-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsVA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$325/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220
(leave a voicemail.) 4-21-32-4.
$400/mo Room for Rent plus elec, Rockwood
Villas TH, pvt bath, on bus route, w/d, free
internet, non-smoking, female only. Avail
Immed & Fall. 1st Mth Free w lyr lease.
ktellmann@ufl.edu/904-874-6877. 7-13-
10-45-4
Seeking roommates for 3 bed/ 2 ba quiet
condo at Creeks Edge. New flooring, recent
remodel,upstairs unit, washer/dryer, on bus-
line to campus, partial furnished. Available
Aug 1st. $395/mo. 727-463-0560 5-11-10-
28-4
Grad student looking for roommates for 4
bed/4 bath condo at University Terrace.
$400/room/month, incl. cable, internet, util.
On 2 bus routes, fully furnished. Tidiness
preferred. Call 352.575.0731. 4-12-10-15-
Roommate wanted: College house; 4/3: Lg
rooms, Lg yard, FP & Lg pool, Walk/bike to
UF or 4.5 mi. to SFC. Nice/safe neighbor-
hood! Join the good life! $375/mo +1/4 Util:
Call Justin @ 813-748-6042 4-12-10-15-4
1 Room avail in Large 1800SF home. Mins to
UF/Santa Fe, steps to a bus. Ideal for grad/
young professional. Only $300/mon + 1/3
utilities! Avail Aug. 6th. 352-514-1441 4-15-
10-14-4
Responsible and Clean Rommate needed
Asking $600, spacious room w/ private bath.
Fully furnished, 5 minutes from campus, ac-
cess to bus routes 9 & 35. Contact Eddie at
954-699-3665 for details or a viewing. 4-21-
10-14-4
Grad student looking for roommates for 4
bed/4 bath condo at University Terrace.
$400/room/month, incl. cable, internet, util.
On 2 bus routes, fully furnished. Tidiness
preferred. 352-575-0731 anu87@ufl.edu
4-21-10-22-4
Need FEMALE roommate! All-inclusive, fully-
furnished 1BR/1BA available in a 3BR/3BA
apt @ Windsor Park. Bus routes 9,34,35,36.
Contact me for RATES and INCENTIVES:
aptinfo4u@yahoo.com 4-21-13-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $350/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
4-21-10-11-4
3 Roommates needed for a 4/2 newly pur-
chased house, Backyardlarge kitchen large
patio. Fully furnished besides bedrooms.
5min from UF. FREE NEW SCOOTER WITH
EACH YR LEASE SIGNED. Asking $549 for
singles including utilities. Move in -May 15.
call Shaun at 904-838-8412 4-21-10-11-4I a E2 t 1
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Campus Edge / Somerest VillageWalk to
Shands/VA/class 2units, 2bd/2ba vault-
ed ceilings 2nd/3rd floor w/d in unit,best
locations parking. $8,000 tax credit.
$164,900/$132,900. Move in Ready 954-
439-2301 stedel@bellsouth.net 4-21-10-
41-5
Motivated. For sale by Owner. Must sell
beautiful 3bd/2b 1777 sf home in Cottages
of Country Way, Newberry, FL. Close to
schools. No HOA. Large lot. Asking $184,900.
(530) 613-6488 4-21-10-28-5DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
*Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Home Theatre Seats-Row of 4 black leather
fully reclining,5 cup holders. Great condition,
perfect for frat or sorority. $775 with low pro-
file component console or alone for $700 or
B/O. 352-331-3251 4-16-10-5-6
-computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
BED .QE -$12 4-21-1r-f9OFFurnishings 1 42-06-Bcce
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC O
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
MFFor Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie -373-5929 4-21-18-10
ltorCycIes, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
**Www.BuyMy cooter.com**
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
ELECTRIC SCOOTER
No insurance/registration needed
Inexpensive to own & operate
Assembled/free delivery/guaranty
American Electric Bike Co
www.greenscootersoncampus.com
4-16-10-25-11
2007 KAWASAKI NINJA 500
Garage-kept, never dropped. All mainte-
nance done. Very, very clean. 720 miles.
$3500. Call anytime 352-214-5191 4-13-
10-20-11
Yamaha R6S 2008
Only 932 miles
New Condition
Contact (352) 284-5237 4-13-10-5-11
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
*NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
5-27-09-124-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699
94 Chevy 1500 $999
92 Chrysler Cirrus $999
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-1293 Ford F150 $1999
98 Ford Explorer $1999
96 Mits Galant $1999
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Nissan Stanza $1499
98 Pontiac Transport $1499
97 Plymouth Voyager $1999
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2999
99 Olds Alero $2999
99 Pontiac Grand Am $2999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
99 Chrysler Sebring $2500
01 Dodge Neon $2500
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Mustang, 40k, $5500 CASH
03 Chevy Venture, 143k, $6900 CASH
05 Jeep Liberty, 105k, $6999 CASH
05 Saturn Ion, 123k, $7999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
06 Ford Taurus, 40k, $8900 CASH
05 VW Jetta, 111k, $8999 CASH
05 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
05 Chevy Trailblazer, 135k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Ranger, 158k, $7999 CASH
06 Chrysler PT Criuser, 46k $9999 CASH
07 Chevy Cobalt, 24k $10,999 CASH
02 Volvo S60, 97k $8999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
92 Ford Crown Victoria Touring Sedan
V8 Interceptor Engine $995 cash
Call 386-418-1107 Alachua 4-13-10-3-12
MOST WANTED
Cary Bramble
White Male
(DOB 01/02/63); 5'09",
170 Ibs, Blonde Hair,
Blue Eyes
Wanted for:
Violation of Probation
for Possession of
Cocaine
ALACHUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOP
MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 21
Wanted Help Wanted Help Wanted Services Connections
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948. 4-21-10-72-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 4-21-
10-72-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male summer camp counselors ages 18 and
up. FEYC is an over-night camp located off
of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL. The camp
runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please contact Krys
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352
455-4267 4-21-10-70-14STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have afun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
Build your own online business from your
laptop. Fifty year old company. Contact John,
352-219-0871, or John@JCantlon.com
4-12-10-20-14
Start securing your career today!
Join UF ARMY ROTC!
Register for MSL 1001 and 1001L
Call 392-1395 today to learn about
jobs available as an Army officer!
8-5-10-50-14
STAY IN GAINESVILLE
CAREER POSITIONS
(with benefits)
MARKETING/SALES REPS
ADMIN ASST
TECH SUPPORT
ACCOUNTING EDITOR
RESEARCH ASST
SOFTWARE TESTER
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
(PT also available)
Apply online at http://www.gleim.com
4-21-10-17-14
PT work home and office. Lawn work exp.
preferred. Students only. non-smoking. $10/
hrCall Sebastian (352)591-3000. 4-12-10-
9-14
Ever think about joining the Army?
Ever considered being an officer?
If you have 2-3 years left at UF you
may have an opportunity through
Army ROTC Call 392-ARMY!
5-27-10-32-14
MASTER HYPNOTIST
Seeks intern w/excellent computer, internet
& interpersonal skills. Phone Richard in AM
352-949-0813 4-21-10-15-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Afternoons,
evenings &weekends. Fax resume and avail-
able hours to 373-2230 4-15-10-10-14
WINDOW BLIND INSTALLERS NEEDED
Independent contractors. Call immediately
339-4600 4-21-10-14-14
Dental Receptionist-FT position for friendly,
experienced, and long term receptionist.
Bilingual a plus. Salary based on experience.
Email your resume and cover letter to
epdentistry@live.com 4-13-10-7-14
COMFORT INN WEST on SW 40th Blvd
is currently looking for a dynamic, full-time
night auditor & part time desk assoc. Must be
available to work a flex sched & have a posi-
tive attitude. Apply in person. 4-12-10-5-14
Join the JanSport Team!
JanSport is currently seeking
Student Ambassadors during Fall 2010
for an on-campus paid internship.
For more Information on the position visit:
www.jansport.com/students
Or email: grace.kessler17@gmail.com
4-12-10-5-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable, writ-
ing skills a must, bookkeeping skills a plus.
Call Carrillo & Carrillo, PA @352-371-4000.
6-8-10-21-14Fun summer jobs! Earn Great Pay! City of
Gainesville Parks/Rec Dept. is now hiring for
seasonal Recreation and Aquatics positions!
Apply online at www.cityofgainesville.jobs
AA/EO/DFWP 5-11-10-12-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Help wanted for wait staff and hostesses.
Experience required. Apply in person be-
tween 2pm and 4pm at 7038 NW 10th place.
4-21-10-10-14
Courier Service Driver needed
Part-time delivery
Call Marvin 561-602-3158 4-14-10-5-14
LAW STUDENT-
EXCELLENT WRITING SKILLS.
1 year+ commitment. Resume to: 626N.E.lst
Street,32601or paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14
FRENCH TUTOR-TEMPORARY-
Family visiting France in summer. Please
include salary requirement. Resume to
paulsrothstein@yahoo.com. 4-21-10-10-14
GUITAR INSTRUCTOR-
two middle school children-beginners. Prefer
home instruction. Resume to
raulsrothstein@yahoo.com. 4-21-10-10-14
CLEANER/GARDENER-
P/T, flex- house. Thorough and conscienten-
tous. Pay competitive. Resume to:
paulsrothstein@yahoo.com 4-21-10-10-14
OFFICE ASS'T-
F/T or part-time- love numbers, passion for
organization and fitness. Eye for detail. 1
year+ commitment. Resume to: 626N.E.lst
Street,32601or paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14
POLITICAL COORDINATOR / GRASS
ROOTS ALACHUA COUNTY ELECTIONS
Resume to paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14
HOUSEKEEPING -CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available
Mon-Fri, 10am -5pm. $7.25/hr, experience
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323
for more info and interview. 4-21-10-9-14
THE CABOT LODGE HOTEL is seeking a
Food Service Supervisor. Please apply in
person. No phone calls, 3726 SW 40 Blvd.
4-19-10-7-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches is now hiring
Counter Help/Bartenders & Sandwich mak-
ers. Accepting Applications Mon 4/12, Tues
4/13, Wed 4/14 9am-llam at both 2327 N
W 13th St & the 5156 S W 34th St 4-14-
10-3-14
OF Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruction;
15 minutes from UF. Charlie at 373-5929.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-
15
Local Immigration Attorney -Marriage
Green Cards/Fiance Visas/Naturalization
Matters -$295.00 Attorney Fees Plus Costs
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
6-1-45-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding. Owner
housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 6-3-10-
30-15
KEN GARVIN APPLIANCE SERVICE
10YEARS EXPERIENCE 8AM-8PM 7 DAYS
LOW RATES ALL BRANDS STUDENT
SPECIAL $40 SERVICE CALL PLUS
PARTS WWW.KENGARVIN.COM 338-1708
4-21-20-15
ATTN GARDENERS!
I will till your gardens for less than you can
rent a tiller! Call Chauncy Gardener 352-
214-1767. Chauncy Gardener Gardening
Service. 41 years of gardening service!
4-21-10-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
Grieving the loss of someone?
National Students of AMF
Join our Facebook group:
"Gator Students of AMF"
TalkAboutLoss.org 4-21-43-16
A Woman's Answer
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716 8-24-74-16
ee Study Improvement & ee
e Test Anxiety w. Hypnosis eWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
Asian male, 70 years old, professional, slim,
tall, dark. Seeking a white feamle with fair
hair between the ages of 50-70 years old.
Write to P.O Box 1823 Keystone Heights, FL
32656 4-21-10-10-19
Event Ntices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE SPAYS FOR STRAYS!
Operation Catnip will provide free spay/
neuter, vaccines, & treatment for fleas, ear
mites, & worms to unowned, stray or feral
cats from mobile home parks in Alachua
County. Volunteers are needed to help with
trapping & transportation of cats. To volun-
teer or request spay/neuter for homeless
cats call (352)380-0940. 4-21-18-20
***ROLLER DERBY!***
Sat., 4/17 at Skate Station
$8 advance, $12 at the door
Ticket info./event details at
GainesvilleRollerRebels.com
4-16-10-8-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
***ROLLER DERBY!***
Sat., 4/17 at Skate Station
$8 advance, $12 at the door
Ticket info./event details at
GainesvilleRollerRebels.com
4-16-10-8-21
oilIRides
Call Maureen (352) 870-1527
4-19-10-15-16 82M
*QUIT SMOKING*
****** WITH HYPNOSIS ****** GMG TRANSPORT
Call Maureen (352) 870-1527 FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
4-19-10-15-16 Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
Personals charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
M 1l .- $45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee) Lost & Found
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18FOUND 2007 HIGH SCHOOL RING
IN UF PARKING LOT ACROSS FROM
REITZ UNION PLEASE CALL TO IDENTIFY
352-316-5529 4-12-3-25_Entertainment
Hea1Wolth, Qorvicres'
Sports
MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
UF GYMNASTICS
Gators finish first,
advance to finals
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
Florida didn't get off to the
start it wanted to in the NCAA
North Central Regional, much like
its rough start at the Southeastern
Conference Championships.
But just as they did at the SECs,
the No. 4 Gators (20-2, 5-1 SEC)
rallied and took home first place in
Salt Lake City with a season-high
team score of 197.675 to advance
to the NCAA Championships for
the 28th time in the event's 29-
year history.
After a slow start on floor,
where UF had to count a lower
score after freshmen Marissa King
and Randy Stageberg stumbled
out of bounds, the team registered
a season high on vault.
"We were in the corral after
floor, and I told them we're going
to throw away what happened
and be extremely aggressive andfinish strong," UF coach Rhonda
Faehn said. "I told them we're go-
ing to go out there and have the
vault of our lives."
"We were in the corral
after floor, and I told them
we're going to throw away
what happened and be
extremely aggressive and
finish strong."
Rhonda Faehn
UF gymnastics coach
That's just what the team did
on the way to a 49.5 on vault,
anchored by a pair of 9.9s from
King and senior Maranda Smith,
as well as a 9.95 from freshman
Ashan6e Dickerson, tying her best
vault routine of the season.
"The energy we carried from
floor to vault helped us through-
SEE GYM, PAGE 23
U Don't just skip from the front
page to sports, there's a recap of
how the UF lacrosse team and both
tennis teams fared over the week-
end. See page 16 for stories.alligatorSports.org
E The UF women's golf team finished third
in the SunTrust Gator Women's Invitational,
which the Gators hosted for their only home
tournament of the year. Freshman Mia Pic-
cio finished in a tie for third place.Brantley following in
Leak's footsteps
hanks to injuries and absences throughout the
spring, we still don't know what Florida's offense
will look like in the fall.
But there was a pretty solid hint standing on the field
in white boat shoes during the Orange and Blue Debut on
Saturday.
Former Florida and current Mon-
treal Alouettes quarterback Chris
Leak came back to Gainesville to
support and advise new starter John
Brantley, a move that makes perfect
sense as Brantley should be running
M ike McCall the same kind of scheme Leak did his
senior season.
McCa Ilin' It "Coach (Urban) Meyer was tellingLike I See It me it is going to be very similar tommccall@alligatororg 2006," Leak said. "That's something
that obviously I have a lot of experi-
ence with. .Any two cents I can put in to help the team
win a game, I'm willing to do it."
During his time as the starter, Brantley will always
have to deal with Tim Tebow's shadow, but trying to fol-
SEE MIKE, PAGE 23
TEEING OFF WITH PHIL KEGLER
E The Nuggets signed Coby Karl, son of their head coach who is away from the
team fighting throat and neck cancer. I have no Denver affiliation, but I'll root for
dad and son to reunite in the playoffs. .Stephen Strasburg made his minor-
league debut Sunday, throwing five innings in Double-A. SI.com's headline led
with the fact he allowed an earned run. He's surely a bust now.
MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 23
UF SOFTBALL
Home-run barrage gives Gators win, sweep at Arkansas
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Writer
In softball, a team that averages
two home runs per game is consid-
ered an elite power team.
So then what can be said about
a team that hits four in an inning?
"It really doesn't surprise me,"
UF coach Tim Walton said. "We've
really got some quality hitters, and
the third time through the lineup
seems to be the charm."
Sixth-inning home runs by Aja
Paculba, Michelle Moultrie, Brit-tany Schutte, and Corrie Brooks
broke a 1-1 tie and propelled No.
4 Florida (30-4, 12-2 Southeastern
Conference) to a 6-1 win and a se-
ries sweep over Arkansas (24-16,
8-6 SEC) Sunday in Fayetteville.
With the victory Florida runs its
winning streak to nine games, and
extends its lead in the SEC East
standings to a game and two in the
loss column over both Tennessee
and Alabama.
For the second time in the series
the Gators were facing Arkansas
ace Hope McLemore, who breezedthrough the first three innings of
Game 1 before the UF hitters ad-
justed and tagged her for five runs
on five hits in the
fourth.
Thus, it was
no surprise when
Florida struck
in the top of the
first, as Paculba
reached on an
error and then
scored on a single by Schutte.
But McLemore settled down,
retiring the Gators in order in thesecond, third, fourth and fifth in-
nings.
"She had a different gameplan
today," Walton said. "The ball was
breaking a little differently and
she was throwing a couple good
pitches and we just weren't able to
capitalize."
Arkansas tied the score in the
bottom of the fifth when Tori
Mort's popup got lost between
Brooks and shortstop Brittany
Walker, falling for a leadoff dou-
ble that set up Sandra Smith's RBI
single.But UF followed with its four-
home-run inning, and the tie
quickly became a blowout.
"We had some really good at-
bats and were ready to go in the
sixth," Walton said.
"I don't think it was fatigue, but
(McLemore) definitely missed her
location on a couple of pitches."
Freshman Ensley Gammel came
in to shut the door, throwing 2.2
innings of one-hit softball in relief
of ace Stephanie Brombacher, who
gave up just one run over the first
4.1 innings.
Season-best beam performance pushes Florida into top position
GYM, from page 22
out the whole competition," Smith said.
Florida took that momentum from vault
into its bar routines, where Dickerson led
off with a season-best 9.9, en route to win-
ning the regional's all-around title with a
season-high 39.70.
Dickerson's 9.9 was accompanied by
the same score from both Smith and seniorAmanda Castillo.
Heading into the final rotation of the
night, No. 10 Utah was finished with its
competition and was the leader on the
scoreboard with a 196.900, while the Gators
needed at least a 48.825 on beam to surpass
the Utes.
They did just that, and then some, as the
team put together its best beam score of the
season.All five of the scores Florida counted on
beam set or tied season bests for the gym-
nasts, including 9.9s
from King, senior Court-
ney Gladys and sopho-
Gymnastics more Elizabeth Mahlich.
Freshman Liz Green
scored a 9.925 and Dick-
erson earned a 9.95 to take home the meet's
beam title.The 49.575 was enough to secure the win
and advance to the NCAA Championships
in Gainesville, where Utah will join the
Gators as the other team to advance from
the region.
"It again just shows the mental tough-
ness of this young team, that their focus
was just 100 percent on finishing strong,"
Faehn said. "They were competing to win,
not just make it."
ORANGE AND DLUE
ORANGE 24
Rushing No Gain Loss Net TD Lg Avg
Burton, T. 10 128 5 123 2 76 12.3
Clark, T. 2 17 0 17 0 11 8.5
McQuay, E. 7 16 2 14 0 7 2.0
Reed, J. 1 6 0 6 0 6 6.0
Totals 20 767 7 760 2 76 8.0
Passing Cmp-At-Int Yds TD Long Sack------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -
Burton, T. 12-18-1 120 1 22 0
Totals 12-18-1 120 1 22 0
Receiving No. Yds TD Long
Hines, 0. 3 38 1 20
Moore, C. 3 28 0 18
Clark, R. 2 30 0 22
Williams, J. 2 13 0 7
TEAM 1 9 0 9
Christian, G. 1 2 0 2
Totals 72 720 7 22
BLUE 27
Rushing No Gain Loss Net TD Lg Avg----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -
Gillislee, M. 10 50 3 47 1 24 4.7
Reed, J. 3 19 0 19 0 15 6.3
Brantley, J. 5 0 22 -22 0 0 -4.4
Totals 18 69 25 44 1 24 2.4
Passing Cmp-Att-Int Yds TD Long Sack--------------------------------------------------------------------------- -
Brantley, J. 15-19-0 201 2 47 4
Reed, J. 3-5-1 80 1 39 0
Totals 78-24-7 287 3 47 4
Receiving No. Yds TD Long
Moore, C. 5 102 1 39
Hammond, F. 4 20 1 6
Lawrence, T.J. 2 41 1 31
Debose, A. 2 30 0 21
Thompson, D. 1 47 0 47
Hines, 0. 1 31 0 31
Williams, J. 1 6 0 6
Gillislee, M. 1 5 0 5
Reed . 1 -1 0 0
Totals 78 287 3 47
Max Weissler / Alligator StaffMIKE, from page 22_
low Leak's example is much more
realistic.
Brantley knows. That's why
he turned to Leak for tips.
The two talked on the phone
frequently during the spring,
with Leak giving help about foot-
work, decision-making and how
to handle pressure.
"He's always been a mentor
to me," Brantley said. "I watched
him play through his college
years when I was growing up,
and I'm just happy he's helping
me out now. I've been waiting for
it."
In 2006, Leak worked in an
offense that blended Meyer's
spread option and a more tradi-
tional scheme, and Brantley will
likely do the same this season.
And Leak had Tebow com-
ing in to run the ball, just as Trey
Burton and Jordan Reed are ex-
pected to in the fall.
That mix is just fine with
Brantley and Leak.
"We talk about that," Brantley
said. "Me and him aren't the best
runners. We both agree with that.
If we have to have someone else
come in and run the ball for us,
we don't mind at all."
The difference is, Brantley
probably won't have to worry
about hearing boos from the
crowd when he subs back in for
Burton or Reed.
Beyond schematic similari-
ties, Brantley can also learn from
Leak's poise and leadership.
Meyer has repeatedly said the
biggest task on Brantley's plate is
learning how to take charge, and
he's much more like Leak than
Tebow in this regard.
Odds are, you'll never hear
Brantley pull a huddle together
and yell, "Big nuts! Big nuts! Right
here! We will not be stopped, I
will not be stopped, right now!"
like Tebow did during a game in
high school.And while the Brantley era
might mean a dropoff in stiff-
arms and fist-pumps, it should
also bring back tight spirals and
picture-perfect deep balls of
Leak's day.
Brantley made that clear on
his first snap, when he launched
a 47-yard pass down the side-
line to Deonte Thompson. Leak
opened his first spring game in2004 in the same fashion, as his
first toss went for 73 yards to Dal-
las Baker.
It's unfair to expect Brantley
to be the next Tebow or Leak,
but if he can take the lessons he's
learned from both and apply
them in the next two seasons, it's
not a stretch to imagine his name
alongside theirs as championship
quarterbacks.
A
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
Former UF quarterback Chris Leak, the Gators' career passing-yard-
age leader who led them to a national title in 2006, talks with cur-
rent starter John Brantley during the Orange and Blue Debut.
24, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2010
UF bats come to life in finale
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF second baseman Josh Adams hit a three-run homer in the Gators' seven-run
sixth inning that carried them to a 9-1 win Sunday over Tennessee in Knoxville.0 FLORIDA BEAT TENNESSEE 9-1 SUN-
DAY TO WIN SERIES.
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
tjett@a IIigator org
The Gators' offense had not looked like it
belonged to a top-10 team all weekend.
In fact, No. 8 Florida (23-8, 8-4 Southeast-
ern Conference) had managed just eight runs
in 23 innings against Tennessee. Then UF
nearly matched that output in one frame, scor-
ing seven runs on as many hits in the sixth in-
ning Sunday.
The inning propelled the Gators to a 9-1
blowout win over the Volunteers (16-17, 3-9
SEC) to clinch the series in Knoxville, Tenn.
The team's offense received a boost from
unlikely sources Sunday. With two runners
on base, junior Josh Adams gave the Gators
a 3-0 lead with a home run to center field. Al-
though Adams is a two-time All-SEC second
baseman, he entered the contest hitting just
.245.
"Everybody goes through a tough stretch,
this just happened to be his time," UF coach
Kevin O'Sullivan said. "It's good to see him
break out of it today, though."
Eight of nine UF batters reached on a hit
Sunday, with third baseman Jerico Weitzel
and left fielder Jonathan Pigott leading the
team with three each. Weitzel was hitting
.200 and Pigott had only nine hits before the
game.
"On certain days, certain guys come
through at the plate," Adams said. "It wasgood to see some other guys step up."
Following Adams' three-run blast, UF
scored on three-straight RBI hits by Matt den
Dekker, Austin Maddox and Preston Tucker,
who proceeded to score the team's last run of
the frame on a wild pitch.
The hitters gave Florida starter Hudson
Randall (3-3, 3.98 ERA) more run support than
he needed. The freshman allowed one run on
four hits in a career-high eight innings.
"Everybody goes through a tough
stretch, this just happened to be
(Adam's) time."
Kevin O'Sullivan
UF baseball coach
Randall relied heavily on his slider and
struck out six Tennessee batters. He did not
give up a hit until the sixth inning.
"Any time you can keep a team hitless for
five innings, that's pretty special," O'Sullivan
said. "He was on his game today."
The downward spin on Randall's pitches
fooled the Vols as they would hit the top of the
ball, and 18 of the 20 balls put in play by UT
against the freshman pitcher were grounders.
In his last two games, Randall has allowed
three earned runs in 13.2 innings, dropping
his ERA by more than a point. He is also av-
eraging almost two more strike outs per 9 in-
nings during that stretch.
"I have to say, this was my best start of the
year," Randall said. "I'm getting more and
more comfortable with every start."
A radio broadcast contributed to this report.
Now Leasing
