the independent florida
the
Avenue anlieat
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 141 We Inform. You Decide.to~~cy
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010
SPECIAL REPORT
City sees increase in citizen-reported crime
By ASHLEY LARA MOSES
Alligator Contributing Writer
After the Gainesville Police De-
partment saw an increase in crime
from 2008 to 2009, the city has seen
another increase, and this time, it's
a good thing.
GPD Cpl. Tscharna Senn said
there has been an increase in thenumber of crimes reported by citi-
zens, and this initiative has helped
curb the city's climbing crime rate
during the past three months.
While the University Police De-
partment had a decrease in crime
from 2008 to 2009, GPD had a 7.6
percent increase.
Senn said Chief Tony Jones put
more officers on the street to tackle"We're dealing with crime
differently. "
Tscharna Senn
GPD corporal
the crime rate.
"We're dealing with crime dif-
ferently," Senn said.
Senn said that she believes thesechanges are responsible for the de-
crease in crime that GPD has seen
in the past three months.
There has been a 7.42 percent
reduction in violent crimes and a
2.5 percent decrease in property
crimes, she said.
According to UPD Capt. Jeff
Holcomb, the crime rate on UF's
campus dropped 18.5 percent in2009.
Theft is the most common crime
on campus, and Holcomb said the
best way for students to avoid be-
coming victims of theft is through
education.
He said students need to pro-
tect their belongings and secure
their property when leaving it un-
attended.
People file, protest taxes
0 A UF PROFESSOR OFFERED TAX TIPS
FOR STUDENTS AND PARENTS.
By MATT HARRINGER
Alligator Writer
It's the one day throughout the year that
causes everyone to cringe -unless you work
for the IRS.
Happy Tax Day, Gainesville.
For students who have worked at all in the
past year and had taxes withheld from theirpaychecks, today is the last day to file taxes to
receive a refund.
There are several tax credits available for
college students, or their parents if they claim
them.
The American Opportunity Credit provides
a 100 percent tax credit for the first
Local $2,000 of tuition and a 25 percent
News credit for the next $2,000.
The Lifetime Learning Credit
is equal to 20 percent of tuition and related ex-
SEE TAX, PAGE 12
UF approves Haiti footage
The travel ban remains
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF graduate students
who filmed post-earthquake
footage in Haiti will be able to
use their video for their mas-
ter's thesis documentary.
Jon Bougher and Roman
Safiullin reached an agreement
with the UF Board of Trustees
Wednesday allowing them
to use the footage despite the
fact that it was shot after the
university established a policy
banning UF-sponsored travel
to Haiti.
UF spokesman Steve Or-
lando said an investigation
showed that UF funds and re-
sources were not used in the
students' travel or work.
The students will include
a statement saying the video
was not funded, sanctionedor approved by UF, Orlando
said.
Safiullin said it was a re-
lief to know the university
understands the importance
of the footage and the need
for its inclusion in the docu-
mentary, which describes the
philanthrop-
ic organiza-
tion Planting
Peace.
But the
travel ban
remains in
effect, and
Safiullin said
he will con-
tinue to speak out about the
ban and work with student or-
ganizations who are involved
in Haiti relief causes.
Bougher said he feels the
travel ban is overly restrictive
and denies graduate studentsand faculty the opportunity of
doing work in Haiti.
The news that Bougher
and Safiullin would be able
to use their footage was ac-
companied by news that their
adviser, Churchill Roberts, the
co-director of the Documen-
tary Institute, is undergoing
an investigation by the Office
of Human Resource Services,
according to Bougher.
Roberts said he has been
questioned about whether he
encouraged or helped fund the
students' return trips to Haiti.
Roberts said he was un-
clear where the students got
the money for the trip, and the
decision to return was their
own.
"My job was to help them
produce the very best thesis
they could," Roberts said.
Orlando said he cannot
comment about an ongoing
Office of Human Resource Ser-
vices. investigation.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersN Alligator reporters
obtained personnel
files for the UPD
officers involved in
the shooting of a
graduate student
last month. For de-
tails on each officer,
See Story, Page 11.Today
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 13
CLASSIFIEDS 19 Partly
CROSSWORD 21 ou
SPORTS 25
visit www.alligator.orgFunny Business
Comedian Bryan Callen gives an animated performance in the
Orange & Brew at the Reitz Union Wednesday.
0 UF catcher Brit-
tany Schutte went
2 for 4 with three
RBIs and a home
run in the Gators
9-2 win over FSU
in Game 2 of the
doubleheader in
Tallahassee. UF
won Game 18-4.
See Story, Page 25.Orlando
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Venture Pitch Competition
Today, 6 p.m.
Stuzin Hall, Room 102
Participantswillpitchabusiness
idea in front of a panel of judges.
Winners will receive cash prizes
and business advice. Entry is open
until the competition starts. Come
see some of the best and brightest
at UF showcase their breakthrough
ideas.
Sierra Club Lakeshore Cleanup
Saturday, 8:45 a.m.
Meet in the parking lot at Palm
Point Nature Park for a two-hour
cleanup.
ON CAMPUS
VISA to host talent show
UF dance teams will be compet-
ing in UF's version of "America's
Best Dance Crew" tonight.
Volunteers for International
Students Affairs will host its an-
nual Talent Show at 7 p.m. in the
O'Connell Center to benefit Gators
United for Haiti.
Six dance groups will perform
a mix of dancing, skits and videos
for the first-place trophy and brag-
ging rights, said Chandni Patel, the
president of VISA.
Shire Patel, the alumna VISA
president, said he hopes students
will walk away with a better un-
derstanding of UF's diversity.
"There is no other way to dis-
play your culture more than in the
VISA Talent Show," he said.
All money raised will go to-
ward Gators United for Haiti's
goal of raising $50,000 for the relief
of earthquake victims.
The University Athletic Asso-
ciation will match what the orga-
nization raises, said Sky Georges,
president of Gators United for
Haiti. The organization has raised
about $35,000, he said.
Student Government will fund
about 90 percent of the estimated
$15,000 price tag for the show, and
the rest will be paid by the event's
sponsors, Chandni Patel said.
-KATRINA PEREZ
Columnist to speak for
Pride Awareness Month
nest .ieweiry ann Loani
523 NW 3rd Ave * Pawn Brokers
371-4367 * 371-CEMS
April 17, 2010
from 8 am to 3pm
at the Martin Luther King Center
Help clean
up trash
and litter,
plant trees,
and paint
over graffiti.
ToI Se call 3 -371-9444
.kacb@gmail.com
,i S ided Free giveaways!
Presente'y Keep Alachua County BeautifulCopyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Author and columnist Dan
Savage is scheduled to speak
at the Reitz Union Grand Ball-
room tonight at 7 as part of Pride
Awareness Month.
Adrian Ogle, executive direc-
tor of the Pride Student Union,
said the organization wanted to
bring Savage to campus because
his work is relevant to the theme
of this year's Pride Awareness
Month, which is "love law-
lessly." The theme is a tribute
to friends, family and everyone
who has shown members of the
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgen-
dered and questioning commu-
nity unconditional love and sup-
port, he said.
Accent is sponsoring the
event, and Savage will be paid
$10,000 for the appearance, Ogle
said.
After the show there will be a
Q-and-A session, which will be
moderated.
Ricky Carter, co-director of
marketing for Pride Awareness
Month, said that Savage is a
good role model for the LGBTQ
community.
Savage is the author of "Sav-
age Love," an internationally
syndicated column that address-
es sex and relationships.
-DANIELLA DORCELUS
Woman walks across Fla.
to raise awareness on
sexual abuse
Lauren Book-Lim is cultivat-
ing two things: sexual abuse
awareness and a bad case of shin
splints.
In recognition of Sexual As-
sault Awareness Month, the
25-year-old's 500-mile walk
across Florida will lead her
through UF Friday morning,
where she will talk about the
sexual abuse she endured as ateenager and encourage those who
have been abused to seek help.
"It's time to shed the shame,"
she said in a phone interview
Wednesday. "It's always OK to tell
someone about [abuse.]"
Her trek, called, "Walk in My
Shoes," began April 2 in her home
town of Aventura, near Fort Lau-
derdale, and is scheduled to end
at the Florida state capitol build-
ing in Tallahassee, where she will
lobby for the passage of legislation
intended to protect children from
sexual abuse.
At 9 a.m. on Friday, students
will be encouraged to walk with
Book-Lim from the Reitz Union to
the Plaza of the Americas, where
she will speak, said Sarah Kunkler,
a UF sophomore and spokeswom-
an for the event.
Book-Lim, who is averaging
about 28 miles each day, said it has
been exciting to see people across
the state tell how they escaped
abuse.
-MINCH MINCHIN
CORRECTION
Wednesday's article "Student
Senate discusses crisis response"
said no counselors from the UF
Counseling Center came to the
scene of the March 2 shooting of
UF graduate student Kofi Adu-
Brempong. According to Sherry
Benton, the director of the UF
Counseling Center, counselors
came to Adu-Brempong's apart-
ment 20 minutes after the shooting
and stayed until 1:30 a.m.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org
EPRIlS FUN SUPPLIES!
April 22 -May 1, 2010
Bring your new and used school
penciis -pens -nOieDOOKS * DaCKpaCKS * paper* gliue * CaiCUIUiOrs iunce Doxesa the independent florida
Not fficall
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 141 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors J a red M isner, jmisner@alligator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, ctillo@alligator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
M att Tri pp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Holly Kane, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
Andrew Pantazi, Paul Runnestrand,
Colin Simmons, Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
City to review votes today
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
Originally slated to be Gainesville's op-
portunity for a political intermission, the
next few days will instead play a pivotal
role in deciding who will be Gainesville's
next mayor.
Today at 5 p.m., the City of Gainesville
Canvassing Board will reconvene in order
to review provisional ballots cast in Tues-
day's mayoral election between City Com-
missioner Craig Lowe and Don Marsh. As
of Tuesday night, Lowe holds a 35-vote
lead over Marsh.
At stake are 21 provisional ballots,
which are ballots cast by people whose eli-
gibility to vote are uncertain.
The Canvassing Board will review the
ballots to make sure that they can be used
in the election data, said Alachua County
Supervisor of Elections Pam Carpenter.
Even if all 21 provisional votes are vali-
dated and given to Lowe, it would only
give him 50.2 percent of the vote, which,compared to Marsh's 49.8 percent, is less
than the half-percentage-point margin re-
quired by law to bypass a recount.
Without a clear majority, a mandatory
recount would need to take place, which
would likely occur Friday when the Can-
vassing Board meets at the Supervisor of
Elections Operations Center.
A manual recount will be conducted if
the margin between the two candidates is
a fourth of a percentage point
Local or less, while a machine re-
News count will be conducted if
it is between a fourth of a
percentage point and half of a percentage
point.
According to Eric Conrad, Lowe's cam-
paign spokesman, Lowe will be in atten-
dance for Thursday's canvassing meeting.
It could not be determined whether Marsh
would be present at the meeting as well.
Should there be any irregularities with
the recount process, Conrad said the cam-
paign would not hesitate to pursue legal
action but feels confident that the current
outcome will stand.THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
ON CAMPUS
Comic performs for 100
BY LYN KRAMER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Bryan Callen had a tip for those in
the audience at the Orange & Brew
Wednesday night looking to get
lucky.
"What will get you laid the fastest
besides a cape?" he asked the crowd
of about 100. "A cape with a falcon on
your forearm."
Callen, a comedian and TV person-
ality, cracked jokes about everything
from groin-stretching to the basics of
wizardry.
The stand-up comedy show was
hosted by the Reitz Union Board En-
tertainment, a student-run organiza-
tion that puts on a wide range of free
events for UF students.
"At the Orange & Brew, there are
no rules." Callen said. "What a combo,
citrus and beer."
Hyped with nonstop movement
and never-ending energy, Callen went
from reciting lines from "The Princess
Bride" to neighing like a horse and
running like an ostrich around the
spot-lit stage.Callen is the host of E!'s "Bank of
Hollywood," and he has a recurring
role on "The Secret Life of the Ameri-
can Teenager." His notable roles in-
clude Eddie in "The Hangover" and
Howie in "Sex and the City."
"What will get you laid the
fastest besides a cape? A
cape with a falcon on your
forearm."
Bryan Callen
comedian
Callen also made TV appearances
in "Entourage," "7th Heaven" and
"Law & Order: Special Victims Unit."
"I'm a big fan of 'The Hangover,"'
said Adam Jacobson, an economics se-
nior. "I've seen it like 10 times, and it's
hilarious."
Callen's character in "The Hang-
over," a Lebanese man named Eddie,
was based on a real guy, he said.
A sequel to "The Hangover" is in
development, Callen said.
Callen was paid $3,000 to by RUB
Entertainment.
With the ETS My Credentials Vault'" service
powered by Interfolio
The letter of recommendation is a top priority for graduate and professional school applicants. Now there's an
easier way for letter writers and applicants to simplify the entire process.
ETS and Interfolio have created the My Credentials Vault s service so that letter writers and applicants can
quickly and securely manage letters of recommendation, An easy-to-use, web-based tool, the My Credentials
Vault service helps streamline the entire process from initial request through delivery.
The My Credentials Vault service is FREE for letter writers.
One letter. One way. Many options. Lcttor writers can use any word processing software to write thor confidential
letter; they can then securely Upload their letter into the My Credentials Vault service. Letter writers can also
mail a hard copy of the letter if preferred. The applicant can then send that letter to multiple institutions.
A single system that helps keep everyone organized. During peak application times, requests for
letters of recommendation can really begin to pile up. With the My Credentias Vault service,
letter writers and applicants can track letters in one centralized location -online, anytime.
Secure and confidential. The My Credentials Vauit service s a safe, secure online Applicants
environmental that upholds all confidentiality standards. Letter writers have access to can sign up for the
any letters they upload. Applicants can track and manage their letters, but they My Credentials Vault
cannot see the content of confidential recommendations. service today for a
Start using the My Credentials Vault service today -and simplify the process for everyone. low annual fee
To learn more, visit www.ets.org/mycv/uf
rght 0 2010 by Educational Testirg SeAllto reserved ETS, the ETS logo and LSTENING LEARNING LEADING
are registered tradernarks of Educat iL L MYonal Tes, ng Servce iETS) M REDENTIALS VAULT is a service mark of ETS 14108
Listening. Learning. Leading.*
Find your calling .
Alligator Classifieds. [352]373.FINDallig io6rDON'T MISS THE PARTY I ftra-WORTH TRAVELING FOR! .e.
It's a year-end blowout party just for you. T
Check out Opening Night with Weezer and New Music NightWed. April 28.
sunfest.com/newmusic. We've stacked the line-up with great music.
Come and stay for Florida's largest waterfront music festival -check out hotel deals
at sunfest.com/comeandstay
Tickets online at sunfest.com or call 1-800-SUNFEST (786-3378)
Join us on:
Iifacebook.comn/sunfest
Wtwifler.comn/sunfestfl
FORD DEALERSsunfest.com
$atBeachvCouya
TDUIDFLOP-F CIUNCL RDrD PROJF-
4, ALLIGATOR 0 THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010
Acupuncture recipients
limited by blood law
By MINCH MINCHIN
Alligator Writer
Plasma-donating acupuncture
patients are feeling the pinch.
When Morgan Guoan visited the
DCI Biologicals plasma-donation
center on Northwest Sixth Street in
Gainesville, she was asked to leave
because she had undergone acu-
puncture therapy in the previous 12
months.
"As soon as I said I had acupunc-
ture, they denied me and told me I
couldn't come back for a year," she
said.
Guoan, a second-year veterinary
student at UF, is not the only acu-
puncture patron who has recently
been denied the chance to donate
plasma, said Candice Nelms, an
acupuncture physician in Holly-
wood, Fla.
Nelms, a graduate of the Dragon
Rises College of Oriental Medicine in
Gainesville, recently received a form
from DCI Biologicals asking her to
confirm that she used clean needles
on one of her former patients who
wanted to donate plasma.
The form, called "Certification
of Sterile Technique During Body
Piercing, Tattoo or Acupuncture
Procedure," stated that federal law
prohibits anyone who gets acu-
puncture from giving plasma until
at least 12 months later unless he
or she can prove the needles were
sterile.
For Nelms, receiving such formsis both unnecessary and insulting.
For the last 13 years, every acu-
puncture needle used in Florida has
been, by law, just as sterile as the
needles used to draw the blood of
people who donate plasma.
The Florida Regulation of Profes-
sions and Occupations statute 457
mandates all acupuncture needles
be sterile and disposable.
Despite the law, it is not uncom-
mon for acupuncture patrons to be
denied at plasma donating centers
in Gainesville, Nelms said.
"Some people have had horrible
experiences and have felt harassed,
and others have simply been denied
immediate service," she said.
The fact that acupuncture is asso-
ciated with tattooing
Local and piercings is also
News upsetting because nei-
ther tattoos nor pierc-
ings are medicinal,
Nelms said.
Nelms, who is licensed to prac-
tice acupuncture anywhere in the
U.S., wrote a letter to the DCI Bio-
logicals staff asking them to either
update their policies or "face poten-
tial complaints of discrimination."
LifeSouth Community Blood
Center has no qualms with acu-
puncture patients donating, and
there is no deferral period.
The American Red Cross Web
site also states that acupuncture
does not prevent a person from do-
nating plasma.
Representatives from DCI Bio-
logicals at the Gainesville office and
national office refused to comment.
explaining the facebook
pics of you and a goat, hard.
getting your vitamins, easy.
introducing.
a r connect (caffeine + 8 key nutrients)
spark (vitamin e+ choline)
S 20 FLOZ (1.25 PT) 591 mL 20 FLOZ(1.25 PT) 591 mL GLACEAUvitaminwaterCopyrighted Material
A Ib Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
.insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
S BlueCross BlueShield
of Florida373-0775
Form Number: 18533-599SU 3669 S.W. 2nd Avenue
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Indian dance team wins title despite lack of funds
/t practices on basketball courts
By CRISTINA RABAZA
Alligator Contributing Writer
The best Indian dance team in the U.S.
practices wherever it can find an open floor.
Without a reserved indoor studio or Stu-
dent Govemment funding, members of Ga-
toRaas have spent months perfecting their
high-energy choreography in residence hall
basements and on vacant basketball courts.
As they prepare for the Volunteers for
International Student Affairs (VISA) Talent
Show in the O'Connell Center tonight at 7,the 16 dancers are no strangers to financial
obstacles.
"We try to move around to whatever is
available, but there's never much space left,"
GatoRaas manager Monica Patel said.
Holding 16-inch Dandiya sticks, the char-
acteristic props of Raas dancing style, the
dancers' bare feet slam the pavement non-
stop in sheer dedication for three to four
hours, three times a week.
Raas, which originated in India's westem
state of Gujarat, has exploded onto the col-
legiate scene and represents a fusion of tradi-tional and modem dance moves.
The GatoRaas team is a subdivision of the
Indian Student Association, which falls un-
der the umbrella of VISA. They will dance
a portion of the India Inc. routine during the
talent show, which will feature about five
other Indian dance teams.
"We receive some funds through VISA,
but by the time it gets down toStudent our club, there's barely anythingLife left," captain Sunny Patel said.
Members of the GatoRaas
team, led by Sunny Patel and Shivani Amin,
have paid out of their own pockets to make
the treks from Gainesville to Texas, Indiana
and Miami only to meet success.They won first place in Dallas at the Raas
All Stars national competition on April 3, first
place at Miami Mayhem regionals in March,
and third place at Indiana's Raas Royalty re-
gionals in February.
GatoRaas is the first Indian dance team
to win first place at an intercollegiate dance
competition, but they can only compete a few
times a year.
The team only has two chances to get
judged because flying out to the competitions
is a big burden, said captain Sunny Patel.
"I hope we can become our own official
club under SG to get funded," Sunny Patel
said. "After all these wins, maybe they'll see
we are a worthy investment."
----- PUBLIC MEETING NOTICE
conce,r; the proposed
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
FOR FISCAL YEARS 2010/2011-2014/2015
for the Gainesville Metropolitan Area
and
FEDERAL OBLIGATIONS REPORT
-- 6 --
SR~ 2
SR 2R 2R
H- ----Gainesvlle Metropolitan Area Boundary
00 Sid ~nalk / Orke-PdnsorarPronck
2-Lore to gLane PrIelnay Ergineering~ ~ I --0-are Rconrurono
--.b'- 4 lntersnction Modification
: Extend RampsITurnlanes 0 Safety
COMMUNITY TRANSPORTATION MEETING
May 10, 2010 at 3:00 p.m.
Jack Durrance Auditorium, County Administration Building,
12 SE 1ST STREET, GAINESVILLE, FLORIDA
PURPOSE The Metropolitan Trans portation Plannig Organizat ion (MTPO) for the Gainesvilb U rbanized
Are a has sche duled a public meeting to re ceive input concerning the propose d Trans porta tion
Improvement Program(TIP) for FiscalYears 2010/2011-2014/2015. The TIP is a staged implementation
program of t rans port tion projects cons iste nt, to t he maximumext ent feasible, with the Alac hua C ounty
and Cty of Gainesville comprehensive plans.
Projects in fie proposed TIPare also consistentwith the Gainesville Metopolitan Area Year 2025 Transportation Pan-
The Livable Communty Reinvestment Ran.This plan ideniles transportaton system modiications expected b be
needed to serve projected volumes and patterns of trafic through the Year 2025. Afhal decision regarding al pro ects
contained in ihe TP wil be forwarded to the Florida Deparhmentof Transportation (FDOT) by the adoption ofthis TIP
document
The FederalObligatons Report is included in Appendix C of the TIP This Report shows the expenditure of bderal funds
within tie Gainesville Metopolitan Area tom October 1, 2008 through September 30,2009.
This map only shows some ofthe tansportation projects sc heduled during tie next Ive years. The proposed TIP also
includes other projects such as: bbyc Ie; pedestrian;project development and environmental studies;
resurfacing/repaving; school safety concern; transportation enhancement and tansit projects, including transportation
disadvantaged projects.
THEMEETIN G ROOMWILL BEOPEN AT2:30 PMFOR TH EPUBLIC TO REVIEWTHE PROPOSED TIP
AND STAFF WILLBEPR ESENTTO ANSWER QU ESTIONS.
Copies of ie meeting agenda and more detaled inforrmtbn concerning tihe Federal Obigalions Report and proposed
TIP can be obtained by writing b the Mi North Central Florida Regional Planning Council (NCFRPC), 2009 NW 67
Place, Gainesville,Florida 32653, by appearing in person at tihe above addres s during business hour s, atthe
www.ncfrpc.org/ntpo websife, or by callhg (352) 955-2200. Al persons are advised that Ihey decide to contest any
decision made atthis public meeing,they wil need a record of tie proceedings and, for suc h purpose, they may need to
ensure thata verbatimrecord of the proceedings is made,which record includes the testimony and evidence upon w hich
itis to be based. Allinterested persons are invited b attend and be heard. Riblic participation is solicited without regard
to racecolor, naionaloriginage, sex, sexual orientalonw arital status, religious status, disability,familialstalbs or
gender idenity. Persons who require specialaccommodalions underthe Anerican witi Disabiltbs Act or persons who
require translation services (free ofcharge) s hould contact Mr. Marlie Sanderson at (352) 955-2200, extension 103, at
leastseven (7) days before tie public meeting.
The MTPO consists of tie Gainesville City Commission, tihe Alachua County Commission and nonvoting representatives
of tie University ofFlorida, FDOT and tihe Alachua County League of Cities. The MTFO is responsible fur the continuing,
comprehensive and cooperate urban transportation planning program br the Gainesville Metropoltan Area. This
planning program is required in order to receive federal and state funds for transportation projects.WE PFWER
j.0 d.~bie
672-6111SUN-WED 11AM-3AM FREE WIFI
THURS, FRI & SAT
IiAM-4AM NEXT TO SWEETBAY
WWW.JDOOBIES.COM 34TH ST. PLAZA
40 41
*44
Florida Players
a Student-Run Theatre Company presents
The 3rd AnnualNew WorksFestival
featuring entirely original plays:
"Harmony" & "Clipped"
by Nick Greene by Lance Griffin
Reserve FREE tickets at FloridaPlayers.org
April 16 @ 7pm i @ Nadine McGuire
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010
Editorial
So Taxing
This is a gentle reminder
to file your taxes
W don't like numbers at The Alligator. In fact, in one of
our classes one of us was asked to multiply 300 and
The class had difficulty.
We groan in our liberal arts math classes, and we wonder
why anyone would ever want to study engineering, math,
physics or anything else that involves equations or other hard
things like subtracting.
So, the thought of 1040s, W-2s or 4s or 68s or whatever ac-
countants need to figure out just how much extra money the
government took from us during the previous year just hurts
our brains.
And today's the day, ladies and gents. If you haven't filled
your tax forms out, you're in more trouble than Carlos Dunlap
after a few keg stands.
OK, not really -you can file an extension, but you'll still
have to file them sooner or later.
And just in time for the party, the Gainesville Tea Partiers
are having a Tax Day rally at the Bo Diddley Community Plaza
today to speak up for what's right -free markets, fiscal respon-
sibility, limited government and fighting against the health care
bill that extends medical coverage to 32 million previously un-
insured Americans.
In other words, the really important things in life.
And the only reason we bring this group into this Tax Day
reminder is Gainesville voters almost elected a candidate that
Mohawk-Indian-sorry-the-real-Tea-Party-ended-236-years-ago
political group supports, Don Marsh.
Thirty-five votes, before official results of the recount are
released, are all that separated Gainesville from electing a Tea
Party-endorsed mayor.
So, celebrate Tax Day by thanking those 35 voters and by fill-
ing out your IRS-sanctioned forms if you haven't already.
Oh, and 10 multiplied by 300 is 3,000.
No JoKING Matter
hether you love himorhe justcreepsyou
out, Burger King's
masked mascot, The King, is
in the news again.
The recent ad campaign
featuring The King is one
most of us have seen: He
runs through an office build-
ing pursued by men in white
coats before bringing a burger
to a woman as the men tackle
him.
"This king's insane," one
man tells her, and they seem
to know this because he is
giving out "so much beef for
$3.99."
The ad is cute. Maybe we
smiled or laughed. But The
King has apparently gone too
far, and Michael Fitzpatrick,
the executive director for the
National Alliance on Mental
Illness, is outraged.
He called the ad "blatantly
offensive" and said he was"stunned and appalled" when
he saw it.
C'mon, now, Mr. Fitzpat-
rick. Should there really be a
scandal over this?
While The King's "illness"
is up for debate, we don't see
any reason to get into one.
The whole thing is merely
a joke, and one that every-
one, except Fitzpatrick, is in
on. Ask anyone to view the
ad, and it's obvious that The
King's not meant to truly
have any kind of real mental
ailment.
It's hard to view the com-
mercial and look at it from
a serious standpoint. While
Fitzpatrick seems to have suc-
ceeded somehow, we really
wouldn't recommend it.
If anyone is the butt of this
joke, it's not people with men-
tal illness but the silly doctors
who would try to keep us
away from cheap burgers.
0l the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University A , or send them to PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/opinions
The~ QatcorNat~On
y7
4
IN-sUre
Ct 5s A p ol
Column
Media should focus more on war-crimes
ecently, a video was released by WikiLeaks froman unknown source showing the killing of Iraqi
civilians by American troops from an Apache he-
licopter July 12, 2007.
Their excuse for firing the shots was they "mistook"
a journalist's camera for either an AK-47 or a rocket
launcher, and they "thought" they might be insurgents.
The horrendous 17-minute video shows real footage of the
heinous crime that makes anybody with a true moral con-
scious question whether these "soldiers" were in a sane
state of mind.
While watching the horrific video, I kept thinking these
troops were acting like they were playing a video game.
They were basically shooting at anything that moves.
According to more than one news source, the Apache
helicopter killed 12 Iraqis and was equipped with Hell-
fire missiles and .30-caliber machine guns. Even when
a minivan showed up to rescue the victims, shots were
fired at the driver from the Apache helicopter.
I was outraged by the video -not necessarily
shocked -because the U.S. Army has a history of slay-
ing innocents and has always labeled it as "collateral
damage." Since the war started in Iraq, civilians -in-
cluding journalists, farmers, doctors and children, to
name a few -have been ambushed and caught in the
line of fire by military forces.
Among the 12 Iraqis killed on that tragic day was
Namir Noor-Eldeen, a prominent photojournalist who
worked for Reuters.
Though he was only 22 when he was killed, friends
and coworkers describe him as a well-respected, brave
human being who left behind an incredible body of
work that documents the reality of war in Iraq. AnotherTeba Mohammad victim was Saeed Chmagh, a
Speaking Out Reuters driver and assistant. He
was 40 years old and left behind
a wife and four children. Along
with the dozen deceased Iraqis, two children were
wounded.
I could not help but think about these two human
beings who had nothing to do with insurgency and did
not even have weapons.
They were normal, hardworking men with families,
values and passion for their profession. How come these
acts of murder are not covered by the U.S. media? Why
do so many Iraqi victims get killed this way and their
stories go untold?
Don't they deserve to be recognized and known for
who they were, rather than be lumped together and be-
come just a statistic?
Nobody can deny that these war crimes are serious
violations of the Geneva Convention, and I defy anyone
who says otherwise. These violators need to be put on
trial; justice must be served. They owe it to the families
of the deceased.
I am not surprised this did not get enough media
coverage. When it was shown on the news, the footage
was covered by a black box across the screen.
News reporters claimed it was out of respect for the
victims' families. I am sure their families want the world
to see this shameful atrocity that led to the loss of their
loved ones forever, but typical American media gives
precedence to celebrity news over exposed government
cover-ups and war crimes.
Teba Mohammad is a bilingual education graduate
student.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Wednesday's question:
Did you file your taxes on time? Do you think teachers take
evaluations seriously?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org40% YES
60% NO
105 TOTAL VOTES
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Edito
Evaluation editorial too m
Could the "Can you hea
torial be any more whiney
misunderstood, whine-aho
dent who completely deni
older than 30 actually cares
or she thinks is almost as a
pathetic.
You don't know what a
dent evaluations have beca
backstage in the offices and
where all the magic happen
My mom is a dean at a
I have been lucky enough
into the world most studer
about.
My mom has given count
tions to teachers explaining
of student evaluations and
learn and improve from the
fired teachers with overwh
tive and unimproving eval
So don't ignorantly ass
voice isn't heard just beca
on the receiving end.
U U U
Columnist right about un
I really enjoyed Nick Mi
umn, "Students should qu
ity." Everything he said w
universities, including UF,
ated into institutions that o
students regurgitating inform
This is because univers
out to the corporations. T
places where young people
ideas and learn about the
it's just corporate boot cam
The last thing the corpo
a free-thinking employee.
dermine their corruption.
Because they control th
at who's on the Board of Tr
shaped the structure of th
meet their needs.
But there is hope. Studen
the problems they find in sc
gether, because in unity ti
chance for change.
Miner also complained
Government's soft resoluti
Adu-Brempong shooting.r
hiney
r us now?" edi-
? The role of a
lic college stu-
es that anyone
about what he
annoying as it is
n influence stu-
use you're not
meeting roomsBut there is hope for that to
day at 3:30 p.m. on the Plaza of
cas, hundreds of students will
heinous act and the broken s)
Everyone who cares about the
UF should attend.
U U U
S. Media sensationalization prc
university, so Concerning the Wednesd
to score a peek by Joshua Lee: I find myself in
ts never know with the statement that "the m
tionalizes stories and fabricat
less presenta- that is exponentially more pe
the importance the one we live in." However, s
how they can ment contains information that
m. She has also knowledge.
elmingly nega- It is common knowledge
nations. nesses will tend to do what is i
ume that your interest. Consider the interest
use you're not corporations.
They wish to see revenue
Maria Crume and the public tends to purcha
Alligator reader their paper or watch more of t
casts when the events are more
Therefore, it stands to reaso
corporations will respond by pt
iversities broadcasting the stories of "ma
ner's guest col- melodrama" more often. In ot
estion author- they're just looking for the bes
as correct. The as anyone would when dealing
have degener- Indeed, it would seem that
nly care about economic system demands tha
mation. corporations, or all corporatio
ities have sold matter, should conduct themsel
iey used to be a manner. Even if it means t
could explore truth. Whether this is a health
vorld, but now manner of conducting oneself i
p. worthy of its own column, if
rations want is book.
[his would un- No matter what the answer t
tion is, I believe a society that b
e schools (look rather than mistrust and lies is
ustees), they've better than one that does not.
e university to Bra
Alli
ts have to resist
hool, united to-
ere's always a
about Student
on on the KofiU U U
Letter writer failed to unders
Party activists
While Jessica Clackum Herm
to define the Tea Party in its puo. On Tues- laudable, and she certainly brings some
the Ameri- bacon to breakfast, she failed to mention
protest this some key traits of the Tea Party.
stem here. The reason the Tea Party will never
direction of reach its full potential is because it has fig-
ureheads like Sarah Palin, nationally, and
John Story Don Marsh, locally.
UF Student When the people spearheading the Tea
Party believe Earth is 6,000 years old, it
loses all of its credibility. America cannot
afford to have people like this running the
dictable country.
iy column It is absolutely ridiculous to lend any
agreement credit to these people who have opinions
edia sensa- on how to run government when they
es a world have very little or no relevant experience
rilous than and reject hard scientific data. The major
uch a state- flaw in the Tea Party is that its chief repre-
is common sentatives are way too ideological and not
very pragmatic.
that busi- Too many people consider the Tea Par-
n their best ty to be on the fringe. Additionally, many
)f the news moderate Tea Partiers who are quick to
frown upon any sort of government spend-
generated, ing, just as quickly smile for the cameras as
se more of they cut the ribbon on a local project fund-
heir broad- ed by that same government spending.
horrific. Just remember the Boston Tea Party was
n that these about taxation without representation. We
blishing or have representation today, and I want our
nufactured representatives to focus on their jobs and
her words, on the people they represent, not on some
t deal, just obscure set of rules that only they play by.
in money. David M Estrine
our current 4NE/LS
t the news
ns for that U U U
ves in such
listing the Students should evaluate themselves
y or moral before teachers
s a question In response to "Can you hear us
not its own now?":
I am a graduate student who is two years
o that ques- into a doctorate. I have a master's degree. I
reeds trust am a teaching assistant. My student evalu-
supremely ations tend to be excellent. I am underpaid.
I am in debt. In my time at UF I have been
ndon Gagne regularly approached by students who are
gator reader failing and wonder, "Why?"
I often think to myself, "Maybe you
wouldn't be failing if you didn't spend so
much class time texting, Facebooking or
tand Tea reading the Alligator."
I often think, "When did an 'A' become
an's efforts a right?"
re form are I often think, "Maybe if your parentswere willing to pay the kinds of taxes re-
quired to fully sustain public education,
they (not you, dear student) would have a
right to complain about the quality of the
education you are receiving."
I often wonder, "How can a supposed
public Ivy League university actually
house students who write into this paper
to defend the Confederacy as they attend
a school where more than a third of their
fellow classmates probably won't check
'caucasian' on the Census?"
On behalf of graduate teaching assis-
tants, lecturers/adjuncts, assistant pro-
fessors and even senior scholars with job
security, I offer this small piece of wis-
dom: Don't complain about the work your
teachers do until you've fully examined
the work you're doing.
The job of holding your hand and en-
tertaining you belonged to your parents.
I use the past tense here because they
didn't send you here for no reason. They
obviously got exhausted by the work and
wanted to quit.
Clint Bland
Alligator title
U U U
Westboro appearance will showcase
Gainesville's diversity
As my first year at UF is coming to a
close, I have seen how diverse a large uni-
versity can be. I think it is very impres-
sive how so many people come together to
what may seem like minor events, but are
for a very good cause.
Pride Awareness Month is a great ap-
proach to the cause as opposed to Gay
Pride Month as this month of April isn't
just for those who are already out with
their sexual orientation. The purpose is
to make people aware that this lifestyle is
something present in the community and
people should embrace it and be proud of
the community's diversity.
With such a large and infamous hate
group as the Westboro Baptist Church of
Topeka, Kansas coming to Gainesville this
Sunday I think it's great how people of the
university and Gainesville are coming to-
gether to support each other regardless of
sexuality.
Andrew Piper
UF Student
ATTENTION ALL UF GRADUATING SENIORS.
Come celebrate your last 4 years at UF at your first ALUMNI Event with:
* FREE FOOD from Gator's Dockside
* The chance to win amazing PRIZES, including a $500 UF Bookstore gift card, autographed Urban
Meyer football and Billy Donovan basketball, iPod shuffle courtesy of Geico, Talking Walls gift certificates,
Visa gift cards courtesy of Marsh, and assorted Gator memorabilia from the Gator Boosters!
* Join the UF Alumni Association at a discounted rate of ONLY $25!
FREE FREE * Albert and Alberta FREE FREE
FREE * Kiss 105.3AM Live FREE* and MORE!
UFOKSTO Monday, April 19th 6-8pm
MARSH Emerson Alumni Hall 1938 W. University Ave. U O F
GEICOTo ensure admission, please bring your Gator1 ID. geica.com
For more information or questions, please visit www/ufalumni.ufl.edu/events/gradbash
Please use trash cans and clean up spills in libraries that allow food.
8, ALLIGATOR 0 THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010
NATIONAL
Clinton holds conference call
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
In an effort to promote his global humanitarian
causes, former President Bill Clinton held a phone
news conference with student reporters across the na-
tion Wednesday.
Speaking from the Clinton Global Initiative Uni-
versity Meeting in Miami, Clinton discussed topics
ranging from health care to education and current
events.
He also encouraged people to participate in public
service.
"The point is that everyone can make a difference,"
said Clinton, who called service an essential ingredi-
ent to being a good American citizen. "You don't need
a lot of money to do good."
According to Clinton, the Clinton Global Initiative
has assisted in improving the quality of life for 220
million people in more than 170 countries.
Calling his work as equally rewarding as his eight-
year tenure in the White House, he said his humani-
tarian efforts allow him the opportunity to go to re-
mote places and interact with more people than he
could while serving as president.
"I'm very happy to be doing this," he said.
When speaking on political issues, he praised Presi-
dent Obama's efforts to get health care reform passed,
something Clinton failed to do while in office.He attributed the passage to a "better" Congress
and the dire urgency within the country to have ex-
panded health coverage.
"If you want to change things, you have to be will-
ing to pay the price of time," he said.
Clinton also spent time discussing education and
calling for efforts to curb rising higher education
costs.
He said the costs of education are rising faster than
the costs of inflation.
"The one thing that nobody disputes is that we
have the best education system in the world, " he
said, calling it the crowning jewel of- American society.
However, he said the opportuni-
ty for education is being priced out- of students' hands.
Although he praised the efforts
of the Clinton Global Initiative, es-
pecially those in the earthquake-
Clinton ravaged nation of Haiti, Clinton
stressed the need to expand com-
mitment to public service.
In doing so, he does not want to lose what he called
a sense of personal intimacy with those whom the
program is helping.
He remains optimistic for the program's future.
"We'll find an answer to keep this thing going,"
he said.,(4r, V % O
I 1' -
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
FIND US ON 0-
I x1~d P, Ae-A GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERSFACEBOOK! 114 25% OF anv one GNC Product
SCannot be combined. One Coupon per customer.
on campus.~4 -.
Our way beats tlieir way.
If you don't agree, it's Free.
Try the Hook & Ladder* today. It's stuffed with Virginia honey ham, smoked
turkey breast, and Monterey Jatk cheese, all served on the hest sub roll ever.
Take one bite. If you're not convinced, you get every cent back.
Buy the Medium ONLYHook & Ladder Sub $529
Get Chips and a Medium-
Fountain Drink on the House.
Visit our nearest Gainesville locations at
3221 SW 35th Blvd or 1412W. University Ave #1Get1 Fir s bs d tnercs ep vtItva d wi e n rapto ay# -f F 
V , I t I .r
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 9
Civil rights historian discusses MLK's impact today
0 THE AWARD-WINNING
HISTORIAN AND AUTHOR
ALSO PLAYED GUITAR.
By JAMEL F. LANGLEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students and residents
from around the Gainesville com-
munity took a look back at the
civil rights movement Wednes-
day night.
Mike Honey, award-winning
historian of the civil rights and
labor movements and president
of the Labor and Working Class
History Association, spoke to
an audience of 60 at the East-
side Recreation Center in east
Gainesville.
"History doesn't repeat it-
self. King dedicated his life
to push people to be able
to go as far as their poten-
tial can take them, so that
new history can be made."
Mike Honey
president of the Labor and Work-
ing Class History Association
The event, sponsored by the
Samuel Proctor Oral History
program, focused on the social
change enacted by Martin LutherKing Jr.
He discussed how this change
is relevant during the Obama ad-
ministration.
In Honey's book, "Where Do
We Go from Here: Chaos or Com-
munity?" he talks about King'sgoal of unifying people by in-
creasing economic equality and
advocating in support of civil
rights.
"It's very important to under-
stand King in a way that most
people usually don't," Honeysaid.
"King always had a broad
agenda for social change and
dedicated his life to it," he add-
ed.
Throughout the event, Honey
said achieving peace is just as
inomas rievIK/ migazor
Pausing during his lecture to reflect on the music of the civil rights movement,
historian and author Mike Honey strums a guitar.important an aspiration now as it
was during the civil rights move-
ment.
"If you can keep people di-
vided, you can keep them weak,"
he said.
During the event, the audience
joined Honey as he displayed his
musical talents by performing a
song entitled "Keep Your Eyes
on the Prize."
After his performance, he
discussed how the problems ad-
dressed by King are still evident
today.
Honey said the United States
leads the world in incarceration
rates.
He questioned why it isn't
leading in its ability to provide
jobs.
"History doesn't repeat itself,"
Honey said. "King dedicated his
life to push people to be able to
go as far as their potential can
take them, so that new history
can be made."
As a part of Honey's trip to
Gainesville, the historian said he
plans to speak with graduate stu-
dents Friday about their personal
theses.
Honey was not paid for his
Gainesville appearance, accord-
ing to Paul Ortiz, director of the
Samuel Proctor Oral History Pro-
gram.
0 This year, Ernst & Young has 40 reasons to celebrate.
Thank you University of Florida.
We can't wait to welcome our brightest new colleagues. From the moment you walk through the doors, you'll hit the
ground running. Look forward to a career that challenges you, offers diverse global opportunities and on-the-job training
that will help you realize your true potential. Congratulations on moving forward with the organization named to
FORTUNE's "100 Best Places to Work For" list for the 12th year in a row.
Vincent Acardi Elizabeth Colby, intern
Jaimee Alvarez Tiffany Cross
Lindsay Andres Nikolai De Leo, intern
Jaime Barden Arielle Fine
David Burton
Brett Cameron
Sam ChanStephen Joy
Allison Kays, intern
Sharon Koele, intern
David Charlton, intern Ryan LaBergeKelsey Lueck, intern AJ Pinnella Brandy Suarez, intern
Sarah Mann Jaclyn Pole Alexandra Sultan
Jeremy McMullin, intern Lisa Prezzano Bradley Tarrash, intern
Aimee Moore Grensy Quintero Harsh Vaidya
Fernando Moreno, intern Vanessa Rangel, intern Anthony Vetter
Peggy O'Brien Jennifer Seltzer Courtney Watson
Catherine Pao, intern Eyal Soffer, intern Sue Wen
Pavan Patel, intern Katrina Sonenreich, intern Brandon Yoder
To launch your career, check out ey.com/us/dayone.
I E RNST&YOUNG
Quality In Everything We Do
10, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010
GATOR GROWL
Gator Growl to recruit
By ASHLEY HEMMY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gator Growl 2010 is all about
new beginnings.
For this year's theme, "Celebra-
tion of a Gator Nation," the Gator
Growl staff is trying to tap into UF's
diverse Student Body by holding
casting calls Friday and Saturday.
"This year we want to give
Gator Growl back to the students,"
said Gator Growl spokesman Bryan
Griffin.
Students who want to tryout can
sign up in the Florida Blue Key of-
fice, Room 365 in the Reitz Union.
"We are celebrating a fresh start,"
Griffin said. "The new football team
is a reason for celebration."
Tryouts will take place Friday
from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. and Saturday
from noon to 5 p.m. in Room B60
in the Reitz Union. Griffin said the
creative team is looking for talented
students to be involved in skits,
videos and other acts during the
event.Hundreds usually try out, and
this year the staff is trying to include
as many as possible, he said.
"We are open to new ideas,"
Griffin said. "There are so many
different tastes and talents at UF."
Griffin said casting calls are open
to anyone interested.
"We want a wide spectrum of
students performing," he said.
Students are expected to begin
practicing for the event at the start
of the fall semester, Griffin said.
"We want a wide spectrum
of students performing."
Bryan Griffin
Gator Growl spokesman
He said the Gator Growl staff
hopes this year's event will involve
more students from all different or-
ganizations."We want this year to break Spiritual Cleansing
stereot es, Griffn saicopWe can A naked Hindu holy man takes a dip in the River Ganges.
show."
See alligator.orgfor more details.
Copyrighted Material'
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Smile.
W17
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have vaid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
WireLess Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
A Biotest
From Nature for Lfe
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431GaterWell Has Moved!
Same GatorWell. New Location
Rad
Cl)io Road a-Baughma
Lakeside -CenterResidential CCComplex 0
0
SW Recreation
& Fitness Cntr.Promoting a healthy campus for
UF students through:
Z-Ekej1.* Workshops & Presentations
* Individual Educational Consultations
n * Health Communication Campaigns
* Advocacy, Policy, and Coalition Building
* The Health Hut: Our Campus Outreach Program
E
Softball
Stadium
Hull Road
* Bus Routes: 20,21,119 * Location: 3190 Radio Rd
F ree Parking behind the building * Phone: (352) 273-4450 * Find us on & Gougle
This paper knows what you did last summer.
printed on recycled newsprint alliga t o YOUR NEWSPAPER.' N6
it .
*2h " MNEE
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 11
- C'', -* * -v 
-er veo
JAMES MABRY: STACY ETTEL:
Before working for UPD, he worked at Served in the U.S. Navy from 1988-1990. Superior
Madison County Sheriff's Accomplishment Award in 1995. He
Department from also teaches at Santa Fe,
2004 o 200 andLake City and North Florida
Yarbrough Corp. UNIVERSITY O F FLORIDA Community Colleges.
Security as a security en-
forcement officer from 2000
to 2003 while in college. Keith Sm ith:
WILLIAM LEDGER: nfmbeDEPARTM ENT He was the Skyy Night Club head of security
before working at UPD. Before becoming an of-
After looking through the personnel files of the five officers ficer, he allowed someone to buy him gas when he
involved in the March 2 shooting of graduate student Kofi knew it wasn't that person's credit card, inhaled
He has been awarded multiple gold service Adu-Brempong, Alligator reporters Chelsea Keenan and Matt whippets several times, took his brother's friend
pins. In 1998 the FBI commended him for Harringer summarized their law enforcement backgrounds. to a house that "may have had marijuana to sell."
assisting in an investigation of bank larce- He had the highest number of physical arrests for
ny by David Gordon Peterson. In 2002 he his shift during 2008. He was reprimanded in Oct.
was praised for helping calm individuals 2007 when he was in a chase with another vehicle
surrounding two deaths. He was nominat- that failed to stop behind the stop bar at an in-
3d for Rotary Club Officer of Downtown W ilam Sasser. tersectio"-'"2009 an investigation was con-
Gainesville for the First Quarter in 2006. -ducted when he participated on three oc-
n 2006, he was given the University of casions in November 2008 in conduct
Florida Police Department Chief's Letter 0 mja,= unbecoming of a public employee
f Commendation. [(by his failure to either stop inap-
propriate actions or remove/
prevent himself from be-
Gilchrist County Sheriff's Office 2007 He was awarded the Gold Service Pin in ing a party to these
2008. Accoding to -- he received a DUI when he was between 16 and 20 years old. He actions.
stole from an employer when he was between 20 and 28 years old. He admitted to taking speed
in the fall of 1991. He filed bankruptcy in 2001. He used a Taser on someone in January of 2009. He
attended remedial training in February 2010 after he handcuffed a student to a stop sign while he was di-
recting traffic because the student would not stay on the sidewalk. He was given a 16-hour suspension without
pay in January 2006 and taken off Field Training for six months after he found underage students drinking outside
of Tigert Hall and did not write an incident report or put their fake IDs into evidence. He caused $6,000 worth of damage in
a motorcycle accident while escorting the senior Gators football players bus -it was his second crash in 2009. He was given a
written reprimand in 2006 for having personal cell phone conversation after pulling someone over.
Max weissler / Alligator StaffI
o
12, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010
Protestors to hold a rally downtown
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
L Aure v05 VI'cV5
W'~tk(vi ~ 5~o~ WITAX, from page 1
penses, with a credit maximum of $2,000.
If students haven't filed taxes yet, there
are still options.
Garry McGill, a professor at UF's Fisher
School of Accounting, said students can
file a simple extension form, which can be
downloaded from the IRS Web site, www.
irs.gov.
Some Gainesville residents who feel
they've been "Taxed Enough Already,"
will rally at the Bo Diddley Community
Plaza from 4 to 6 this afternoon.
Laurie Newsom, vice president of the
Gainesville Tea Party, said the rally aims
to show local politicians that there are con-
servative activists in Alachua County.
"Not only are [taxes] too high current-
ly," Newsom said, "but they're going to be
onerous with all the new federal legisla-
tion."
But a recent study by the Tax Policy
Center, a Washington research group,
found that because of tax credits, about 47
percent of the population would not have
to pay any federal income taxes for 2009.
Newsom said the study shows just how
unfair the tax burden is on the wealthy
and businesses.
"Small businessmen are being crushed
by taxes like the Florida Unemployment
Compensation Tax," she said. "People are
happy to pay for police protection, the
military, et cetera. They're not happy to
pay for unemployment benefits that last
for two years."
A 600-1e deWI6v ouorvL e' Acro' Inoridt
Friday, April 16
9 a.m. -University of Florida, Reitz Union:
Walk across the North Lawn, up Newell Drive
ne Plaza of the Americas
For more info, visit www.LaurensKids.org/Waok-In-My-Shoes.html
or call (786) 288-5045
Lauren's Kids is a 501 (c)(3) nonprofit organization, tax i.d. number 26-1252588. Donations are tax deductible to the extent allowed by law.lia Ihumullum
IulhihinluaMVuuiNl
Taxpayers can file online for free at hffp://www.lRS.gov/.
Tax Credits
* American Opportunity Credit -For The
First 4 Years of College
.Full credit is available for taxpayers whose
modified adjusted gross income is up to $80,000
orup to or $160,000 or less for married couples
filing a joint return.
Tuition, fees and books qualify.
It is equal to 100 percent of the first $2,000
spent and 25 percent of the next $2,000, mean-
ing the full $2,500 credit may be available to
those who pay $4,000 or more in qualified ex-
penses.Forty percent of the American opportunity cred-
it is refundable, meaning that even people who
owe no taxes can get an annual payment of the
credit of up to $1,000.
.Can claim no more than four years.
* Lifetime Learning Credit
.Credit is available for taxpayers whose modi-
fied adjusted gross income is up to $60,000 or
up to $120,000 for married couples filing a joint
return.
rTuition, fees and books qualify.
.Equal to 20 percent of up to $10,000, meaning
the maximum credit is $2,000
.Nonrefundable -credit limited to the amount of
taxyou must payon your taxable income
-Available for an unlimited number of years
* Tuition and Fees Deductions
-Deductions available for taxpayers whose
modified adjusted gross income is up to
$80,000 or up to or $160,000 or less for mar-
ried couples filing a joint return.
" Tuition, fees and books Qualify
" Maximum deduction of $4,000
Source: http://www.irs.gov
Erica Ervin / Alligator Staff
theAvenue thursday, april 15, 2010
don't hate the player -hate the game
UF basketball player Ray
Shipman gives us the scoop
on how being an athlete
changes the dating game.
Plus, photos from Gainesville
Fashion Week, summer
reads, brunch specials
around town and an all-new
sexToon.
the Avenue will return
Summer A, so be sure
to check newsstands for
updates on your favorites in
local entertainment.
page 16
Grads look back onGO OUT WITH A BONG
By MICHELLE PROFITS
avenue writer
As the semester comes to a close, many stu-
dents try to go out with a bang, while others,
with a hit.
The unofficial day for marijuana lovers to
light up is April 20 (more commonly known as
4/20) and rolls around, just in time for the end
of classes this Tuesday.
But what does 4/20 even mean? The origin of
the beloved holiday is shrouded in obscurity.
According to the Huffington Post, the meaning
of the term can be traced back to 1971 when
a group of teenagers at San Rafael High
School in California would meet after school
at 4:20 p.m, the exact time detention was dis-
missed, venture into the Point Reyes Peninsula
and light up.
What occurs now is a nationwide celebration
of eating or inhaling marijuana. The canna-
bis culture phenomenon has now developed
a reputation creating a day filled with pipes,
bowls, bongs, brownies and any other creative
method of consuming the drug.
Boasting the largest cannabis celebration each
year is University of Colorado at Boulder cam-
pus. More than 10,000 stoners are known to
gather on school grounds for a smoke-out.
Slightly Stoopid plays at University of Texas in
Austin every year, and University of California
Santa Cruz is renowned for its yearly antics.
So, whether you've already started stocking
up on those munchies or devised a plan to light
0 up between classes, take this day to kick back,
relax and embrace the 4/20 fever.
www.alligator.org/theavenue
sex, relationships and dating scene
By MICHAEL PERRONE
and AMELIA HARNISH
avenue writers
He says.
Recently, I was walking around
campus, reminiscing about all I've
experienced in five years at UF: the
classes, the shenanigans and every-
thing, includingall the drunken hook-
ups and romantic pursuits that have
brought me to now.
This got me thinking about how
I've changed and I thought, "If I
could cross paths with my freshman
self, what would I say?"
Well, if my freshman self and I
have one thing in common, it's that
sex is all we ever think about, so I
think I'd start there. How I approach
sex, dating and relationships has
changed so dramatically over the
years that I wish I'd known then what
I know now.
For one, I used to think that girls
were only attracted to looks, but I've
learned that appearances are noth-ing without confidence and a sense
of humor. Ask any girl and she will
tell you that it doesn't really matter
what a guy looks like -- nothing is sex-
ier than a guy who's sure of himself
and can make her laugh.
The fear of rejection was once my
roadblock, but I've learned that feel-
ing never goes away. A man who hes-
itates, masturbates, so you've got to
ask yourself, "What do you have to
lose? No one can blame you for try-
ing, and with enough practice you'll
succeed more often than you fail.
I used to refuse to play into a girl's
games. Things like fishingfor compli-
ments or setting up little tests were
childish behaviors, I thought. But
everyone plays these games. The en-
tire process is a game, and the little
things girls do are all a part of the
hunt. Playing cat and mouse makes
the reward all the more satisfying.
When it comes to hooking up, I
used to think only guys were inter-
ested in casual sex while girls were
constantly reaching for committedrelationships. But libido doesn't dis-
criminate -Theywant itjust as much
as we do, and they're just as capable
of separating sex and feelings.
Lastly, when I came to college I
thought that I had everything figured
out. Now I realize that in the art of
love, there are no masters, only stu-
dents. The most important thing I've
learned is that you should be true to
yourself and never compromise your
values.
She says.
When I first stepped onto this
campus four years ago, my dating IQ
was lower than anyone could imag-
ine.
This is probably why a large part
of my dating history reads less like a
Nicholas Sparks novel and more like
a novel that begins at Gator City and
ends with an awkward morning and
a next-night text that reads, "Hey,
let's sex."
For a while, this life was kind of
fun, which is why if I had the chanceto speak to 18-year-old me now, I
would first tell her to enjoy it. I don't
regret any of the admittedly scandal-
ous things I did after sorority socials
or hours of tailgating, even now that
I realize how dumb it all was. I'm not
saying you should abandon all self-
respect, but don't take yourself so
seriously that you never get to enjoy
shacking with one person while tex-
ting another.
Butthis ride gets old after a while.
And when I got over the meaningless
make-outs, it would've been nice to
know the things I know now.
First, I thought that "real dates"
were just a thing of the past. But la-
dies, if a guy likes you and he's at all
worth your time, he will make the ef-
fort to hang out with you in a public
place at a normal hour.
I also used to think any contact
was good contact. If he was calling
me, drunk or otherwise, it meant he
actually liked me. But I've learned,
the hard way, that what our moth-
ers have been warning us all alonghas always been true and will always
be true: He just wants to get in your
pants. If he only contacts you while
at the bar, he wants to nail you later
and think about you never.
Once I learned these things, I was
able to weed out a ton of losers. But
then I fell into the trap of worrying
non-stop about being too forward. I
labored over clever text messages
for hours, only to decide finally that
I saw him two days ago and it was
"too soon."
Don't get caught up in all the
stupid boundaries we make up in
our heads when we're interested in
someone-they're just a manifesta-
tion of our fear of rejection.
If he likes you, he'll call you. If he
likes you, he'll wantto hearfrom you.
If he likes you, he won't stop liking
you because you've made itclearyou
like him. If he likes you, he won't be
pissed that you don't want to sleep
with him right away.
And if he doesn't like you, then
forget him and move on.
14, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010
L0J
Mixing liquor and beer makes explosion
american
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and
Stacks. The only wayato
describe the Stack is that it
is outrageously delicious! Its
uniquely different presenta-
tion -three 6 inch flour tortillas
stacked high with fresh grilled
ingredients and just the right
accent of cheese -is strangely
inviting to ones palate. Come
out and try our 1/3 lb Burgers,
steak seasoned Panchos &
Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the The Home Grown
and Homemade Black Bean
Hummus! Now serving draft and
red Stripe beers! We deliver!
Open late to serve your late
night cravings!
Sun-Wed:l1am-3am. Thurs -
Sat: 11lam-4am. 34th St. Plaza
(Sweetbay) @ 2124 SW 34th St.
672-6111
www.jdoobies.com
The SwomRestaurant
The Swamp Restaurant has
been the gathering place for ga-
tors of all ages for the past 15
years. It's your first stop in town
& your last chance to see Gator
memorabilia for as far back as
1994. Our food and staff are
award winning. Always make
the Swamp your only stop for
lunch, dinner and drinks on our
famous front lawn. The Swamp
Restaurant-Where Gators
gather. Open 11:00am-2:00am.
Daily food and drink specials
and happy hour from 4-8pm.
www.swamprestaurant.com
1642 W. University Avenue
(352) 37-SWAMP
barbecue
David's BBQ
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, Eat-in,
Takeout, Drive thru, Catering, or
Tailgating. Everyone loves
David's BBQ because, unlike
ordinary BBQ places, David's
cooks over a real wood fire! Eat
where the locals eat! Voted #1
BBQ in Gainesville! Approved
caterer for UF's Emerson Alumni
Hall. Mon-Sat 7 am-9 pm.
Sundays open at 8 am. Drive
Thru until 9:30 pm 7 days! 352-
373-2002. Have David's BBQ
delivered by Gatorfood.com.
FREE WIFI. 5121 NW 39th Ave
www.davidsBBQ.combreakfast 8
43rd Street Deli and
Breakfast House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to
for over 25 years -we probably
served your parents. Biggest
4 egg omelette, French toast,
and daily specials. Not full yet?
Have lunch with us & enjoy a
large selection of sandwiches,
the best Reuben, gyros, and
soup all at a reasonable price.
Vegetarian? Not a problem. We
have a selection that is sure to
fulfill your needs. We now offer
free WiFi! Open All day Every
day 7am-3pm. 4401 NW 25th
Place 373-2927. 3483 Williston
Rd 373-5656. Conveniently
located off 1-75
.c a cke rcuLne
The Yearling
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog legs,
and alligator, as well as USDA
Prime beef, seafood, grits, greens
& hush puppies. Open Thursday
& Friday 5pm-10pm, Saturday
12pm-1Opm & Sunday 12pm-
8:30pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999
www.theyearlingrestaurant.com
cuban
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301frozen frea-5
Shoppes of Williston at S.W. 34th
Street and Williston Rd. (next to
Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!
Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts,
loose leaf teas, and beer, with
lots of vegan options. Now open
24 hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
blocks east of campus at 1025 W.
University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve frozen
yogurt as a healthy dessert
alternative. Our yogurt has 0%
fat and contains live and active
cultures. Choose any combination
of 8 different flavors and over 30
toppings. Everything for just 45
cents an ounce. 3841 SW Archer
Rd (next to Bento Red) Open
from noon to midnight daily!
Luco's Pasta
Customize your own pasta. Over
100 combinations, starting at
$2.99! All made fresh & quick.
Vegan & Gluten-free options.
Mon-Sat 11-9! Delivery/take out/
dine in. See menu online www.
lucaspasta.com. 607 W. Univer-
sity Ave. 352-338-1700
Manuel's Vintage
Room
This family owned restaurant is
perfect for dinner any day of the
week. Come in and check out
one of the best wine lists in town.
Ask questions and learn while
you wait for the chef to put out
nothing but goodness from the
kitchen using fresh, simple, and
local ingredients. Try the Early
Dinner Sunday, Tuesday-Thurs-
day 5-7pm. $3 wines/$1 0 bottles.
$10 Menu. Ask about our Monday
Wine Dinners and private parties
for lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
St. (352)375-7372
Trrozen treot,5 ndion jmm-- mD'ites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
d'licious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly without
the diet taste. We also feature a
whole array of cookies, chips, and
various grocery treats that appeal
to Atkins@, Weight Watchers@,
and other dieters. Our every day
daily specials make shopping
at D'Lites a special value!
Come weigh your options at
the Marketplace Plaza at NW
16th Blvd. and 43rd St. (next to
the Hollywood Video) or at thevegetarian
Green Mango
The best Indian food in Gaines-
ville. Serving Gainesville since
1991. The best Samosas in
Florida. Offering many vegan
dishes. We are specialized in
catering any group size. Delivery
available-free delivery on any
purchase over $25! Open 7 days
Mon-Sat 11:30am-9pm, Sunday
_ pm-8pm. Call 352-505-6200.
7625 W Newberry Rdjamaican
Caribbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
& oxtail. Opened Mon-Thurs
11am-7:30pm, Fri & Sat 11am-
11:45pm, Sun 11 am-7:30pm
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
352-374-8111
japanese
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a hip,Trendy atmosphere. Two great
locations with outside eating.
Open every day for carry-out
or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.
Weywe5t
,5V le
Cabana Cove
Keg West Grill
Open for lunch and dinner.
Full martini and mojito bar.
Voted nicest outdoor dining.
Try one of our 1/2 gourmet
salads for under $5.
COUPON -DATE NIGHT -
COUPON
Save $5 off your next visit of
$25 or more.
Online ordering & delivery
available.
Call ahead seating.
2410 NW 43rd Street
Gainesville
352-377-3278
Please visit us online at www.
cabanacove.net for additional
savings and coupons.
Green Plontains
The best MoFongo, churrasco,
& chofan in town. $5 To-GoEDinners. Mon-Sat from 4pm.
Don't miss out $4.95 dinner +
soda on Thursday, student night
from 4pm-1Opm. Visit us at
5150 SW 34th Street at the new
Publix Shopping Center 7 days
a week. We cater. Check us out
on Gatorfood.com
352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.comocaa
orgon c
THE JONES
Gainesville's own independently
owned community restaurant
dedicated to bringing sustain-
able, local, and organic food
to the table. Oh, and it's really
yummy. Herbivores, carnivores,
& omnivores welcome! NOW
SERVING DINNER EVERY
NIGHT! New hours: open every
day 8am-1 Opm. Check out our
facebook page for specials and
events. 401 NE 23rd Avenue.
352.373.6777
New Deal Cfe
BURGERS! BURGERS!
BURGERS!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burger! This l2oz burger
is Naturally Aged and Fresh
Ground. CHEAP Wines $5/
Glass and 20 bottles under $20.
OPEN LATE servering HUGE
Martini's and cakes to DIE for!
Mon-Thurs. 11am-1Opm. Fri &
Sat. 111am-1pm
"371-4418
newdealcafegainesville.com
Real Food Made By Real
Chefs.You Should Feel Guilty
If You Haven't Eaten Here Yet!
jexicon
BoCo Fiesta
Best Margaritas in Town!
Fresh-squeezed + all natural!
Tasty tacos, burritos, nachos!
Cheap beer, full bar, open late!
Now serving brunch!
232 SE 1st St Downtown
336-TACO!
neighborhoodbar 8gril
U
UForah's on the
Avenue
Farah's on the Avenue
now celebrating 30 years in
Gainesville! Located on University
Avenue, between Modern
Age and Bank of America, just
minutes from UF. Farahs is
newly remodeled and offers a
cozy, fun atmosphere with a
fireplace, the area's largest indoor
atrium and an open air patio.
Farah's also boasts a full bar and
seven new flat screen TVs airing
a variety of sports programming.
The extensive menu features
award-winning wings and burgers
as well as vegetarian and vegan
fare. Perfect for private events
or casual dining. Now offering"smoke till you choke" hookah
specials on Friday and Saturday
and drink specials all week
long, including $1.50 Pabst, $5
pitchers, $2 wells.
Hours: MO & TU 11am-1Opm,
WE & TH 11am-12am,
FR & SAT 11am-2am.
1120 W. University Ave. 378-5179.pizzo
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta & desserts. All you can
eat buffet available! Outdoor
dining. Visit www.newyorkpiz-
zaplus.com for coupons. We
Deliver! 490 NE 23rd Ave.
377-2542
vegetarian
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade, meals,
sandwiches, soups, home-baked
desserts. Brunch Weekends.
Specials: Cupcake Mon.,
Southern Cooking Tues., Greek
Wed 6pm, Ethiopian Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 1Oam-8pm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
vietnome~se
Saigon Legend
Delicious traditional Vietnamese
cuisine with popular Asian
favorites. Pho-Banh Xeo, Banh
Tom Ha-Noi. Enjoy great food
at great prices. Family owned
restaurant. Next to Holiday Inn.
Vietnamese subs-pork,chicken, &
tofu. Dine-in or take out. Catering
available. Mon-Sat 10:30am-
9:30pm, Sun 11:30am-9pm,
374-0934, 1228 W. Univ Ave
UBy Richard 0. Stehli
avenue writer
When you finish your final tests and papers, it's
important to start your end-of-semester celebration
the right way. Start it off with bombs. Bombs are an
easy way to take simple ingredients, most of which
you already have, and transform them into an exciting,
entertaining drink.
To execute a bomb, all you need to do is fill a shot
glass and drop it into a beer. There's plenty of room for
creativity and invention, but here are a few classics to
get you started:
+ Irish Car Bomb
shot Irish cream, shot Irish whiskey, 12 oz
Guinness
This is a drink that demands chugging. Float the
whiskey on top of the Irish Cream in a shot glass, and
prepare the beer in a pint glass. When you bomb the
shot into the beer, drink as quickly as possible; the
longer you wait, the more the Irish cream will curdle,
tasting worse and worse as the seconds tick by.+ Beer Buster Bomb
1 shot vodka, 12 oz beer, 2-plus dashes Tabasco
sauce
Although many people drink the Beer Buster as a
cocktail, it is more effective when bombed. Pour the
beer, add the Tabasco sauce, then bomb your shot
and chug. The hot sauce, which is a freshman-year fa-
vorite among my friends, will burn your mouth, throat
and stomach as it goes down, releasing endorphins
and makingyou a real man.
+ Sake Bomb
1 shot warm sake or soju, 12 oz Japanese lager, 1
pair of chopsticks.
The sake bomb -pronounced sah-kay, not sah-key
-is good to set up for several friends at once. Pour
your beer, then set the chopsticks across the top of
the glass. Balance the sake shot on top of the chop-
sticks, then count to three in Japanese: Ichi, ni, san,
KAMPAI (Cheers)! When you yell "Kampai," pound
both fists on the table. The impact will knock the sake
off of the chopsticks and into the beer.+ Fire Bomb
3/4 shot dark rum, shot Bacardi 151, 12 oz am-
ber lager
Float the 151 on top of the rum in a shot glass,
light it on fire, and drop it in your beer. The caramel
notes in the amber lager will complement the dark
rum and burntflavors nicely. Be careful when you play
with fire.
+ Belfast Car Bomb
V shot Kahlua, shot Irish cream, shot Irish
Whiskey, 12 oz Guinness.
+ Cherry Bomb
3/4 shot cherry vodka (or vodka with a splash of
grenadine), shot Irish cream, 12 oz chocolate
stout.
Keep in mind, as every bomb you drink will be the
equivalent of two standard drinks, pacing yourself be-
comes very important. Also, with a shot glass float-
ing in the bottom of your drink, there is a possibility of
chipping a tooth. Play it safe -better to let that last
ounce go than risk tooth-to-glass contact.
Music p anel gives advice to ambitious artists
By JON SILMAN
avenue writer
1. When sending in your demo to
a record label, have your chorus hit in
the first 30 seconds of your song.
2. An eye-catching font will attract
attention. Details are important.
3. When e-mailing someone in the
industry, make sure you use the name
of the person you're trying to impress.
This, and other tasty gems of wis-
dom were freely passed out at the Mu-
sic & Entertainment Industry Student
Association's first annual music panel
April 7 in the Reitz Union.The panel was attended by a who's
who of the Gainesville music scene
including Var Thelin, of No Idea Re-
cords; Casey Robbins, manager of
Cardboard Box records; and Eric and
Travis Atria, of Morningbell. Also in at-
tendance was Ben Westermann-Clark,
of Grooveshark.
Among the vast cornucopia of
knowledge was an important piece of
info that Thelin had to share about e-
mails and letters he gets from bands.
"I always reject bands who use the
phrase, 'Take it to the next level.' In
our old warehouse, we put up a note
every time someone used that phrase.Our wall was covered."
Eric Atria, the bass player of Morn-
ingbell, had some tidbits of his own to
share.
"Nothing substi-
tutes for being nice
to people," he said.
Thelin's record
label, No Idea Re-
cords, has been in
Gainesville more
than 20 years since
its inception as a fanzine in 1985.
Thelin spoke about what makes an
artist viable.
"It's about the performer you'rewatching being compelling enough
that you stop what you're doing and
watch them. It's not about being a
musical genius. Genius is a fleeting
thing. A lot of geniuses are coo-coo,"
he said.
Travis Atria, the lead singer of
Morningbell, recently self-released
a record with his band entitled, "Sin-
cerly, Severly," available for purchase
at the band's Web site. He said there
was a reason that the band wasn't
signed to a start-up label.
"Any label that could sign us
couldn't do anythingfor us we couldn't
do for ourselves," he said.
Fashion Week shows off local couture culture
Matt Tripp/ Alligator Staff
Gainesville Fashion Week took
hold of town last week showcasing
everything from party dresses to
simple T-shirts, swimwear and
polka-dot prints
Local and national designers
and boutiques showed off their
newest collections on the runway
to audie nces at The Vault for five
nights
Left, this fiery model struts a sexy
"K metallic swimsuit from Bobby K's
collection
Right, Wolgang's menswear
exemplifies the latest in what's in
style for guys this season
For more on GFW, visit
gainesvillefashionweek comTHURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010*4ALLIGATOR, 15
P@0 claR@0Mo>@2
Q@ )ud (1o
*9.66MMI
16, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010
summer reads e
Perfect page turners for all
By ALLISON BANKO
avenue writer
Nothing is sexier than intelligence. OK. and Chan-
ning Tatum-but that's beside the point. So, why don't
you grab a book this summer while lathering up for
some serious sunbathing? No one is suggesting you
bust out that dreadful book you got two birthdays ago
from Grandma. Instead, catch up with these reads
to cool you off-and to distract you from that horren-
dously loud family on the towel to your left. The follow-
ing books are perfect for relaxing by the pool, flying
across the country or on a rainy Florida afternoon.
For Laughs.
"CHELSEA CHELSEA BANG BANG"
By Chelsea Handler
The hostof E!'s late night talk show, "Chelsea Late-
N. Th.#1
N-w Y.rk Trmes
Bestselling
Auth-
A
B
Courtsey of Grand Central Publishing
Chelsea Lately's third and newest book keeps
readers entertained with wacky stories.ly," has released her third book, joining the ranks of
her previous, "My Horizontal Life" and "Are You There
Vodka, It's Me Chelsea?" -all of which have nabbed
spots on The New York Times Best Sellers List. Her
large print retellings of the wacky stories in her life are
complete with pictures so you get the whole effect of
her debaucheries.
Excerpt from "Chelsea Chelsea Bang Bang":
"Our house is technologically rigged with gadgets
and remotes and settings, all of which I have some-
where between slight and zero interest in. When
it comes to math or electronics, I am somewhat
more advanced than a 6-year-old who's been home-
schooled by Levi Johnston."
Coming soon to a theater near you.
"EAT, PRAY, LOVE"
By Elizabeth Gilbert
In August, this memoir-turned-movie starringJulia
Roberts and James Franco will hit theaters. Eliza-
beth Gilbert, journalist and recent divorcee, travels to
Rome, Bali and India, each accounting for either an
"eat" "pray" or "love." This self-told true story is full
of immediate charm as one woman sets out to find
herself.
Excerpt from "Eat Pray Love":
"I wish Giovanni would kiss me. Oh, but there are
so many reasons why this would be a terrible idea. To
begin with, Giovanni is 10 years younger than I am,
and, like most Italian guys in their 20s, he still lives
with his mother."
And for the asshole.
"I HOPE THEY SERVE BEER IN HELL'
By Tucker Max
Sorry ladies, but just because a guy goes to law
school doesn't mean he's Prince Charming Tucker
Max proves this in his autobiographical recounts of
his drunken, womanizing activities. With chapters in-
volving treating women like dirt and policemen like
idiots, this book is sure to offend anyone and every-
one at some point -but that's what makes it all the
more interesting
Excerpt from "I Hope They Serve Beer In Hell":
"My name is Tucker Max, and I am an asshole. I
get excessively drunk at inappropriate times, disre-
gard social norms, indulge every whim, ignore the
consequences of my actions, mock idiots and posers,
sleep with more women than is safe or reasonable,
and just generally act like a raging dickhead. But, I do
contribute to humanity in one very important way: I
share my adventures with the world."
seTx'V1
I
CI
t L
t 1k IAthletes play by own
rules in dating game
By MICHAEL PERRONE
avenue writer
When Ray Shipman came to UF
in the summer of 2008, he had ex-
pectations of becoming the big man
on campus. Shipman was Florida
Mr. Basketball and Gatorade Player
of the Year in 2008 and came to
UF surrounded by much hype. Like
many other college students, his
perception of what college life was
like came from sensationalized de-
pictions in movies and television.
"You watch movies, and girls are
throwing themselves at you. It's like
that, but not to that extent," the UF
sophomore shooting guard said.
Shipman recently declared his
intentions to transfer out of UF in
hopes of more playing time, but his
two years in Gainesville give an in-
teresting look into what dating is like
for an athlete at Florida.
"Usually I try not to get too
attached. gou'vw got to lkt the
girl know that it', not serious,
that you don't want to be tied
down. They usually catch on."
RAY SHIPMAN
UF basketball player
In high school, Shipman never
had a girlfriend, but he was no
stranger to the company of the op-
posite sex. Coming to UF escalated
Shipman's womanizing to another
level.
"When I first got up here, I was
pretty bad," he said. "Every girl
wants to know who the new dude is
on campus. Girls see an athlete who
is tall and dresses nice, and they like
that type of stuff. Most of the time,
girls come to me."
Shipman meets girls mainly
through Facebook, where he says
they're often more open and com-
fortable, clocking in more than 60
female friend requests a day.
"If they fit the part, I would send
them a message and see where that
goes," he said.
And Facebook wasn't the only
way Shipman was meeting girls. He
was balancing texting anywhere be-
tween five to 10 girls at a time and
lining up potential hookups via his
teammates.
"A lot of the older players show
you around. If my teammate is with
a girl and it's not really serious, they
end up switching to me," he said.
"And now that I'm older, I introduce
them to the new players. Some team-
mates of mine, some other athletes,
they don't really care [that girls hook
up with other players]. That's not my
type. That's nasty. But some fresh-
man [players], they'll hop right on
it."
The promiscuity of those group-
ies is a reason why Shipman is a big
proponent of safe sex. He said not
wearing a condom is "just stupid"
with all the health risks that come
along with casual sex, which can bejust as common on the road.
"A girl will hit you up when they
see you're coming to town. They'll
try to come to your hotel room," he
said.
Nothing is out of bounds for
some girls who Shipman said are
only interested in one thing: sleep-
ing with an athlete.
"There are girls that go out there
for athletes. They do that intention-
ally," he said. "Maybe it's the crowd
or the games."
But the ladies who often hook up
with Shipman's teammates run the
risk of becoming well-known inside
those players' social circles.
"Girls get reps," he said. "Some-
times I feel sorry for girls because
they don't know it."
And as an athlete gets more reps
on the field of play, they deservedly
get more attention as their skills el-
evate to higher levels. Shipman says
that he can see the same correla-
tion in his dating life.
"The Caucasian girls tend to no-
tice the basketball players more,"
he said. "The African-American
girls don't really know if you score
or not," Shipman said. "They go on
the basis of 'He's an athlete. He's
attractive.' But then the better you
get they start noticing. It's a big dif-
ference."
However, not all girls let things
like points, rebounds or playingtime
stop them from their pursuits.
"Some girls don't even care
what you do, as along as you're an
athlete. They don't care how many
points you score," he said.
Dating girls who are attracted
mainly to fame and status is not
without its repercussions. Shipman
explained that girls becoming at-
tached is a common problem.
"That's been a really hard thing
for me. You can tell when she is try-
ing to get to that next step," he said.
"Usually I try not to get too attached.
You've got to let the girl know that
it's not serious, that you don't want
to be tied down. They usually catch
on."
But not every girl takes rejec-
tion so easy. Shipman's car has
been vandalized four times since he
came to UF.
Whether it was the difficulty of re-
moving scratches on his car or just
the maturity that comes with age,
Shipman is no longer the philander-
er that he was during his freshman
year. Because of his escapades, he
started to earn a bad reputation. He
is now dating one girl exclusively,
and it is quite serious.
"I got attached to the girl I'm with
now. That caught me off guard," he
said.
Athletes like Shipman are often
lionized for their on-field accom-
plishments and charged with the
responsibility of being role models
for the community. But what's often
forgotten is that they're only kids.
They're teenagers just like the rest
of the Student Body.
They're playing the same game
off the field as their fellow students
-just with different rules.'^
C *A)U
V.,
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010*ALLIGATOR, 17
Brunchers get two-in-one meal at restaurant variety
family together or dragging yourself out of bed
after a Midtown rage-fest, brunch will satisfy all
your dietary needs.
Brunch is back, baby. No longer reserved for How it began:
bourgeoisie and soccer moms, this two-in-one Accordingto food historians, brunch got
meal unites the sweetness of breakfast with the
substance of lunch. Whether you're getting theits
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Above, Flying Biscuit Cafe. Right, Ken Grauer, a professor in the College of Medicine,
has brunch at Ivey's Grill on Tuesday morning. "I come here often when free for an
hour to work on my medical writings and to enjoy the wonderful food," he said.By GABRIELLE FALCONEIRI
avenue writer.Flying Biscuit: 4150 NW 16th
Boulevard
Gainesville, FL
352-373-9500
Peach Valley Cafe: 3275 SW 34th
Street
Gainesville, FL
352-376-1834
For travelers, where to shop for fashion around the world
By ASHLEY MCCREDIE
avenue writer
Museums and monuments are
kind of cool, but we fashionistas know
the real reason to travel is to shop. For
everyone studying abroad and travel-
ing over summer, the Avenue has re-
searched some of the top shopping
meccas in the world.
+ Buenos Aires -Palermo Viejo
Known for it's trendy Europe-chic-
meets-Argentinean-funk fashions anddesigners, Palermo Viejo is a must for
shoppers. There are boutiques, street
vendors, cafes, nightlife and a crafts
fair in the square. Handmade jewelry
and quality leather can found, at ex-
tremely affordable prices because of
the exchange rate.
+ Sydney -Newton, King Street
This shopping district of Sydney has
vintage shops, music stores, antique
stores, bookstores, cafes, restaurants
and art galleries. It is known as a bohe-
mian melting pot of cultures.+ Tokyo -Shibuya District
Sometimes deemed the "Times
Square of To-
kyo," Shibuya is
crowded, covered
in neon lights and
is the next fashion
capital. Everything
from luxury brands
to Japanese street
trends can be found here. It's also a
center for nightclubs, cafes and ho-
tels.+ Paris -Le Marais
Le Marais is full of up-and-coming
designer's boutiques and vintage
stores. Shoppers are sure to find items
that no one else has. They also offer
art galleries, outlets for designers and
the bestfalafel in Paris.
+ London -Portobello Road
Portobello Road street market calls
itself the largest antique market in
the world. Anyone can find something
here. There's a green and vegetable
market, vintage clothing, jewelry, vin-tage sports equipment, cycle shops,
a magnifying glass specialist and so
much more.
+ NYC -Fifth Ave
Fifth Avenue has every designer
store you could ever want plus bou-
tiques. Walk down Fifth Ave and you
can hop from Chanel to H&M to Bebe
and end up in the world renowned
shopping district of Soho. Walking
down Fifth is the best way to spend a
shopping day in NYC, and don't forget
to grab a street hotdog on your stroll.
COLrD STONE
(C R E A M E R Y)E
Provide the ultimate
indulgence and bring
Cold Stone Creamery
to the party!
Speak to a crew member today
about catering options.
3443 SW Archer Rd 3822 W Newberry Rd
(352) 377-7520 Suite B
(352) 271-7437
00
IIstart in Great Britain and used to be an exclusive
marker of the upper class. Only wealthy people
could afford to spend hours meandering through
a multiple-course meal. These origins may
explain why Americans often go out to brunch
during Mother's Day festivities to pamper the
No.1 lady in their life.
Where to go and what to eat in Gainesville:
Luckily Gainesville hosts a wide variety of
restaurants that serve brunch for all sorts of
occasions. Some of the following restaurants
are local favorites while others are chains known
throughout the country but each has its own
dish for brunch goers to sample.
.Leonardo's 706: 706 W University
Avenue
Gainesville, FL
352-378-2001
Ivey's: 3303 W University Avenue
Gainesville, FL
352-371-4839
Cabana Cove Key West Grille: 2410
NW 43rd St
Gainesville, FL
352-377-3278
* 43rd Street Deli: 4401 NW 25th Place
Gainesville, FL
352-373-2927
18, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010
Prevent all-nighters, unnecessary stress during finals
* PLANNING YOUR TASKS
IN ADVANCE WILL HELP YOU
STEER CLEAR OF UNWANTED
STRESS.
By LANCE FULLER
avenue writer
The end is near.
With the last full week of school
upon us, the end of the semester
marks a time when students wait un-
til the last minute and stay up all night
crammingforfinalexams and projects.
To help stay sane during exam week,
here are some tips from UF regis-
tered dietitian and nutritionist Janis
Mena and Tina Long, health promo-
tion specialist at UF's GatorWell.
People don't plan to fail; they fail to
plan.
The first piece of advice GatorWell
offers is don't put yourself in a posi-
tion to pull an all-nighter because you
may not be alert and focused by the
time of your exam. Unfortunately, if
you haven't managed your time well
or have spread yourself too thin, stay-
ing up late and hunkering down on
your schoolwork may be your only op-
Want a bigger
piece of the
pie?
Study
Break!
Open
Late
Until
4am!tion.
Before you hit the books, have a
plan. Use the last full week of school
to prioritize how and when you will fin-
ish everything you need to get done,
Long said.
Long recommends finishing the
most immediate and urgent assign-
ments first.
In addition to planning each
individual task, plan to have at
least a five-minute break every
hour. According to suitel01.com,
breaks help clear and relax the
mind during long study sessions.
Forfuture semesters, Longsaid that if
you are a full-time student, treat it as
a full-time job. Although you may not
have class 40 hours a week, sched-
ule your extracurricular meetings and
study time along with the amount of
class time you have so that it equals
to 40 hours a week, she said.
Although this strategy sounds re-
stricting at first, the more organized
you are will give you more time for
other things, she said.
"Most of us at some point in our
lives will have to transition into a
40-hour work week anway," Long
said. "By prioritizing and commit-ting 40 hours a week to studying
and class, you will have more time
for leisurely pursuits on weekends."
Food and Drink
If you plan to study for extended
periods of time, especially late at
night, you'll need to give your body
the proper fuel.
1. You can drink caffeine, just
limit how much you take in.
Drinking a couple of pots of cof-
fee over several hours isn't the end of
the world, Mena said. But binging on
energy drinks like Red Bull, Monster
and Doubleshots
from Starbucks
will make you
crash and keep
you awake long
after you've gone
to bed.
Caffeine-ha-
bituated individuals can experience
"caffeine withdrawal" 12-to-24 hours
after the last dose of caffeine. It re-
solves within 24-to-48 hours. The
most prominent symptom is a head-
ache. They can also feel anxiety, fa-
tigue, drowsiness and depression.
I help safe drivers save up to 15%.
Frugality is back. But it's not all bad. Some of us are actually
enjoying the hunt for new ways to save. Here's one: drive safely.
You can save up to 15%. And that's just for starters. Call me first
to get the discounts you deserve.
Eddie Dugger
(352) 375-7511
3720 Nw. 43 St., #100
Gainesville
eddiedugger@allstate.comW42Allstate.
You're in good hands.
Auto Home Life RetirementAccording to the American Heart As-
sociation
2. Eat more protein and less
carbs.
Simple carbohydrates, like choco-
late and sugar, give you a quick boost
in energy and will make you crash just
like caffeine.
Instead, eat more protein like a
meatysandwich, nutsorcheeseaspro-
tein will be a more consistent source
of energy without the crash. Mena
suggests eating snacks every three
hours you are awake so that you stay
focused and don't under or overeat.
3. Drink plenty of water
Just like when you exercise, drink-
ing plenty of water will keep your
stamina up when you study.
4. Block it out
Now that you have your game plan
and have plenty of food and drink to
keep you going, it's time to eliminate
distractions. Logoutof Facebook, Twit-
ter, YouTube and turn off your phone
and find a quiet place to study.
If you are worrying about other
stressors like having your car towedoutside of Library West and cannot
concentrate on studying, take care
of those other things first, Long said.
Suitel01.com recommends avoiding
studying in cozy places like your bed
or couch as you will be more likely to
fall asleep, and switch study spaces
every so often to stay awake and fo-
cused. Study groups can be helpful
as long as the group does not distract
you from concentrating and getting
your work done.
Also, classical music has
been long viewed as a study aid
in relaxing students and drown-
ing out other distracting noises.
5. It's not the end of the world
According to Long, keeping a posi-
tive attitude and putting things in per-
spective in the long run will help you
focus and not become too stressed
out during long study periods.
"At the end of the semester, we
may have to do things that we don't
love, but there's always a means to
an end. Treat each thing as a learning
experience. Also, ask yourself, 'What's
the worstthat can happen?"' she said.
Even if a class is failed, it can always
open the door to new opportunities.
School Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 1 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.com
ATTENTION ALLIGATOR
ADVERTISERS
The Alligator will not be publishing
from Thursday, April 22th through
Monday, May 10th.
EMPOE YOO
BOSINESS.
largest college newspaper
Contact us at [3521 376 4482 aufgiiorGATOZONE.COM Admission is Free!
for a complete schedule of eventsThe Deadline for
Tuesday, May 11th is:
Friday, May 6th by 4:00pm
for both Display and Classified Advertising.
Display Classifieds
376.4482 373.3463ali trDiscounts are subject to terms, con
Insurance Company, Northbrook, ILus ad aaila liy A tualsavngswill vary AllsUe Fire and Caoualt0 Me"ohs, 111116
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
4 3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
1 MONTH FREE!
Immediate availability
All Inclusive Student Living from $399
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-1
0
CrosstSu
*Rates @ $379*
All inclusive & Fully Furnished
Or Get a New iPad!
TV or new sofa package
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
373-9009
4-21-10-74-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR, Fully Furn + All
Utils. Incl. 352-219-2879 or
www.CampusWalkUF.com 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
Summer Rates 2010
Summer Free 2011
On 15 month lease
352-376-6720
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-1
Luxury Apartment Homes
Define the Good Life
2/2*4/4* All inclusive
Direct Bus Route to Campus
EnclaveUF.com * 376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
*$200 VISA GIFTCARDO
Townhouse & apts accross the street from UF
all-inclusive & fully furnished from $479/BR.
Sign this week & get a $200 visa giftcard!
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. 239-250-6149 5-11-10-79-1*Move in Today*
Rates ( $299!
2,3 & 4 bedroom suites
All inclusive & Fully Furnished
LexingtonCrossingU F.com
373-9009
4-21-10-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
2/2*3/3*4/4
Experience the Good Life
Text "Enclave" to 47464
4-21-09-71-1
REDUCED 1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $300/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished 
+
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 4-21-10-51-1
2 Blocks to UF $300/mo
Furnished bedroom in 4BD condo.
Rent includes utils, cable TV & internet.
378-4626 / 262-4290 4-21-10-31-1
$339 rm/mo all utils incl. 4BR/2BA Condo
at University Commons furnished W/D/TV/
Cable/Parking. Immediatley avl. summer/fall
Great Place Great Price 239.253.8701 or
email at: tom@moorelandscape.com 8-16-
10-36-1
4-4 condo will rent monthy, quarterly or
yearly. $500/month/room includes: washer-
dryer, dishwasher, private bathroom/bed-
room, walk-in closet, utilities, cable, wireless
internet, pool, gym, volleyball and basketball
courts. Living, dining and kitchen have wood-
en floors, bedrooms have nice clean carpets.
Bus services every 5-10 minutes. 352-213-
7059 5-20-10-30-1
3BE/3BA clean and quiet condo for rent. All
utilities included. $400/room or $1000/apt. 1
mile from UF. 2 bus routes available. Must
see!! Call Dory 954-816-1468. 4-20-10-15-
ROOM FOR RENT Lg master suite in new
home, 15 min to VA, Shands & UF. NS, pro-
fessional only. Util, cable TV, garage & wire-
less internet incl.Kitchen & laundry access.
$500/mo. 352-219-3410 4-21-10-15-1
2/2 Woodlands of Gainesville Luxury Apt.
Indiv. leases, $670/room/mo.$360 Cash
Back. Cable, High Speed internet and
Utilities included. On 3 bus routes and close
to major shopping/food areas. summer
2010(May-July)
(786) 449-7029/rodriba@ufl.edu
4-1 5-10-1
Townhome for rent.
Spacious 2 x 2.5 in Grantwood, a gated com-
munity. 5 minutes from campus. Contact
Eddie at 954-699-3665 for more information,
or to arrange a viewing. 5-25-10-19-1
4/4 Countryside Condo private bed/bathincl
utilities, wd,cable,wireless int,pool,gated
workout room, great bus rte,$400/mth all
in.Jeff @904-612-3944, will consider semes-
ter lease. 8-5-10-40-1
Spacious 4/4 fully furn condo in SW G'ville 5
mins to UF! Indiv. leases, $375/rm/mo. 3 bus
rtes, close to shopping/food areas. Utils ind
up to $200/mo. $200 SD. Avail. immediately/
summer/fall. 352-262-0628 anu87@ufl.edu
4-21-10-14-1
3BR/3BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room + utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Bball, pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd FIr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, Sebastian 352-874-8905 4-21-
10-12-1Female roommates needed for 3/3, own bed/
bath, furnished, Windsor Park, close to UF
on bus stop, pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $335,
1/3 utilities; looking for a clean and studious
roommates, 407-361-1154. 4-21-10-11-1
4BR/4BA furn. Countryside Apt. 2nd fIr, pool
view, inc cable, wi-fi internet, and std utilities.
All brms. avail in Aug. $395/BR/mo. flexible
terms avail. Call Chris at 941-726-2204 or
email raginriv@ufl.edu 4-21-10-8-1
Cypress Pointe condo, 3br, 2ba off SW 62
Blvd, newer appliances, fresh paint, pool,
avail now, $725 edbaurmanagement.com
352-375-7104 4-21-10-7-2
Treehouse condo, 2br, 2ba, new carpet, vi-
nyl, paddle fans, remodeled baths, on bus
line, pools & weight rm, avail now, $600 ed-
baurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 4-21-
10-7-2
Greenleaf, SW spacious townhouse, 2br,
2ba, loft room extra, vaulted ceiling, patio
and fenced yard, avail May, $700 edbaur-
management.com 352-375-7104 4-21-10-
7-2
Affordable, SW 2br, with new ceramic
tile & carpet, fireplace, ready now, $495
Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104
4-21-10-7-2
Colonial Oaks, SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse,
two screened porches, pet friendly, avail
now, $600 edbaurmanagement.com 352-
375-7104 4-21-10-7-2
WALK TO UF
3/2 House in Golfview Estates; a quiet com-
munity by the Law School, Athletic Fields,
and Golf Course. Available Aug 1.
*** $1475 mo.*** Call Craig 305-788-4103
4-21-10-7-2
share 2BD/2BD
w/male student
near UF $350
954 224-1542 4-20-10-5-1
SUBLEASE MAY-JUNE-JULY.
NEWCOMPLEX 6 BLOCKS FROM
CAMPUS (<10 MIN WALK TO LIB W)
EMPTY FULLY FURNISHED 4/4 IND
ROOM LEASE 2ND FLR O'LOOKING
POOL W BALCONY $450 NEGOTIABLE
CONTACT lbrooks.08.12@ufl.edu
4-20-10-5-1
4/4 Apt, walk to campus!
$500/month all inclusive
private baths, great location
Oxford Terrace
call 561-306-3852 4-21-10-5-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901 4-21-
10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
Now Available Downtown!
Luxury 1, 2, and 3 Bedrooms
Alarm*Walk-in Closet*Pets OK
Stay Out Late & Walk Home!
Call today-don't wait! 338-0002
4-21-09-71-21 BR/1 BA $459-469 * 2BR/1 BA $539
Special prices will not last long!
Quite community close to everything.
www.fredeckgardens.com
Adopted pets live free!! 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1 br $559 /2b $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOWor FALL 2010.
2/2 from $999 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181 Can leave mssg 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$709 2/2-$809 3/2-$909
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-71-2
*More Play, Less Work@
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
BRING IN THIS AD FOR $0 MOVE IN FEES!
2/2s: From $799; 3/3s: From $959
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
Your Own Personal Trainer!
1 Bed-$599*2Bed-$729
4Bed-$949*A schools!
Beautiful Townhomes
Walk-in Closets*332-7401
4-21-71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1s from $659 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Museum Walk
All Inclusive Roommate Matching -$439
3/3 Flats 2/2 Townhomes & UF LOCATION!
#117 Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave MuseumWalk.com
Call for Specials!*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
2BR/1 BA from $338/person
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
We <3 pets! Wood floors avail!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $635. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
20, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
ufunished u nished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $515 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$369
INCLUDES UTILITIES
1 month FREE, Move In TODAY!
24hr Amenities & Valet Trash!
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SUN KEY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!)
Student Discount
From $599/mo; Up to 3 Months Free!
Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Special runs until 4-15-2010
352.376.6720 or 352-376-7041
Check out our unbelieveable
bandwidth: 30x10 IPV6
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO UF -AVAIL NOW & FALL!
01BR $460- $495
* 2BR $485- $600
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -YOUR NEW HOME!
Unique LOFT floor plan only $595!
1/1 from $625 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning* Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis * 1 mile to UF
377-7401 * www.boardwalkapt.com
4-21-09-71-2100+ apts: Live by UF
Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 5-11-10-79-2
** Across From UF
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-21-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves you Inf
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1 bedroom from *$457 2 bedroom from *$558
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 bedroom 1 bath from *$549
2 bedroom 2 bath from *$641
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Additional $200 off next month
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 *$549
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1 s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
5-1 1-10-64-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 2 bd/ 1 ba
Hardwood floors, must see
$900/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Great Parking! Walk to UF! 4BD/4.5 BA
Located near SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St.
Call today to view @ 352.373.7578
Union Properties www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
JUNSLINEWLY REMODELED 1BRs
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d inc. Call
Union Properties 352.373 7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
6-29-64-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SID, $470/mo 562-2824 4-16-
10-45-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2
a "
0
U.Copyrighted Material
M A
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
a f II -s
Ift 4 .
0
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 21
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 5-11-
10-48-2
2BR/2.5BA townhouse condo, 1 mi from
UF on bus route. Inc W/D, community club-
house, pool & fitness center. Wired for inter-
net & security sys. $878/mo. Avail 5/1 or 8/1.
Call/text 332-8841 lindalu@gatorhomes.com
4-19-10-40-2
440 LO S
OResort Lifestyle*
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
ALL INCLUSIVE PRICING!
2's: From $546/person; 3's: From $451/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-42-2
2BR HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area. Wood firs, new kitchen
vinyl, Cent H/AC, DW, fenced yard, wood
deck, parking, $975/mo. Pets ok Avail Aug
16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 Iv mssg 5-27-
10-46-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority
Row/Norman Hall area. W/D, ice maker,
ceramic tile. Cent H/AC, DW, parking,
fenced yard. $1485/mo. Pets ok. Avail Aug
16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 5-27-
10-46-2HUGE 4BR/2BA 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area, remodeled baths, new:
stove, DW, disposal & AC, W/D, wd firs. cent
H/AC, parking. $2400/mo Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg
4-21-10-40-2
Houses Available for Fall!
2631 NW 1st Ave -$1845
402 NW 36th -$1425
315 NW 17th St. -$875
4 NW 25th St -$1499
717 NW 34th St -$1320
FREE UF Parking!
352.371.7777
4-21-71-2
$199 Move-In Special
$500-$700 2BR/1BA
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or 352-505-9264 4-16-10-
30-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $650/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220. (leave
a voicemail) 4-21-32-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 5-11-10-114-2
$600, 2BR, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet school
& campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furn; Parking; 352 376
0080;352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-27-2
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providersr*1 a A
I
I
UFor a Limited Time Only! 1BR/1BA seperate
dining rm, Ig living rm, walk in closet, cent
H/AC, full kitchen, full bath. H20 & sewer
incl. Free pest control. Close to Oaks Mall,
Archer Rd & UF. $395/mo. 2 & 3 BDs avail
in several locations, dif floor plans. 215-7780
6-17-10-38-2
Walk to UF. Openings in April -Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
4-21-10-26-2
Available Immediately! Small 1/1
Efficiency apt. W/D avail, new paint & carpet.
10 min walk to UF. Perfect for international/
graduate students! $500/mo + utils. 284-0979
4-21-10-26-2
10houses.com
3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$1000 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
5-11-10-26-2
FREAKSS! DOWNTOWN 414 SE 2nd St
2BR/1 BA DUPLEX apt w/loft, central heat,
window air, off-street parking, $620/mo,
SALSO: Studio/garage apt. $420/mo.
Call 352-373-6551 5-20-29-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
Walk to Campus
1/1 Townhomes from $579
2/1.5 bath townhomes from $699
Check out our unbelieveable bandwidth:
30x10 IPV6
352-376-6720 352-376-7041
Ask about our specials!
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-25-2
SUN BAY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!)
Student Discount
From $599/mo; Up to 3 Months Free!
Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Special runs until 4-15-2010
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-25-2
FREE MONTHS RENT 1BDs
1114 SW 7th Ave $650/mo
Spacious loft style, parking onsite.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-24-2
I s 4 1
.3'L
IUpscale Living without the Price!
2/2s @ $550, 3/3s @ 459
Know your roommates? As low as $383/each!
Villas w/ fenced yards available-we love pets!
Ask how to get $100 off per month for a year!
www.hiddenlakeuf.com or 352-374-3866
4-21-10-25-2
3bed/2bath Creeks Edge condo -just off NW
13th St. W/D, pool & clubhouse. Close to UF
and on bus route. Available August. Seeking
roommates $395/mo/ea. 727-463-0560
6-29-10-35-2
ARLINGTON SQUARE (2b/2ba) -$799/Mo,
Luxury Downtown APT, access to main RTS,
NO short-term. Avail 4/21/10, Call Sean,
239-410-1603 5-13-22-2
***HOUSE 4BR/2BA***
Available 8/1. Lovely, remodeled. W/D. Bike
to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. $1 100/mo.
373-1558, 246-8645, or 256-8370 5-11-10-
19-2
House,4BR,3BA, LR,FR, recently renovated.
2 Masters w/pvt bth. fenced in back yard.
garage. Off 34th. tander@bellsouth.net 954-
340-2732 5-13-10-20-2
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2
BR vintage apts. near UF & downtown. All
have wood floors, fans, & blinds. Pets pos-
sible. Rent from $575-$950/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com, 352-338-7670
5-11-10-7-2
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean 2 & 3
BIR homes near UF. Some wood floors,' all
with CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds, & lawn up-
keep. Rent @ $790-$1275/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com, 352-338-7670
5-11-10-17-2
2 Br Houses near 13th St. Walmart:
Beautiful vintage charmer 2ba $950
available now. Available May:
Pet Heaven, fenced yard 1ba $675
Call owner/agent 352-328-7474. 4-21-10-
16-2
TOP QUALITY -GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to cam-
pus -on N & E sides. Year lease, beginning
summer or fall. K & M Properties. 372-1509
4-21-10-15-2
JACKSON SQUARE CONDO -Annual
rental beginning 8/1/10. Immaculate, new,
2BR/2BA, 1 blk from UF. W/D in unit, un-
dercover parking. Call owner for details 561-
t912I1u. $750Imo/iroom. 4-21-10-15-2
A 4BD/3BA HOUSE NEAR UF!
W/D, Central AC, Wood Floors. 3514 NW
7th Place. Available Aug. 1st. Call Manny at
352-317-4408 4-21-10-14-2
4BD/2BA HOUSE NEAR UF!
W/D, Available Aug. 1st. 610 NW 34th
Terrace. Call Manny at352-317-4408 4-21-
S 10-14-2
*WANT IT ALL?@
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
FURNITURE NOW INCLUDED!
ALL INCLUSIVE rates beginning at
2/2-$546/person, 3/3-$451/person
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-14-2
One month free rent to qualified tenant with
year long lease- 2/1 $575.00 mo, across
from Santa Fe College w/d hkups & central
A/C. Edbaurmanagement.com- 4121 NW
37th PI Suite B, Gainesville, FL 4-15-10-
11-2
Beautiful Northwood Pool Home with large
1/2 acre lot. 3 bed, 2 bath has plenty of room
for summer fun while swimming or hanging
out in the hot tub. Washer Dryer included
with full 2 car garage and lots of storage.
Pets OK, call Jeffrey for more information.
352-246-5801 5-11-10-14-2
Spacious 1 BR apt for rent.
1 BR/1 BA apt near Oaks Mall.
Walk to mall, restaurant and coffee shops.
New appliances. Call 352-258-4695 4-21-
10-13-2Homes Avail for Fall! Pets welcome!
Minutes to UF and Santa Fe.
4/2 3321 and 3236 NW 30 PL $1200/mon
4/2 5402 NW 25th PL $1200
Call April 352-514-1441 for more info! 4-21-
10-13-2
Duck Pond rentals -The NE Blvd Apts are
1/1 units, ~ 850 sq ft w/high celings, wood
floors, ample parking; avail mid July thru Fall
$540/mo; Historic 1/1 at 205 NE 3rd St, $550/
mo, off steet parking Edbaurmanagement.
com 4121 NW 37th PL Suite B 375-7104
4-15-10-9-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home.
Shady lot. From $300 -$450/mo
FIRST MONTH HALF PRICE incl water.
No pets. 4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887
5-1 1-10-13-2
AVAILABLE NOW & AUGUST
*2BR/1 BA fenced bkyd, cent H/AC $745/mo
*3BR/2BA fenced backyard. $1025/mo.
Gore-Rabell Real Estate 378-1387.
www.gore-rabell.com 4-21-10-13-2
APTS and HOMES for rent near UF!
Avail Summer and Fall, visit our website at
merrillmanagement.net or
Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494 x10
4-21-10-13-2
1BR 1BA Apt Grad II Apts
New carpet, paint. Avail Now
Or Fall 1236 Sw 4th Ave $540/mo
Central H &Air, Laundry Fac.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494
4-21-10-13-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue. St. Croix Apts
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
2BR 1BA, Wood Floors, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BILK to UF $600/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 or tazzie2l@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR or 2BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425-$550/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
8-16-10-37-2
Lovely 2 BE/21/2BA. NW 43rd Ave. Garage.
All appliances, W/D, internet,security, cable
included. Prefer quiet, stable residents. $999/
mo. Available June 1st. Long term lease
available. Ph. 941-776-1767. 5-20-10-15-2
Barn Eff Apt, Rural Living Jonesville
Pets Welcome, Avail Now, 15 Ac prop
$400 mo+util, TV, Wash/Dry Inc
Stalls also avail, 954-292-2244 4-20-10-
10-2
*STUDENTS**
1,2,3,&4 bedroom Houses and Apartments
available for fall. Pets arranged. All near
campus. Call 371-3260 or 870-2760 4-21-
10-11-2
WOODS EDGE SOUTH- 2BR/2.5BA
Recently constructed townhomes, located
off of 34th St. Spacious living room and wide
kitchen area. Bay windows for breakfast
nook. Double master suites and large clos-
ets. Screened back porch. W/D, next to bus
stop, close to UF.
$550/mo/rm + utilities.
Call (305)799-7042 5-18-14-2.7441 IZZ.-
M% %67
% so
22, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010
For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished
1 Bedroom/1 Bath Apartment for Rent.
$535. Available Immediately. Downstairs
Unit. Country Club Atmosphere. Towne
Parc Apartments, 2930 SW 23rd Terrace,
Gainesville. Cell: 217-553-6045. 4-16-10-
8-2
3BR/3BA Condo across st. from campus
on corner of Archer and 13th with all tile
floors and all appliances. $1500/month or
individual leases. Available summer 2010
call 989-980-2807 4-21-10-10-2
4Br/3Ba Large Home w/ 2 car gar, 8 min from
UF, large fenced yard, dogs ok. Exquisite
oaks & landscaping, wood & tile floors, new
appliances. $1,600/mo. 352-466-0358. Avail
summer or Aug. 3120 NW 31st Blvd. 4-21-
10-10-2
Need creative/ open minded people for this
3 bedroom 2 bath house .you'll love this
property in itself close to all Hospital and
Musemum Rd $799/m Avail. April sq 1100
Contact Navyblueshirt@hotmail.com 4-21-
10-9-2
WALK TO UF -NW 6th Ave
3br/2ba adorable home, prvt bkyd,
Ig bdrms, new crpt, appl, a/c, w/d,
pvd drive, lawn/garb/pest incl.
$1650/mo avail aug 941-544-2427 5-11-
10-10-2
Townhouse Rental 4/2.5. Gated, clubouse,
Cricket Club -near Newberry & 1-75. $1200/
mo, 954-557-4769, baezwpa@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-9-2
POOL HOUSE
4BR/3BA @ 2816 W. University Ave. 1 mile
to UF. Avail for fall. $1700/mo. 327-2931 or
376-6183 5-11-10-10-2
Whispering Pines for fall: 2br/2ba with spa-
cious kitchens, breakfast bar, ceramic tile,
paddle fans, across from bus stop, especially
nice for grad students, includes monitored
alarm system, $840 edbaurmanagement.
com 352-375-7104 4-21-10-9-2
Affordable condo-Shellrock Villas, 2br/1.5ba
townhouse, paddle fans, walk-in closet, con-
venient to Oaks Mall/UF, avail May, $545
edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104
4-21-10-9-2
Beautiful Charleston Place, 3br/2.5 ba, simu-
lated wood floors, carpeted bedrooms, wash-
er, dryer, fully equipped kitchen, screened
porch, community pool, avail May, $1100
edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104
4-21-10-9-2
HOMES FOR RENT -CLOSE TO UF
3/2 630 NW 34th Terr. $1150/mo Pets ok
3/2 631 NW 36th St $1250/mo Pets ok
3/2 3404 NW 7th PI $1250/mo Pets ok
4/2 621 NW 35th St. $1250/mo Pets ok
Call Mike 352-665-7316 4-21-10-8-2
Cute studio for rent in the Duckpond area.
Monthly rent $395 ind elec & water. Sec
$450. Ideal for one person & possibly a small
pet. Call 352-371-3473 leave message.
5-27-10-14-2
Townhouse for rent 2BR/1.5BA w/ W/D hook-
ups. French doors open to private patio.
Remodeled kitchen & bathrooms. Monthly
rent $675. Sec $700. Pets ok. 4007 SW 26th
Terr. Apt B. Call 352-371-3473 leave mssg
5-27-10-14-2.
**4/3 18 NW36th St.** Close to campusall
appliances,W/D, cent, heat/air Avail. Aug.1
$1375 333-9874 5-11-10-9-2
*3401 NW 7th Place* 3/2 liv,din,fam rms.All
appliances W/D close to campus, large yd.
small pets ok avail Aug.1 $1325 333-9874
5-11-10-9-2
**4/2 3962 W University Ave.**close to cam-
pus, all appliances, W/D, hot tub, fire place,
screened porch, avail. Aug,1 $1400, 333-
9874 5-11-10-9-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**Near GHFC vaulted
ceilings, all appliances, W/D, garage, small
pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1250 333-9874
5-11-10-9-2
**4/2 919 NW 10th Ave.**Close to campus,all
appliances,W/D,Cent.heat&air.Avil.Aug.1
$1400 333-9874 5-11-10-9-22 BLOCKS TO STADIUM
1913 NW 2ND AVE,
1BR/1 BA, freshly painted $600
1813 NW 2ND AVE
1BR new paint & flooring $475,
1BR wd floors, fireplace $525
No pets. Call 352-335-4790 or 352-214-3369
4-21-8-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered.
Rent $695/mo Phone (352) 359-8311
6-29-10-19-2
Available now. HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo. All
4BR/2BA $1100/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183
4-21-10-6-2
3/3 Townhouse, 2 min. from UF/Shands
w/ Washer & Dryer, Pool, furnished or not at
same price, incl. UNLIMITED water, on Bus
13 route. Call 727-386-6426. 4-20-5-2
FOR RENT
3, 4, 5, & 6 BD Houses
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424 4-21-10-5-2
CAMPUS EDGE
2/2 walking distance to UF, on bus route,
vaulted ceilings, gym, pool, W/D in unit.
$550, tv and internet incl. avail June '10. 901-
581-0135 or 901-237-1157 6-29-21-2
3BR/3BA House, Close to UF/Shands.
Newly remodeled in 2009. W/D, fenced back
yard, lawn maintence, pest control included
in rent. Grad students preferred. Available
August 5th, $1400/month. 352-246-5958.
5-20-10-10-2
Walk to UF 4/2 apt $295/room 1 year leases
start 8/16/10 No Pets
1740 NW 3rd PL Call 352-231-3002
4-21-10-6-2
Downsizing? Quiet 1 BR apt, 700+ sq ft, resi-
dental neighborhood, huge LR, patio, own
entrance & carport. $850 includes utilities,
NW 14th Ave & 20th St. 352-395-6250 or
332-1429 Kathy. 4-21-10-5-2
2 BR, 2.5 BA Townhouse. End Unit. $800
In secluded Brighton Park 1 block off SW
34th St. Near Publix and on bus lines. 1-2
miles to UF. Very well maintained unit. Non-
smokers only. 214-3820 4-21-10-5-2
Two blocks from UF Stadium
2 Bed 1 Bath, 1 Bed 1 Bath,
and Studio. Available August 1
352-377-2930 4-21-10-5-2
3 Male college students to share 4BR/4BA
Countryside condo, W/D, cable, hi-speed in-
ternet, 1st stop on UF bus rte. Utils included.
$450/mo. 863-634-1893. Available immedi-
ately. 4-21-10-5-2
rFsbleases
DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Sublet: Walking Distance to Class!
Right Behind Sorority Row!
Master Bedroom in House/Ample Parking!
Needed May-Mid August / $475 monthly
352-275-2461 4-16-13-3Summer sublease at Canopy Apartments for
only $495/month(negotiable).
It's a 4BR/4BA with utilities, 42Flat
screen,HBO included.15min to LibWest,5min
to Oaksmall Call 3528713769 4-15-7-3
SPEND SUMMER BY THE POOL
Enjoy a close location and a poolside 4-bed-
room townhouse! Looking for a female sub-
leaser to stay at The Courtyards during
Summer B or C. Call 443-244-1184 for more
info! 4-16-10-7-3
MOVE IN WITH A FRIEND!
1/1 or 2/2 fully furnished in Lexington
Crossing. $429 per room, all inclusive. May-
August. 954-551-1953 or 305-323-1706
4-16-5-3
READY TO MOVE-IN! Private room/
bath in a 4/4. Oxford Terrace-walk to
campus,semester lease ok. Fully inclusive
-furnished, utilities, w/d cable & wi-fi. Only
$600 mo. M or F, no Sm or pets. call 321-
228-3379 4-16-6-3
Summer Sublease Midtown, College Park
House. 5 bed room 2.5 bathroom but willing
to rent as many rooms as you need. 3 blocks
from campus, pool, and restaurants. Full
kitchen and living room. Free parking. Will be
available from May 2 -Mid July. I'll pay for
the move in fee. Utilities not included. Call
me for prices and/or pictures of the rooms.
(305)720-8577 4-15-4-3
Sublease master b/d at Windsor Park 450
per month includes utilities + internet. 3 bus
routes. No reasonable offer refused May
thru August. Call Karen at 561-329-1019 or
Karen.Finley@SunTrust.com 4-19-10-5-3
$429.4br/4ba. FullyFurnishedw/TV.Washer/
Dryer.Screened in balcony.May-Aug. w/ Aug
rent paid. 2 direct routes to campus. Cabana
Beach. $100 cash to sign. Lisa 407-808-
8607 4-21-6-3
$425 1Br/1Ba in 3Br/3Ba townhouse at the
Woodlands. All Inclusive. Available May,
June, July. Price is negotiable. No reason-
able offer will be turned down! Contact
Tiffany,(561)452-3103 or tperini@ufl.edu
4-20-5-3
Summer at Courtyards Apts for only $450 a
month! 1 BR in a 4BR apt. Townhouse, across
street from Business School! Furnished,
all-inclusive utilities. h.orourke@ufl.edu
4-21-6-3
CABANA BEACH. $300/mo(price negotiable-
->I pay over $500). May-Aug(anytime). First
floor, 2br/2br. On Bus Route 21. Beautiful
pool! Nice people. Phone at 352-318-1014.
Email at jsmyth@ufl.edu. 4-21-5-3
2 BLOCKS to UF stadium
1BR/1BTH avail. in a 2/2. $595/MO all inclu-
sive. Furnished with style! Available summer.
Call Sarah 5742618021 4-20-10-4-3
Summer Sublease! 1BR/1 bath, University
House(NW13th and 7ave)-walking distance
from campus, pool, great roommates! $595/
month utilities/parking included, available
Summer A. 321-960-5255 4-21-10-5-3
alRoommas
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES
IN FURN 4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF.
$290/mo incl elec, cable tv, internet, pool,
laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626
4-21-09-71-4Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
5-11-10-62-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsNVA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$325/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220
(leave a voicemail.) 4-21-32-4.
$400/mo Room for Rent plus elec, Rockwood
Villas TH, pvt bath, on bus route, w/d, free
internet, non-smoking, female only. Avail
Immed & Fall. 1st Mth Free w lyr lease.
ktellmann@ufl.edu/904-874-6877. 7-13-
10-45-4
Seeking roommates for 3 bed/ 2 ba quiet
condo at Creeks Edge. New flooring, recent
remodel,upstairs unit, washer/dryer, on bus-
line to campus, partial furnished. Available
Aug 1st. $395/mo. 727-463-0560 5-11-10-
28-4
1 Room avail in Large 1800SF home. Mins to
UF/Santa Fe, steps to a bus. Ideal for grad/
young professional. Only $300/mon + 1/3
utilities! Avail Aug. 6th. 352-514-1441 4-15-
10-14-4
Responsible and Clean Rommate needed
Asking $600, spacious room w/ private bath.
Fully furnished, 5 minutes from campus, ac-
cess to bus routes 9 & 35. Contact Eddie at
954-699-3665 for details or a viewing. 4-21-
10-14-4
Grad student looking for roommates for 4
bed/4 bath condo at University Terrace.
$400/room/month, incl. cable, internet, util.
On 2 bus routes, fully furnished. Tidiness
preferred. 352-575-0731 anu87@ufl.edu
4-21-10-22-4
Need FEMALE roommate! All-inclusive, fully-
furnished 1BR/1BA available in a 3BR/3BA
apt @ Windsor Park. Bus routes 9,34,35,36.
Contact me for RATES and INCENTIVES:
aptinfo4u@yahoo.com 4-21-13-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $350/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
4-21-10-11-43 Roommates needed for a 4/2 newly pur-
chased house (2400 sq ft) , Backyard, large
kitchen large patio. Fully furnished besides
bedrooms. 5min from UF. $499 including
utilities. Move in -May 15. call Shaun at 904-
838-8412 4-21-10-11-4
DUCKPOND -BIKE TO UF
Serious student/foreign grad. Fully furn small
room in quiet house. Close to downtown, on
bus line. Utils incl. $90/week. 352-514-3409
4-21-10-1 1-4
Clean and responsible roommate wanted!
4/2 new 1900SF house. Convenient location
for both UF and SFC. Pool, basketball, grill.
$475/month. Utilities included. Available
Aug 15th. Call Erik @ 954-937-9491
4-21-10-9-4
ROOMATE WANTED FOR 954 sq ft
LOOKING GLASS APARTMENT: 2/2 next to
campus and midtown for 588/ MO. Includes
equipped kitchen, washer and dryer, park-
ing and internet. For more information
call 561-310-3417 4-20-5-4
Responsible, Clean, Student roommate
needed. Windsor Park Condo, Bus routes
34, 9 and 36. Furnished, new carpet and
appliances; Ground floor, fitness cen-
ter, pool, tennis courts, etc. $400/month,
(904) 370-4392 4-20-10-5-4
Grad student looking for female room-
mates in fully furnished 4bed/4bath condo at
Countryside. $475/month. Inc. cable/inter-
net, utilities, W/D. On 2 bus routes. Contact
Megan 727-542-8155. 4-21-10-5-4
Need 2 female roommates for a 4bed/4bath
at Countryside. Indiv. leases. Furnished, ca-
ble, util, internet, wash/dry included. Access
to pool, gym and bus routes 9, 35, and 36.
$425 per month. Call (786)385-2839 4-21-
5-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
- ene
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
paper published on Now you can easily
April 21st. submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editionsCALL TODAY!!! right thru our website!
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 23
tate Furnishings Furnishings Motorcycles, Mopeds Autos
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Campus Edge / Somerest Village.Walk to
Shands/VAlclass 2units, 2bd/2ba vault-
ed ceilings 2nd/3rd floor w/d in unit,best
locations parking. $8,000 tax credit.
$164,900/$132,900. Move in Ready 954-
439-2301 stedel@bellsouth.net 4-21-10-
41-5
Motivated. For sale by Owner. Must sell
beautiful 3bd/2b 1777 sf home in Cottages
of Country Way, Newberry, FL. Close to
schools. No HOA. Large lot. Asking $184,900.
(530) 613-6488 4-21-10-28-5
Westgate Manor, 85 Mobile home 14x60
2/1.5 remodeled full BA w/new toilet & vanity.
TV, bed, newer carpet, linoleum, frig, range,
nice fixtures. Vaulted ceiling, stone fireplace,
bay window, cent AC, $16.5K 617-335-1303
5-11-10-7-5
3/2 house in Archer. Above ground Pool.
Homes only area. No HOA. 25 minutes to
UF. Go to fsbo.com listing #136241 for more
details and pictures. $175,000 rhaynes@
hotmail.comor 407453-4534 4-21-10-5-5
I FST ANTE I
Cary Bramble
White Male
(DOB 01/02/63); 5'09",
170 lbs, Blonde Hair,
Blue Eyes
Wanted for:
Violation of Probation
for Possession of
Cocaine
C ALACUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOPBED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7450 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588 Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-5846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New Kingi 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box New
in plastic, warr Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Home Theatre Seats-Row of 4 black leather
fully reclining,5 cup holders. Great condition,
perfect for frat or sorority. $775 with low pro-
file component console or alone for $700 or
B/O. 352-331-3251 4-16-10-5-6
UI mputers,
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
MFFor Sale
*OOPARKINGOOO
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie -373-5929 4-21-18-10
Motorcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gater
Gradsl New scooters starting at$555. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UFI
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers' 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11ELECTRIC SCOOTER
No insurance/registration needed
Inexpensive to own & operate
Assembled/free delivery/guaranty
American Electric Bike Co
www greenscootersoncampus.com
4-16-10-25-11
WEAutos
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!e
*NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
SCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS BuySSellSTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
5-27-09-124-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
52 Plymouth Van $655
94 Chevy 1500 $999
92 Chrysler Cirrus $999
58 Pontiac Grand Am $999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
93 Ford F150 $1999
58 Ford Explorer $1999
56 Mits Galant $1555
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Nissan Stanza $1499
98 Pontiac Transport $1499
97 Plymouth Voyager $1999
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2999
99 Olds Alero $2999
99 Pontiac Grand Am $2999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
99 Chrysler Sebring $2500
01 Dodge Neon $2500
55 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Mustang, 40k, $5500 CASH
03 Chevy Venture, 143k, $6900 CASH
05 Jeep Liberty, 105k, $6999 CASH
05 Saturn Ion, 123k, $7999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
06 Ford Taurus, 40k, $8900 CASH
05 VW Jetta, 111k, $8999 CASH
05 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
05 Chevy Trailblazer, 135k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Ranger, 158k, $7999 CASH
06 Chrysler PT Criuser, 46k $9999 CASH
07 Chevy Cobalt, 24k $10,999 CASH
02 Volvo S60, 97k $8999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12CASH PAID
For Junk Cars, Trucks & Vans
Call Mark now. 352-426-2334
4-19-10-5-12
1989 Jeep Wrangler
A/C, power steering, automatic 4-wheel
drive, New paint- Gator Orange, new top &
doors, new radio, asking $7900 386-322-3797
4-20-10-5-12
Suzuki Reno 2005 52K For Sale $6,200.00
Very good conditions, everything works
ps/pl/pm rear defroster/whipper cd ra-
dio am/fm mp3 clean title, one owner.
52-327-5168 -evenings 4-16-10-3-12
WJZWa d
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948. 4-21-10-72-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 4-21-
10-72-13
3 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money
Sthe independent florida
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this summer and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fll out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org by April 23th
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started'
EEO/AA
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
24, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010
WFHelpWanted HelpWanted f Help Wanted Health Services Entertainment
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male summer camp counselors ages 18 and
up. FEYC is an over-night camp located off
of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL. The camp
runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please contact Krys
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352
455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have afun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
Start securing your career today!
Join UF ARMY ROTC!
Register for MSL 1001 and lO0 IL
Call 392-1395 today to learn about
jobs available as an Army officer!
8-5-10-50-14
STAY IN GAINESVILLE
CAREER POSITIONS
(with benefits)
MARKETING/SALES REPS
ADMIN ASST
TECH SUPPORT
ACCOUNTING EDITOR
RESEARCH ASST
SOFTWARE TESTER
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
(PT also available)
Apply online at http://www.gleim.com
4-21-10-17-14
MASTER HYPNOTIST
Seeks intern w/excellent computer, internet
& interpersonal skills. Phone Richard in AM
352-949-0813 4-21-10-15-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Afternoons,
evenings &weekends. Fax resume and avail-
able hours to 373-2230 4-15-10-10-14
WINDOW BLIND INSTALLERS NEEDED
Independent contractors. Call immediately
339-4600 4-21-10-14-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable, writ-
ing skills a must, bookkeeping skills a plus.
Call Carrillo & Carrillo, PA @352-371-4000.
6-8-10-21-14Fun summer jobs! Earn Great Pay! City of
Gainesville Parks/Rec Dept. is now hiring for
seasonal Recreation and Aquatics positions!
Apply online at www.cityofgainesville.jobs
AA/EO/DFWP 5-11-10-12-14
Ever think about joining the Army?
Ever considered being an officer?
If you have 2-3 years left at UF you
may have an opportunity through
Army ROTC Call 392-ARMY!
5-27-10-32-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Help wanted for wait staff and hostesses.
Experience required. Apply in person be-
tween 2pm and 4pm at 7038 NW 10th place.
4-21-10-10-14
LAW STUDENT-
EXCELLENT WRITING SKILLS.
1 year+ commitment. Resume to: 626N.E.1st
Street,32601or paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14
FRENCH TUTOR-TEMPORARY-
Family visiting France in summer. Please
include salary requirement. Resume to
paulsrothstein@yahoo.com. 4-21-10-10-14
GUITAR INSTRUCTOR-
two middle school children-beginners. Prefer
home instruction. Resume to
raulsrothstein@yahoo.com. 4-21-10-10-14
CLEANER/GARDENER-
P/T, flex- house. Thorough and conscienten-
tous. Pay competitive. Resume to:
paulsrothstein@yahoo.com 4-21-10-10-14
OFFICE ASS'T-
F/T or part-time- love numbers, passion for
organization and fitness. Eye for detail. 1
year+ commitment. Resume to: 626N.E.1st
Street,32601or paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14
POLITICAL COORDINATOR / GRASS
ROOTS ALACHUA COUNTY ELECTIONS
Resume to paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14
HOUSEKEEPING -CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available
Mon-Fri, 10am -5pm. $7.25/hr, experience
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323
for more info and interview. 4-21-10-9-14
THE CABOT LODGE HOTEL is seeking a
Food Service Supervisor. Please apply in
person. No phone calls, 3726 SW 40 Blvd.
4-19-10-7-14
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Full or part time. Some weekends,holidays.
Experience preferred. Apply in person
at Jonesville Animal Hospital 14145 W.
Newberry Rd. Newberry. 4-21-10-7-14
PET PARADISE RESORT
Newberry, FL. Now accepting resumes
for entry level management position.
Experienece required. Send resume to:
m c o o I i c a n @ p e t p a ra d i s e c o r p. co m
5-11-10-8-14
Sunflower Health Foods is seeking P/T
person with nutritional background for
Vitamin/Supplement sales. MUST HAVE
supplement knowledge. Apply in person
87 SW 34th St, Gainesville.
4-20-10-5-14
Build your own online business from your
laptop. Fifty year old company.
Contact John, 352-219-0871, or
John@JCantlon.com 5-27-10-11-14
BRIDAL CONSULTANT/STYLIST
Solutions Bridal
PT+ Commission
Fax Resume to:
352-374-7293
4-2 1-5-14
CARETAKER -GREAT OPPORTUNITY for
psych, special ed or applied behavior majors
to obtain state of the art intervention skills
& knowledge working with severly autistic
young man in home & community based set-
ting. Must be motivated, reliable and make a
one year commitment. Hours TBA, compe-
tive wage. Fax resume to BH @352-375-4268
4-21-10-5-14Now Hiring qualified women's J.O. Coach
For level 7 gymnastics team. Facility is lo-
cated in Starke. Please send resum with
references to
usagymnasticsofflorida@earthink.net 4-21-
10-5-14
W services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruction;
15 minutes from UF. Charlie at 373-5929.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-
15
Local Immigration Attorney -Marriage
Green Cards/Fiance Visas/Naturalization
Matters -$295.00 Attorney Fees Plus Costs
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
6-1-45-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding. Owner
housing. Dressage, stadium j umping,
X-country. Lessonsschooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 6-3-10-
30-15
KEN GARVIN APPLIANCE SERVICE
10 YEARS EXPERIENCE 8AM-8PM 7 DAYS
LOW RATES ALL BRANDS STUDENT
SPECIAL $40 SERVICE CALL PLUS
PARTS WWW.KENGARVIN.COM 338-1708
4-21-20-15
ATTN GARDENERS!
I will till your gardens for less than you can
rent a tiller! Call Chauncy Gardener 352-
214-1767. Chauncy Gardener Gardening
Service. 41 years of gardening service!
4-21-10-15
THE SALON "0" SPECIALS
2720 NW 6TH STREET.352 672 6339
HIGHLIGHTS $35 10 FOILS.
MENS CUTS: $10
GOOD TIL 05/30 5-27-10-12-15
WJ Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
Grieving the loss of someone?
National Students of AMF
Join our Facebook group:
Gator Students of AMF
TalkAboutLoss.org 4-21-43-16
A Woman's Answer
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716 8-24-74-16
ee Study Improvement & e
e Test Anxiety w. Hypnosis e
Call Maureen (352) 870-1527
4-19-10-15-16
*QUIT SMOKING*
****** WITH HYPNOSIS ******
Call Maureen (352) 870-1527
4-19-10-15-16
3 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
WJ Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
loveWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 mn from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
***ROLLER DERBY!***
Sat., 4/17 at Skate Station
$8 advance, $12 at the door
Ticket info./event details at
GainesvilleRollerRebels.com
4-16-10-8-21
WJZ Tickets
5$ student tkts, 352-375-HIPP
Monday, April 26, 6 pm
Mistresses of many voices'
dance/theater/music performance 4-21-10-
7-22
WJZRides
Asian male, 70 years old, professional, slim,
tall, dark. Seeking a white feamle with fair asg a
hair between the ages of 50-70 years old.
Write to P.O Box 1823 Keystone Heights, FL
32656 4-21-10-10-19GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New DeparturesSo i EventicNThur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT? -$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL 4-21-71-23
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE SPAYS FOR STRAYS!
Operation Catnip will provide free spay/
neuter, vaccines, & treatment for fleas, ear
mites, & worms to unowned, stray or feral
cats from mobile home parks in Alachua
County. Volunteers are needed to help with
trapping & transportation of cats. To volun-
teer or request spay/neuter for homeless
cats call (352)380-0940. 4-21-18-20
***ROLLER DERBY!***
Sat., 4/17 at Skate Station
$8 advance, $12 at the door
Ticket info./event details at
GainesvilleRollerRebels.com
4-16-10-8-20W EZPets
Furry, feathery, scaly .no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
03Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Sports
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
UF's offense sparks doubleheader sweep of FSU
0 THE GATORS SCORED 17
RUNS IN TWO GAMES.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Writer
Although Florida's bats have
been the team's strong suit all sea-
son, hitting alone usually isn't
enough to get the job done against
ranked teams.
But it was all the Gators needed
Wednesday night.
On a day when the pitchers were
average and the fielders struggled,
the offense carried No. 3 UF (32-4,
12-2 Southeastern Conference) to a
doubleheader sweep of No. 19 FSU
(36-10, 8-4 Atlantic Coast Confer-
ence) on Wednesday in Tallahas-
see.
"We swung the bat arguably as
well as we swung all year long,"
UF coach Tim Walton said. "This
offense puts a lot of fear in people,
and we score a ton of runs and re-
ally swing the bat with authority."
Despite facing off against a pair
of pitchers with ERAs less than 1.50,
the Gators' bats pounded out 17
runs against the Seminoles.
Every player in the starting line-
up had a hit in the doubleheader,
with six different Gators contribut-
ing multiple RBIs.
"We don't depend on one single
person," said Kelsey Bruder, who
had two RBIs. "We have such a
strong lineup that at any point any-
one can contribute."
UF wasted little time getting the
offensive onslaught started, scor-ing four runs in the second inning
of Game 1 on RBI hits by Ensley
Gammel, Brittany Walker and Aja
Paculba, who ran her hitting streakto a career-best 16 games. First base-
man Megan Bush added a three-
run homer in the top of the third
to give the Gators a 7-0 lead, andit looked like Game 1 could end by
run-rule. But the Seminoles battled
back, scoring three in the third and
one in the fifth to cut Florida's lead
Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator Staff
UF catcher Brittany Schutte, who is second on the team in RBIs and home runs, added three RBIs and a
homer in the Gators' sweep of FSU on Wednesday.to three.
The Gators tacked on an insur-
ance run in the sixth, and with two
on and one out in the bottom half
of the inning, Gammel came in to
relieve ace Stephanie Brombacher.
She retired five of the last six Semi-
noles to close out the game, secur-
ing UF's 8-4 win.
"I've seen some good things from
her," Walton said. "I've been very
pleased with the way that things
have been working, and hopefully
she'll continue to do good things."
In Game 2, the Florida bats
quickly picked up where they left
off, scoring in the top of the first on
a fielding error by FSU.
After the Seminoles tied the
game in the second, the Gators ex-
ploded for four runs on five hits in
the top of the third, scoring on an
RBI single by Francesca Enea, a sac-
rifice fly by Bruder and a two-run
home run by Brittany Schutte.
Although the Seminoles re-
sponded in Game 1 to make it inter-
esting, Gammel kept them at bay in
Game 2, allowing just a single addi-
tional run in the bottom of the fifth.
Florida put the game away short-
ly thereafter, scoring four in the top
of the sixth on RBI hits from Enea,
Bruder and Schutte, plus a sacrifice
fly from Paculba to stretch the lead
to 9-2, which would eventually be-
come the final.
The only downside to the after-
noon was Florida's fielding.
Five different Gators committed
errors Wednesday in the team's first
action since recording five errors in
a weekend series against Arkansas.
Columnist decides to /eave early
D ear Alligator readers and fans, I would like to take this op-
portunity to inform you that I will be
forgoing my fourth year of writing at
the Independent Florida Alligator in or-
der to pursue a professional sports writ-
ing career overseas.
I don't want my announcement to
take away from similar recent announce-
ments made by UF athletes Joe Haden,
Major Wright, Carlos Dunlap and Alex
Tyus.
Sure, the four of them have combined
for exactly zero articles published over.HAtheir careers, but
I couldn't have
achieved all the
fame and super
stardom with-
out having them
Kyle Maistri around to tackle
Kyle Points people and dunk
kmaistri@alligatororg basketballs so that
I could write about
them.
Protathlitis, a daily sports newspaper
in Greece, has offered me U1.5 million
over the next two years to cover soccer,
SEE KYLE PAGE 27UF GYMNASTICS
Smith excels despite pain
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
For senior Maranda Smith, the pain
is always there. It's just a matter of how
much it hurts.
But she doesn't let that stop her.
When No. 4 Florida won its seventh
Southeastern Conference title March
27 -its first since 2007 -the pain was
almost too much for the three-time All-
American from Placerville, Calif.
"We had to shut her down for almost
the full week after that," UF coach Rhon-
da Faehn said. "Even then, the last couple
of days heading into regionals, she was in
so much pain she just couldn't really do
anything."
Smith's right shoulder began hurtingafter her freshman year at UCLA, but she
thought nothing of it at the time because
she was focused on a stress fracture in
her right shin -an injury that required
a rod to be inserted to repair.
During her first season at Florida
in 2008, she had the
shoulder looked at be-
cause it started to hurt
again. It turned out she
'z7 had a torn labrum, but
she decided to compete
through the injury.
Last offseason, she
Smith had surgery to repair
the labrum and started
rehabbing the next day.
After six weeks in a sling and months
SEE GYM, PAGE 27
UF WOMEN TENNIS
U Lauren Embree was named SEC
Freshman of the Week on Wednes-
day for going 4-0 in her matches
last week. This is the third time she
has won the award this season.UF WOMEN BASKETBALL
E The Gators received a National Letter of
Intent from Deana Allen on Wednesday,
their third recruit in the 2010 class. The
5-foot-10 guard averaged 19.2 points and
6.4 rebounds at Pensacola Junior College.TEEING OFF WITH MIKE McCALL
U England's World Cup team will sleep in tents with low oxygen levels to prepare
for the thin air in South Africa (John Terry's will come with a chastity belt). Mean-
while, North Korea announced its players will sleep in tents with no oxygen if
they lose their first match. .Cowboys owner Jerry Jones drunkenly smack-talk-
ed Tim Tebow and Bill Parcells on video. The Dolphins have to draft Tebow now.
26, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
I V.
Dride Awareness 4cnth Uresents:
IDn Savaae
Come hear from relationship and sex columnist
Dan Savage speaking on love, sex and politics
On Thursday, April 15th
In the Grand Ballroom in the Reitz Union
Doors open at 7:00 PM
Acclaimed Author of "Savage Love" and host of his own popular
weekly podcast, "Savage Lovecast"
* ACCENT
For persons with disabilities requiring special accommodations, please contact 392-2567 (TDD), e-mail
accommodate@sg.ufl.edu or contact the Florida Relay System at 1-800-955-8771 at least 72 hours prior to the event
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 27
Smith scored 9.9s in her
three events
GYM, from page 25
of rehabilitation, Smith was ready
to return to competition in time for
her senior season.
But the pain was still there.
"My shoulder still hurts when
I drive my car, turn the steering
wheel or open a door, and in gym-
nastics obviously," Smith said.
"It was kind of disappointing be-
cause I thought with the surgery,
it wouldn't hurt as much, but it
probably hurts more than it did last
year.,
That didn't stop Smith all sea-
son, and she certainly wasn't go-
ing to let it slow her after the SEC
Championships.
With all of the injuries she has
fought through, Smith is accus-
tomed to not being able to practice
as much, but the restrictions she
faced following SECs were particu-
larly hard.
"It was just frustrating that I had
been doing so well all season, and
then when I'm supposed to feel my
best and it's the most important
time of the season I wasn't able to
train very much," Smith said.
Doubt started to set in for her
the Wednesday before the team leftat regionals
for Salt Lake City, when she was
unable to practice her bar routine
because of "excruciating pain" in
her shoulder.
"I just had to stress to her again
that she's been doing this for so
long and for so many months that
her body knows what to do and
that she has to allow that in her
mind," Faehn said.
After the practice day, Smith re-
laxed and blocked out the pain. She
felt confident again, the most confi-
dent she has felt all season.
Smith went
out on the floor
in the Hunts-
man Center
GymnasticS and turned in a
9.9 on all three
of her events
-floor, vault and bars. Afterward,
she said it was probably the best
performance of her college career.
Heading into the NCAA Cham-
pionships, and the final meet of
her career, Smith is ready to fight
through the pain one last time.
"My shoulder, it hurts a lot,
but I've fought this long through
the season, I'm definitely going to
make it through nationals," Smith
said. "I'll make it through, I'll be
fine."Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF senior Maranda Smith has not missed a meet this season despite struggling with injuries. Smith
helped the Gators win their regional qualify by scoring 9.9s on the three events she participated in.
KYLE, from page 25
and as much as I have enjoyed my time
here in Gainesville, I simply can't leave
that kind of money -plus a brand new
voice recorder and laptop, and a lifetime
supply of legal pads and pens- on the
table.
Many of you will wonder how loads of
money and reaching the pinnacle of my
profession could possibly outweigh anoth-
er year of half-assing my classes in pursuit
of a degree that will always be there for me
to come back to if my career with Protath-
litis doesn't work out.
I sympathize with your frustration.
I only ask for the understanding that I
can't risk returning for my final year with
the chance of carpal tunnel claiming myGod-given ability and rendering me in-
capable of cashing a check this size ever
again.
I feel now is the perfect time to leave as
my statistics from this past season -150
bylines on published stories, two breaking
news stories, 400 interviews conducted -
may be hard to repeat next year.
Furthermore, my performance at the
writers' combine has raised my profile af-
ter I typed at a pace never before thought
possible for a human being -400-words-
per-minute.
Do newspaper scouts put too much im-
portance on a reporter's WPM score? Ab-
solutely.
The great ones aren't always the fastest
in the comfort of their own home, in front
of the TV and in a low-pressure event ad-
vance situation.Some of the fastest WPM writers just
can't seem to keep up when deadline bar-
rels down and the stadium's wireless In-
ternet intermittently fails.
We in the business call the latter game
speed.
I'm told you can't teach speed -lucky
for me -and Protathlitis has a reputation
for being the Al Davis of Euro newspa-
pers.
I digress.
What I really want to say is thank you
for all the fan support over the years. I
couldn't have written countless features
and columns, and recorded the 100 pod-
casts without all of you.
OK, that's not true.
I will be just as successful with my pro
career in another city and continent as I
was here, but my agent told me to try tolessen the blow of my leaving with trying
to make all of you feel like you can share
in my success.
When I committed to this sports section
three years ago, I never imagined leaving
before my eligibility ran out, but now that
my talents are highly sought after, I have
little-to-no regrets about breaking every
single one of the commitments I made so
long ago.
No matter what happens from here, I
will always be an Alligator.
Sincerely,
Kyle Maistri #5
Editor's note: Kyle Maistri won't "offi-
cially" hire an agent until his contract is
finalized, thus keeping open a possible
return next year.
Lost & found?
Alligator Classifieds. [3521373.FINDauigiiiir
28, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010
Copyrighted Material
SyndicatedContent
Available from Commercial News Providers
J)
r
7
Hi
rT RI I
ONL6Y
BLOCKS
FROM UF!
352.338.7467
Contact us for other specials available.-j
