0the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 134 We Inform. You Decide.-0
TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 2010
investigate alleged GRU theft
The suspect is thought to have stolen tools, equipment
By KATHERINE BEIN
Alligator Writer
The recent arrest of a Gainesville Re-
gional Utilities employee has led to further
investigation by the Gainesville Police De-
partment.
Jason Breeden was arrested March 25
on charges of stealing thousands of dollars
worth of equipment and tools from the
Deerhaven plant.
Plant Manager Ali McDaniel contacted
police when he discovered that an expen-
sive welder had gone missing, along with
its three-wheel crate, while taking inven-
tory at the beginning of the year, accord-ing to GPD Sgt. Greg Armagost.
According to Armagost, McDaniel said
the theft must have occurred sometime be-
tween Oct. 1 and Dec. 31 of last year.
Detective Mike Denmark said he heard
an employee, later identified as Breeden,
was involved in the theft and visited the
man at his home.
He found Breeden in possession of the
cart but not the welder itself, Armagost
said.
Denmark returned the next day with
warrants to search the home and arrest
Breeden.
The search turned up more stolen tools,
totaling about $5,000 to $6,000, Denmarksaid.
Breeden was not home at the time of the
search because, after having heard of the
warrant that the police had issued for his
arrest, he had gone to the police depart-
ment in order to turn himself in, according
to Armagost.
Breeden spent the night in the Ala-
chua County Jail but posted
Special his $5,000 bond the followingReport day.
He has since been released,
he said.
Breeden has been charged with grand
theft and scheming to defraud, and po-
lice believe this was not a one-time occur-rence.
Local police are currently conducting an
investigation as to whether or not others
were involved in the various thefts, what
else may have been stolen and the where-
abouts of the missing welder, according to
Armagost.
Police believe the thefts may go back
even further than October.
There is evidence that Breeden and
possibly others had been stealing and ac-
cumulating tools and equipment from the
Deerhaven plant for years, according to
Armagost.
Anyone who may have information
about the theft or the whereabouts of the
welder is asked to call Armagost at 352-
334-2487.
SPECIAL REPORT
City sees string
of window, car
burglaries
By KATHERINE BEIN
Alligator Writer
The Gainesville Police Department is asking students
to be careful valuables as there has been a string of win-
dow-smashing burglaries in student-dense areas.
According to GPD Sgt. Greg Armagost, there have
been eight such burglaries in the past two weeks at the
southwest student complexes alone.
"I know it's a pain, but take any valuables
out of your car."
Greg Armagost
GPD sergeant
Police are urging students to lock their doors at home
as well and be wary of door-to-door salespeople.
Last week, police arrested Zacquel Wisse, 20, from
Boston, for trying to break in through unlocked doors
at Fairmont Oaks after going door-to-door under the
pretense of selling magazine subscriptions. Wisse then
tried to enter the homes if no one answered, Armagost
said.
One woman watched through the peephole as Wisse
tried to break into her home, so she called police, Arma-
gost said. There were three window-smash burglaries at
Fairmont Oaks that day, but police can not link Wisse to
the crimes, he said.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersPolice
Yawn on the Lawn
Matthew Wagshol, a senior in UF's mechanical engineering program, takes his shoes off, sprawls out and
enjoys his time between classes in the warm weather on Monday afternoon. He avoided the heat by lying in
the shade beside his bicycle on the North Lawn behind the Reitz Union. Monday's temperatures reached a
high of 87 degrees.
U UF receiver
Andre Debase went
through his first
full practice of the
spring Monday.
He'll be counted on
to play a major role
in the Gators' of-
fense after missing
2009 with injury.
See Story, Page 17.T day
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
11
13
17Sunny
87/56
visit www.alligator.orgReyce'
2, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 6,2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Justice for Kofi Rally
Today, 4 p.m.
Turlington Plaza
The Coalition for Justice
Against Police Brutality will be
holding a rally on Turlington
Plaza demanding justice for Kofi
Adu-Brempong, an internation-
al student shot in his on-campus
apartment by University Police
shortly before Spring Break.
The coalition demands that all
charges against Adu-Brempong
be dropped immediately and
that an independent grand jury
investigation be launched by
the state attorney into the cir-
cumstances surrounding the
shooting.
Check out the event on
Facebook for more informa-
tion. Make sure to come out and
fight for justice for your fellow
Gator!
Feed Your Brain
Zombie Survival Workshop
Today, 5 p.m. to 6 p.m.
Marston Science Library
For more information, visit
http://libguides.uflib.ufl.edu/
zombie.
RUB Entertainment Presents:
Traveling on a Budget with
Johnny Jet
Tonight, 8 p.m.
Orange & Brew
STUDENT LOANS ON ANYTHING!
-TV's e Stereo's -Jewelry 
*
Musical Instruments * Tools
We buy gold & cash checks
BEST JEWELRY & LOAN
523 NW 3rd Ave. (352) 371-4367
pawn brokers I
EXAMS
(b y Independent Optometrist)
NW 13th ASt.r" "
& 391th Avt.
Near Publix
I EXPRESS 
1 (352)375-6133
ALL WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTERS---
ABORTIONS -
" Abortion by Pill Woen's
(RU-486) 0 afth
" Early &i Late Term Ceters
Abortions 9 t
" Morning After Pill
" Birth Control & Gyn Services
" Insurance & Credit Cards Accepted
www.abortiongainesville.com
1135 NW 23rd Ave Suite N
352-378-9191
1-800-869-0440
a11EgMitgqports
Tune in for the
latest Gators
sports news
and analysis
from our beat
writers and
columnists.
Check it out at
alligatorSports.org
or subscribe on Tunes.Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Johnny Jet has traveled
150,000 miles to 20 countries
per year. As summer vacation
quickly approaches, find out
all his travel secrets, such as
where and at what time to buy
plane tickets, the best desti-
nations for budget travel and
how to find the least expen-
sive hotel rooms.
Break Passover at Gator City
1728 W University Ave.
Tonight, 8:30 p.m.
Enjoy free pizza and play
trivia (with prizes) to cel-
ebrate the end of Passover.
Seniors and graduate students
are invited to stick around
after trivia and learn about
post-graduation opportunities
in Israel.
Got something going on?
And want to see it in this
space? Send an e-mail with
"What's Happening" in the
subject line to efuggetta@alli-
gator.org. Please model your
submissions after the eventslisted above. Improperly for-
matted "What's Happening"
submissions may not appear in
the paper. News releases will
not appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS
An article in Friday's Alliga-
tor incorrectly reported that 10
people attended a Pride Aware-
ness Month Event at which Wil-
son Cruz spoke. The number
was a misprint -about 100
people attended the event.
An article in Monday's Alli-
gator incorrectly reported that
UF professor Grant Thrall at-
tended the American Counsel-
ing Association's annual con-
ference and exposition.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the independent florida
NotoficiallyoVOLUME 103 ISSUE 134 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta @alligatororg
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner, jmisner@alligator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, ctillo@alligator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
M att Tri pp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Holly Kane, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
Andrew Pantazi, Paul Runnestrand,
Colin Simmons, Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, ADVERTISEMENT, 3
The Gator Nation is
Everywhere
Becoming a
part of The Gator *
Nation has been a
big part of life for
my wife and me,
since we moved to
Gainesville in 2006.
Now, as dean of the
UF International V
Center, I am par-
ticularly proud of David Sammons
the tag line to the
UF slogan, "The Foundation for The
Gator Nation."
This tag line states that "The Ga-
tor Nation is Everywhere." The UF
International Center is charged with
ensuring that this remains true. From
our significant numbers of international
graduates (residents of more than 100
countries) to the large cohort of inter-
national students (3,917 with homes
in 134 countries, at latest count) to the
number of countries (52) where more
than 2,000 UF students study abroad
annually, we really are everywhere.
Why, you might ask, is The Gator
Nation so internationally committed?
The simple answer is: Because it's the
right thing to do. We live in a world
that is so intimately interconnected
that a great institution cannot func-
tion responsibly without a significant
global commitment -and we are a great
institution!
David Sammons
Dean, UF International Center
Buildings receive LEED
certification
Five University of Florida buildings and
additions recently received certification
from the United States Green Building
council for being environmentally friendly.
The buildings include the Steinbrenner
Band Hall, the Graham Center for Public
Service at Pugh Hall, the NIMET Nano-
scale Research Facility, the UF Dental
Clinic in Naples and the IFAS Biological 
&
Agricultural Research Facility in Fort Pierce.
The certification is called LEED, or Leader-
ship in Energy and Environmental Design.
UF currently has 17 certified buildings,
five buildings pending certification and 22
buildings registered to become certified.
For more information visit http://www.
facilities.ufl.edu/sustain/.
Cessation program
offered
In anticipation of the
University of Florida
going "Tobacco-Free
Together" on July 1, UF
several programs are being smo
offered to assist employees beginning
and their family members
in kicking the habit before the
policy takes effect.
For more information on the cessation
courses, visit http://shcc.ufl.edu/occmed/
esc.shtml.
UNIVE RSITY ofJF FLORIDA
The Foundation for The Gator NationC:
0
P
cc
cc0--
Dean of Students Jen Day Shaw (left), doesn't stop being productive during
her lunch break. She often eats with student groups.The Dean of Students
Office oversees
Preview, Orientation
and more.
Running with the Gators
Do you know who the dean of students is? If you're a student living on campus, she could
be your neighbor.
Jen Day Shaw, the new University of Florida dean of students, is so dedicated to her job
that she rarely leaves work. She exercises, dines and relaxes in an atmosphere surrounded
with students.
To get familiar with things fast, she decided to live on campus. According to Shaw, this
allows her to participate in more student events.
"It (living on campus) puts you right in the heart of things and makes it so much easier,"
Shaw said.
Although she has worked as the dean of students at other universities, including Univer-
sity of North Carolina at Greensboro and University of South Florida, this is her first time
working with such a large student body, she said.
The convenience and accessibility of living on campus helps when managing a university
crisis until 2 a.m., she said. "It's something different every day," she said, which is one of the
reasons she enjoys her job.
Even after working into the early-morning hours, she still manages to have energy to run
with ROTC students before dawn. Coming from a military family, Shaw has a great respect
for the group and uses the morning activity as another opportunity to familiarize herself with
students.
Impressed by the high involvement of UF students, Shaw finds attending student-group
meetings to be "uplifting," she said.
For this reason, she often eats lunch with students at daily events offering food. But, as
if dining, socializing and living in a student atmosphere weren't enough, Shaw also will be
teaching two student courses: First-Year Florida and a graduate course.
Shaw loves to teach, but her true calling lies in another aspect of her job.
"It is most fulfilling to help students in distress," she said. "I love that the best."
By Kristie Andres
UF Calendar
April 7
"The CSI Effect in Jury Trials," speaker Carol Henderson, 7:30 p.m.,
Ustler Hall Atrium.
April 8
1 School of Music Organ Studio Recital, 7:30 p.m., Univer-
sity Auditorium.
April 9
Spring drop or withdraw deadline.
April 11
School of Music Carillon Recital, 3 p.m., Century Tower.viii be April 17-18
ke-free UF Department of Environmental Horticulture's 2010
ing July 1. Annual Spring Plant Sale, 8 a.m. -4 p.m., UF Plant Sci-
ence Facility.
April 18
"Exhibition Spotlight Tour," 2 p.m., Harn Museum of Art.
Recurring Events
Weekend tours, 11 a.m., every Saturday; docent-led tours, 2 p.m.,
every Saturday, Sunday, Harn Museum of Art.
This is a sampling of events from the electronic UF calendar4 For more event details, or to submit an event to the calendar,
click "UF Calendar" at www.insideuf.ufl.edu.Your
campus
news
sourceCOr~
Produced by the
University Relations Office
for faculty, staff and students
Editor -Susan Stewart
April 6, 2010
S -
Solar home to compete internationally
The University of Florida Solar Decathlon team's student-
designed solar home will compete internationally this summer in
the Solar Decathlon Europe.
The competition is designed to advance innovation and re-
search in solar, sustainable and industrialized housing.
The UF team of more than 125 students from four colleges
and eight disciplines, will compete in Madrid this June in 10
categories that include solar power, innovation, sustainability
and communication. The team's entry fuses innovation with the
design of the historic
Florida Cracker House
to further the field of
solar energy and inspire 1 **
solutions for sustainable
living.
For updates on the
house, visit www.florida
solardecathlon.org.
View these stories and more at www.insideuf.ufl.edu. Follow us on Twitter.UF Voices
4, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 6,2010
F~v'q'% %4 t) utvr o4 IS S1~ %tI fOb 1K,~ I fI I fId ,
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Atheist, theist to face off
0 THE'GREAT RELIGION DEBATE'
WILL FEATURE RELIGION EXPERTS.
By BRENTON BROWN
Alligator Contributing Writer
A great debate will take place tonight
at the Phillips Center for the Performing
Arts on a topic as old as Adam and Eve.
The Great Religion Debate will feature
writers Christopher Hitchens and Dinesh
D'Souza in an event similar to CNN's
Crossfire.
Hitchens and D'Souza will discuss
their views on atheism and theism.
The debate, which was co-sponsored
by the Graham Center for Public Service
and Accent, is free and open to the pub-
lic.
Accent chairman Jason Attermann
said all students are encouraged to come
out for the debate, whether their opin-
ions about religion are strong, neutral oropen.
"These two men are highly respected
individuals with strong, opposing opin-
ions about religion," he said. "It's going
to be a great show."
Hitchens, an atheist and author of
"God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons
Everything," was a col-
umnist for Vanity Fair,
The Nation and Slate
magazine and has cor-
responded from more
than 60 countries.
D'Souza, a theist and
author of "The End of
Hitchens Racism: Principles for
a Multiracial Society,"
was called one of the "top young public-
policy makers in the country" by Inves-
tor's Business Daily.
Doors will open at 7 p.m., and the
show will begin at 8 p.m.
Hitchens and D'Souza were collective-
ly paid $33,000, according to Accent.AWARENESS
Neuroscience club kicks
off Brain Awareness Week
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
In an attempt to promote one of
the human body's most vital organs,
UF's Neuroscience Club kicked off its
Brain Awareness Week Monday.
The event will place a different fo-
cus on the mind for each day of the
week, from mental wellness to some
of the lesser-known functions of the
brain.
According to club president JiHee
Choi, the event represents a growing
interest in matters pertaining to the
brain.
She hopes that the week will help
raise awareness for students of all
fields of study.
"As students, it's an opportunity
to learn something outside the class-
room," Choi said. "A lot of people
may never take a neuroscience class,
but they need to know how to takecare of their brains."
Monday's theme focused on the ef-
fects of sleep, stress and exercise on
the brain.
"An inquisitive mind can learn
a lot."
JiHee Choi
UF Neuroscience Club president
Topics for the rest of the week will
include mental health, neuroanatomy
and creativity, among others.
The group will offer different ac-
tivities corresponding to the topics.
Although the official National
Brain Awareness Week was held last
month, Choi is confident students will
be receptive to the approach.
"An inquisitive mind can learn a
lot," she said.
For more information, visit www.
freewebs.com/neuroscienceclub.
TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
ON CAMPUS
Former Senate majority leader holds video talk
By MATT HARRINGER Democrats say the legislation he believes the bill will increase more on health care but don't have environmental factors.
Alligator Writer will save money, but Frist believes coverage among Americans who outcomes as good as some Euro- Republicans have said thehe
the reform will actually increase need it, the bill wouldn't bring pean countries not because the care bill leads the country tow
Former Senate Majority Leader the federal deficit. down health care costs. country has a market system, but socialism and further govern
Bill Frist R-Tenn answered ques- The former senator said while Frist said Americans spend because of America's behavior and control, but Frist, who worked
tions from a small group of UF
students and professors on health
care legislation, obesity and Haiti
recovery via satellite Monday
night.
Frist, who is a surgeon, was
scheduled to appear with for-
mer Senate Majority Leader Tom
Daschle, D-S.D., in January, but
the doctor missed the event to help
with earthquake recovery in Haiti.
About 30 students and profes-
sors watched the senator speak
from Tennessee while in the Col-
lege of Journalism and Communi-
cations' 21st Century News Labo-
ratory in Weimer Hall.
Republican leaders have been
critical of the health care bill.
House Minority Leader John Boeh-
ner, R-Ohio, even said the recently
passed legislation would "ruin our
country."
But Frist, who said he's out of
politics and more worried about
policy now, said the health care
bill is "80 percent good" but "20
percent has the potential of being
very destructive."
That destructiveness, Frist said,
will come from the legislation's
high price tag.Former Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist speaks Monday afternoon from Nashville, Tenn., via satellite
connection in the Center for Media Innovation and Research.alth
ard
ent
d as
a doctor in England's National
Health Service, disagreed.
"We're not a socialized system,"
he said. "We're about as far from it
as we can get."
One of his sons was born while
he was living in England, and Frist
said he received "unbelievably
good primary care."
"We didn't have to pay any-
thing, which was amazing," he
said.
But Frist said there was a down-
side to England's socialized sys-
tem. He said very specialized care
for ailments like cancer was harder
to get, and patients have fewer op-
tions.
Dr. Nancy Hardt, an associate
dean at UF's College of Medicine,
said she thought Frist was very
moderate compared to the Repub-
licans in Congress.
She asked the senator a ques-
tion on doctors treating patients
with emphasis on value instead of
volume.
Frist said part of the health care
bill aimed at valuing outcomes
might give the government more
control, but overall he liked the
proposal.
P MOP,-
L1 f J, Ui
6, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 6,2010
Editorial
Playing It Safe
Housing department's
Nerf gun ban overkillFirst it was the hippies and communist professors who
were corrupting our children's minds with radical
concepts such as gravity and the letter "Q." Then it
was those damn femi-Nazis who wanted to turn our prom
queens into jezebels who choke down birth control pills like
Skittles.
Now, university authorities are trembling at the possibil-
ity of a new breed of monster that just may rob this campus
of its innocence -Nerf guns.
Luckily for all of God's children out there, our heroes at
the Department of Housing and Residence Education, the
same people who masterfully lead us through the darkest of
fire drills and the most dire of alcohol checks, have the cour-
age to stand up to these cold, heartless half-dead bastards.
Could you imagine the horror if one of these Turlington
warriors decides to pull a John Rambo by charging into a
classroom chock-full of children and spraying the place with
his or her foam artillery?
Combine the opening scenes of "Saving Private Ryan"
and "Gangs of New York" to a soundtrack of wailing and
gnashing of teeth and you have a slight grasp of the slaugh-
ter carnival that would ensue in such an ungodly scenario.
If you feel overwhelmed by those brave enough to combat
the undead, there's a crop of UPDs who could quench their
bloodthirst in between cracking stoner skulls at rock concerts
and putting the pieces together behind the who-pissed-be-
hind-the-Grog-House-Dumpster investigation.
As for the toy-toting titans, the beatings will continue un-
til morale improves.
3-D(on't)
hat is the deal with James Cameron
makes "Avatar" and sud-
denly we think every movie
should be converted to it?
It's bad enough that the
ticket prices are higher for
something that, in certain
films, creates little more than
the vaguely cosmic feeling
of holding your hand out in
front of your face.
But with this current phase
in cinema being discussed
as something people would
have in their homes as a stan-
dard soon, we find ourselves
largely underwhelmed.
Changes in technology
don't always reflect a need
people have but should at
least display something bet-
ter than what people have al-
ready seen.
While "Avatar" was filmed
with new equipment caus-
ing something of a difference,
films like Tim Burton's "Al-ice in Wonderland" and the
newly released "Clash of the
Titans" remake were filmed
as 2-D movies and converted
to 3-D.
The effect?
Most of the backgrounds
are blurry because the direc-
tors didn't film them for 3-D,
thus projecting a beautiful
image of blurriness that looks
somewhat closer to us. We are
all for new ideas and relevant
technology, but the recent
3-D movie trend is neither of
these.
Although it seems we're in
the minority, we hate to think
about what this trend will do
to the cost of films -and the
dignity of them -when we
merely want to see the newest
Kate Winslet Oscar nom, and
instead we have to pay extra
to see it in startling 3-D.
Please, we beg you, don't
make this a standard before
it's somehow better than what
we already have.
0 the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University A e, or send them to PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions
Reader response
Today's question:
Are you attending the Great
Religion Debate?ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/opinions
ox-~oedCJ( own v W4Vev~t onz rS&Sfu
$C~S~4\V \I!Y
k vd
Column
In love, actions speak louder than words
think it's fair to say there are few phrases in the Englishlanguage that are more emotionally loaded than "I love
you." For that matter, it's probably fair to say there are
few phrases that are more regularly abused and misused
than those three words.
That's not a particularly bold statement to make, I know.
After all, people talk about how the language of love has
been cheapened by all aspects of our culture: lyrics to banal
pop songs that use the phrase for its rhymability; movies
and TV shows that render every expression of affection as
an embarrassing cliche; and advertising that reduces the
phrase to a cute, manipulative coda to a jewelry commercial
or a wireless carrier.
Others may decry how overused the word "love" is.
They argue that we whip out the word in all manner of situ-
ations -I love this infomercial! I love this YouTube video! I
love eating at Chili's! -so much that it throws into question
just how meaningful being the recipient of an "I love you"
could possibly be: "I'm really glad you love me and all, but
you said the same thing about an Awesome Blossom yes-
terday, so I really don't know what to do with that."
Even when an "I love you" is directed at someone whom
you actually love, the phrase can have a tendency to become
meaningless through reflexivity -the sort of unthinking "I
love yous" that come at the end of phone calls or e-mails.
Worse still, an "I love you" can all too easily just be-
come shorthand for something entirely different, like, "I'm
tired of arguing, and I want to end this conversation, but I
still think you're wrong." Or, "I kind of want to have sex
tonight, and I think this is what you want to hear." Or, "I
want something from you, and maybe me saying this will
make you feel guilty enough to give it to me." Or, "I don't
actually love you, but I'm willing to pretend because maybe
if I say it enough, it'll magically become true." (Just a heads
up: it doesn't.)
However, not using the phrase can be just as bad as usingit too often. Perhaps as a response to
the alacrity with which some people
dole out "I love yous," others may
feel compelled to guard their use of
the phrase with overzealous caution,
as though they've got a finite number
Joe Dellosa of them to hand out.
letters@alligator org But I'd argue that not saying it
also cheapens the phrase by setting
nonexistent or unrealistic restrictions
on who gets to hear it. Do you care about someone in a
deep, personal, substantial way and act accordingly? Does
it make you happy to see them happy? Do they draw out a
more selfless, more understanding part of you? Well, damn
-that might be love, and withholding an "I love you," at
least anecdotally, has a tendency to be among the things
people most regret.
All this is to say, I think we sometimes have a strange
relationship with the phrase "I love you." Some of this may
be over-thinking it; it is, after all, just three words, and like
over-analyzing a joke, dissecting them with too much inten-
sity could kill the spirit of it.
But it's worth at least some examination, because how
we use the phrase "I love you" can be a reflection of what
we mean when we say we love someone. To be sure, loving
someone means something more than just feeling strongly;
there's a reason words like "crush" exist, after all.
Love isn't so much felt as it is demonstrated, and that's
maybe the best guidance for determining the role of "I love
yous": they're not just meant to be cavalierly thrown out,
but saying it shouldn't earn a breaking news chyron or any-
thing.
Ideally, all an "I love you" should be is a quiet affirma-
tion, spoken aloud, of what your actions already made
clear.
Joe Dellosa is an advertising senior. His columns appear on
Tuesdays.
Monday's question: 18% YES
Are Nerf guns a threat to campus 82% NO
security? 134 TOTAL VOTES
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Column about Catholic Church sex
scandal misses mark
Paul Murty made several appalling
claims in his column last Friday. First, he
claimed there were "pretty valid reasons"
for the cover-ups of sexual abuse. The only
reason he gave is a shortage of priests. Is that
a reason to cover up child sex abuse? What
about a teacher shortage? Then he claimed
"people seem to think that these problems
are only in the Catholic Church," implicitly
blaming the media for the misconception.
The truth is that the general media enthu-
siastically covers sex abuse cases stemming
from relatives, educators, community lead-
ers, doctors, etc. Justice is regularly served
to those offenders; priests have evaded
justice with help from their church superi-
ors. Also, his only cited source comes from
a book written by a conservative Catholic
apologist, Philip Jenkins, in 1996. It is there-
fore irrelevant to the scandals that have
since emerged. The media investigations of
child sex abuse cover-ups within the Catho-
lic Church have led to legal investigations,
punishment for robed sex offenders, reme-
diation to victims and changes in national
education policies.
The church has gone to lengths to pro-
tect robed sex abusers time and time again.
Murty would rather the media show fair-
ness to religions by covering scandals of
this nature for a week, per religion. The vic-
timization of countless children has been ig-
nored by the church hierarchy for decades.
Sustained media coverage is absolutely
warranted, commendable and necessary to
prevent further abuses.
Wesley BivinsZombie editorial disappointing
I am disappointed by the stance the Edito-
rial Board took in Monday's editorial "Zombie
Nation." Humans vs. Zombies is just a master
game of tag that unites all different kinds of
students across UF's campus in a game that
makes the boring walk to class more interest-
ing for a week.
I am nowhere near a socially inept child-
hood comic nerd, as you have stereotyped ev-
eryone playing this game, and yet I find this
game rather entertaining.
Non-players are ignored and are perfectly
welcome to watch or ignore those who do
play.
Attempting to draw a parallel between the
Humans vs. Zombies players and Turlington
preachers and annoying activists is a worth-
less comparison.
Humans vs. Zombies is played on college
and university campuses across the nation.
This is the first semester it has come to UF,
and the game earlier this semester was a short
trial run.
There are more than 1,000 students regis-
tered and playing this week, which shows an
obvious interest from our UF student body.
That, coupled with the fact that a freshman
has managed to organize and launch a cam-
pus-wide game drawing the interest of more
than 1,000 students during his second semes-
ter, is admirable, and should earn the support
of our beloved Alligator.
Or, at the very least, it should curb blatant
criticism.
Dunai Harris
Allogator reader UFSeniorGuest column
Students should take stand
was standing on Turlington Plaza
Monday with some members of
the Coalition for Justice Against
Police Brutality, telling students
walking by about the shooting of Kofi
Adu-Brempong by the University Po-
lice Department. As we were handing
out fliers for today's protest, a girl
stopped me and asked me about the
incident. To no fault of her own, she
said she hadn't heard anything about
it and wanted to know how UPD
could possibly shoot an international
student on campus.
I started telling her about how Adu-
Brempong -a geography instructor
who lived in Corry Village -had his
door broken into by the UPD-equiva-
lent of a SWAT team. Once the officers
broke in, they shot him three times
with a beanbag gun capable of knock-
ing over a full-sized cow, twice with
UPD's infamous weapon of choice -
a Taser -and was then shot in the
face with an M-4 assault rifle. I didn't
have to tell her that the shots had de-
stroyed half of Adu-Brempong's jaw,
upper-palette and tongue before her
eyes started to well up with tears.
rDave Schneider This girl's re-
Speaking Out action affected
me in a way I
haven't felt for
some time. As she asked "How could
they do this?" I realized just how
wrong Vice President of Student Af-
fairs Patricia Telles-Irvin was when
she insultingly told the coalition that
it didn't have the support of the Stu-
dent Body. Most students understand
an injury to one Gator is an injury to
the entire Gator Nation, evidenced by
the thousands of students who signed
a petition demanding that all charges
against Adu-Brempong be dropped,
along with the 400 students, faculty
and community members who came
out to the last protest.
Today on Turlington Plaza at 4
p.m., students will be marching again
to demand that the administration
and UPD end this heinous example of
injustice. Come out and fight back to
win justice for Adu-Brempong and to
make sure this atrocity never happens
again.
Dave Schneider is a political science
and history sophomore.
tree Ouse
VILLAGE
Entire units from $649
-2 Bed/2 Bath, 874 sq. feet units
-Bus Route 16
-Washer/Dryer
-No Decal Parking
-No Towing
treehousevillage.co117 SE 16th Ave
(352) 372-3096 (Day)
(352) 494-9724 (Night)
kueales@vanrooy.com
UNIVERSITY AVE.
SE 16hA
S2 For Tuesdau $1 .60 Pabst Pints
2 for I Any Farah s $5 Pabst Pitchers
Famous Brgs $2 Well Drinks
ALL DAV EVERY DAY
Wednesday ?Nu aiscre f your sports
0 Wings 352-378-5179
11 20 W. University Ave.N%
8, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 6,2010
CITY COMMISSION
Commissioners support urbanization investments
By OLGA VELEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
City commissioners decided to sup-
port private investment in Five Points,
a small urbanized area of the city,
and land along Hawthorne Road in a
Community Development Committee
meeting Monday.
"We are not seeing enough private
investment," said City Commissioner
Thomas Hawkins.
Hawkins said if the city used pub-
lic money for funding, it would be
cheaper for private investors to invest
because they wouldn't have to spend
as much money on public utilities.
The decision came after serious
debate between city commissioners
Craig Lowe and Scherwin Henry over
whether to limit the development to
Five Points or expand it to include the
area along Hawthorne Road.
Lowe argued that the focus should
be limited to the development of Five
Points in order to "get something that
will develop close residential commu-
nities with heightened and focused re-
development strategies in mind."
Instead of trying to improve a
broad area, Lowe felt the greatest suc-cess could be achieved by focusing on
improving the investment in one area.
Henry disagreed because he felt
there was a greater potential for in-
vestment in the area along Haw-
thorne Road, with companies such as
Food Lion, a retail grocery store, and
GTECH, an information technology
company, to entice investors.
"They (the companies and the de-
partment) will have needs to be met
-enticing private
investors," Henry
said.
Although Com-
munity Development
Committee chairman
Hawkins originally
Hawkins agreed with Lowe,
after a half-hour of
consideration, both Lowe and Hawk-
ins decided to consider both invest-
ments simultaneously.
The next step, Hawkins said, is ex-
amining three possible programs that
could help fund this project: Eastside
Community Redevelopment Agency,
Connect Free and College Park.
The Community Development
Committee will meet again May 27 to
pick a program.f/I ~
From left to right, Ron Herget and Rick Hutton of GRU and City Commissioner Craig Lowe dis-
cuss wastewater facility plans at City Hall on Monday evening.
RecSports to take class reservations
Students can reserve with a fee
By KARINA LISENBEE
Alligator Contributing Writer
This fall, being turned away
from full exercise classes will be a
thing of the past -for a price.
RecSports will be offering Pre-
mium Group Fitness classes to
tackle overcrowding next fall. Stu-
dents will have the opportunity to
pay a small fee to be registered in
classes, which will be offered at therenovated Southwest Recreation
Center.
"Smaller group training in spec-
ified formats will not only get rid of
waiting, but it willHealth & also allow progressFitness to be tracked," said
Meaghan O'Dwyer,
graduate assistant for group fitness.
"It's a medium between personal
training and group fitness."
The prices have not been deter-mined yet for the classes, O'Dwyer
said.
"Students usually try to beg for
a way to get a number," said Brian
Rose, operations associate for RecS-
ports. "They try to tell me to make
one more number, but I can't make
exceptions."
Haley Olsen, a freshman, said
that she would sign up for Premi-
um Group Fitness classes to save
herself time.
"It'd be nice not to have to come
so early," Olsen said.Site ranks schools
based on
0 THE SITE IS INSPIRED BY
'TEXTS FROM LAST NIGHT.'
By GWEN RAHN
Alligator Contributing Writer
After debate over which uni-
versity is the No. 1 party school,
some UF students have developed
their own ways of deciding.
Five students launched par-
tyschooltexts.com, an interactive
Web site similar to textsfromlast-
night.com that will allow users
to vote for the No. 1 party school
starting March 23.
The Web site lists text message
conversations categorized by
universities and gives viewers a
chance to vote on their favorites.
The most popular posts will help
determine the ranking.
"It's ridiculous how the same
company who produces SAT
reviews also does party school
rankings," said Nick Gilboy, one
of the creators. "College students
know much more about party-
ing than the Princeton Review
does."
Gilboy, 22, and Alex Baden,
21, came up with the idea two
months ago after believing texts-
fromlastnight.com was mislead-
ing viewers with the use of area
codes.
"College students rarely have
phone numbers with the same
area codes as their college town,"
Baden said. "Their school doesn't
get credit for all the crazy thingstexti ng
that happen."
In collaboration with Kevin
Ruiz, Sunil Tangri and Tony Fe-
ria, Gilboy and Baden equally
financed the $1,000 start-up fee
and hired a Web designer for the
site's design and coding.
"At this point, we aren't ask-
ing for ads or trying to make a
profit," said Ruiz, who controls
the marketing aspect with Feria.
"We are trying to create an en-
tertainment service for college
students. It is interesting to see
what school they think is really
No. 1."
"It's ridiculous how the
same company who pro-
duces SAT reviews also
does party school rank-
ings."
Nick Gilboy
co-creator of tyschooltexts.com
The Web site has already re-
ceived about 1,000 unique views,
but the creators are hoping word
of mouth will increase popularity
out of state.
All five members plan on stay-
ing in Gainesville after gradua-
tion in May to concentrate on the
new business, and they hope the
site matches the level of texts-
fromlastnight.com.
"We are trying to add a level
of accountability to schools who
claim they party hard," Ruiz
said.The Bearded
Lady
Katherine
Artman,
a junior in
the English
program at UF,
wears a self-
knitted beard
at the Close-
Knit Gators
information
booth to
promote the
knitting and
crocheting club
outside the
Reitz Union
on Monday
afternoon.
TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 9
ON CAMPUS
Disney representatives to recruit interns on campus
By MATTHEW RIVA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Disney representatives will be on cam-
pus today looking for students who want
to make a career at the happiest place on
Earth.
During their first day on UF's campus
Monday, Disney recruiter Mel Morales
and several internship alumni presented
in Pugh Hall for about an hour on the ben-
efits of the Disney College Program.
The program is an internship available
to college students 18 or older at eitherWalt Disney World Resort or Disneyland
Resort.
Students who are selected to partici-
pate can live on-site for four to six months,
earning credits and getting paid work ex-
perience in the process.
In addition to working, members can
also take classes created specifically by
Disney for the program.
Disney's representatives discussed their
experiences and how they were able to do
the program and remain full-time students
with Bright Futures or other scholarships.
Many, including Morales, mentioned"When you go for an
you want a company
give you exposure to
ally."
benefits to working with L
"When you go for an
want a company big eno
exposure to move laterally
Morales said interns reinternship, of perks, including free admission to the
Walt Disney theme parks and discountsbig enough to for friends and family.
move later- After the presentation, Morales and the
representatives met with students to dis-
cuss potential roles in the internship.Mel Morales Students must be enrolled at UF or
Disney recruiter graduating soon to be eligible.
Disney employs more than 65,000 peo-
isney. ple in more than 2,000 roles in its Orlando
internship, you location alone.
igh to give you For more information, students can at-
," Morales said. tend today's presentation at 7:20 p.m. in
ceive a number the Pugh Hall Ocora.
A ,'Copyrighted Material ''p ~ ~)
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
$2i$j 1OINTOVReula" Pricel- :% "BABBEW SHOP GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS ALI15 .Uivesit Av. *(35) 33- 25% OF anv one GNC Product4841 Cannot be combined. One Coupon per customer. 00
H,,- N1 -F .9 a. - 1 3914 SW Archer Rd $4I
~onl av liable at ButIe Plaza aton4www.DTBarbershop.com Dailx Seal 377-D020 Exp 4/30/10 radrksp ilst 
!
Friends don't let friends drive drunk.
Do whatever it takes.
10, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 6,2010
ACTIVISM
Students to rally
to support shot
graduate student
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
A rally calling for justice for graduate student Kofi
Adu-Brempong will take place today from 4 p.m. to 7
p.m. on Turlington Plaza.
More than 400 students are expected to meet and
march to Tigert Hall and the University Police Depart-
ment, said Dave Schneider, an organizer of the event.
Schneider said the group will present a list of de-
mands to the administration, including
dropping the criminal charges against
Adu-Brempong and eliminating UPD's
Critical Response Team.
He said the main purpose of the pro-
test is to get the administration to stop
ignoring the students, drop the charges
and take radical action against police
Sikes brutality.
"Our goal is obviously to get all of
the demands met," Schneider said.
UF spokewoman Janine Sikes said university officials
are ready to welcome the students at both UPD and Ti-
gert Hall.
However, Sikes said officials are restricted in what
they can discuss with students until the results of the
Florida Department of Law Enforcement investigation
are released.
"We urge some patience at this time," Sikes said.Students to paint orgasms on T-shirts
* THE EVENT IS PART OF
MONTH.PRIDE AWARENESS
By NICOLE FLIKIER
Alligator Contributing Writer
What does an orgasm look like?
Students can gather on Wednesday to express their ideas
on a blank T-shirt during Paint Your Orgasm, an event of
Pride Awareness Month.
This event is co-sponsored by LGBT Affairs, Voices for
Planned Parenthood and the county health department.
Jose Tebar, director for Paint Your Orgasm, said aside fromthe T-shirt painting, students will be able to get more comfort-
able with sexuality.
"Straight people have as much right to celebrate their sex-
uality as the gay community," Tebar said. "Our event is about
celebrating the things we have in common, not the things that
separate us."
On Tebar said free IfV testing will be offered on
Campus the North Lawn from 10 a.m. to 2p.m.
Sparkle Antoinette, 22, who dresses as a drag
queen on weekends, thinks the safe-sex aspect is important.
"I love the idea that I get to show my version of sex in such a
fun and creative way," Antoinette said.
Tebar said he expects about 200 people to attend.
A. ENGLERT P RE I E R GRAHAMCENTERSunrise Launch
Space Shuttle
Discovery lifts off
from the Kennedy
Space Center at
Cape Canaveral
on Monday.
Discovery's seven-
member crew is
on a mission to
deliver science
racks, the last of
the crew quarters
and supplies to
the International
Space Station.
AP Photo
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished furnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
1 MONTH FREE!
Immediate availability
All Inclusive Student Living from $399
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-1
ter-ingtwJOresse SM11
Sign and Get an iPad!
*Rates as low as $379
Fully Loaded 42" TV, 19.95 to sign
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, University Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
Summer Rates 2010
Summer Free 2011
On 15 month lease
352-376-6720
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-1Experience Why We
Define the Good Life
2/2*4/4*All Inclusive
Filling Fast for Fall!
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST Townhouse near UF,
Shands, shopping; easy access. 2BR/2.5BA;
greatfor student/family. Only $750/mo; short-
term lease available. Renovated & ready! Ed
305-972-6432 4-7-10-95-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. 239-250-6149 5-11-10-79-1
2, 3 & 4'S READY NOW!
Individual & Fully Furnished @ $329
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-10-30-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
2/2*3/3*4/4
Experience the Good Life
Text "Enclave" to 47464
4-21-09-71-1
REDUCED 1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $300/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished +
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 4-7-10-41-1
2 Blocks to UF $300/mo
Furnished bedroom in 4BD condo.
Rent includes utils, cable TV & internet.
378-4626 / 262-4290 4-21-10-31-1
$339- Fully Furnished fairly new condo
4Br/4Ba spacious bedrooms & living area,
w/d in unit, great kitchen, great bus rts12
& 35 ten min to UF & shopping Discounted
rent Avail. Start fall. 941-232-1960
4-13-1-2-1
$339 rm/mo all utils incl. 4BR/2BA Condo
at University Commons furnished W/D/TV/
Cable/Parking. Immediatley avl. summer/fall
Great Place Great Price 239.253.8701 or
email at: tom@moorelandscape.com 8-16-
10-36-14-4 condo will rent monthy, quarterly or
yearly. $500/month/room includes: washer-
dryer, dishwasher, private bathroom/bed-
room, walk-in closet, utilities, cable, wireless
internet, pool, gym, volleyball and basketball
courts. Living, dining and kitchen have wood-
en floors, bedrooms have nice clean carpets.
Bus services every 5-10 minutes. 352-213-
7059 5-20-10-30-1
1BR/1BA. $850 per month (everything in-
cluded). Covered parking behind unit. Less
than one block from campus. Call for more
details, 724-974-9591. 4-8-16-1
Roomate needed for 2010-2011 School year
Clean, furnished condo on RTS #8 busline
and close to UF. All utilities, cable & internet
included, $500/month
Contact: Maurice (mwmascoe@yahoo.com)
4-13-10-15-1
3/3 Townhouse 2 min from UF/Shands/Vet!
Washer/Dryer, Dishwasher, Pool, a few steps
from Bus 13 stop. Furnished or Unfurnished
at same price! Call 727-386-6426 4-6-5-1
4BR/4BA furn. Coutryside Apt. $400/BR in-
cludes wi-fi internet, cable, and pro rated wa-
ter/electric. Gated 2nd floor and overlooking
pool. Contact Chris at 941-726-2204 or rag-
inriv@ufl.edu w/ any questions. 4-6-10-5-1
3BE/3BA clean and quiet condo for rent. All
utilities included. $400/room or $1000/apt. 1
mile from UF. 2 bus routes available. Must
see!! Call Dory 954-816-1468. 4-6-10-5-1
Rockwood Villas Fully Furn. 2/2 with den.
Remodeled. Screen porch, laundry, all ap-
pliances.Great Bus lines,volleyball,(2)pools
and tennis. $800 month. Security $500 one
year lease minimum. 352-494-6110 4-9-
10-7-1
ROOM FOR RENT Lg master suite in new
home, 15 min to VA, Shands & UF. NS, pro-
fessional only. Util, cable TV, garage & wire-
less internet incl.Kitchen & laundry access.
$525/mo. 352-219-3410 4-9-10-7-1
2/2 Woodlands of Gainesville Luxury Apt.
Indiv. leases, $670/room/mo.$360 Cash
Back. Cable, High Speed internet and
Utilities included. On 3 bus routes and close
to major shopping/food areas. summer
2010(May-July)
(786) 449-7029/rodriba@ufl.edu
4-15-10-1Townhome for rent.
Spacious 2 x 2.5 in Grantwood, a gated com-
munity. 5 minutes from campus. Contact
Eddie at 954-699-3665 for more information,
or to arrange a viewing. 5-25-10-19-1
4/4 Countryside Condo private bed/bathincl
utilities, wd,cable,wireless int,pool,gated
workout room, great bus rte,$400/mth all
in.Jeff @904-612-3944, will consider semes-
ter lease. 8-5-10-40-1
Spacious 4/4 fully furn condo in SW G'ville 5
mins to UF! Indiv. leases, $375/rm/mo. On 3
bus rtes, close to major shopping/food areas.
Utils incl up to $200/mo. $200 SD. Avail. im-
mediately/summer/fall. Email anu87@ufl.edu
4-21-10-14-1
$450 room in beautiful, landscaped house.
Looking for mature adult -owner gone May
to Oct. W/D, wireless internet, full house
amenities, half utilities. Call 352-219-1095
4-12-10-5-1
3BR/3BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room + utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Bball, pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd FIr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, Sebastian 352-874-8905 4-21-
10-12-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901 4-21-
10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
Now Available Downtown!
Luxury 1, 2, and 3 Bedrooms
Alarm*Walk-in Closet*Pets OK
Stay Out Late & Walk Home!
Call today-don't wait! 338-0002
4-21-09-71-2AFFORDABLE RATES! QUIET COMMUNITY!
www.frederickgardens.com
1BR/1BA $469 * 2BR/1BA $515
2/1 special price will not last long!
Adopted pets live free!! 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
12, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 6,2010
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOWor FALL 2010.
2/2 from $999 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1,2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$709 2/2-$809 3/2-$909
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-71-2
*More Play, Less Work@
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
BRING IN THIS AD FOR $0 MOVE IN FEES!
2/2s: From $799; 3/3s: From $959
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
Great School Districts!
HUGE 1 Bed- $595!
2 Bed- $729*4 Bed- $949
Ten nis*Pool*asketball
Call TODAY*332-7401
4-21-71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 3/2s from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Museum Walk
All Inclusive Roommate Matching -$439
3/3 Flats 2/2 Townhomes & UF LOCATION!
#117 Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave MuseumWalk.com
Call for Specials!*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
2BR/1 BA from $338/person
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
We <3 pets! Wood floors avail!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $635. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-20 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $515 -15 t from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$369
INCLUDES UTILITIES
1 month FREE, Move In TODAY!
24hr Amenities & Valet Trash!
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SUN KEY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!)
Student Discount
From $599/mo; Up to 3 Months Free!
Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Special runs until 4-15-2010
352.376.6720 or 352-376-7041
Check out our unbelieveable
bandwidth: 30x10 IPV6
www.sunisland .info
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO UF -AVAIL NOW & FALL!
*1BR $460- $495
* 2BR $485- $600
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -YOUR NEW HOME!
Unique LOFT floor plan only $595!
1/1 from $625 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning* Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis * 1 mile to UF
377-7401 * www.boardwalkapt.com
4-21-09-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 5-11-10-79-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-21-65-2
* One Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1 bedroom from *$457 2 bedroom from *$558
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 bedroom 1 bath from *$549
2 bedroom 2 bath from *$641
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Additional $200 off next month
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
C 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 1549
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
5-11-10-64-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 2 bd/ 1 ba
Hardwood floors, must see
$900/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Large 5 Bedrm House**
1 full & 3-1/2 baths
Plant Atriums, Unique floorplan, W/D
Plenty of Parking, 8 blocks N of UF
$2,500/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Great Parking! Walk to UF! 4BD/4.5 BA
Located near SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St.
Call today to view @ 352.373.7578
Union Properties www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
NEWLY REMODELED 1BRs
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-23BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
6-29-64-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 4-16-
10-45-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 5-11-
10-48-2
2BR/2.5BA townhouse condo, 1 mi from
UF on bus route. Inc W/D, community club-
house, pool & fitness center. Wired for inter-
net & security sys. $878/mo. Avail 5/1 or 8/1.
Call/text 332-8841 lindalu@gatorhomes.com
4-19-10-40-2
SCRABBLE'is a trademark of Hasbro in the US and Canada. @2010 Hasbro Distributed by Tribune
Media Services, Inc. All rights reserved
Ai 1 O1iN Li D2 M3
Ai Ai Ti EL M:E Z B3
Ei Li 1 1V4  03
A1DA1I1IY4LIIR1IW
PAR SCORE 150-160
BEST SCORE 2143rd Letter
Triple
Double
Word Score1CRACK 1
RACK 2
HK3
RACK 3
FOUR RACK TOTAL
TIME LIMIT: 20 MIN
DIRECTIONS: Make a 2- to 7-letter word from the letters in each row. Add
points of each word, using scoring directions at right. Finally, 7-letter words get 50-
point bonus. "Blanks" used as any letter have no point value. All the words
are in the Official SCRABBLE" Players Dictionary. 4th Edition. SOLUTION TOMORROW
For more information on books, clubs, tournaments and the school program go to
www.scrabble-assoc.com or call the National SCRABBLE Association (631) 477-0033.
04-06
TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 13
For Rent For Rent For Rent W For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
* POLO S
*Resort Lifestyle*
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
ALL INCLUSIVE PRICING!
2s: From $546/person; 3's: From $451/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-42-2
2BR HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area. Wood firs, new kitchen
vinyl, Cent H/AC, DW, fenced yard, wood
deck, parking, $975/mo. Pets ok Avail Aug
16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 5-27-
10-46-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority
Row/Norman Hall area. W/D, ice maker,
ceramic tile. Cent H/AC, DW, parking,
fenced yard. $1485/mo. Pets ok. Avail Aug
16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 5-27-
10-46-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area, remodeled baths, new:
stove, DW, disposal & AC, W/D, wd firs. cent
H/AC, parking. $2400/mo Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg
4-21-10-40-2Houses Available for Fall!
2631 NW 1st Ave -$1845
402 NW 36th -$1425
315 NW 17th St. -$875
4 NW 25th St -$1499
717 NW 34th St -$1320
FREE UF Parking!
352.371.7777
4-21-71-2
$199 Move-In Special
$500-$700 2BR/1BA
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or 352-505-9264 4-16-10-
30-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $650/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220. (leave
a voicemail) 4-21-32-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 5-11-10-114-2
$600, 2BR, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet school
& campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furn; Parking; 352 376
0080;352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-27-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**Near GHFC vaulted
ceilings, all appliances, W/D, garage, small
pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1300 333-9874
4-6-10-15-2
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
-0
I
I.U
I /IU
#'
pU"
I*3401 NW 7th Place* 3/2 liv,din,fam rms.All
appliances W/D close to campus, large yd.
small pets ok avail Aug.1 $1325 333-9874
4-6-10-15-2
For a Limited Time Only! 1BR/1BA seperate
dining rm, Ig living rm, walk in closet, cent
H/AC, full kitchen, full bath. H20 & sewer
incl. Free pest control. Close to Oaks Mall,
Archer Rd & UF. $395/mo. 2 & 3 BDs avail
in several locations, dif floor plans. 215-7780
6-17-10-38-2
0* Very Nice 1BR 0*.
Full bath, living room, dining room, full kitch-
en, in-law suite, w/ W/D, cable, all utils incl.
$750/mo near Haile. (352) 367-0372
4-13-10-20-2
Walk to UF. Openings in April -Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
4-21-10-26-2
Available Immediately! Small 1/1
Efficiency apt. W/D avail, new paint & carpet.
10 min walk to UF. Perfect for international/
graduate students! $500/mo + utils. 284-0979
4-21-10-26-2
**4/2 3962 W University Ave.**close to cam-
pus, all appliances, W/D, hot tub, fire place,
screened porch, avail. Aug,1 $1400, 333-
9874 4-6-10-15-2
10houses.com
3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$1000 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
5-11-10-26-2
**4/3 18 NW36th St.** Close to campusall
appliances,W/D, cent, heat/air Avail. Aug.1
$1375 333-9874 4-7-10-15-2
**4/2919 NW 10thAve.**Closetocampus,all
appliances,W/D,Cent.heat&air.Avi.Aug.1
$1400 333-9874 4-7-10-15-2
OFREAKS!! DOWNTOWN 414 SE 2nd St
2BR/1 BA DUPLEX apt w/loft, central heat,
window air, off-street parking, $620/mo,
SALSO: Studio/garage apt. $420/mo.
Call 352-373-6551 4-9-17-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
Walk to Campus
1/1 Townhomes from $579
2/1.5 bath townhomes from $699
Check out our unbelieveable bandwidth:
30x10 IPV6
352-376-6720 352-376-7041
Ask about our specials!
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-25-2
SUN BAY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!)
Student Discount
From $599/mo; Up to 3 Months Free!
Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Special runs until 4-15-2010
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-25-2
FREE MONTHS RENT 1BDs
1114 SW 7th Ave $650/mo
Spacious loft style, parking onsite.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-24-2
That's what She Said!
"I LOVE Hidden Lake because.
Cable & internet are Included,
roommate matching is available,
furniture & utility packages are available,
I'm just 1.5 miles to UF & midtown,
there's FREE tanning & a 24-hr gym,
a designer pool AND pets are welcome!
Come see for yourself!
call 374-3866 for a tour or text
HIDDENLAKE to 47464 OR.
Next time you're on facebook,
creep on over to Hidden Lake's page
to see floor plans, pics & more!
4-21-10-25-27 Blks UF , 4BR/3BA, 2 masters, POOL HOT
TUB, 2500 sq ft, 2 porches, 5 car parking,
responsible students, professionals only, Will
leave plasma TV on wall, $2375/mo -nego-
tiable. Avail May or Aug, Jordan 352-222-0211
4-9-10-15-2
3bed/2bath Creeks Edge condo -just off NW
13th St. W/D, pool & clubhouse. Close to UF
and on bus route. Available August. Seeking
roommates $395/mo/ea. 727-463-0560
6-29-10-35-2
ONE BLOCK TO CAMPUS
ONE MONTH RENT FREE
1122 SW 2nd Ave 3/1.5 $1575
1123 SW 1st Ave 3/1 $1500 includes utilities.
1118 SW 2nd Ave 3/1 $1200
1 & 2 BRs also available. No dogs.
Call Kinetic Properties at 337-9600 4-12-
15-2
ARLINGTON SQUARE (2b/2ba) -$799/Mo,
Luxury Downtown APT, access to main RTS,
NO short-term. Avail 4/21/10, Call Sean,
239-410-1603 5-13-22-2
***HOUSE 4BR/2BA***
Available 8/1. Lovely, remodeled. W/D. Bike
to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. $1200/
mo. 373-1558, 246-8645, or 256-8370 4-9-
10-10-2
House,4BR,3BA,LR,FR,recently renovated.
2 Masters w/pvt bth. fenced in back yard.
garage. Off 34th. tander@bellsouth.net 954-
340-2732 5-13-10-20-2
Looking for an apartment ASAP? Cheapest
apartments in town can be found right here!
Please call (352) 262-9920. 2/2's available
for as low as $500/month, ready for immedi-
ate move-in. 4-9-10-10-2
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2
BR vintage apts. near UF & downtown. All
have wood floors, fans, & blinds. Pets pos-
sible. Rent from $575-$950/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com, 352-338-7670
4-12-10-10-2
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean 2 & 3
BR homes near UF. Some wood floors, all
with CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds, & lawn up-
keep. Rent @ $790-$1275/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com, 352-338-7670
4-13-10-10-2
2 Br Houses near 13th St. Walmart:
Beautiful vintage charmer 2ba $950
available now. Available May:
Pet Heaven, fenced yard 1ba $675
Call owner/agent 352-328-7474. 4-21-10-
16-2
TOP QUALITY -GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to cam-
pus -on N & E sides. Year lease, beginning
summer or fall. K & M Properties. 372-1509
4-21-10-15-2
JACKSON SQUARE CONDO -Annual
rental beginning 8/1/10. Immaculate, new,
2BR/2BA, 1 blk from UF. W/D in unit, un-
dercover parking. Call owner for details 561-
912-0190. $750/mo/room. 4-21-10-15-2
Housestaff, 4/3, close to Shands, UF, VA.
$1975 mthly. By appt only. 352-301-2403
4-7-5-2
AVAILABLE NOW. 641 NW 34th St. Lovely
4BR/2BA house. 2288 sq ft. Step-down LR,
dining/family rm. Central Heat & A/C, W/D,
private big backyard. $1100. Call 770-822-
9657 or 404-245-1300 4-14-10-10-2
4BD/3BA HOUSE NEAR UF!
W/D, Central AC, Wood Floors. 3514 NW
7th Place. Available Aug. 1st. Call Manny at
352-317-4408 4-21-10-14-2
4BD/2BA HOUSE NEAR UF!
W/D, Available Aug. 1st. 610 NW 34th
Terrace. Call Manny at 352-317-4408 4-21-
10-14-2
*WANT IT ALL?@
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
FURNITURE NOW INCLUDED!
ALL INCLUSIVE rates beginning at
2/2-$546/person, 3/3-$451/person
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-14-2One month free rent to qualified tenant with
year long lease- 2/1 $575.00 mo, across
from Santa Fe College w/d hkups & central
A/C. Edbaurmanagement.com- 4121 NW
37th PI Suite B, Gainesville, FL 4-15-10-
11-2
Beautiful Northwood Pool Home with large
1/2 acre lot. 3 bed, 2 bath has plenty of room
for summer fun while swimming or hanging
out in the hot tub. Washer Dryer included
with full 2 car garage and lots of storage.
Pets OK, call Jeffrey for more information.
352-246-5801 5-11-10-14-2
Spacious 1 BR apt for rent.
1 BR/1 BA apt near Oaks Mall.
Walk to mall, restaurant and coffee shops.
New appliances. Call 352-258-4695 4-9-
10-5-2
Homes Avail for Fall! Pets welcome!
Minutes to UF and Santa Fe.
4/2 3321 and 3236 NW 30 PL $1200/mon
4/2 5402 NW 25th PL $1200
Call April 352-514-1441 for more info! 4-21-
10-13-2
Duck Pond rentals -The NE Blvd Apts are
1/1 units, ~ 850 sq ft w/high celings, wood
floors, ample parking; avail mid July thru Fall
$540/mo; Historic 1/1 at 205 NE 3rd St, $550/
mo, off steet parking Edbaurmanagement.
com 4121 NW 37th PL Suite B 375-7104
4-15-10-9-2
2 bedroom, 2 bath condo in NW Gainesville,
nice quiet complex, screened porch, vaulted
ceilings, washer & dryer,2 parking spots
$725/month (239)851-8948 4-12-10-5-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home.
Shady lot. From $300 -$450/mo
FIRST MONTH HALF PRICE incl water.
No pets. 4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887
5-11-10-13-2
AVAILABLE NOW & AUGUST
*2BR/1 BA fenced bkyd, cent H/AC $745/mo
*3BR/2BA fenced backyard. $1025/mo.
Gore-Rabell Real Estate 378-1387.
www.gore-rabell.com 4-21-10-13-2
APTS and HOMES for rent near UF!
Avail Summer and Fall, visit our website at
merrillmanagement.net or
Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494 x10
4-21-10-13-2
1BR 1BA Apt Grad II Apts
New carpet, paint. Avail Now
Or Fall 1236 Sw 4th Ave $540/mo
Central H &Air, Laundry Fac.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494
4-21-10-13-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue. St. Croix Apts
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
2BR 1BA, Wood Floors, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 or tazzie2l@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR or 2BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst control and garbage. $425-$550/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
8-16-10-37-2
14, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 6,2010
Subleases esReal Estate Furnishings Furnishings
DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY!!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Sublet: Walking Distance to Class!
Right Behind Sorority Row!
Master Bedroom in House/Ample Parking!
Needed May-Mid August / $475 monthly
352-275-2461 4-16-13-3
Summer sublease 1BR/1BA at the Estates
Furnished + W/D. $882/month (negotiable).
Rent includes utilities, internet, cable +
covered parking. Gym, billiard/poker room,
basket/volleyball courts. Call 7865540378
4-9-8-3
SUMMER 1 BLOCK FROM MIDTOWN/
CAMPUS 18th & 2nd! 2/1 HOUSE w/ porch-
es & fenced yd-pets ok! $700 OBO! Furn/
Unfurn 754-366-9991 4-6-5-3
1br in 6br/3bath behind chipolte, 4 blockfrom
midtown sublease May -Aug. separate en-
trance. 2 parking spaces. porch. separate
entrance to room. large closet. 50 yards
from pool. stocked kitchen. washer/dryer.
furnished or unfurnished. 5612488307 4-6-
10-4-3
$375 1/1bed in a 4/4 apt.
May-July furnished & clean
University House 13th&7th ave
6 blocks from UF 2flr poolview
Contact-hannahbananab gmail.com 4-12-
10-5-3
alRoommats
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES
IN FURN 4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF.
$290/mo incl elec, cable tv, internet, pool,
laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626
4-21-09-71-4Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
5-11-10-62-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsVA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$325/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220
(leave a voicemail.) 4-21-32-4.
$400/mo Room for Rent plus elec, Rockwood
Villas TH, pvt bath, on bus route, w/d, free
internet, non-smoking, female only. Avail
mined & Fall. 1st Mth Free w lyr lease.
ktellmann@ufl.edu/904-874-6877. 7-13-
10-45-4
Seeking roommates for 3 bed/ 2 ba quiet
condo at Creeks Edge. New flooring, recent
remodel,upstairs unit, washer/dryer, on bus-
line to campus, partial furnished. Available
Aug 1st. $395/mo. 727-463-0560 5-11-10-
28-4
Grad student looking for roommates for 4
bed/4 bath condo at University Terrace.
$400/room/month, incl. cable, internet, util.
On 2 bus routes, fully furnished. Tidiness
preferred. Call 352.575.0731. 4-12-10-15-
Roommate wanted: College house; 4/3: Lg
rooms, Lg yard, FP & Lg pool, Walk/bike to
UF or 4.5 mi. to SFC. Nice/safe neighbor-
hood! Join the good life! $375/mo +1/4 Util:
Call Justin @ 813-748-6042 4-12-10-15-4
1 Room avail in Large 1800SF home. Mins to
UF/Santa Fe, steps to a bus. Ideal for grad/
young professional. Only $300/mon + 1/3
utilities! Avail Aug. 6th. 352-514-1441 4-15-
10-14-4
1 room in 3/2, 10 blocks north of university
on nw 22nd st. rent + util&cable&internet is
$500 total/month. large 12'x12' room w 7'x2'
closet, corner window. summer or year avail-
able immediately. Jason @ (352) 577-8235
4-9-10-9-4
1 OF 3/3 BED/BA AVAILABLE NOW!
ALL amenities included for $450/mo!
Awesome roommates! Clean & safe place!
Near mall & major busline. Call Steve at 352-
278-6645 4-6-1 0-5-4
Responsible and Clean Rommate needed
Asking $600, spacious room w/ private bath.
Fully furnished, 5 minutes from campus, ac-
cess to bus routes 9 & 35. Contact Eddie at
954-699-3665 for details or a viewing. 4-21-
10-14-4
Looking for roommate in 2BR/2BA luxurious
condo at ROCKWOOD VILLAS. Perfect loca-
tion, short walk to bus stop. Fully furnished.
$490/mo ALL INCLUSIVE. Non-smoker, No
pets. Call 407-733-9069 4-6-3-4
Grad student looking for roommates for 4
bed/4 bath condo at University Terrace.
$400/room/month, incl. cable, internet, util.
On 2 bus routes, fully furnished. Tidiness
preferred. Email anu87@ufl.edu 4-21-10-
22-4
Need FEMALE roommate! All-inclusive, fully-
furnished 1BR/1BA available in a 3BR/3BA
apt @ Windsor Park. Bus routes 9,34,35,36.
Contact me for RATES and INCENTIVES:
aptinfo4u@yahoo.com 4-21-13-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Campus Edge / Somerest Village.Walk to
Shands/VA/class 2units, 2bd/2ba vault-
ed ceilings 2nd/3rd floor w/d in unit,best
locations parking. $8,000 tax credit.
$164,900/$132,900. Move in Ready 954-
439-2301 stedel@bellsouth.net 4-21-10-
41-5
Motivated. For sale by Owner. Must sell
beautiful 3bd/2b 1777 sf home in Cottages
of Country Way, Newberry, FL. Close to
schools. No HOA. Large lot.Asking $184,900.
(530) 613-6488 4-21-10-28-5
Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
L For Sale
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie -373-5929 4-21-18-10
TAYLOR GUITAR 310 2005
Best offer gets it!
Excellent condition. 813-765-7809 4-6-10-
3-10
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
Eotcycles, Mopeds M% cycles, Mopeds Alt 9sflt 9s f3 pjnted
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
JUESLI
Copyrighted Material
'Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
amELECTRIC SCOOTER
No insurance/registration needed
Inexpensive to own & operate
Assembled/free delivery/guaranty
American Electric Bike Co
www.greenscootersoncampus.com
4-16-10-25-11
2007 KAWASAKI NINJA 500
Garage-kept, never dropped. All mainte-
nance done. Very, very clean. 720 miles.
$3500. Call anytime 352-214-5191 4-13-
10-20-11
HONDA CBR 1000 -1991
Super sport. Excellent condition. 1 owner.
Spent over $8000 -documented.
SACRIFICE for $2500. Very pretty bike.
Call 352-389-0465 or 352-207-8815 4-7-
10-10-11
WLZAutosZ
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
*NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
5-27-09-124-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699
94 Chevy 1500 $999
92 Chrysler Cirrus $999
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
93 Ford F150 $1999
98 Ford Explorer $1999
96 Mits Galant $1999
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Nissan Stanza $1499
98 Pontiac Transport $1499
97 Plymouth Voyager $1999
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2999
99 Olds Alero $2999
99 Pontiac Grand Am $2999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
MOST WANTED
Tony Hopkins
Black Male
(DOB 01/01/58); 511",
210 lbs, Black Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
Possession of a Controlled
Substance Without a
Prescription and Possession
of Marijuana
ALACHUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOP00 Ford Mustang, 40k, $5500 CASH
03 Chevy Venture, 143k, $6900 CASH
05 Jeep Liberty, 105k, $6999 CASH
05 Saturn Ion, 123k, $7999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
06 Ford Taurus, 40k, $8900 CASH
05 VW Jetta, 111k, $8999 CASH
05 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
05 Chevy Trailblazer, 135k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Ranger, 158k, $7999 CASH
06 Chrysler PT Criuser, 46k $9999 CASH
07 Chevy Cobalt, 24k $10,999 CASH
02 Volvo S60, 97k $8999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
W J Z W d
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948. 4-9-10-72-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 4-9-
10-72-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male summer camp counselors ages 18 and
up. FEYC is an over-night camp located off
of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL. The camp
runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please contact Krys
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352
455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Havea fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
Build your own online business from your
laptop. Fifty year old company. Contact John,
352-219-0871, or John@JCantlon.com
4-12-10-20-14
Start securing your career today!
Join UF ARMY ROTC!
Register for MSL 1001 and 1001L
Call 392-1395 today to learn about
jobs available as an Army officer!
8-5-10-50-14
Leasing Agent PT Must be fluent with face-
book, excel &familiarw/ UF & SF campuses.
Very Friendly & Smiles Often
Fax Resume to 338-7468 4-9-10-14-14
Ever think about joining the Army?
Ever considered being an officer?
If you have 2-3 years left at UF you
may have an opportunity through
Army ROTC Call 392-ARMY!
5-27-10-32-14
STAY IN GAINESVILLE
CAREER POSITIONS
(with benefits)
MARKETING/SALES REPS
ADMIN ASST
TECH SUPPORT
ACCOUNTING EDITOR
RESEARCH ASST
SOFTWARE TESTER
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
(PT also available)
Apply online at http://www.gleim.com
4-21-10-17-14
PT work home and office. Lawn work exp.
preferred. Students only. non-smoking. $10/
hrCall Sebastian (352)591-3000. 4-12-10-
9-14
Sitter- athletic 6 y/o girl, $10 hr, start mid
June, Wed pm & some w/e, 6-8hr avg/wk,
need car, reply bookersch@bellsouth.net
4-6-10-5-14
500 INFORMATION CONSULTANTS: Work
from your location or Laptop. Part time. Help
Us Build A Nationwide Database. Anita 770-
873-1331 4-6-10-5-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
SUMMER 2010
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
4-7-10-5-14
Swim, Gymnastics, Dance & Cheer
Instructors, Summer Camp Counselors &
Maintenance Staff. Submit applications to
Sun Country Sports Center (download at
www.suncountrysports.com) 4-9-10-7-14
CLERICAL/TECHNICIAN POSITION
FT/PT
Please apply in person
Institute of Veterinary Spec
3603 NW 98th St. Suite A 4-7-5-1499 Chrysler Sebring $2500
S* * . 01 Dodge Neon $2500
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
16, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 6,2010
FHelp Wanted Services Health Services Event Notices Entertainment
RECEPTION POSITION
FT
Please apply in person
Institute or Veterinary Spec
3603 NW 98th St Suite A 4-7-5-14
HYPNOTIST -MENTALIST
Seeks apprentice for internship w/excellent
computer, internet & interpersonal skills.
Phone Richard 9am-12 noon. 352-949-0813
4-7-10-5-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Afternoons,
evenings &weekends. Fax resume and avail-
able hours to 373-2230 4-15-10-10-14
Nonprofit organization seeking business
sales rep for outreach position. Flexible
schedules and competitive pay. Email re-
sumes to johnb@safeid4families.org 4-9-
10-6-14
WINDOW BLIND INSTALLERS NEEDED
Independent contractors. Call immediately
339-4600 4-21-10-14-14
Babysitter/nanny wanted for 1 and 3 yr old.
Various hours morns, afternoons, eves,
wkds available. Ideally seeking commitment
of at least 1 yr. Non-smokers, experience
with infants and refs required. Email resume
to nannyforfam@gmail.com 4-7-10-3-14
Dental Receptionist-FT position for friendly,
experienced, and long term receptionist.
Bilingual a plus. Salary based on experience.
Email your resume and cover letter to
epdentistry@live.com 4-13-10-7-14
COMFORT INN WEST on SW 40th Blvd
is currently looking for a dynamic, full-time
night auditor & part time desk assoc. Must be
available to work a flex sched & have a posi-
tive attitude. Apply in person. 4-12-1 0-5-14
Join the JanSport Team!
JanSport is currently seeking
Student Ambassadors during Fall 2010
for an on-campus paid internship.
For more Information on the position visit:
www.jansport.com/students
Or email: grace.kessler17@gmail.com
4-12-10-5-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable, writ-
ing skills a must, bookkeeping skills a plus.
Call Carrillo & Carrillo, PA @352-371-4000.
6-8-10-21-14
W services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruction;
15 minutes from UF. Charlie at 373-5929.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-
15
Local Immigration Attorney -Marriage
Green Cards/Fiance Visas/Naturalization
Matters -$295.00 Attorney Fees Plus Costs
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
6-1-45-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding. Owner
housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 6-3-10-
30-15
KEN GARVIN APPLIANCE SERVICE
10 YEARS EXPERIENCE 8AM-8PM 7 DAYS
LOW RATES ALL BRANDS STUDENT
SPECIAL $40 SERVICE CALL PLUS
PARTS WWW.KENGARVIN.COM 338-1708
4-21-20-15
Free Tutoring! Prepare for Finals at the
Teaching Center and Reading & Writing
Center in Broward Hall. TC offers live tutor-
ing -plus TV & podcasts -in various math,
science & other classes; see www.teaching-
center.ufl.edu for courses and times. RWC
offers help with any writing assignment; see
www.at.ufl.edu/rwcenter for details 4-9-5-
15
Tutoring Podcasts & TV. ATTV offers live
tutoring on Campus Channel 15 & streamed
live on the web, Sunday-Thurs from 6-9 p.m.,
with repeats & study skills programs week-
days from 11:00 a.m. to midnight. Watch
the live stream & download our podcasts to
review for Finals at www.teachingcenter.ufl.
edu under "TV Tutoring." Great tutors, 13
courses covered, & we take your emailed or
phoned-in questions, too! 392-6420 4-9-
5-15
IVE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
-tHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
Grieving the loss of someone?
National Students of AMF
Join our Facebook group:
"Gator Students of AMP"
TalkAboutLoss.org 4-21-43-16
A Woman's Answer
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716 8-24-74-16
ee Study Improvement & ee
e Test Anxiety w. Hypnosis e
Call Maureen (352) 870-1527
4-19-10-15-16
*QUIT SMOKING*
****** WITH HYPNOSIS ******
Call Maureen (352) 870-1527
4-1 9-10-15-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18FREE SPAYS FOR STRAYS!
Operation Catnip will provide free spay/
neuter, vaccines, & treatment for fleas, ear
mites, & worms to unowned, stray or feral
cats from mobile home parks in Alachua
County. Volunteers are needed to help with
trapping & transportation of cats. To volun-
teer or request spay/neuter for homeless
cats call (352)380-0940. 4-21-18-20
FREE CPT/CLASR WORKSHOP from the
UF Teaching Center. CPT replaces the
CLAST exam, for students who must satisfy
the CLAST requirement. Both sessions from
5-7 p.m. --Communication test section re-
view on W, 4/14; Computation review on R,
4/15. Call 392-2010 to register and learn the
room location. 4-9-5-20*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
W J Z IRides
FREE STUDY SKILLS WORKSHOPS &
Videos. UF Reading & Writing Center offers aDIEU
sessions on Memory (W, 4/14) and Test Prep
(R, 4/15), from 3:00 -3:50. Call 392-2010
to register & learn the location. Go to www.'at.ufl.edu/rwcenter, then "Video Resources" GMG TRANSPORT
for study skills video 4-9-5-20 FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
Enter tainment charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-1 6-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21W 1.Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's lost
what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: HONDA CAR KEY
along Stadium Rd between Williamson and
Weimer Halls on Wed, Mar 31. Call 352/339-
3236 or 352/273-4010 4-8-3-25
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providerspo-Or41I
S0
, SI- M N I % 04 a I % I
Sports
TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Debose participates in practice
* THE RECEIVER MISSED
LAST SEASON DUE TO A
HAMSTRING INJURY.
By MIKE McCALL
Alligator Staff Writer
mmccall@alligator org
Florida is still searching for its
offensive identity, but the Gators
got a step closer to figuring it out
Monday.
Redshirt freshman receiver An-
dre Debose participated in team
drills for the first time since the
hamstring surgery that caused him
to miss the 2009 season.
"It feels good. He's a heck
of a player, fast as can be,
and I'm just happy to see
him back out here running
around. .He's only going
to get faster, so that's a
plus."
John Brantley
UF quarterback
The speedster from Sanford
Seminole High worked in the slot,
where he and running back Chris
Rainey hope to reprise the role Per-
cy Harvin played during his time at
UT.
Debose's progress will have a lot
to say about how potent Florida's
offense canbe this season, and quar-
terback John Brantley was excited to
have his playmaker back.
"It feels good," Brantley said.
"He's a heck of a player, fast as can
be, and I'm just happy to see him
back out here running around.
He's only going to get faster, so
that's a plus.
"It's a little too early to tell, but
I'm hoping for big things from
him."
Debose, ranked the nation's No.
2 wideout by Rivals.com out of high
school in 2009, wasn't made avail-
able for interviews after practice,
and it's unclear how much of a role
he'll play in the team's spring game
Saturday.
ELAM SETTLES IN: After a roller-
coaster recruiting ride, Matt Elam
has found stability on the field.
He kept UF coach Urban MeyerHarrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
Redshirt freshman receiver Andre Debose returned to practice Mon-
day after being held out of contact for most of the spring.
guessing throughout his recruit-
ment -even switching to rival
Florida State shortly before National
Signing Day- but he's happy with
his decision to enroll at Florida in
January.
He says now the pictures of him
wearing a Seminoles jersey make
him "start getting sick to my stom-
ach," and feels bad about breaking
his initial commitment to Meyer.
"I was very confused," Elam
said. "I really didn't know what to
do. People thought I was playing
around, but I really wasn't. I want-
ed to do what was best for me, buttrying to make people happy and
everything, it was tough."
If Meyer was bothered by the
flip-flopping, he got over it quickly.
Meyer said Friday that Elam has
already earned the right to play in
the fall.
He has worked as a second-
string strong safety and starting
nickelback during spring practice,
as well as on all four special teams
units, though Elam said there's no
plan for him to see time on offense.
"Every team we've had, there's
always been a fresh who stepped up
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 18Duke not so Devilish
an Smith isn't Greg Paulus.
Jon Scheyer isn't J.J. Redick.
Kyle Singler isn't Christian Laettner.
Brian Zoubek isn't Carlos Boozer.
And I like them all for that.
I spent the better part of my adolescence rooting against
Coach K and the evil Blue Devils, but I couldn't root against
this team.
When Butler's sophomore sensation Gordon Hayward nar-
rowly missed a half-court winner, I ac-
tually felt happy for the Duke players.
They earned it.
The 2009-10 Blue Devils aren't a col-
lection of unlikable NBA talent, they're
a likable group of overachievers.
Duke won a hard-fought game 61-59
Kyle Maistri on the defensive end, where Butler shot
Kyle Points 34 percent. It was a throwback game in
kmaistri@alligator org every aspect -few flashy plays and
little self-promotion.
This game perfectly capped the sea-
son. In a year when everyone expected the NCAA Tournament
field to be wide open, it's amazing how many people still were
shocked that little Butler reached the championship game.
The truth of the matter is: Butler is far from little.
The Bulldogs have been in the Sweet 16 three out of the last
eight seasons and won 25 straight games before finally falling
to Duke. The thing that shocked me is that Butler was able to
keep it close against Duke with center Matt Howard playing
somewhere between "I could do that" and "How long can they
SEE KYLE, PAGE 18
UF BASEBALL
Gators look to pitcher
for offense against JU
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
tjett@alligator org
Brian Johnson used to keep
runs off the scoreboard.
But UF coach Kevin O'Sullivan
is now calling on Johnson, a start-
ing pitcher, to contribute some
runs, too.
The freshman moonlighted as
UT's designated hilier last week-
end against Vanderbilt, leading the
Gators with five hits in the series.
Now, he will try to build on his
success at the plate tonight at 6:30
as No. 8 Florida hosts Jacksonville
in McKethan Stadium.
Johnson also drew three walks
in the Vanderbilt series, helping
him reach base on eight of 12 plate
appearances. O'Sullivan said he
will keep Johnson in the lineup un-
til the lefty struggles with his bat,even if he has to pitch the same
day.
"I asked him in the pregame
meal if he wanted to hit and pitch
(Saturday)," O'Sullivan said. "His
eyes lit up and he said, 'Yeah.' I
said,'OK, it's the same thing you've
been doing since high school.'
Johnson hit
551 with nine
home runs as a
senior at Cocoa
K T IBeach High.
And in his first
.college game
pulling double
duty, Johnson
allowed one run
in 5.2 innings while going 3 for 3
from the plate.
One of his few mistakes on the
day came in the top of the sixth,
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 18
UF BASEBALL
* Pitcher Brian Johnson was
named SEC Freshman of the Week
on Monday. He not only pitched 5.2
scoreless innings Saturday but also
added five hits on offense.UF SOFTBALL
U Ensley Gammel was named SEC Pitcher of
the Week on Monday. She earned three wins
and did not allow an earned run this past
week, en route to becoming the first fresh-
man in UF history to win the honor.TEEING OFF WITH KYLE MAISTRI
U Does Nike think Tim Tebow is going to be a legitimately good NFL player? Or
was the company just trying to make amends for the Tiger Woods debacle? .
West Virginia guard Da'Sean Butler was diagnosed with a torn ACL after getting
hurt in a semifinal loss to Duke. I'm surprised there weren't a few bruised ribs
after Bob Huggins passed his guard while he was lying on the floor.
18, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 6,2010
Johnson takes on dual role similar to Wilkerson's while at UF
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF freshman pitcher Brian Johnson will hit in the Gators' lineup when they
host Jacksonville tonight at 6:30 in Gainesville.
Moody out due to leg injury
FOOTBALL, from page 18 sideline to watch.
and has been a significant contributor,"
UF safeties coach Chuck Heater said. "I'd
say he's in that category right now."
MOODY OUT, POWELL LOOKS ON: Run-
ning back Emmanuel Moody, who left
Saturday's scrimmage with a leg injury,
was not at Monday's practice, but incom-
ing freshman Ronald Powell was on the
Butler Plaza Newberry S euare
335-1232 332-3937
Isda
Insurance, School jRated the nation's top overall pros-
pect by Rivals.com, Pow-
ell will join the team in
the summer and could see
playing time at defensiveFootball end and tight end.
Cornerback Adrian
Bushell, who missed time earlier in the
spring for off-field issues, was also ab-
sent.'I BASEBALL, from page 17
when he gave up a solo home run. O'Sullivan
pulled Johnson after that pitch, but he stayed in
the game as the DH and responded with a single
the next inning.
Being able to use his bat allowed him to shrug
off the pitching mistake.
"You have to have a short memory," Johnson
said. "You have to move on from one thing to the
next thing."
Johnson is the first UF player to be the team's
starting pitcher and hit in the same game since
center fielder Matt den Dekker did it in 2008. But
den Dekker allowed three runs in 2.2 innings and
hasn't pitched since.
Johnson, on the other hand, could be a dual
threat for the rest of the season, reminding Florida
KYLE, from page 18
keep him out there?" all night.
Even Hayward, who willed himself to
12 points and eight rebounds, struggled
mightily during a 2-for-11 shooting perfor-
mance. The game was back and forth, with
Duke representing the old major confer-
ence powers and Butler representing a new
wave of "mid-major" teams that are more
major than mid. Programs like Gonzaga,
Xavier and Butler are here to stay regardless
of Monday night's result. Butler was the un-
derdog, but it wasn't George Mason.
The Bulldogs will be back next year with
a great chance of winning a title.
Fifteen or 20 years ago, schools from
smaller conferences were capable of making
a run or two behind the right player who
inexplicably slipped through the cracks, butfans of Brad Wilkerson. During his three-year ca-
reer at UF in the '90s, Wilkerson split time at first
base, the outfield and on the mound.
The Gators' first three-time All-American hit
55 home runs and pitched in 75 games. He said he
could never sit out during practice because he was
involved in all facets of the game.
Likewise, Johnson has three sessions in the bat-
ting cage between pitching drills.
"It takes a lot of time and dedication to do
both," Wilkerson said. "Each and every day you
have to do extra stuff."
Players going both ways are rare today because
AAU coaches train them to focus on one position
at a young age, making Johnson's feat more im-
pressive, Wilkerson said.
"That's a special accomplishment," he said.
"Especially at the University of Florida, which has
such a good baseball program."
the Butler team that held mighty Duke to
61 points and 5-of-17 shooting from three-
point range was a product of sustained suc-
cess. Yet, as in any sport, it's important that
a team knows how to win when it comes
time for the biggest moments.
And no team or coach knows how to win
more than the Blue Devils and Coach K.
Duke ran through maybe the most di-
verse assortment of opponents' playing
styles in the Tournament, defeating slower-
tempo teams like Purdue, West Virginia
and Butler, and faster, more high-scoring
teams like Baylor and California.
Singler, Scheyer and Zoubek were the
poster boys for a Duke team that was never
quite as good as the teams that came before
it, but through all those previous early Tour-
nament losses, they learned how to win.
Perhaps that's why I can't bring myself
to hate them.
Smile.
iJr "; VC0
www.hildatucker.com
4040 Newberry Road
Suite 950A Al
C as oville, ft 326
1-888-889-9022
(352) 872 512
The New
3727 W. University Ave. Oa
Mon -Sat 8am -7pm
Sun 10 -5pm
378-4650 O L
hat you need-
hen you need it!Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Piasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
A Biotest
From Nature for Life
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431Friday, April 9, 6 p.m.
Saturday, April 10,
9 a.m. -4:30 p.m.
Join international scholars for a
discussion about the relationship
between art and politics.
Keynote Speaker
Frangois Cusset, Professor of American
Studies, University of Paris
Speakers
Alex Alberro, Virginia Bloedel Wright
Associate Professor of Art History, Barnard
College, Columbia University
Nora Alter, Professor in Film and Media
Studies, English Department, University of
Florida
Claire Bishop, Associate Professor of
Art History, Graduate Center, City
University of New York
T.J. Demos, Lecturer, Department of
History of Art, University College London
Tim Griffin, Editor of Artforum
Maria Hiavajova, Curator and Artistic
Director, BAK; Program Director, Tranzit
Shepherd Steiner, Visiting Assistant
Professor in Modern and Contemporary
Art School of Art + Art History, University
of Florida
R I M U S E U M 0 F A R T
U N I V E R S I T Y 0 F F L 0 R I D A
FREE ADMISSION
www.harn.ufl.edu 352.392.9826Enjoy live
music, dance
performances,
poetry readings,
presentations by UF
doctoral students, movie
screenings, a scavenger hunt and
free food at this Museum Nights.
iOage A a Turkish, b. 976 n
Msem Nights is an ongoing prUgram msod posible
byte generu support ofthe Univerity of Flordae
Honors Program and Student Government. Additional
srto;tevening is provided by he Center for
Europe. a Studie.
The symposium is co-sponsored by the following
University of Florida entities: School of Art + Art History
Horn Eminent Scholar Chair in Art Hidtory, School of
for Humanities and the Public Sphere, France-Florido
Research Institute and the International Center.
By BRETT WILLIAMS
All igator Contributing Write r
was taught never to hit a woman.
He knew that if he ever rough-
housed or bullied his sister, he'd be
seeing the business end of his father's belt. So
he kept his hands to himself and grew up to
be a gentleman who opens doors and pulls
out chairs.
But when the ball hits the rim, a lifetime
of chivalry goes out the window. He forgets
his father's belt and the lessons learned as
he shoves the women aside to grab the re-
bound.
Nick Augello doesn't show any remorse
for the woman he just slammed to the ground
-that's his job.
And he knows it could be him who gets
tossed to the floor in the next go-around of
this free-for-all rebounding drill where three
women do their best to box out three guys in
the lane as the coaches lob up shots.
"I'll knock them in the mouth sometimes,
and they'll come back and get me the next
time," Augello said. "You know, whateverit takes to get them better. There are a lot of
tough, physical teams out there, especially
in the Southeastern Conference, so we got to
get them ready."
Augello isn't the stereotypical meathead
who gets his kicks from posterizing chicks
in the co-ed intramural leagues. The busi-
ness management senior is a member of the
practice squad for the UF women's basket-
ball team.
He and 11 other guys make up a scout
team that did its best to push, punish and
prepare Florida for games this season, which
ended with a second-round loss in the Wom-
en's National Invitation Tournament for the
Gators (15-17).
Common Practice
It's well-known that women's teams use
men as practice players to help give their
players a high level of competition that re-
sembles game scenarios. Using male prac-
tice players allows coaches to challenge their
teams with bigger and better athletes while
also sparing their players from countless rep-
etitions on the practice floor.
6SO
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
SNZA S
0
Stephen H. Keys/ Alligator Staff
The men of the UF women's basketball team's practice squad (from left to right):
James West, Nick Augello, Travis Young, Stephen DeAngelo (dunking) Jason Hor-
ton, Mehdi Zolnoor and Justin Seitz."To be able to challenge your players
with individuals who in most instances have
a physical advantage, not just in size and
strength but also in vertical jump, that's what
you always want," UF coach Amanda Butler
said. "Most of the girls playing college grew
up playing against boys, and that's how they
got good enough to be Division I college ath-
letes. So it's just an extension of that."
The use of male practice players against
women has gone on since before Butler's
playing days in the early 1990s, though the
NCAA tried to do away with it in 2007, say-
ing it took away playing time and opportuni-
ties from other female athletes. It was also ar-
gued that it gave bigger schools an advantage
over smaller programs, which may not have
the ability to put together a practice team.
Butler, who had male practice squads when
she coached at smaller schools like Austin
Peay and UNC-Charlotte, doesn't buy it.
"My argument against that is if your op-
portunity in practice is being taken away by
a practice player, then you're not working
hard enough, and that is a problem there,"
Butler said. "If you're not valuable enough to
be used in practice then there's a gap some-
where in either how hard you're working or
your skill level."
All Guts, No Glory
The guys on Butler's squad aren't Divi-
sion I athletes and weren't recruited to play
big-time college basketball. Instead, they got
spotted by one of the coach's assistants while
playing intramurals or pick-up ball, or they
were brought along by a team member.
Other than a pair of basketball shoes, they
don't receive compensation or scholarship
money, and they certainly don't get the ac-
claim that goes with being a UF athlete.
"It's definitely a job where you get no glo-
ry," said Justin Seitz, a junior history major.
"Most practices we're playing defense most
of the time, but I'll take what I can get. Be-
ing away from the game for a couple years
makes you realize how much you like play-
ing basketball."
Seitz had a few offers from small schools
to continue his playing career after high
school, but ended up at UF and now wants
to be a basketball coach. He said playing for
Butler has afforded him the opportunity to
learn a lot that will help him in the future.
"Getting in there and seeing how a coach
runs a D-1 basketball program is good expe-
rience," Seitz said. "I try to take everything in
and learn every time I go to practice."
For Travis Young, the experience is just
a way to get consistent, scheduled exercise.
A 6-foot-5, 235 pound senior studying civil
engineering, Young hadn't played organized
ball since middle school.
Now, he's one of the key pieces in helping
to prep Butler's squad for some of the tower-
ing forces who own the lane in SEC play.
"Travis is awesome, because the hardest
thing to find is big guys," Butler said. "He's
not just a big man, he's a really big man. We
played against a 6-foot-8 kid and 6-foot-6 kid
this year in the league, and our tallest player
is 6-foot-2. There's no way we could mimic
what that's going to feel like in the same way
that Travis can."
One on one, the guys possess a clear
physical advantage over their female, varsity
counterparts. That's the point.
Even members of the practice squad for
Connecticut, the nation's No. 1 team, told
The Associated Press this week they can de-
feat the Huskies 35 percent of the time.
When pressed for an answer, Young ad-
mitted he thought his band of intramural
stars and retired high school ballers could
beat the women's team if they were given the
chance. But, they resign themselves to play-A Man's GameTUESDAY, APRIL 6, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
ing
de-
fense
a n d
following 0
a game plan
instead of at-
tempting fast breaks and alley-oops.
More often than not, they play the role of
the Washington Generals to Butler's Globe-
trotters, assuming roles and giving the team0
a designed look they'll see in the next game.
Showing up early for practice and study-*
ing film of the upcoming opponent, they are
then assigned to mimic a player in practice.
For Augello, it means playing the quick,
slashing guard who cuts to the basket. For*
other guys, it means doing the little things .
like setting picks or rebounding, and they
may never be called upon to put a shot up. *
They often play against their natural
strengths and only dribble left-handed or*
drive the ball every chance they get, what- S
ever the players on the other team do. *
Not Backing Down
As if confining their game wasn't hard*
enough, the guys on the practice squad still*
have to worry about matching up against
a bunch of women who play like anything e
but. For many of them, the transition to the *
women's game was not an easy one.
"First time I went out there I didn't know*
if I was supposed to play 100 percent or 0
what," Seitz said. "Then the first time some- 0
one scores on you, your pride kicks in, and *
from there on out I'm going 110 percent to
stop them. I didn't realize how strong some0
of these girls were. Skill-wise, they are as
good as any of the guys. [Sophomore guard]*
Jordan Jones is one of the best shooters I've e
ever seen, and I lived with (former UF men's .
sharpshooter) Lee Humphrey for a year." *
That respect is echoed by Butler, who said
she wouldn't know what to do without the*
practice squad. She's especially impressed
by how the men check their egos at the doors
and do what they do without any fanfare. *
"They are a bunch of guys who are not
scholarship players or Division I athletes,"
she said. "I think our kids have a great ap-
preciation for the fact that they are rearrang-
ing their schedules and letting us beat up on e
them every single day and that they come e
to the games and sit behind our bench to
support us. I think our players have a great*
appreciation for the sacrifice these guys are
making to make us better."
But to truly have an impact, the men on e
the practice squad must go through an ad- e
justment period. They have to learn it's ac-
ceptable to get rough in practice.
"My first expectation was that these are
college athletes, so my first goal was to not*
get smoked, because they're Division I play-.
ers, so I just didn't want to get embarrassed," *
Young said. "It was tough to be physical
with them. I have a hard enough time being
physical at Southwest Rec versus the guys,
so it took me awhile to get used to being ag-
gressive and throwing my weight around in e
practice."
Young said he has no reservations about
using his big frame when backing down a
defender in the lane, because players like
Sharielle Smith and Azania Stewart won't*
hesitate to do the same to him.
Roles have been reversed. Now, Young
and the other players won't be criticized for
manning up on a woman, but they will for
not being man enough.
20, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 6,2010
Gators in first after two rounds
0 THE TEAM'S SEASON-BEST 16-UNDER-
PAR FIRST ROUND PROPELLED IT TO THE
TOP OF THE LEADERBOARD.
STAFF REPORT
After two consecutive disappointing perfor-
mances, the Gators were in desperate need of
some momentum.
No. 10 Florida's men's golf team got exactly
what it needed with a season-best team score of
16-under par in the first round of the Bancorp-
South Intercollegiate Tournament in Madison,
Miss., on Monday.
While it could not duplicate that performance
later in the day in the second round, UF still fin-
ished atop the leaderboard with a score of 15-un-
der par after 36 holes of play.
The Gators came in as the highest-ranked team
in the event and didn't disappoint on the course
Monday.
Seniors Tim McKenney and Tyson Alexander
led the team with individual scores of 10-under
par and 9-under par after two rounds, which were
good enough for the two lowest individual perfor-
mances of the tournament.
McKenney shot nine birdies in the first round
and during one stretch finished with a birdie in
six of eight holes.
But over the next 18 holes, he shot three bogeys,
all on par-four holes. McKenney still finished in
the red at 1-under par in the second round, how-
ever.
The other senior, Alexander, took a different
approach to his great performance Monday. He
used an eagle in each of his first two rounds to
negate three bogeys. Both eagles came on longpar-five holes.
The only other Florida golfer to avoid finish-
ing over par after 36 holes was junior Bank Vong-
vanij.
He was consistent and shot two even rounds.
Vongvanij fared well with the longer holes as
he shot four of his eight birdies on par-fives but
seemed to struggle with the shorter ones.
Seven of his eight bogeys came on either par-
three or par-fours.
The other two UF golfers who participated in
the event were not as fortunate as the rest.
Freshmen Phillip Choi and Tommy Mou strug-
gled. They shot a combined 11-
over par Monday, and could not
provide a solid fourth score for
the team.
Choi only shot 1-over par in
the first round, but two double
bogeys in the second set of 18
El hurt his cause.
McKenney However, he did rack up
five birdies throughout the two
rounds. He also finished with six bogeys.
But Mou could never get it going. He finished
with four bogeys in each of the two rounds.
Tournament host, Ole Miss, is right behind the
Gators with a team score of 10-under par, good
enough for second place.
UF, Ole Miss, North Florida and Louisiana
Tech are the only teams that finished under par at
the end of Monday's play.
UCF is in seventh place with a team score of
eight over par.
With one round to go on Tuesday, Florida will
have to turn in another solid performance to hold
off the Rebels and UNF, which is in third place,
just seven strokes behind the Gators.UF's Tyson Alexander shot 9-under par in the first two rounds of the
BancorpSouth Intercollegiate Tournament to put Florida in first place.
PHONE
FIRST
Call ahead to reserve a
convenient appointment time.
Appointments are available the
same day or within 24 hours.
Save our number in your cell
phone for easy access.
Call 352-392-1161
UF IStudent Health Care Center
