0 the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 84 We Inform. You Decide.-017CeK
TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2010
Parade celebrates King, honors local heroes
0 THE EVENT ATTRACTED adult.
3,000 TO 4,000 PEOPLE. Mingo has attended the an-
nual celebration since it was es- 2 k
By MEG WAGNER
Alligator Contributing Writer
An injured shoulder didn't
stop Cynthia Mingo from march-
ing in the King Celebration An-
nual Commemorative March
Monday afternoon.
Mingo, a retired fourth-grade
teacher, made the two-mile walk
from the Martin Luther King Jr.
Memorial Gardens to the Martin
Luther King Jr. Multi Purpose
Center carrying a portrait of the
civil rights leader, despite having
undergone surgery on her arm
last week.
"You can't let a little some-
thing like that hold you back,"
she said.
The event, which attracted
between 3,000 and 4,000 people,
was reminiscent of the marches
of the civil rights movement that
Mingo participated in as a youngtablished in 1980.
"We're trying to change
the mindsets of people.
We have worked on it; we
work on it now; and we will
continue to work on it."
Rodney Long
founder of Martin Luther King Jr.
Commission of Florida Inc.
The celebration was estab-
lished by Alachua County Com-
missioner Rodney J. Long, then a
student at UF.
Five years later, Long estab-
lished the Martin Luther King Jr.
Commission of Florida Inc., an
organization that seeks to pre-
serve the legacy of its namesake.
"We're trying to change the
mindsets of people," he said.
"We have worked on it, we work
SEE PARADE, PAGE 8Thomas Plevik/ Alligator
Mildred Ivey celebrates the life of civil rights activist at the MLK Multi Purpose Center alongside thou-
sands of others who came as part of a Martin Luther King Jr. Day parade on Monday afternoon.
Police issue warrant
for former cornerback
By CINDY TAVERAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Wondy Pierre-Louis, former Gators
cornerback, is expected to appear today
in a Gainesville courtroom following a
warrant issued for his arrest Sunday.
His lawyer, Huntley Johnson, said
Monday that Pierre-Louis would go be-
fore a judge this morning to set bond.
Pierre-Louis had not turned himself
in to the authorities by press time Mon-
day night.
Gainesville Police Department Capt.
Ed Book said Pierre-Louis was accused
of breaking into an apartment, stran-
gling a woman, holding her against her
will and preventing her from calling thepolice.
According to Book, the woman said
Pierre-Louis pinned her against a coun-
tertop and began to choke her.
Marisa Quarles, whose husband
Buddy was Pierre-Louis'Local guardian, said there is al-
News ways more than one side
to a story.
Although she hasn't spoken to
Pierre-Louis since the pending charges
went public, she and her family plan to
support him.
"It's very hard for me to believe the
accusations, knowing Wondy," Quar-
les said. "He's just so mild-natured and
kind. I can hardly even hear him raising
his voice."CAMPUS NEWS
Students save professor
By ALLY FOX
Alligator Contributing Writer
Michael Cook, a UF professor in the
Rinker School of Building Construction,
was taken to Shands at UF Saturday af-
ter he had a heart attack at the Southwest
Recreation Center.
He was saved thanks to the combined
rescue efforts of students, Southwest Rec
staff and paramedics.
Cook and UF senior Brando Fetzek
were playing racquetball when Cook
said he needed to take a break.
After Cook left the court three UF stu-
dents found him lying on the ground,
unmoving.
David Feinstein, one of the students
and a certified lifeguard, started per-
forming CPR.
"My adrenaline kicked in," Feinstein
said. "I kept my composure and just kept
going."
He received help from another studentand Southwest Rec employees.
Feinstein's friends, Steve Reiss and
josh Rubin, ran to get help from South-
west Rec staff members and had some-
one call 911.
After CPR was administered, Ian
Proctor, the Southwest shift superviser,
said an automated external defibrillator
(AED) was used to ad-
minister a shock to re-
start Cook's heart.
After the shock,
Cook had a pulse but
was not conscious.
Paramedics showed
Feinstein up about 10 minutes
after the students and
staff began their rescue efforts.
Fetzek said Cook is still in Shands but
is doing well.
"He is acting like himself and telling
jokes," he said.
He will be out of the hospital within
the next few days, Fetzek said.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers0 UF guard Erving
Walker and the
Gators finally
recorded their
first Southeastern
Conference win
this season, beat-
ing LSU 72-58 on
Saturday in the
O'Connell Center.
See Story, Page 14.Today
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
9
12
14--
Sunny
71/41
visit www.alligator.org
2, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
American Institute of Aeronautics
and Astronautics Gulfstream
Info-session.
Today, 6:15 p.m.
MAE (Build. A), Room 303
Join us this Tuesday for an in-
formation session. Representatives
from Gulfstream will come talk
about their newest airplane, the
G650, among other topics. Bring
resumes if you're interested in
working for them. Free Jimmy
John's sandwiches and drinks will
be offered.
Psychology Club meeting
Wednesday, 7:20 p.m.
Our meeting will start promptly
at 7:20 p.m., but you are welcome
to come at 7 p.m. for free pizza, to
ask questions or to participate in
our icebreaker activity. For more
information and room location, go
to www.psych.ufl.edu/-psichi/.
Omicron Delta Kappa New
Member Recruitment
Applications are due Friday by
11:59 p.m. For more information
about ODK programs, initiatives
and the application process, visit
www.ufodk.com.
Got an event?
Andwanttopost it inthis space?
Send an e-mail to efuggetta@alliga-
tor.org with "What's Happening"
in the subject line. Please make sure
your What's Happening submis-
sion is properly formatted based
on the above events.
LOCAL
Fire destroys warehouse,
property inside Saturday
A fire that destroyed a ware-
house Saturday caused about
$300,000 in damage.
Carol Davis, the public infor-
mation officer for Gainesville Fire
Rescue, said Ed Baur Management
Inc. owns the warehouse at 2623
NW 74th Place. Baur leases stor-Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
age space to companies, includ-
ing Dyna-Mite Detailing, Fields
Mechanical Services Inc. and The
Master's Lawn Care.
Of the 11 storage units de-
stroyed, she said two were va-
cant. Cars and other items had
been stored inside them.
While no dangerous toxins
were found in tested air samples,
the source of the fire is still un-
known.
-CINDY TAVERAS
INTERNATIONAL
UF students spends M LK
weekend helping victims,
searching for his family in
Haiti
Getro Naissance spent his
holiday weekend bandaging
wounds and lifting rubble off
dead bodies in Haiti.
Naissance, a UF biology ju-
nior, met with family in the
Dominican Republic Thursday
before traveling to Haiti in the
wake of the earthquake that
struck Jan. 12.
Naissance was born and
raised in Haiti and had family
that remained unaccounted for
after the earthquake.
Sky Georges, the president
of Gators United for Haiti and
friend of Naissance, said Nais-
sance went to Haiti to find his
family and help the victims of
the tragedy.
Naissance called Georges Fri-
day night and said he was safe
and had found his family.
Naissance told Georges he
was sleeping in a park in P6tion-
ville, a suburb of Port-au-Prince,with people who had lost their
homes.
"He said he had to eat feet away
from dead bodies where the stench
was just unbearable," he said.
Georges said he told Naissance
it was not a good idea to travel to
Haiti now because the country is
still in chaos, but Naissance told
him he would not be able to live
with himself if he did not go.
"I amactuallyglad I didbecause
I got a chance to see Haiti through
my own two eyes, not from CNN
or FOX News," Naissance wrote to
Georges in an e-mail. "This was a
once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to
help the place where I am from
and find out on the whereabouts
of my family."
-ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
CORRECTIONS
A story that ran in the Dec. 9 is-
sue of the Alligator offered a look
at Gainesville's yogurt industry
but excluded TCBY, which has
three Gainesville locations.
A headline in the Jan. 12 edi-
tion incorrectly reported that Buf-
fet City was to close in February.
As reported in the story, Buffet
City closed temporarily in Febru-
ary 2009.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
Make it a
Swmr event
parties
socials
family weekends
business meetings
and more 
.
Call us today at 352-380-9291a the independent florida
Not officialsVOLUME 103 ISSUE 84 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta @alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner, jmisner@alligator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tilb, ctillo@alligator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ashley Hemmy, Amanda Milligan,
Emily Morrow, Paul Runnestrand
Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Shaun O'Connor
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Natasha Dykes, Brittany Fayne,
Stephanie Howick, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2010 ADVERTISEMENT U ALLIGATOR, 3
Showcasing UF
and Florida's future
scientists
Each year since
1963, Florida sci-
ence teachers and
several hundred
high school stu-
dents have traveled
to UF's campus
for a prestigious
event known as the Mary Jo Koroly"Junior Science,
Engineering and Humanities Sympo-
sium"(JSEHS). This unique three-day
program is designed to foster and en-
courage student interest in science and
mathematics. This year, JSEHS will take
place Jan. 24-26.
The program includes visits to
laboratories of more than 50 research-
ers, a speaker competition for the top
25 senior-level high school research-
ers in Florida, and an opportunity for
ninth- and 10th-grade students to give
presentations about their research.
Students are invited to bring posters to
display throughout the symposium.
Another component of JSEHS is
UF faculty lectures. This year's speakers
include Dr. Lyle Moldawer, vice chair
of research, Laboratory of Inflamma-
tion Biology and Surgical Science, and
Charles Telesco, professor, department
of astronomy.
JSEHS is hosted by UFs Center for
Precollegiate Education and Train-
ing, the U.S. Armed Services and the
Academy of Applied Science. For more
information, please visit www.cpet.ufl.
edu/JSEHS or call 352-392-2310.
Mary Jo Koroly
Director, Centerfor Precollegiate
Education and Training
EPI dedication ceremon
be held on Jan. 26
A dedication ceremony for the
80,000-square-foot Emerging Path
Institute (EPI) building will be hel
p.m. on Jan. 26.
The ceremony's keynote speake
include President Bernie Machen,
President for Research Win Phillip
several state of Florida officials.
Deans from eight University of
colleges affiliated with EPI will joi
gether for a ribbon cutting. Includ
are the College of Medicine, Colleg
Engineering, College of Veterinary
Medicine, College of Dentistry,
College of Liberal Arts and Sci-
ences, Institute of Food and
Agricultural Sciences, College
of Public Health and Health
Professions and the College of
Pharmacy.
The building's dedication
will be combined with the
annual EPI Research Day 2010,
including an open exhibit of ap-
proximately 80 research posters. T
exhibit will be held from 10 a.m. t
The dedication and exhibit are
the public.UF UNIVERSITY
eFFLORr
The Foundation for The Gatory to
new
ogens
d at 2
rs will
Vice
s, and
Florida
I to-
eda_
UF students Ashley Van Putten, Wendy Alderman and Ami Patel visited the Taj Mahal during a
recent trip to educate Indian children about tobacco hazards.
UF students take anti-tobacco message
to India, blog reaches beyond
Instead of spending winter holiday break with family, five University of
Florida pre-medicine majors blogged from India about their experiences
with Doctors Without Borders.
Wendy Alderman, Jasmine Nebhrajani, Ami Patel, Krupa Patel and Each day 55,000
Ashley Van Putten traveled to Mota Fofalia, India, to help educate children children in
about the dangers of tobacco use. India start using
Each day 55,000 children in India start using tobacco and about 5 mil- tobacco.
lion children under the age of 15 are addicted to tobacco, according to an
online article written by Dr. Pankaj Chaturvedi, an associate professor and head
and neck cancer surgeon at Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai.
Ami Patel's uncle, Kiran Patel, is one of three founders of the Mota Fofalia compound, including a
hospital and the Shree Chhotubhai A. Patel Learning Institute and Academy.
PowerPoint presentations provided 150 academy students, ages 13 to 16, with vivid pictures of the
harmful effects of tobacco use. Although many U.S. schools censor such pictures, the Indian school per-
mitted them, said Wendy Alderman.
Alderman considers the effort a success, crediting the "shock value" of the pictures, as well as the inter-
active games and awarding of candy.
The UF students traveled several times to an Internet cafd to blog (gatorgirlsinindia.blogspot.com)
about their experiences. Alderman said that she and the other women decided to create the blog to stay
connected with their families, but the blog soon began to reach others.
"The world is becoming increasingly connected," said UF alumnus Vivek Chandrasekhar, a manager at
Nanyang Technological University in Singapore. Chandrasekhar found the blog after reading about it in
the "InsideUF" online newsletter (http://insideuf.ufl.edu).
Chandrasekhar said he was attracted to the blog because of the time of year the women decided to
engage in the cause, and because of the cultural experience for them.
Alderman recommends keeping a blog when traveling.
'You may forget the experiences you have, but if you blog about it, you can reread it and feel what you
felt in that moment," Alderman said.
By Kristie Andres
UF Calendar
Jan. 19
UF Career Resource Center presents Career Showcase, 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.,
O'Connell Center.
The Bob Graham Center for Public Service presents a health-care
debate, given by former Senators Tom Daschle and Bill Frist, 7
p.m., Pugh Hall Ocora.
] UF Career Resource Center presents Career Showcase, 9
a.m. to 3 p.m., O'Connell Center.
Jan. 22
Florida's ecosystems and Spring S-U grade-option deadline.
diverse agriculture are Jan. 29particularly vulnerable to Spring-degree applications deadline.
new pathogens. p
Recurring Events
he Jan. 30
o noon. The Hart Museum of Art presents weekend tours at I1I am. on everySaturday, and docent-led tours at 2 p.m. every Saturday and Sunday. Bothopen to events are free and open to the public.
This is a sampling of events from the electronic UF calendar.
of For more event details, or to submit an event to the calendar, click
' "UF Calendar" at www.insideuf.ufl.edu.Your
campus
news
source
Produced by the
University Relations Office
for faculty, staff and students
Editor -Susan Stewart
January 19, 2010
Scholarships now available
Rotary Club of Gainesville, along with other local
Rotary clubs, is currently accepting applications for
Rotary Ambassadorial Scholarships. Scholarships up
to $25,000 will be appointed for a one-year period of
academic study and foreign residence.
The scholarships help promote Rotarys ideals of peace
and international understanding by encouraging daily
contact with people of other cultures and traditions.
For more information, e-mail Harry Shaw of the
Rotary Club of Gainesville, hshaw@oasis.ufl.edu.
UF campus directory pickup
The 2010 University of Florida Campus Directory is
available for pickup at Central Stores Warehouse, Build-
ing 705, Monday through Friday, from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Central Stores Warehouse is located on Radio Road,
directly west of the UF Motor Pool. For more informa-
tion, e-mail Sharon Eyman, sharonla@ufl.edu.
View these stories and more at www.insideuf.ufl.edu. Follow us on Twitter.Nation
4, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2010
ON CAMPUS
'Sleep out' benefits homeless
By NICOLE LYNN GREINER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students didn't have time to
sleep Saturday night at the Sleep
Out for the Homeless event on
Turlington Plaza.
They were too busy danc-
ing, sipping hot chocolate, play-
ing Nintendo Wii and collecting
donations for the homeless in
Gainesville.
The event lasted from 9 p.m.
to 1 a.m.
A disc jockey blasted music
varying from rap to Miley Cyrus,
and people played video games
on television screens that had
been set up.
It was hosted by Alpha Phi Al-
pha Fraternity and co-sponsored
by Savant Leadership Honorary
and the Freshman Leadership
Council.
The fraternity asked for clean-
ing supplies, winter clothing and
toiletries from attendees.
All of the donations will go to
Gainesville homeless shelter and
soup kitchen St. Francis House.
Fraternity president Brandon
White said Alpha Phi Alpha cre-
ated the event six years ago be-
cause former members noticed
the large number of homeless
people in Gainesville.
"It's a great way to bring ev-
eryone together and create a great
situation for students and people
in need," White said.
Kent Vann, the executive
director for St. Francis House
homeless shelter and soup kitch-
en, said the event collected about
40 bags of clothing for the shelter,
along with toiletries and cleaning
supplies.
Members of Gainesville's
homeless community were not
the only ones to benefit from
Sleep Out for the Homeless.
The fraternity invited mem-
bers of Hope for Haiti to attend.
All monetary donations weregiven to Hope for Haiti, and the
money will go directly to a Haiti
relief fund.
UF freshman Daniela Flores
said she donated a few sweatersto the cause.
Flores said she will definitely
come to the event next year, as
she bowled a spare on Wii Sports
bowling.
Brandon White folds donated clothes to give to the homeless at
Sleep Out for the Homeless on Turlington Plaza Sunday night.
Bridal expo draws 1K
By CARLY LEONARD
Alligator Contributing Writer
One response echoed through-
out the Phillips Center for the Per-
forming Arts on Sunday afternoon:
"Certainly. We can do it any way
you want it."
The 43rd Gainesville Wedding
Expo, produced by Jay's Bridal &
Special Occasion, gave blushing
brides-to-be the opportunity to ren-
dezvous with 40 local wedding spe-
cialists.
About 1,200 people attended.
For Yaneisis Hernandez, simply
making her way through the crowd
was a battle of the brides.
"I wasn't expecting it to be so
full," Hernandez said.
For $10, guests sampled wine, ex-
travagant menu items and assorted
cake. Whole cakes were displayed
alongside floral arrangements,rings, stationary and photographs.
The day's highlight was a fashion
show featuring 14 female models of
different shapes and sizes and a few
men in tuxes strutting to Beyonc6's
"Single Ladies" in an assortment of
bride's gowns, bridesmaid dresses
and outfits for mothers of the bride,
each piece assigned a
Local different number for
News later reference. At the
end of the show the
guests were invited on
stage to get a closer look at the at-
tire.
Although most patrons were fe-
male, a few men sacrificed watch-
ing Sunday football to join their
fianc6es.
"When I first walked in and saw
a bunch of girls, I wondered if I was
even supposed to be here, but it's
nice having a say in stuff," said Jon-
athan Walter, who accompanied his
financ6e Nicole Kahhan.Fewer employers at showcase
* MORE JOB SEEKERS ARE
EXPECTED TO ATTEND.
By ROBERT IMFELD
Alligator Contributing Writer
For planning to attend the Career Show-
case today and Wednesday at the O'Connell
Center the state of the economy will be evi-
dent.
About 200 companies will be represented
at the showcase -a 20-percent decline from
last spring, said Ja'Net Glover, assistant direc-
tor for career events at UF's Career Resource
Center.
While fewer businesses will attend, Glover
said the number of job seekers is expected to
increase last spring's 6,000.
UF sophomore Krista Farmer said she
plans to attend the showcase if she isn't busy.
While she doesn't plan to apply for any
jobs yet, she is on the lookout for opportuni-
ties to keep in mind.
The Career Showcase is split up into two
days. Today is a nontechnical day and fea-
tures businesses in the areas of accounting,
communications, retails and human services.
Wednesday will feature businesses in the ar-eas of computer sciences, construction, engi-
neering and scientific research.
Jennifer Lestin, a recruiter for general con-
tracting firm Wharton-Smith Inc., said the
firm is "recession proof" because 70 percent of
its business is working with the environment
and with water treatment plants.
"This spring, we're really focus-
ing on filling our summer intern
needs."
Jennifer Lestin
recruiter for Wharton-Smith Inc.
Lestin attended last spring's showcase and
said UF has been a good source for filling jobs
in the past.
However, her company is veering away
from full-time positions.
"This spring, we're really focusing on fill-
ing our summer intern needs," Lestin said.
The showcase is open to current students
and UF alumni. Attendees should research
the companies attending the showcase and
dress professionally. They should also bring
r6sum6s, supplies for taking notes and Gator
1 ID cards, according to the Career Resource
Center's Web site.400 gather in
support of Haiti
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
Candles illuminated the Reitz Union Amphitheater
Friday night as hundreds of UF students and faculty
gathered to remember those affected by the earthquake
in Haiti.
With candles in hand, crowd members listened as
speakers, including UF President Bernie Machen, Stu-
dent Body President Jordan Johnson and Gators United
for Haiti President Sky Georges, urged those assembled
to rally behind Haiti.
"We should hurt just as they're hurting," Machen said.
"We should translate that hurt into action."
Georges, a native of Haiti, described his own connec-
tion with the country and its people.-"I was born in a hospital that might
have collapsed," Georges said. "I played
tag with kids who might be dead."
Georges, whose family was in Haiti
celebrating his brother's wedding, still
doesn't know the fate of his family mem-
bers.
Machen "I haven't had a chance to really stop
and think about it, but the uncertainty
puts me in a difficult spot," he said.
The night concluded with words of inspiration from
the Rev. George Dumaine of the First Assembly of God
in Gainesville.
Instructing the crowd to light their candles, Dumaine
led a solemn rendition of "Lean on Me," which moved
some members of the crowd to tears.
"This flicker of light represents the hope that the Hai-
tian people are holding onto," he told the audience.
"The last thing they want you to do is to lose faith."
Despite the sadness, Dumaine, a native of Haiti, be-
lieves the Haitian people can persevere.
"I'm convinced that even in the midst of deep tragedy,
they have the faith to catapult them into a brighter fu-
ture," he said. "Even in the darkest night where there's
weeping, there will be a dawn."
TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
AROUND GAINESVILLE
Students spent day off volunteeringFrist flies to
help Haitians
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Staff Writer
A former senator who planned to attend tonight's
campus health care discussion took a plane to Haiti
instead.
Former Sen. Bill Frist, R-Tenn., who is also a heart
and lung transplant surgeon, traveled to Haiti Sun-
day night to help with the relief efforts, said Vicki
Gervickas, communications director for the Bob
Graham Center for Public Service.
The health care discussion will be held as sched-
uled at 7 p.m. in Pugh Hall and will feature a speech
from former Sen. Tom Daschle, D-S.D., and an ap-
pearance by former Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla.
Gervickas said Graham intended to introduce the
speakers, but she is unsure if he will play a bigger
role in the discussion in light of Frist's absence.
"I'm not certain at this point
if he's going to amp up his role a
little bit more or not," Gervickas
said.
Frist posted a message on
Twitter about his decision on Sat-
urday at about 2:30 p.m.
"Haiti needs surgeons, so I am
Frist going at 3 tomorrow -desperate
need for antibiotics, need in bulk
only -if you have extra," Frist Tweeted.
He has continued to write via Twitter about his
activities in Haiti and has highlighted both the dev-
astation and the need for medical supplies.
Gervickas said the Bob Graham Center could not
find a replacement for Frist on short notice and had
problems getting in touch with people during the
Martin Luther King Jr. holiday.
She said the speakers will make suggestions
about how politicians can apply bipartisan lessons
learned from the health care debate to other issues,
including climate change and education reform.
Lessons about moving forward more produc-
tively and more effectively in politics can be applied
in every aspect of life, Gervickas said.he was surprised the volunteers cleaned the sheds.
Before volunteers organized the sheds, he said, it looked
like hurricanes had run through them.
Kristen Denson, assistant director of Actions, hopes the
community service continues beyond the event.
"We just hope to get a very diverse amount of people to
come out," Denson said. "That way they're able to experi-
ence not just the legacy that Martin Luther King left behind
but the legacy they can leave behind themselves if they be-
come active in their communities."By STEFANIA FERRO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Some volunteers chose to pick up paintbrushes and
Lysol wipes instead of hitting the snooze button Monday
morning.
About 70 UF volunteers gathered at Reichert House
Youth Academy as part of the MLK Day of Service orga-
nized by Multicultural and Diversity Affairs and by Ac-
tions, which is part of the Center for Leadership and Ser-
vice.
The Reichert House is an after-school program designed
for 11- to 18-year-old males living in areas with high crime
rates who need help making the transition from adoles-
cence to adulthood, according to a press release.
Along with painting and cleaning, volunteers mopped
floors, washed cars, vacuumed, reorganized sheds and put
mulch around plants outside the middle school and high
school facilities.
"It was one of those places we were really excited to
help out because we know they have a lot a work that still
needs to be done at the Reichert House, and we wanted to
do that for them," said Natalia Leal, chairwoman for the
MLK Jr. Committee and assistant director of Multicultural
and Diversity Affairs at UF.
Trimus Warren, 18, a member of the program, said his
time at Reichert House has been a learning experience and
has helped improve his attitude and grades.
"Since the time I've been here, it's made me a better
person -kept me off the streets, kept me out of trouble,"
Warren said.
Byers Hickman, the executive director of the Reichert
House, said the community's attention to the project will
help show how UF is helping east Gainesville.
He said the volunteers were unable to complete their
initial plan of building a music studio due to lack of funds
and equipment.
But volunteers like Tiffany Hofmann showed their pas-
sion for serving despite the setback.
Hofmann, a UF junior majoring in family, youth and
community sciences, did not let the paint or dirt on her
clothing bother her.
Hofmann said getting dirty is part of the price of com-
munity service.
The teens in the program were impressed by the handi-
work of the volunteers.
Isaiah Blount, a 10th-grade student in the program, said
% the best way
to begin your day!
alligator
The New
3727 W. University Ave.
Mon -Sat 8am -7pm
Sun 10 -5pm
378-4650
What you need-
When you need it!EYE lEXAMS
(by Independent Optometrist) |
NW 190, A,, Comner of
NW 13th St. I
II& 39th Ave.
Near Publix
ETECARE
I EXPRESS I
L (352)3'5-6133 rlGator CareerLink
The online job database for UF students and alumni
Find internship and job postings
Apply for on-campus interviews
Learn about info sessions and workshops
Use special features to:
Practice interviews online
Find a professional mentor
Build a resume
Schedule anappointment
with career advisors
There's more,
but you'll find out when
youcret account at
s wwwcrc uled/aorcareerlink .
Career Resource CenterUF UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
Fi~ ~ ~ "" lo .Wan et ro w"rcu 3210Tiffany Hofmann, a UF family, youth and community
sciences major, paints a picnic table at the Reichert
House Youth Academy Monday morning.
S L
Jesc isteefo4 o'
wie rndkis
e4,
Support the -
Red Cross
Services
to Armed
Forces and
change a life, starting with
your own.
Call 1-800-RED CROSS
or visit redcross.org
AmericanRed CrossThat way'Tomcantbe there+
6, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2010
Gallant Gator
UF student made hero
by saving professorUF student David Feinstein did a little more than
work out Saturday night when he went to the
gym.
When he saw building construction professor Michael
Cook lying on the ground blue in the face and suffering
from a heart attack, he didn't keep walking -he gave Cook
CPR.
And that's why The Editorial Board would like to give
Feinstein its Hero of the Month award. (OK, so it's not a
real award, but we're giving it to him anyway).
We're always happy to see students making their way
into our lovely paper because of something good they did
and not because they got in trouble with the law -yeah,
we're talking to all of you athletes, student leaders and
professors who have gotten DUIs, been involved in gun
rings or accused of hitting their girlfriends.
And while we're giving out made-up awards, we're go-
ing to give Feinstein's friend Josh Rubin the Robin Award
for checking Cook's pulse, getting a Southwest Recreation
Center employee and calling 911.
After all, where would Batman be without his trusty
sidekick?
These two students are true heroes and deserve to be
recognized for their courageous actions.
When we hear stories like this, it makes us proud to be
a part of The Gator Nation.
Now, as for the aforementioned "campus celebrities,"
you all could really take a page out of Feinstein and Ru-
bin's book the next time you grace the pages of our paper.
Covert Christianity
An ABC News inves-tigation, which dis-
covered a supplier
of high-powered rifles to the
U.S. military has been print-
ing coded Bible verses on
the weapons, has the Edito-
rial Board wondering what's
up with secret evangelism.
Subtle religious reference
is nothing new -most of us
have discovered the "John
3:16" inscription on our
Forever 21 bags. And West
Coast restaurant chain In-
N-Out Burger displays four
different verses on its pack-
aging.
We understand showing
pride in faith, but why the
secrecy? If companies with
faith-based backgrounds
want to spread Christianity,
they should be open about it
and allow people decide for
themselves whether or not
to support them -in fact,it may boost sales by en-
couraging those with similar
beliefs to buy from the com-
panies.
But in the case of a weap-
on manufacturer, religious
symbolism is inappropriate.
Trijicon's placement of
the verses on assault weap-
ons carries the disturbing
implication that soldiers
who use the guns are doing
so in the name of Christian-
ity -something the military
has established laws to pre-
vent.
The perception that the
U.S. military has a religious
affiliation would be the first
step down a dangerous path,
and the stamps promote that
perception.
We hope Trijicon will
remove the stamp from its
weapons -otherwise, the
U.S. military should find an-
other supplier.
0l the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150words (about one letter-sized page) They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiigator org, bring them to 1105W University Ae , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
Gainesvi rle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org//opinions
.--
Lucy NExT___________
K)
Infidelity should not be normalized
y colleagues at the Alligator, Amelia Harnishand Jared Misner, wrote a defense -or at least
a justification -of infidelity in their Jan. 14 Av-
enue column. (It's online at www.bit.ly/secretscrewing.)
Amelia wrote that cheating is "sometimes a necessary
evil," and unless you're all-knowing and all-seeing -or per-
petually sober -everybody will likely one day "be bored
enough to do something cruel yet delicious, like getting
humped in a hammock at that party your boyfriend was too
tired to attend."
Jared wrote about how he's "not really sorry" about hav-
ing sex with someone else's significant other and that all of
us "who have had the chance to score" with someone as hot
as he did "should feel proud rather than guilty."
I don't agree with them.
This isn't about a puritanical view of sex or sexuality. Sex,
after all, is supposed to be pretty great. If it's not, it's prob-
ably not being done correctly. And everybody should be free
to make his or her own sexual decisions free of stigma or so-
cietal shame as long as they're consensual, responsible and
honest about it.
In fact, this isn't even necessarily about sex. Cheating is
any violation of the promised commitments members of a
relationship have made, either implicitly or explicitly, to
each other. And while that often includes sex, every relation-
ship can have its own idiosyncratic, sometimes-non-sexual
boundaries: Couples who don't have premarital sex may de-
fine cheating as holding someone else's hand. Those in more
sexually open relationships may allow outside sex but draw
the line at kissing on the lips or saying "I love you." Crossing
the boundaries, whatever they are, is always wrong.
In the column, Jared wrote that bedroomsos become a
battle where lovers are in a constant search for the antidote
to monogamy," but this isn't about monogamy at all. In fact,
that's a common red herring among those defending infidel-
ity: the point that monogamy is an artificial construct-thatit's naive, outmoded and unrealistic.
But even people in open relationships
set boundaries and, more importantly,
abide by them.
This is simply about respect. It's
easy to get hurt in a relationship, even
Joe Dellosa when those involved act as though it's
letters@alligator org incomprehensible for someone to go
out of the way to be hurtful.
As far as bad things to do in a re-
lationship, infidelity is particularly terrible. It doesn't just
poison current relationships: The jading effect and can po-
tentially poison future relationships.
It makes all of our commitments seem a little less mean-
ingful and a little more suspect. Normalizing infidelity
means normalizing automatic skepticism toward each other,
and that makes it harder for all of us to love and be loved.
I understand that this is a very strange time to be looking
for someone to love. What constitutes a "relationship" or a
"significant other" is going through a fluctuating redefini-
tion in the era of social networking. But the ephemerality of
human connections is abundantly clear when people uproot
their entire lives and move across the country, or around the
world, with little more than a plane ticket and a painfully
scarce job offer. And just being alive when there are nearly
6.8 billion people on the planet highlights how many oppor-
tunities we have to fall in love -and get our hearts broken.
In the face of all this, it's not unreasonable to try to find
some new, postmodern approach to relationships. But infi-
delity is an expression of selfishness, immaturity and often
cowardice. Far from being anything radical, these are very
old and very base parts of who we are.
On the other hand, protecting not just your love but the
love of others and the love of those you may never meet
aren't just good things. They're mildly revolutionary things.
Joe Dellosa is an advertising senior. His column appears on
Tuesdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Friday's question:
Have you seen zebras on 1-75 Have you donated to a Haitian
near Ocala? relief organization?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org34% YES
66% NO
130 TOTAL VOTESel
10 0
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content 
Available from Commercial News Providers
Guest column
Robertson's words hurt the cause
If you listen to geologists, they will tell you the
reason the massive earthquake occurred in Haiti
last week had to do with seismic activity, fault
lines and tectonic plates. At first glance, it's a believ-
able explanation. But the Rev. Pat Robertson propos-
es another answer that deserves consideration. Not
consideration of its validity but rather consideration
as to why in the world he would say such a thing.
According to Robertson, the origins of the earth-
quake date back to the 18th century. At that time,
Haitians were desperate to gain independence from
French colonization. How desperate, you ask? Well,
Robertson said they were so desperate that they
made a deal with the devil, literally. But the rever-
end explains it much better than I could.
"[The Haitians] got together and swore a pact to
the devil," Robertson said in his Christian Broadcast-
ing Network show. "They said, 'We will serve you if
you'll get us free from the French.' True story. And
so the devil said, 'OK, it's a deal."'
So there we have it, it's Haiti's devil worship that
caused the earthquake. Never mind that 80 percent of
Haitians identify themselves as Roman Catholic, and
another 16 percent identify themselves as Protestant.
I think public opinion would be unanimous in that
the comments were offensive. They were hurtful to
the victims of the disaster and to all those affected.
But I want to take a look at another group
that Robertson's words hurt -Christians.
I, like Robertson (well, hopefully not too much
like Robertson), am a Christian. But words like
those of Robertson, or the aggressive, condemning
preachers on Turlington Plaza, do way more harm
than good. I don't know who they think they're at-
tracting to the faith by giving people the image ofPaul Runnestrand Christians that they do.
The disaster in Haiti
Speak king Out was a tragedy. There
is no chance the God
portrayed in the Bible would ever be pleased by
the loss of life that occurred, no matter how Rob-
ertson or anyone else wants to misrepresent Him.
The earthquake presented an opportunity for Chris-
tians to show the survivors in Haiti, and observers
around the world, the love of Christ.
In the Gospel of Matthew, Jesus says "whatever
you did for one of the least of these brothers of mine,
you did for me." The CIA's World Factbook reports,
Haiti is the poorest nation in the Western Hemi-
sphere. Its extreme poverty is now compounded by
the thousands who are now homeless. I would say
they qualify as "the least of these brothers of mine."
This is not the first time Robertson shed a nega-
tive light on Christianity. He also said God sent
Hurricane Katrina to New Orleans because the city
was full of sin. If this is the way the loving, merciful
God described in the Bible really does work, I would
think that every other city in the world should be on
the lookout for some form of natural disaster head-
ing its way, as no place is free from sin.
So as Robertson, the Dove World Outreach
Church people and the Turlington preachers spout a
message that appeals to very few, I, and many other
Christians around campus, will continue to do my
best to live my life in a Christ-like manner. And I'm
more than willing to share my faith with others, a
faith that revolves not around hateful condemnation
but the alternative that Jesus offers.
Paul Runnestrand is a journalism senior and copy
editorfor the Alligator.TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Article that diminished those who refrain from drugs, alcohol is
shameful
I was reading Thursday's Alligator when I came across an article
about revenge cheating. As I was reading the article, I read a sentence
that claimed most people will be cheated on unless they are all-know-
ing or "one of those weirdos" who's sober all the time. I find it ridicu-
lous and irresponsible that a college newspaper, read by thousands of
binge-drinking and drug-abusing students, would go as far as to label
people who refrain from drugs and alcohol as "weirdos." You are do-
ing a disservice to our community and school by advocating the use of
drugs through the condemnation of people choosing to remain absti-
nent. The Alligator has a moral and social responsibility to try and en-
courage a safe and healthy environment, not to reinforce the idea that
everyone uses drugs and alcohol and those who don't are "weirdos."
I am afraid that comments like this provide the acceptance and social
proof necessary to foster unhealthy behaviors like drug and alcohol
abuse. As a school and community, we should try to avoid the nega-
tive stigma associated with being one of the top five party schools in
the country each year. We should start by looking at our attitudes and
beliefs toward drugs and alcohol, and, at the very least, we shouldn't
promote drug use and abuse by condemning those who choose not
to use drugs. I'm ashamed this statement was written, approved by
the editors and printed for the entire community and Student Body to
read. Hopefully, you will be more careful in the future.
Gunner Japp
4 CLAS
Alligator should take domestice violence more seriously
I was flipping through some of last week's articles and took issue
with some of the articles you chose to run. First off, in "Chris Brown
deserves a second chance," Michelle Profis talks about still listening to
Chris Brown's music. How is this news? Obviously you noticed that
this artide would leave some people questioning the writer's real at-
titude toward domestic violence because you put a disclaimer on it.
Why not just pull the whole article? The author denies condoning do-
mestic violence vehementlybut then backtracks by saying just because
he's young and "talented" we should throw more money at him. The
writer shows she doesn't understand the seriousness of the crime by
starting the article off by calling it "classic celebrity catastrophe," as if
it were just a wardrobe malfunction. It's bad enough that celebrities
routinely get off lightly for what would be heinous crimes if commit-
ted by you or me, but when you publish these kinds of opinions as
mainstream thought, you only further the mentality that we accept this
kind of behavior.
On a disturbingly related note, in "'Jersey Shore': The new Roman
Empire?" Tommy Maple refers to a face of one of the female charac-
ters as being an "eminently punchable mug." Whoa. Where's your
disclaimer for that article? There were many problems with this ar-
ticle, another not-news article, but this oversight is glaring. You know
by publishing this you are condoning violence against women, right?
By saying Snooki's face is punchable, Maple is saying he is willing
to punch a girl in the face. I want to see an official apology from the
Alligator and a real news article covering the state of womens' rights
and domestic abuse in Alachua County. Obviously this "newspaper"
is nothing more than a pandering lip service to consumerism and ig-
norance. Even when you publish an article denouncing the follies of a
scripted show, you only reveal to have completely missed the point.
Mary D.
Gainesville Resident
HPg RM SP
from 4-7: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
59 wings
2-4-1 wells, wines 8f margaritas Fr
Family Sports Pub $2 pints wi
Come view the 1250 W. University Ave. withpurc
games on our Located @ University 4 13th 1 any beve
twenty 42" HD TVs @ the Holiday Inn Must bnng inthe worship guide
Every Friday
for more information, contact
Alligator Advertising
at (352)376.4482ee
ngs
lase of
rage
30/10
coupon alligatorI. .I
I' 'I
8, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2010
Program promotes progress
By SAMANTHA DELGADO
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s words
boomed through the Bo Diddley Community
Plaza in downtown Gainesville Monday af-
ternoon as thousands of people gathered to
remember the civil rights leader whose dream
made history.
The National Holiday Kick-Off Program,
which is sponsored by the Martin Luther King
Jr. Commission of Florida Inc., celebrated the
country's progress since the civil rights move-
ment got rid of segregation based on race in the
1960s.
"This is one of the most diverse years," Alex-
is Amaye-Hunter, a program speaker, told the
crowd.
Gainesville Mayor Pegeen Hanrahan encour-
aged the audience to band together as a commu-
nity regardless of race.
"This is what it means to be an American, to
reach out to those in need," Hanrahan said.During the ceremony, Eastside High School
senior Benjamin Osoba was awarded the 2010
Edna M. Hart Keeper of the Dream Award
scholarship.
Osoba told the audience that since King's
time, America has progressed into a society that
embraces diversity, evident by
the election of President Barack
Obama.
But this progress is only the
beginning.
"I implore you to ask your-
self this question," Osoba told
Hanrahan the crowd. "Are we truly liv-
ing the dream of Martin Luther
King?"
Natalia Leal, chairwoman of the MLK Jr.
Committee, said this event was an opportunity
to unite the community over a dream memorial-
ized by King more than 40 years ago.
"We have encouraged the UF community to
come together to celebrate the life and legacy of
Dr. King throughout the celebration," Leal said.City honors Santa Fe prof.
PARADE, from page 1
on it now, and we will continue to work on it."
Long, whose mother was involved in the civil rights move-
ment of the 1960s, recalled growing up during the integration of
public schools.
"People shunned you," he said. "They didn't want to sit
next to you in the cafeteria or in class."
The march attracted a diverse crowd: Toddlers
pushed in strollers, older adults, college students
and blacks and whites alike all lined University
Avenue to celebrate King.
Earlier on Monday, the commission pre-
sented the Hall of Fame Award Memo-
-o - rial Tribute, a program to honor
Day tthose who have fought for civil
Day rights.
The comission honored Daniel Harmeling, a part-time
teacher at Santa Fe College and Bethune-Cookman University's
Gainesville campus.
As a student at UF in the 1960s, Harmeling and his late twin
brother Jim were arrested and put on academic probation for
participating in sit-ins and protests.
These echoes of the past, alongside Monday's events, serve
as a reminder to future generations of the importance of King's
dream.
"It's not an event that is done for the black community," Long
said. "It's an event to recognize a national hero."
&
Five or more
sunburns
double your risk
of developing
skin cancer.
~AMD
Protect your skin.
www.aad.org * 888B462.DERMPUT USED OIL LIN TCE.I GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF any one GINC Product
Cannot be combined. One Coupon per customer,e~~~ii0 M aS-4-is trsbas 3914 SW Archer RdCall 1-800-741-4der for thle location Wearemt VOI. only avallable at Butler Plaz ocationH-rida Deprtment of F-irmental Regulatio Da eCals 377-6020 Exp 1/31/10
17 D) t
Advertise in the country's
largest college newspaper.
With a daily readership of more than 50,000,
reach every market in Gainesville.
Contact us at [352] 376.4482.A
Come for food, prizes, and fun.
While raising awareness about sexual assault.
AL
Sexual Assault Awareness Month 2010
w wwww.shcc.ufl.edu/care>IOT t K?
W4v7dtr vA Wht thv F rSt Sttp s?
-,t yo (r Rest 6 r~vut0davucd copi-0!
Wc e ca,2v 20 thct ?t
Located on the r r s
Ground Floor of the Reitz Union EhoJIe JrIoA
Tuesday, January 19th, 2010, 7:30 pm
Reitz Union Colonnade
7pm check-in/registration
Or register early at the website listed below.
REGISTRATION IS FREE!YOU NEVER VISITr.
1124 W University Ave
YOU NEVER CALL.
505-0224
YOU NEVER FAX.505-0223
- HOURS
WHAT, I'M UP WITH--- THE CHICKENS!
Sun-Wed 6am-1 Opm&lastThurs-Sat 6am-3am
kopNo TAKEOUT OR DELIVERY?
COME GET, OR VISITNow Open in GATOFOO.CO FO DLVEY
Midtown! OK OM AO.PES
112 WUnverit A" CALL OR FAX YOUR TAKEOUT
OVER 31 Different Sandwiches
to Choose From!Sponsored by CARE, AAREST & UAA I
Xe
CK
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
$419 all inclusive 4/4
$509 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
24hr Fitness Center * 2 Pools
Now Feline Friendly352-271-
3131*GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-1
**CUT ME OUT AND SAVE BIG-
Crejsseja
The coupon is good for a $1200 value
Sign for a 2/2,3/3 or 4/4 for fall 2010
Furnished. All inclusive. Student suites.
$0 Signing Fees, 42" TV or New Sofas
352.373.9009 lexingtoncrossinguf.com
*CUT ME OUT AND SAVE BIG**
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$250/MO
Fully Furnished Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, Campus Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1
REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2*3/3*4/4
Rates from $386*Close to UF
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $775/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432
1-20-09-50-1
Female wanted for 4/4 condo. Furn room
w/ private bath Clean, bus rte pool workout
room. Inc utilities cable internet wash/dry
$435/mth for spr sem $300 sec dep Jeff 904-
612-3944 or weeks63@comcast.net 1-20-
09-20-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1Beautiful 3/3, close to schooldir. on bus!
Brand new appl, paint, bedding, remdld
bthrms, Frnt bldng, upstrs.
bdduf86@comcast.net
1-25-10-14-1
University Commons -Available Immediately
$299 per month -flexible lease terms
Fastest and best bus service to UF
Lots of amenities
Call Jay 704-677-2018 1-20-10-10-1
Rmmate wanted NOW to share very nice
3BR/3BA condo. Very close to UF & Santa
Fe. Fully furnished. Prv't BR/BA. Pool &
porch. No pets please. $550/month ALL
UTILITIES INC!! Call Talia (305)304-1703.
1-21-10-10-1
Kensington South Townhouse 2bed/2.5bath.
Furnished Downstairs. $450/month per
room including internet and alarm system.
954-598-3986. Available immediately or for
Summer/Fall 2010. 1-27-14-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4/4 indiv leases. $395/mo ind cable, inet &
util. Unfurn optional. Avail fall, or June + July.
dyeung888@embarqmail.com 239-250-6149
1-29-10-15-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 372-6881 or
mobile 213-3901. 4-21-09-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
$99 MOVES YOU IN!
1 brs from $539
2brs from $599
3brs from $750
Wtr incl.*Pet Friendly*Spacious
1 mile from UF*Shands*Downtown
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
Limited Availability-Downtown Apartments
Studios-$599*One Bedrooms*$699
Two Bedrooms-$859*Three Bedrooms-$1299
Move in NOW or Fall 2010
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
4-21-09-71-2
1 & 2's * AFFORDABLE RATES!
1 BR/1 BA $469 * 2BR/1 BA $569
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Adopted pets live free!! 2 Pools!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friend ly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOW or FALL 2010.
2/2 from $1019 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
A SPECIAL PLACE TO CALL HOME
1 BR from $585
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $755
Tanning*Fitness*Tennis*Pool*Playground
Washer/Dryer*Fireplaces*Pools
Call us for a tour! 376-2507
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1n/-$679 2/2-$779 3/2-$829
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464
4-21-71-2
P P OLOS
Three Bus Routes (9,34,35,36)!
1.5m to UF, Shand's, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$799 3/3-$979
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-21-09-71-2Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75 SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 4-21-
71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$465, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
4-21-09-71-2
BRAND NEW REDUCED RATES!
1's, 2's, 3's
Inclusive Pkgs Available
Pet Friendly!
Immediate or Fall Move In
352-374-3866
4-21-09-71-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$419 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-2Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2*3/3*4/4
Rates from $386*Close to UF
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
RATES STARTING AT $449
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$600 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St.
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <50bs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 1-29-
10-60-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 1-22-
10-52-2
Working at Shands or VA- nice 2/1 @ Summit
House across the street. $700/mo + $200
dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 1-29-47-2
WWW.BIKETOUF.COM
1 BR from $575
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $745
Tan ning*Fitness*Ten nis*Pool
Washer/Dryer*Pets Welcome!
Call us for a tour! 377-7401
4-21-09-71-2
10, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2010
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
wished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished
* 2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE
7209 SW 45th Pl. $600/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 1-20-10-
28-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 1-29-09-35-2
Custom 2BR/1BA in pvt 4 Unit compIx. Tiled
fir in Liv rm, Carpet in BRs w/ceiling fans. All
new BA. New Kit w/stainless apple, W/D, Cent
H/A, i-net/cable avail. Mgr pays water, pest
control, lawn main, security lites. Near bus rte.
Sorry no pets $635/mo Call 727-423-9463
6AIso avail: Fully furn 2BR/1BA $735/mo.
1-19-09-23-2
BLOCKS TO UF
Available August 2010. Now showing
multiple houses. 2BR/2BA, 3BR/2BA,
4BR/3BA, 5BR/3BA. www.dalyproperties.
com or call Carol 359-3341 2-26-10-43-2
Move-In Now & Walk to UF
2BR $300/br * 1 BR $599 * Studio $720
Dorm style $509 Roommate Matching Avail
www.ForRentNearUF.com * 352-376-6223
4-21-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 1-29-10-20-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 1-29-10-20-2
Luxury Student Condos Close To Campus
Includes internet and utilities
From $385 per month each.
Please call us for the details.
Bristol Park Realty (352) 367-2669
1-29-09-20-2
Luxury student condos close to calmus.
Includes interent & tuilities
From $385 per month each.
Please call us for the details.
Bristol park Realty 352-367-2669 1-29-10-
20-2
$400/mo Room to rent Rockwood
Villa Condo, pvt bath, on bus
route, wd, cent h/a, cble/intrnt
some utilities, non-smoking,
female only -904.874.6877 1-20-10-10-2
$99 Move-IN Special
$500-$700 2 bed/1 bath
Walking distance to UF and downtown
(352)226-3535 or (352)505-9264 2-17-10-
30-2
Holiday Special/ Valentine's Day
NO MOVE-IN COSTS -Free Rent
(Don't Pay Anything til 2/14/1 0)
Please Hurry. Only A Few Units Avail!
(We speak Spanish) 352 240-9009
2-12-09-27-2
Rocky Point Apts 3100 sw 35th pl- 376-1619
Country Garden 2001 sw 16th st- 373-4500
Regency Oaks 3230 sw Archer rd 378-5766
Southwest Villas 3643 sw 20 ave 336-9000
Archer Woods 3020 sw Archer rd- 373-8727
2-12-09-27-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 1-20-
10-10-2Cute & Clean! Vintage 1-BR with wood floors
& great front porch in quiet NW area. Walk to
Ward's, Publix & buslines, bike to downtown
& UF. Avail. NOW! $575/mo. 352-338-7670
or email shepley@cozygator.com 1-20-10-
10-2
Baxter Cottage
2 blks to UF campus, 1013 SW 4 Ave
2BR/1BA, Bright, clean, completely remod-
eled, Cent AC/Ht,wood firs, DW, W/D, NS,
NPets. $650+util. ATucker458@aol.com
1-29-10-16-2
LARGE 1BR HOUSE
Urban loft design -fully remodeled. Very
nice. Backyard, trees, downtown, big city
cracker. 316-6667. $670/mo. Available now
1-21-10-10-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
1BR home on a hill, 14' x 24' living room with
view, dining area seats 6, huge patio, private
entrance, carport, near UF, NW 8th Ave. All
utilities paid. $850. 352-395-6250 or 332-
1429 1-29-10-16-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile floor, W/D
in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate. 239-250-
6149, dyeung888@embarqmail.com
1-29-10-15-2
1/1. Completely Renovated
680 sq ft. Tile & Laminate floors. Unfurn/
Furn 5 min walk to Shands & UF. $550/mo.
!!Great Deal!! Call 786-390-2939
1-19-6-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
1-29-15-23 br/1 ba house, 1 mile from UF, remodeled
kitchen & bath, new paint, clean, includes
Dishwasher & washer/dryer, tile throughout,
large fenced yard & storage shed, pets OK,
$850 per mo. Call 275-6447. 1-29-14-2
$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1.5 Bath
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands
on bus route. W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500
security, $550/month. 2640 SW 31st Place
Unit B. 562-2782 or 514-6869 if interested.
1-25-10-2
MOVE IN NOW!
Sweet studio w/large porch, deck, on creek.
Safe area. On busline. Tiled, laundry priv.
$425/mo, 1/3 utils, Ist/last/$400 sec. 352-
384-0111. 24/7 apt326@yahoo.com 1-25-
10-10-2
One Block to UF:2/2.5 bath townhouse. W/D,
Dishwasher, Garbage Disposal, wood floors,
ceiling fans, GUARANTEED Parking call
Todd at 514-4915, VERY Nice townhouse
1-29-10-13-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1st Nice large
4BR/2BA house. Big bedrooms, big living rm.
W/D provided, game rm $1425/mo. 2100 NW
8th Court. Call for diretions. Pets ok, fenced
yard. Other houses available 352-339-2342
1-26-10-10-2
Perfect 3BR for grad students or profession-
als. Close to SW Rec Center & Archer Rd
conveniences. hardwood floor, cent H/AC,
new appliances, nice yard. 2627 SW 31st
Terr. $750/mo until August. 215-7199 1-26-
10-10-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1075
www.LookingGlassApartments .com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111 4-21-
65-2
One bdr apt in Historic Waldo. Quiet & clean
(great for grad-student or couple). Next to
coffee house w/free wi-fi. $575. mo (1st last
& security) 15 minute run into Gvlle. PIs call
352 378-2141 & Iv msg. 1-20-10-5-2* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1 bdr. from $459 2bdr. from $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/1 from $619 2/2 from $729
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Sunrise Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1bdr from $469
NO APP FEE. Near UF, Schands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1 bdr. from $599
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Ashton Square Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 & 3 bdrs from $719
Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Summer Place Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1bdr from $469 No rent until Jan,
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
JUMBLE
Copyrighted MateriaI
j Syndicated Content1st Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Sundowne Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Studio from $439 1 bdr from $479
Walk to Butler Plaza and Regal Cinemas
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You Inl
Gator Village Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1bdr from $489
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Walk to UF. Openings in Feb, May & Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 0 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 0 studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
2-26-10-32-2
$300 ALL Inclusive, Utils, CableTV,
SecureWiFi, BR/Pvt. BA, W/D, Newly
Remodeled & Furnished Common Area. On
UF Bus Rte. January FREE. OPEN MINDED.
954-854-9445 1-28-10-10-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
2-11-10-20-2
a ' 
%
0 -0
Available from Commercial News Providers
p
a ftd%4
.4
a
6 1.4 ap
TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 11
For Rent uFor Rent O F5 Jjr e Frln Subleases Roommates Real Etunfurnished unfurnished kasa l
4 BR/4 BR apt in Oxford Terrace 11. $545 a
month. Fall'10-Summer'l. Utilities, cable,
internet, Washer/dryer, all included. Very
close walk to campus! Call 954-608-9531 or
email geoff265@ufl.edu. 1-29-10-10-2
*2/1 Brandywine $495 sm. pet ok***
*3/2 House W/D $725 pets ok***
Near UF, Shands, VA. On bus route.
Short term ok.
AVAIL NOW 352.284.2654
1-29-10-10-2
DUCKPOND
Stone cottage studio. Small but cute. Good
sized kitchen. Blocks to downtown, restau-
rants. Available now. $475/mo. 306 NE 6th
St. 379-4952 1-29-10-10-2
DUCKPOND
2BR/1.5BA 1200 sq ft townhouse. Amazing
location. Tile floor, new countertops. Blocks
to downtown. Available now. $850/mo. 508
NE 4th Ave. 379-4952 1-29-10-10-2
roommate wanted for 1/1 w/ private bath-
room in a 2/2 house on SW side of town.
$600 includes cable, utilities, & internet! Call
352-870-5351 and speak to Jessica to see
the room! 1-21-10-3-22 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 1-29-10-9-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
216 SW 12th St. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 1-29-10-9-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 1-29-10-9-2
SORRENTO SUBDIVISION
Newer 3BR/2BA 2 car gar, split plan home.
Eat-in kitchen, living & dining rms, fireplace,
high ceiling, lanai, fenced yd, sec sys. $1300/
mo yearly lease. 813-205-0220 lv mssg. 2-1-
10-10-2
Place a Heartline message for your
special someone in the Alligator's
Valentine's Day Heartlines Section
and be eligible to win prizes from-
Ier r is I
PPODROM
T A F T H E A T R
Test
O(P ofanuef's
'Vintage R~oomAushlestDON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
$300 ALL Inclusive, Utils, CableTV,
SecureWiFi, BR/Pvt. BA, W/D, Newly
Remodeled & Furnished Common Area. On
UF Bus Rte. January FREE. OPEN MINDED.
954-854-9445 1-28-10-10-3
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $299/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 4-21-09-71-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail now
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 1-20-
10-42-4
Female roommate needed, 4/2.5 townhouse,
1-75 and Newberry, all included, gated, $400
baezwpa@bellsouth.net 954-557-4769
1-19-09-30-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
1-20-10-17-4
1 ROOMMATE NEEDED ASAP For 4bd/3ba
House. Shared With 3 UF Dance Students.
$440 + 1/4 Utils. House Fully Furnished.
Private Bath! Car Garage. W&D Inc. Call
Jessi 813 244 1919 Ready To Move In!
1-29-10-17-4
1-2 Roommates needed for 4br/4ba $375
Fully Furn Condo. ALL UTIL Incl., Pvt. bath
walk-in closetw/dpool.Short ride to UF on 2
bus routes.STUDENTS ONLY, non-smoking
954-593-3063 1-21-10-7-4
Looking for one male to share 3BR/2BA
house close to campus. Common areas fur-
nished. W/D, new tile & carpet. $400/mo +
elec. 918 NW 10th Ave. Call 561-706-5378
1-20-10-5-4
$300 ALL Inclusive, Utils, CableTV,
SecureWiFi, BR/Pvt. BA, W/D, Newly
Remodeled & Furnished Common Area. On
UF Bus Rte. January FREE. OPEN MINDED.
954-854-9445 1-28-10-10-4
Share 4br, 2.5ba, 3fl home with
2 h/m. Gorgeous view. Privacy &
space. Safe, quiet & accessible.
Huge b/y, deck, frpl, prch, hdwd,5trangest w/d, d/w, gar, furn. 716.446.3588
1-22-10-5-4
OFReal EstateE s unnlest
F Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Placing your H ea rtline Find (373-3463)
+ SEE ALL CONDOSs easier than ever! WWW.UFCONDOS.COMN
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
www.alligaftororg
.ost
sincere
Each Category winner will recieve flowers and candy.
In addition, the Judge's Choice, picked from those winners ,
will also win dinner for two and theater tickets.
Five (5) prizes will be awarded by flive in-house judges. Deadline for submission is4pmonFeb5th. All Heartline messages placed wil beautomaticatly
entered in the contest. Winners will benotified prior to Feb 12th. Winners will be announced in the Feb l2th edition. Positive ID required to coHect win-
nings. Officers, directors, employees & their family members of the Alligator, or affiliates of the contest are not eligible to enter contest. You do not need
to be present to win. Prized cannot be trsferred. Gratuity and sales tax not included. Dinner certificate must be used by March 31, 2010. No purchase
necessary to enter. Contact Classified Office for deUi g m nNEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-71-
5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
NEW HOMES -3.2 MILES NORTH OF UF
US Dept of Energy, professionally energy
tested, est elec bill $80. 3 different plans,
starting at $208,900. Schackow Realty, de-
veloper 352-514-5060 or rlschack@aol.com
1-21-10-10-5Apartment for Sale!
2 Bed/ 2 Bath furnished and upgraded
Located: CampusEdge Condos
Walking distance from Campus and Shands
Call: 1-813-810-8879 1-20-10-5-5
F Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
-computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7al lig iHat ordh (flea ktues
Tu You ffleat on the Te@11s 1) a atin's
12, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2010
mputers Autos Autos Wanted Help Wanted
OCERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECH
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
1-29-10-14-7**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Bicycles Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980O F 1 4-21-71-12
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
EF For Sale
*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF-
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
Motorcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
*www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
Discount Motorcycle Gear
www.turn2co.com. Up to 75% off original
MSRP. 904-294-8344 Turn 2 Gear 1-29-
10-26-11
5IyIAutos
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS 0
ORunning or not!@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
0Over 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy6Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
1-29-09-75-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
94 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $1499 cash
96 Kia Sephia $999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1499
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
95 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900 SOLD
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-1296 Honda Accord $2500
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
STUDENTS GUARANTEED FINANCING!
Do you have a valid drivers license?
Do you have a part time job?
Ride today for $750 down!
Call Angie @ 352-672-5048 1-19-10-12
97 BMW 3281 CONVERTIBLE MANUAL.M3
WHEELS. BRAND NEW TOP & INTERIOR.
EXCELLENT CONDITION. EVERYTHING
WORKS.$7000. 352-494-2374 1-20-10-12
W ZWanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 1-28-10-71-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 1-28-
10-71-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
I1I
Copyrighted Material ip
UI
Syndicated Content U
Available from Commercial News Providers
I
I3%
I -
I0 0
TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 13
FHelp Wanted Help Wanted Cf3 epnted Services Evntotices
Hair models wanted for long hair in motion
studies. Hip-length or longer only. No experi-
ence necessary. $70 to $120 and hour. Call
352 792-1824 modelslh@yahoo.com
1-29-10-42-14
HowlGotAnAl
Have a 3.6 GPA & want to earn some extra
cash? We are hiring notetakers for
spring '10. Go to www.HowlGotanA.com
1-25-10-16-14
UCB
Looking for energized individuals to work part
time as an office assistant mainly for packing
online orders.
High paced environment so attention to
detail is key. Hourly pay $8.50/hr. Very
nice job environment and 10 min from
UF! Preferred bilingual English/Spanish,
but not required. Please send resumes to
universitycollegebooks@gmail.com and
make sure your contact information is in-
cluded.
Thanks 2-2-10-20-14
SAT Coordinator
Immediate full time/part time opening for
a person with SAT tutoring background
to help develop a new program at Gleim
Publications. Great opportunity and experi-
ence for a "go getter". Please send your re-
sume to hr@gleim.com or apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com 1-20-10-10-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk
elem, mid school students. 1-4 afternoons
per wk. $10/hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed
wk study req for emp. Volunteers welcome.
Contact Sally 352-384-1155, st23@cox.net
I MOST WANTEDSummer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
Linux Administrator
Full time career position with a success-
ful 30 year employer located in Gainesville.
Must have strong Linux/Unix background
and should be conversant with the following:
kernel compiling, network configuration, ip-
tables/ipchains, Sendmail, Procmail, MySQL
and Apache. Please apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com. 2-3-10-20-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Afternoons,
evenings & weekends. Fax resume to 373-
2230 1-20-10-10-14
LPNs & RTs NEEDED IMMEDIATELY
to work for a home health agency. Flexible
hours, great pay. Full-time & part-time avail-
able. Call 352-284-2336 or email
hcpservices@bellsouth.net 1-21-10-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable, expe-
rience a plus. Call Carrillo & Carrillo, PA @
352-371-4000. 1-22-10-10-14
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Full or part time. Some weekends,holidays.
Experience preferred. Apply in person
at Jonesville Animal Hospital 14145 W.
Newberry Rd, Newberry. 1-25-10-10-14
GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS
FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY
PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT
JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-6300
2-8-10-20-14
OSOATTENTION SMOKERS!@@
SODo you want to quit smoking?@@
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking
cessation study. You may be compensated.
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic 328-6603 or
email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com 1-22-
10-14
The Honey Baked Ham Co & Cafe is now hir-
ing for sandwich prep & production. Approx
20 hrs $7.50/hr starting pay. Apply in per-
son 618 NW 60th St (Behind McDonalds on
Newberry Rd.) Call 331-1253 1-19-10-5-14
Veterinary Asst Exper. Preferred. F/T hours.
Must be avail. to work 7:30a-6:00p Mon.,
Tues., Thurs., & Fri., and 8:15a-12:15p Sat.
Fax or e-mail resume to 352-373-7211 or
timberviewpetclinic@yahoo.com 1-19-10-
5-14
Office Manager FT
Small Hi-tech Co
3 yr exp Word,
QuickBooks, Internet
admin@comscire.com 352-334-7299 1-26-
10-10-14
Bartenders and Wait Staff wanted at
Newberry's Backyard Bar-B-Q Restaurant.
Our friendly, high volume restaurant needs
capable, friendly, and smart employees to
deliver a great experience to our Guests.
Please apply in person. 25405 West
Newberry Rd. Newberry, FL 32669
(Across from City Hall)
1-29-10-12-14Perry Roofing Inc is a multi-million dollar
company seeking a self-motivated, ener-
getic individual that is eager to help build
our Marketing Department from the ground
up. We've earned a reputation for excel-
lence by giving driven, motivated people the
opportunity to shine. 1-2 year of experience
in Marketing or Advertising is a plus. Submit
your resume to jocampo@perryroofing.com
1-21-5-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT for real estate office.
Approx 25 hrs/wk, afternoons and some Sat
mornings. Tasks include taking rent pay-
ments, answering phone, filing, writing let-
ters. Min 1-yr commitment expected. Starting
pay $7.50/hr. Good PT job for student.
Please send resume and cover ltr to rabell@
atlantic.net or fax to 378-2411. No phone
calls please. 4-21-10-64-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
Full time NANNY needed M-F
recent newborn exp req. $450/wk
grad students welcome;
Noah's Ark Nanny; send resume, photo,
short bio to gnv@nanoneone.com 1-29-
10-10-14
Gainesville-based travel agency
now hiring experienced sales agents.
Candidates must be outgoing, computer
proficient, and quick learners.
GREAT STUDENT JOB. GREAT PAY.
Please send your resume and availability
to bestontravelnet@gmail.com.
1-29-9-14
COUNTER HELP FOR PIZZARIA
Experience a must. PT/FT available. Call
376-3444 1-25-10-5-14
Educational group travel organizer seeking
career-oriented FT Reservations Manager
with fluency in Spanish for long-term posi-
tion. Position requires excellent organization-
al and communication skills. Please email re-
sume to: Stephanie@holbrooktravel.com
1-27-10-7-14
l Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersHORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* *GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS**
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
1-28-15-15
Elseo's Painting-Offering to pressure-wash &
paint your house for the low price of $1500
incl materials (1500 sqft house). If you want
your house to look good call 352-642-2737
or 352-792-4745. We make lawns pretty too
1-21-10-5-15
FHealth Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
STD/Pregnancy Testing
Confidential, Affordable, Fast and Easy.
www.JustGetTested.com
5% Off with Discount Code UF2010 2-3-
10-20-16
Typing Services
Free Resume Review
Visit www.advanced-resumes.com
1-25-5-17,,,,,,Students currently practicing Maharishi
Mahesh Yogi's Transcendental Meditation
program and who wish to start a TM club
on campus, please call Allan Byxbe at
352-338-1249.
Interested students who have not yet
started the practice and who wish to start a
club may ask about scholarships avail-
able through the David Lynch Foundation
through January 31st.
Free follow-up checking and advanced
lectures are available on a continuing basis,
as always, for those already practicing the
TM program.
There will be an introductory meeting and
lecture on Saturday, January 23rd at 1:00
PM in Dauer Hall, Room 215. Please use
the Keene Faculty Center Handicapped
entrance.
1-26-10-7-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF
Teaching Center. Monday-Thursday, 1/25-
1/28 from 5:00- 7:00 p.m. Verbal sessions
on M & W, Math on T & R. Call 392-2010 to
register and learn the room location. 1-25-
10-5-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-21-09-71-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
a i Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING W JE Rides
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optionalI $2O fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards
Employment Visas & Naturalization
www.ruthlaw.com (352) 335-6748
2-2-40-18GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
SoiEvntices WffKt&oud
"Swan Song", Jan 25, 7.30 pm
an hour of dance/theater/music/poetry
5$ student tkts, (352)375-HIPP
http://thehipp.org/news/events.php 1-25-
10-8-20FOUND KEYS
between bus stops across from Lexington
Crossing. Turned in to bus driver of RTS
bus route 9 1-21-3-25Nathaniel
Glasser
White Male
(DOB 12/20/79); 6'00",
Brown Hair,
Hazel Eyes
Wanted for:
Hit and Run and Driving
on a Suspended License
ALACNUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOP
Sports
TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
UF MEN'S BASKETBALL
Gators notch first SEC win against LSU
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
After a rocky start to the
Southeastern Conference sea-
son, Florida finally got the win it
needed.
UF (12-5, 1-2 SEC) bounced
back from back-to-back confer-
ence losses with an impressive
72-58 victory against LSU (9-8,
0-3 SEC) on Saturday night in the
O'Connell Center.
Following two up-and-down
contests, the Gators scored first
and never trailed, controlling
nearly every phase of the game
and extended their lead to as
much as 24 points in the second
half.
"Any win in the conference is
huge," junior forward Chandler
Parsons said. "Starting off 0-2, ob-
viously this was kind of a must-
win game. We came out here and
did what we had to do."
For Vernon Macklin, that
meant staying out of foul trou-
ble.
After combining for nine fouls
and 10 points in just 33 minutes
during the Gators' first two SEC
games, the junior center scored
14 points and grabbed eight re-
bounds in 28 minutes. Perhaps
most impressively, Macklinstayed aggressive on defense
without picking up a single foul.
"I just didn't think about it,"
Macklin said. "I came out of the
gate getting position and keeping
my hands up and not contesting
shots I couldn't block."
UF coach Billy Donovan at-
tributed Macklin's zero fouls
to the less-physical big men he
had to guard when LSU forward
Storm Warren was on the bench
with foul trouble, but he noted
Macklin may have had a little
more motivation to play smarter
defense than he has the past two
games.
"He was probably tired of
me being on his back for the last
two days, just working on post
defense, moving his feet and not
getting these fouls that were put-
ting him on the bench," Donovan
said.
Having Macklin on the floor,
out of foul trouble and in position
down low allowed the Gators to
play in their natural positions
and limit the number of key min-
utes some of their reserves had to
play.
"It was huge to have Vern in
there," sophomore point guard
Erving Walker said. "That's our
big man right there. It would be
like last year all over again with-
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15Steven Keys/ Alligator
Erving Walker shoots during the Gators' 72-58 win against LSU
on Saturday. He finished with 14 points and six assists.
Florida gets lift from bench in road victory
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@alligator org
Trumae Lucas came off a cold bench
and provided the spark Florida needed in
a 55-52 Southeastern Conference win on
the road at Mississippi State on Sunday.
The sophomore, who was scoreless
in the first half, scored six points in two
minutes, leading the Gators on a 7-2 run
against the Bulldogs to give her team a
49-44 lead in the second half with 3:28 re-
maining.
From there, the Gators (10-8, 3-2 SEC)
used the free-throw line to their advan-
tage, scoring their last six points from the
charity stripe, including Lucas' free-throw
with 7.6 seconds left to ice the game.
"They didn't really see me too much in
the first half, so I felt like they really didn't
take me as an offensive threat when I came
out in the second half." Lucas said. "Weknew they were a great second-half team
so we just had to step our game up, and
that's what we did."
Florida turned the ball over 21 times
against the Bulldogs, a step back from its
more crisp 12-turnover game against Ten-
nessee on Thursday. But the Gators im-
proved on the boards, bouncing back from
being out-rebounded by
the Volunteers 46-24 to
besting the smaller Bull-
Women's dogs 46-35 in that cat-
W, egory.Basketball "We definitely took
our loss against Tennes-
see out on Mississippi State," Lucas said,
adding that rebounding was a focal point
coming into the game.
The Bulldogs (12-6, 3-2 SEC) entered
the game with a high-scoring offense that
averaged 72 points per game in the SEC
and featured four players averaging dou-ble figures, including senior guard Alexis
Rack.
Rack was second in the SEC in scoring
(20 points per game) coming into the con-
test with UF, and Armelie Lumanu (13.5),
Mary Kathryn Govero (11.6) and Tysheka
Grimes (11.5) were the other double-figure
scorers who were all within the top-23 in
the conference in scoring.
Rack was not nearly the offensive
threat on Sunday she has been this season.
She finished 5 of 19 from the floor with 16
points, but six of them came off back-to-
back three-pointers that were too little, too
late at the end of the game.
The Bulldogs shot 25 percent in the first
half and raised that to 40 percent in the
second half, finishing at 33 percent for the
game.
The 52 points are the fewest allowed by
UF in an SEC game since holding Vander-
SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 15NFL playoff
games have
lacked usual
excitement
Can I getsome drama, please?
For the past two weekends, I've
met up with friends to watch
the NFL playoffs.
What we've seen has
been utterly disappointing.
( T h e n
betting 
-
' if it were
-L ,legal, of
course
Phil Kegler -would
Phil on the Hill ma ke
pkegler@alligator org t h i n g s
easier to
watch.
There would probably be no
feeling like predicting a punt
return for a touchdown in the
Cardinals-Saints game and then
watching Reggie Bush take one
to the house, the only special
teams score so far in these play-
offs. Just saying.)
The first eight games result-
ed in six duds, one decent game
(Jets-Chargers) and a you'll-re-
member-where-you-watched it
matchup (Packers-Cardinals).
And let's be honest, had I
not picked the Jets to win Sun-
day, I probably wouldn't have
had as much interest in the
game as I did.
They had four-straight
three-and-outs to start the
game, and Jets coach Rex Ry-
an's play-calling often resem-
bled former Tennessee coach
Lane Kiffin in The Swamp
-just keep it close and pray
your defense can stand tall.
Except it worked.
The average margin in this
year's playoffs has been 17.1
points. Take out the Jets-Char-
gers and Packers-Cardinals,
and it jumps to 21.3.
The first two rounds of last
SEE PHIL, PAGE 15
SENIOR BOWL
U Former UF receiver Riley Cooper
accepted an invitation to play in the
Senior Bowl, to be held Jan. 30 in
Mobile, Ala. Cooper led the team in
receiving yards and TDs this season.alligptorSports~org
E The UF men's tennis doubles pair of An-
toine Benneteau and Alexandre Lacroix took
first place at the SEC Indoor Championships
over the weekend. For a recap of the tourna-
ment, head to alligatorSports.org.TEEING OFF WITH KYLE MAISTR
0 The Dallas Cowboys will retain coach Wade Phillips for another season, which
means I don't need to worry about them winning a Super Bowl for at least an-
other season. .St. Louis Cardinals slugger Albert Pujols was outraged at report-
ers' constant questioning about Mark McGwire's steroid usage. Does that make
anyone else a bit nervous?
TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
UF GYMNASTICS
Gators rebound at home
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
There's no place like home, and the
Gators showed that Friday night in the
O'Connell Center.
After opening the season on the
road, No. 8 Florida kicked off its home
schedule with a 196.575-195.925 victory
over No. 7 Arkansas.
The victory gave UF (1-1, 1-0 South-
eastern Conference) its first win of the
season and handed Arkansas (1-1, 0-1
SEC) its first loss.
"It was a definite improvement over
last week," UF coach Rhonda Faehn
said. "We competed more aggressive-
ly."
After struggling in their opening
event against Oklahoma, the Gators
came out strong against the Razorbacks,
scoring a 49.25 on the vault, the highest
score for any event of the evening.
The strong start was capped off by a
9.925 by freshman Ashan6e Dickerson,
which was good enough for first place
on the vault.
On the uneven bars, the team im-
proved on its handstands, which was
an issue in its first meet of the season.
Despite an uncharacteristic fall by se-nior Amanda Castillo, the team was
able to recover and senior Maranda
Smith, who scored a 9.875, took home
her first career win on the bars.
"I was always hesitant to start doing
bars again," said Smith, who had shoul-
der surgery in May. "To come out and
win definitely boosted my confidence."
Even though the Gators performed
better against Arkansas than they did
in their season-opener, heading into the
final rotation their lead was just 0.350.
Freshman Liz Green led off on floor
exercises for UF and posted a 9.8, fol-
lowed by a 9.85 by sophomore Amy
Ferguson.
After errors by freshman Randy
Stageberg, the team was able to rebound
with its final three routines, including a
9.9 by Dickerson.
The 9.9 on the floor gave Dicker-
son an all-around total of 39.475, good
enough to make her the first UF fresh-
man since former All-American Corey
Hartung to win all-around titles in her
first two collegiate meets.
"That's what was amazing," Faehn
said of the team's ability to rebound in
a close meet. "That's what showed to us
that this team not only has the talent .
but they also have the mental fight."
Donovan's ploy works
H U UP , from page 14
out him, so we need him out
there on the court."
Macklin had plenty of help,
though, as all five of Florida's
starters scored in double fig-
ures.
Parsons and junior power
forward Alex Tyus had 11
points apiece, freshman guard
Kenny Boynton led all scor-
ers with 18 points on 6-of-13
shooting and Walker added 14
points and six assists.
With senior Dan Werner
held out due to the flu, Par-
sons got the start at small
forward. Werner played 20
minutes after Parsons' early
foul trouble but clearly wasn't
fully healthy, recording only
one point, one assist and two
rebounds.
Aside from keeping hisplayers out of foul trouble to
make up for his ever-increas-
ing lack of depth, Donovan
made a point in practice this
week to focus on not starting
slow after halftime.
Midway through prac-
tice, Donovan had his players
watch about five minutes of
LSU film then get back on the
court, warm up and jump back
into practice again.
Although UF let up a little
in the final minutes, the strat-
egy seemed to be effective,
as the Gators extended their
seven-point halftime lead to a
60-36 lead with 12:53 remain-
ing in the game.
"I think it was a good
move," Boynton said. "We
came out of the second half
today to play, and usually we
don't. I think we need to do
that more often."Freshman Ashan6e Dickerson has won the all-
around title in both of her collegiate meets.
Smith scores 10 of 13
points in second half
W HOOPS, from page 14
bilt to 51 on Jan. 24, 2002.
The Gators' offensive output was driven by Azania
Stewart in a first half that produced a combined 14 points
in the first ten minutes between the two teams. She scored
eight points in the first half on 4-of-7 shooting and fin-
ished with 11 to go along with five rebounds.
Florida's offense in the second half
was highlighted by Lucas' scoring spurt,
and Sharielle Smith, who scored 10 of
her theemeanding 13 points m the secondAD half.
UF coach Amanda Butler was proud
of her team's ability to pull out a win de-
Lucas spite shooting just 35 percent from the
field and 24 percent from three-point
range.
"Toughness is Trumae Lucas coming off the bench after
she'd been sitting there for six or seven minutes and com-
ing in making those plays with confidence," Butler said.
"Great toughness across the boards, but great defense .
this Mississippi State team is very good, and to hold them
to 52 points is amazing."
A radio broadcast contributed to this report.PHIL,from page 14
year's playoffs had an average
margin of victory of 11 points,
with only two games decided
by a gap of two touchdowns
or more.
It's a similar story when
looking at the first two week-
ends of the playoffs in 2006
(7.3-point average margin)
and 2007 (10.6 points).
Sure, there has been a cer-
tain satisfaction from going
7-1 in my picks so far (I'd be
perfect if only Aaron Rod-
gers could've hit a wide-open
Greg Jennings in overtime!),
especially after my lackluster
(read: last-place) effort in our
college football picks column
in the fall, but it almost feels
as tainted as when Florida
schedules games against Foot-
ball Championship Subdivi-
sion teams.
This weekend doesn't ex-
actly promise memorable
matchups.
Vikings-Saints could be
good, but Jets-Colts? I've seen
that already -Indianapolis
beat a one-dimensional Balti-
more team 20-3 (and it wasn't
as close as the score indicat-
ed).
New York won on Sunday
with Mark Sanchez throwing
for 100 yards. Why wouldn't
Indy force Sanchez to win the
game?
I realize that was prob-
ably the game plan for Cin-
cinnati and San Diego, but I
have to believe the Jets can't
catch lightning in a bottle for
a third-straight time.
The Jets wouldn't even be in
the playoffs if the Colts hadn't
sat their starters for most of
the second half during New
York's 29-15, playoff-saving
win in Week 16.
That decision sparked con-
troversy, so here's to hoping
there will be as much on-field
drama as there was off the
field after their most recent
meeting.
Regular Pricn3xaeA *RABREBWSHOP
- A15 W. University Ave. s (352) 373-4841
Butler Plaza Newberr uare Hours: M ~ F -9 a- ~ 6 pm
3325-37 33 www.DTBarbershop.com
onor or tasnr donate nasma! inousanas ao.
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6th St Gainesville (352) 378-9204
1 G ILIL "Where It Pays to Care"
16, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2010
UF TRACK AND FIELD
Shot-putter sets record
By RYAN BUTLER
Alligator Writer
Because of the offseason layoff, a
team's opening meet of the indoor track
and field season typically doesn't foster
record-setting performances. But UF shot-
putter Mariam Kevkhishvili is far from a
typical athlete.
Kevkhishvili threw a personal-best
18.47m/60-7.25 at the season-opening
Kentucky Invitational in Lexington, Ky.,
to win the event and earn an automatic
qualifying spot in the NCAA Indoor
Championship. She was among three of
the Gators'first-place finishers in the two-
day meet last weekend.
"This was a typical opening season
meet," UF head coach Mike Holloway
said. "We did some good things, some
bad things, but overall it was a good start-
ing point."
Kevkhishvili broke her own UF record
and smashed the record for furthest throw
inside Kentucky's E.J. Nutter Fieldhouse.
The three-time NCAA champion, who
also set the national record for her home
country of Georgia, had been busy in in-
ternational competition during the col-
lege offseason.
Holloway said her rapport with
throws coach Steve Lemke also helped
Kevkhishvili begin the season in domi-
nating fashion.
"She's unbelievable," Holloway said.
"(Today) we saw a byproduct of all her
hard work."
Joining Kevkhishvili inMarch's NCAA
Championships is the men's 4x100 relay
team. Tony McQuay, Calvin Smith, JovonToppin and Christian Taylor combined
for a first-place finish in a time of 3:06:40.
"I expected them to run well," Hollo-
way said. "But our goal is still to be cham-
pions eight weeks from now."
Smith, a 13-time All-American, added
a third-place finish in the 200-meter dash.
Pole vaulter Eric Foran also placed
first for the Gators. The junior jumped
4.90m/16-0.75 and then beat Allan Bran-
don of Georgia and Logan Lynch of Mich-
igan State by posting a 4.95 in a jump-off
for his third career win.
The women'ssprinters, leadbyAlishea
-Usery, put together a
Kevkhishvil.strong performance in
Kentucky after a diffi-
cult 2009 season. Usery
finished third in the
60-meter dash finals
running a 7:41 and ran
a 24.15 in the 200-meter
dash to finish seventh.
She ran the second leg
in the team's 4x400 team, helping them
finish second in the event with a time of
3:39:96, their best time since 2005.
"I was impressed with their com-
petitive nature," Holloway said. "It was
something we addressed and they did a
good job."
Holloway said he was also impressed
by sophomore Gray Horn, who finished
17th in the shot put and 30th in the 60-me-
ter dash semifinals.
Horn won the Gators' first-ever SEC
championship in the decathlon last out-
door season and should be a threat in the
heptathlon and pentathlon at this sea-
son's end.UF wins with small squad
* GATORS ROLL OVER FAU WITH-
OUT NINE OF THEIR TOP ATHLETES.
By MATT RUBIN
Alligator Writer
The men's swimming and diving team
came into the dual meet with Florida Atlan-
tic in the O'Connell Center Natatorium on
Saturday missing eight of its best swimmers
and its best diver.
The Gators didn't need them.
Even with two-time NCAA champion
Shaune Fraser, diver Anthony Lewark and
seven of its most versatile swimmers compet-
ing in the SMIU Classic in Dallas, the men's
team topped FAU 159-118. The UF women
won just as easily by a score of 163-122.
There were only exhibition entries after
24 of the 32 scheduled events. In fact, the
men's 200-yard breaststroke was the only
event that the Owls placed first in.
"It was a relaxed atmosphere this week-
end," associate head coach Anthony Nesty
said. "The meets coming up are not as
such."
With a talent advantage over FAU, the-
Gators used the meet to allow swimmers to
jockey for postseason pool time.
"We're still trying to pick the last couple
to plug into the team," Nesty said.
One of those spots may go to Sebastien
Rousseau, a 2008 Olympian for South Africa
who swamhis first race inthe men's 200-yard
butterfly and left the pool with an NCAA
provisional-qualifying time of 1:47.97."It's very different from what I'm used
to," Rousseau said. "I'm used to a 25-meter
pool, which is a little bit longer. I've got to
be able to swim through the walls and not
slow down."
Because Rousseau just joined the team
this semester, Nesty made it clear that he
doesn't want to overwork the swimmer.
"He's an exceptional athlete and has a
great work ethic," Nesty said. "We don't
want to bury him though."
Also swimming a provisional-qualifying
time was senior Roland Rudolf. Swimming
against his brother, David, an FAU swim-
mer, Rudolf clocked a season-best time of
1:45.32 in the men's 200-yard back.
On the women's side, freshman Jamie
Bohunicky gave Florida its first provisional-
qualifying time, as she took the 100-yard
freestyle in 50.20.
The second came from the women's 200-
yard freestyle relay team of Shara Stafford,
Gemma Spofforth, Stephanie Napier and
Sarah Bateman, which established its first
NCAA provisional mark of the season with
a time of 1:31.74.
At the SMIU Classic, the nine men repre-
senting the Gators finished with a total of 13
NCAA provisional-qualifying marks, 286
points overall and a fourth-place finish.
Performing best for the Gators was
Fraser, who had four NCAA provisional-
qualifying times. Fraser placed first in the
200-yard freestyle (1:36.55), second in the
100-yard butterfly (47.57) and 200-yard but-
terfly (1:45.37) and fifth in the 500-yard free-
style (4:28.23).
