the independent florida
the
Avenue
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 116 We I nform. You Decide.10
THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 2010
UF, UPD hold meeting to discuss
Police: the 35-year-old student not critically injured
By KATHERINE BEIN
and MINCH MINCHIN
Alligator Writers
University officials, campus police and
Corry Village apartment managers held
two meetings Wednesday with about 75
residents to explain Tuesday's shooting of
a graduate student in his apartment.
A UF Ph.D. student and geography as-
sisant, Kofi Adu-Brempong, was shot by
university police with an assault rifle Tues-
day night at his apartment across from the
Levin College of Law.
According to University Police Depart-
ment Capt. Jeff Holcomb, the 35-year-old
student was shot after an hour-and-a-halfstandoff with UPD officers 
.
A representative from Shands at UF re-
ported having no record of a patient by the
name Adu-Brempong, where police said he
was taken for treatment.
According to an anonymous source,
Adu-Brempong checked into the hospital
under a fake name. But Shands nursing co-
ordinator Doug Wallace said he was "un-
der command" not to comment on a pos-
sible false identity.
At Wednesday's meeting, police told
residents Adu-Brempong was not criti-
cally injured, according to fellow Corry
Village resident Ivan Martinez.
Martinez, a graduate student, was
in his apartment nearby when he heardshouting.
"I looked out the window and saw
about a hundred cop cars," he said. "I was
smart enough to stay inside."
"I looked out the window and saw
about a hundred cop cars. I was
smart enough to stay inside."
Ivan Martinez
Corry Village resident
The cop cars Martinez saw were the
result of a neighbor's phone call about
screaming from Adu-Brempong's apart-
ment.
After negotiating with him throughshooting
the door, police forced their way into the
apartment and were attacked by Adu-
Brempong, who came at police with a knife
and pipe, according to Holcomb.
"We didn't know if there was anybody
else in the room with him," Holcomb said.
"All we heard were the screams."
Martinez said police used an AR-15, an
assault rifle, instead of a 9 mm pistol be-
cause the rifle's bullets couldn't go through
the drywall and hurt people in surround-
ing apartments.
Adu-Brempong, who contracted the
polio virus when he was three or four
years old, walks with a cane, according
to an interview with him conducted last
semester.
Holcomb said all non-lethal measures
were taken to protect the student and po-
SEE SHOOTING, PAGE 4
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Unite audio reveals
campaign tactics
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
At Tuesday's Senate meeting,
Student Alliance party senators
played audio of a Unite Party meet-
ing on the first day of SG elections.
In the Feb. 23 audio recording,
the discussion among Unite Party
members and supporters included
a description of sororities being re-
warded and punished for voting.
The statements implicated Kap-
pa Alpha Theta sorority for giving
members alcohol for voting and
Delta Phi Epsilon sorority for refus-
ing to let pledges eat until they vot-
ed, according to the recording.
The Student Alliance party's
transcript cited Andrew Guglielmo,
Unite Party graduate candidate, as
describing these practices.
Guglielmo, denied making the
statements but said he was present
at the meeting and addressed the
Unite members and supporters. He
stressed the value of campaigning.
Meeting attendees at the meeting
can be heard laughing after a state-
ment about Delta Phi Epsilon.
Student Body President Jordan
Johnson said he was not presentwhen the statements were made but
feels the statement was a joke.
"The Unite Party does not de-
termine individual incentives given
out by organizations in return for
voting," Johnson said.
Guglielmo said neither he nor
the Unite Party promotes hazing.
He said coercion is impossible.
"There's no one in that booth
.telling you how to vote," he said.
Student Alliance party Sen. Jona-
than Ossip said
denying pledges
food until they
vote is coercion.
threatens the in-
tegrity of the elec-
tion .and casts
a shadow on theJohnson legitimacy of Stu-
dent Government here at UF," ac-
cording to Ossip, who said the audio
came from a Unite Party fraternity
house representative.
Ossip said the member recorded
the meeting and e-mailed the record-
ing to himself and Student Alliance
party member Josh Niederriter.
The source who e-mailed the re-
cording asked to be anonymous.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersToday
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 9 Err
CLASSIFIEDS 13 Sunny
CROSSWORD 14 60/32
SPORTS 18
visit www.alligator.orgImitating Inhumanity
Cassia Laham, president of Students for Justice in Palestine, acts as an Israeli Defense
Force soldier during a demonstration against the blockade in Gaza. The club simulated the
tension on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday. For more information on the demon-
stration, See Story Page 5.
* UF forward Jen-
nifer George will be
one of many Gators
charged with
stopping 6-foot-
7 Auburn center
KeKe Carrier when
UF and the Tigers
meet tonight in the
SEC Tournament.
See Story, Page 18.ARecyple71-
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 4,2010
News Today
LOCAL
Cinema celebrates women
In honor of International
Women's Day, "Half the Sky
Live" will premiere today at 7:30
p.m. at Gainesville Cinema 14.
The interactive event, which
broadcast live Feb. 11 in New
York City, is being rebroadcast by
Cooperative Assistance and Relief
Everywhere, Inc., a humanitarian
organization that fights global
poverty, especially pertaining to
women.
The event will also include
a showing of "Woineshet," a
30-minute film about an Ethio-
pian girl who triumphs over vio-
lence and discrimination, as well
as music and a discussion panel.
Pulitzer Prize winner Sheryl
WuDunn, co-author of "Half
the Sky," the book on which the
movie is based, will lead the dis-
cussion.
Tickets for the event cost
$12.50, and a percentage of ticket
sales will go to support CARE's
work across the globe, said Giulia
McPherson, Advocacy Alliances
manager for the organization.
CARE will also be advocat-
ing for the International Vio-
lence Against Women Act, which
would address violence against
females and add prevention and
response measures across U.S.
foreign assistance programs, ac-
cording to CARE's Web site.
-NICOLE MILLER
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
anor o taSfr uonate riasma! inousanus ao.
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6th St Gainesville (352) 378-9204
"Where It Pays to Care"Ia the independent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 116 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Flonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Mana
Manag
Assis
Assis
alligatorEditor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
ging Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
ing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
tant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner, jmisner@alligator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, ctillo@alligator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
tant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
rSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Corey McCall, Amanda Milligan,
Emily Morrow, Andrew Pantazi,
Paul Runnestrand, Colin Simmons,
Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-F ND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
AROUND GAINESVILLE
Panel addreses
socialism
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
In a time when political par-
ties and organizations are vying
for control of the public trust, one
local group is hoping to make its
Marx.
"When a worker goes to
work every day in this
country, he's going to work
under tyranny .In order
for capitalism to survive,
people must be paid less
than what their work is
worth."
Joe Cenker
member of the International
Socialist Organization
Speaking to a crowd of about
20 at the Civic Media Center
Wednesday night, the Gainesville
branch of the International Social-myths
ist Organization made their case
for a system they described as a
bottom-up democracy more sym-
pathetic to the common worker.
"When a worker goes to work
every day in this country, he's go-
ing to work under tyranny,"said
Joe Cenker, a member of the In-
ternational Socialist Organiza-
tion. "In order for capitalism to
survive, people must be paid less
than what their work is worth."
In a forum that lasted more
than an hour, the International
Socialist Organization panel dis-
cussed topics ranging from poli-
tics and economics to women's
rights and social issues.
The panel laid out their politi-
cal philosophy and attempted to
address common misconceptions
of socialism and institutions as-
sociated with it.
In a socialist view of society,
Center said all men and women
would be entitled to enjoy a bet-
ter quality of life.
Donna Lee, a transgender ac-J. Hunter Sizemore/ Alligator Staff
Melia Jacquot sits next to Mark Jaskowski while speaking about the relationship between feminism and
socialism at the Civic Media Center Wednesday evening.
tivist, ordained minister and re-
cently converted socialist, was
one of four panel members.
A self-described lifelong
Democrat, Lee started studying
socialism last year, although sheis still a registered member of the
Democratic Party.
She expressed discontent with
the current political status quo,
particularly with local politicians'
non-commitment to social issues,such as feeding the homeless.
"If my party can't come out
and feed people once a day," she
said, "I want nothing to do with
that party."
Hare Krishnas to conserve with compost program
* THEY HAVE BEEN SERVING LUNCH
AT UF SINCE 1971.
By MINCH MINCHIN
Alligator Writer
Krishna lunches have always been karma-
neutral. Soon, they will be almost carbon-
neutral.
Beginning the Monday after Spring Break,
the Krishna House, which has been servingvegetarian meals at UF since 1971, will begin
to turn all waste from the utensils used for
the lunches into compost.
Since 2008, the program has used biode-
gradable utensils made of sugarcane and
corn husks. Until now, they have been dis-
posed and taken to area landfills.
The new program will create both ecologi-
cal and spiritual benefits, said Carl Wood-
ham, director of the Krishna Lunch program.
"Eating vegetarian is the No. 1 thing to
help the earth," he said. "This program is justan extension of that."
The Krishna House pays $500 each month
to UF in waste disposal fees from lunch-relat-
ed garbage, he said.
"If [the program] is successful, then we
will ask UF if they
Environmental will remove the fee,"
Issues Woodham said. "They
are enthusiastic about
green initiatives, so I think they will do it."
To make the program work, students
must discard their plates, cups and forks intogreen bins that will be set around the south-
west corner of the Plaza of the Americas,
said Hanan Schwefel, who has been serving
Krishna lunches for the past eight years.
The waste will be collected from around
the Plaza of the Americas, where it will be
put on top of a van and driven up to a com-
post site in north Alachua County, Woodham
said.
The owner of the compost machine, Harry
Windle, will then sell the compost to farmers
and gardeners, he said.
r wl
EXAMS
(by Idpndent Optometrist)
NJ Corner of
NW 13th St.
& 39th Ave.
Near Publix
EVECARE
I EXPRESS I
L (35)375-6133
AL M1 JELL -.1
05
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 4,2010
Police visited the man Monday after a professor expressed concern
SHOOTING, from page 1
lice resorted to gunfire only after using a
Taser on him several times and firing bean
bag rounds failed to subdue Adu-Brem-
pong.
UPD visited Adu-Brempong at his
apartment the day before the shooting af-
ter Professor Peter Waylen told police the
RETIREMENT?
FloridaWealthAdvisors.co
Legalize it. Don't criticize it!
Pd. Pol. Adv. approved by Richard Selwach
RichardSelwac
www.selwachformayo , m
FREERIDESURF SHOP
WWW.FREERIDESURFSHORCOM
420 NW 13TP ST 373-SURF(7873)
Smile.
W'/7
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
ID. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
WireLess Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
A Biotest
From Nature for Life
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431T.A. had been acting delusional, Holcomb
said.
Adu-Brempong was scheduled to give
a presentation on Thursday, and the pres-
sure got to him, Waylen said in a police
report.
When officers visited Adu-Brempong
at his apartment Monday, he told them he
was fine, according to the report.When a crisis counselor was asked to
get involved, Adu-Brempong called 911
because he did not believe the
On visiting officers were police.
Campus The report concluded after
the visit Monday that Adu-
Brempong, who has a wife and a daughter,
did not show any signs of wanting to hurt
himself or others.The eight to 10 residents evacuated from
Corry Village returned home Wednesday,
Holcomb said.
Adu-Brempong now faces five charges
of resisting arrest and one charge of aggra-
vated assault, according to Holcomb.
The state attorney's office has not yet
determined how it will handle the case, he
said.
CLINIQUE
Great ways to turn up the
radiance, FREE*.
CLINIQUE
matically different
moisturizing lotion
Csereop-[-IJZUJZ~umf1Choose Natural
(shown here)
or Bronze.
I
Cosmetics Bag, Moisture Surge E xtended Thirst Relief, Dramatically Different Moisturizing Lotion, Different Lipstick in Think Bronze, Lash Doubling
Mascara in Black, Clinique Self Sun Body Daily Moisturizer in Light/Medium, Up-lighting Liquid Illuminator in your choice of Bronze or Natural (inset).
With your purchase of $21.50 or more, get a
radiant bronze look -FREE. Value $60.00.
*Quantities are limited. One bonus to a client, please, per event. While supplies last.CLINIQUE
Allergy Tested.100% Fragrance Free.
Please call 1-800-345-5273 or visit www.dillards.com to order from home.
Ear rw so ever prhse to ge- 10% off AllDa Shpig ass.N
Not a Dillard's Cardmiieinher? Open a new account today and receive a 10% Off All-Day Welcome Shopping Pass in your Ist statement when you spend $100 the day you open your account (maximum discount$100).**
See Rewards Program terms tor detais
Subject to credit tapproval To qua ly lor this offer, you must open a Dillards Credit Card or Dilard's American Express' Card account and make $100 cf net purchases (merchandise less tax, adjustments and returns) with your Dilard's Credi Card or Dillards American Express Card at Dillard s stores
or dilarcs corn the same day you open your account nhe 10% Welcome Shopping Pass wil be sent to you inyour first statement and is valid for 10% ott all merchandise purchases up to $1,000 (maximm discount $100) mace in-store or online at oillards corn on the day oflyourchoice Shopping
Pass bst be use by te exp rat on date printed or the pass Emp oyees, officers and directors of Dillard's In are note gible for tis otter
The Dillard's American Express* Card is issued and administered by GE Money Bank. American Express is a federally registered service mark of American Express and is used by GE Money Bank pursuant to a license.
Students create 'war zone'
0 ABOUT 25 STUDENTS PARTICIPATED.
By ANDREW PANTAZI
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Plaza of the Americas turned into a war
zone Wednesday when Students for Justice in
Palestine presented its own simulation of the
Gaza Strip conflict.
The Gaza Strip borders Israel and Egypt, and
most of its population represents Palestinian refu-
gees, according to The New York Times. A three-
week military conflict between Israel and Pales-
tine took place in the Gaza Strip in 2009, and Israel
and Egypt still enforce border blockades.
About 25 students participated posing as Is-
raeli soldiers, Egyptian soldiers and Gazans.
The soldiers pretended to beat the Gazans
with police clubs.
"It's a visual to get people's attention and talk
to them to say, 'Here are some of the facts with
what's going on,"' said Alex Kattan, the vice pres-
ident of Students for Justice in Palestine.
Jos6 Cucal6n, a civil engineering senior, por-
trayed a Gazan during the demonstration.Cucal6n said he did not feel the demonstration
was offensive.
"This story is barely told," Cucal6n said. "It's
been silenced, so I hope that here at UF you can
hear from a different perspective."
Several students walking past the demonstra-
tion found it to be an inaccurate portrayal of what
is actually happening in Israel.
Sarah Pollack, a UF freshman who visited Is-
rael during winter break, said she found the dem-
onstration jarring and did not feel it
On was right to portray the Israeli armyCampus so brutally.
Instead of the demonstration,
Pollack would have preferred a forum in which
both sides could present their views.
During the demonstration, Rafael Yaniz, the
president of Gators for Israel, was contacted by
concerned students.
"Dialogue is always on the table," Yaniz said.
He said he is disheartened this type of rhetoric
is presented on UF's campus.
"They're just trying to stir the pot, and I think
this isn't a good way to have an intellectual dis-
cussion about the issue," Yaniz said. "It's just an
outlandish protest."THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 5
SPECIAL REPORT
Five sue rapper after
2006 club shooting
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Writer
After a bullet grazed Dorian
Johnson's face in July 2006, the dam-
age ran deeper than her blurred vi-
sion.
"I couldn't go into public places
for a long time," Johnson said.
Johnson was one of two vic-
tims who spoke at a press confer-
ence Wednesday morning that an-
nounced a lawsuit against rap artist
Plies.
The lawsuit is in response to a
shooting at a Gainesville nightclub
in 2006 that victims said was used to
promote violence in rap music and
boost record sales.
According to the lawsuit, the
shooting, in which five people were
shot, was part of the kind of crimi-
nal activity that builds "street cred-
ibility" in order to promote perfor-
mances.The shooting took place at the
now defunct Club 238, where Plies,
whose real name is Algernod Wash-
ington, was performing. His micro-
phone was cut-off after his set ran
long, and the ensuing ruckus led
members of his entourage to spray
bullets into the audience.
Edwin Fair-
cloth, the second
victim, said his
hip injuries pre-vented him from
working at the
paint and body
shop he owned at
Plies the time.
"I lost a busi-
ness, lost a job," he said. "I was just
destroyed."
Christopher Chestnut, the vic-
tims' attorney, said the success of
Plies has set a dangerous precedent.
"We cannot have youth thinking
they can shoot their way to the top,"
he said.
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
alligator and@ II9'ator.org
announces the openings for the positions
Editor,
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
AND
Managing Editor/Online,
Paid positions. Unpaid member of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the reception desk
at the entrance of the first floor of The Alligator Building at 1105 W.
University Ave., each weekday between 1-4 pm from now until Monday
March 15th. Please do not call. Further written information is available
at the time an application is picked up. Please allow up to 15 minutes at
that time to read information you will need for the application process.
The application must be returned to the same desk by 4 pm, Tuesday
March 16th. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews and
selections by the Board of Directors will be held at The Alligator offices
in a meeting open to the public beginning at 2 pm, Friday, March 26th.
Applicants must be present at that meeting to be considered. Applicants
must be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will
be given to those who have experience at The Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity EmployerI PBAD LIEUTENANT PORT OF CALL NEW ORLEANS
HIPP1Starring Nicholas Cage and Eva Mendles.cin e ma Today at 6:15 & 8:45pm
Tickets and Information 352-375-HIPP I THEHIPPORG
_2010
FL ASLR55
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 4,2010
Editorial
Go, Joe, Go
Lieberman's bill is step
in right direction
oe Lieberman finally did something right.
Today, the independent Connecticut senator who usu-
ally grates on our nerves like nails on a chalkboard, an-
nounced a bill that could repeal the military's "Don't Ask,
Don't Tell" policy, which prohibits gays and lesbians from
openly serving in the military.
The bill, called the Military Readiness Enhancement Act
of 2010, would also explicitly prohibit discrimination based
on sexuality.
Now, we know Lieberman is probably more pro-war than
pro-gay rights, and by military readiness enhancement they
mean "we don't care who you are as long as you'll die for
us," but we're not looking a gift horse in the mouth on this
one.
With the bill proposed and significant backing for a re-
peal in Washington, it seems like "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" -a
misguided compromise from our well-meaning 42nd presi-
dent -will finally become nothing more than another em-
barrassing spot on America's political past.
But that's not an excuse to sit around and let it possibly
slip by. Both Democratic and Republican U.S. senators need
to push aside their mutual disdain for crazy Old Man Lieber-
man and pass the bill. It's time.
We hope famous "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" flip-flopper John
McCain doesn't barricade himself in the Senate chamber and
refuse to let the bill move forward until every other problem
with the U.S. is magically fixed.
For now, we're just satisfied Lieberman, who is usually
an enormous disappointment all around, is taking a step to-
ward progress -whether it's for the right reasons or not.
Naughty Audio
S urprise!The Unite Party
uses coercive tactics
to get votes during Student
Government elections.
It's a tale as old as time,
but that doesn't mean it
should be continued.
And we were saddened
to see such glaring proof of
what we always suspected.
We get it, you're going to
do what you need to do to
get votes.
After all, Student Alli-
ance party people fliered
off-campus neighborhoods
to try to gain that extra
edge.
But when it comes to
praising a sorority house
that threatened to starve
its already food-deprived
sisters, it's gone a little too
far.
It makes sense to mobi-lize your Greek masses to
stay in power -even Stu-
dent Alliance can't fault
you for that, because they'd
most likely do the same -
but don't threaten people.
Furthermore, don't hold
meetings to scare people
into voting.
Whatever the newest in-
carnation of the Greek par-
ty's name is, they're always
going to use their numbers
to win elections.
The vast remainder of
the Student Body is always
going to not care and not
vote.
And the underdog, in-
die party is always going to
struggle for seats.
It's the way of life.
So rest assured, Greeks,
you'll still have your power.
Please though, for the love
of God, let those girls eat.
0 the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University A e, or send them to PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigato r.org/opinions
'Y~e've -tried iy, L f LI isJus iC 01wt, MCI~ y die+cl
Co\pe \NA \ \ Y/
) 0
Ji
r
Column
Undead McCain pushes vitamin bill
ith most of the national political spotlight soakedup by a lurching, half-hearted detente concerning
health care, Sen. John McCain sneaked a bill onto
the Senate floor last month that could drastically reshape
the entire supplement and vitamin industries. Washington
insiders, speaking anonymously and way off the record, be-
lieve that this never would have happened if McCain were
still alive.
Senate Bill 3002, the Dietary Supplement Safety Act of
2010, basically would grant the Food and Drug Administra-
tion wide-ranging powers to remove all supplements and
vitamins from the free market until the manufacturing com-
panies work their way through miles of expensive red tape,
and the FDA decides the supplements are safe enough for
impressionable, young professional baseball players. While
it virtually destroys the supplement industry and greatly
expands the federal government's powers beyond current
supplement laws, one assumes a terrible accident like the
tainted flax seed oil that turned Barry Bonds into a potato-
headed hulk would be mercifully avoided.
Opposition to the bill should create an unholy alliance
of Tea Party insurgents and actual herbal tea drinkers, unit-
ing both sides of the political spectrum in their aversion to
this impractical expansion of federal powers. Though seem-
ingly disparate groups, the holistic hippies and Tea Partiers
rallying in resistance to S. 3002 may also find unexpected
common ground in the areas of ostentatious hat construc-
tion and interpretive, Caucasian classic rock dance.
Aides close to McCain dare not speak publicly about
the quasi-undead state of their boss, but off the record they
marvel at the fluid movements and cognitive abilities of a
man who was clinically dead for approximately three hours.
Understandably omitted from the splurge of recent books
detailing the failed presidential campaign, McCain report-edly had a massive aneurysm when
top Republican Party officials denied
his first 17 choices for vice president
and told him that he would be run-
ning alongside the folksy and foxy
Alaska governor.
Tommy Maple McCain was rushed to an un-
letters@alligator org disclosed location and given a new
brain, heart and jejunum -bought
and paid for by pharmaceutical industry lobbyists. Big
Pharma, pharmaceutical corporations with significant po-
litical interests, also paid for McCain to have an unneces-
sary third kidney installed, and unconfirmed reports float-
ing around Washington have stated that McCain is now
hung "like a rowdy stallion."
The massive and unprecedented surgery did not come
without severe side effects: McCain was still woozy and ad-
justing to his new brain and heart when he first met Sarah
Palin, and when McCain mistakenly referred to one of her
children as "Tiny Monkey Cowboy Palin." The fiercely ma-
ternal Alaskan governor came within a heartbeat of field
dressing the senator in the middle of a hotel conference
room.
The drug companies have been muscled out of health
care negotiations by the insurance industry, so the fact that
they now control the important and powerful McCain is a
real coup. That Sarah Palin is now the de facto head of the
Tea Party lends a bit of beautiful symmetry to the whole
ordeal, and thanks to S. 3002, she can finally stand in glori-
ous opposition to the man who somehow bested her and
conjured up a more nonsensical baby name than she ever
could.
Tommy Maple is an international communications graduate
student. His columns appears on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question:
Should the Senate pass Joe
Lieberman's bill?Wednesday's question:
Did you steal our van?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org33% YES
67% NO
92 TOTAL VOTES
THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Profile misrepresented subject
I am writing in response to staff writer
Jared Misner's article about Marvene Ed-
wards. I was aghast at some of the offensive,
condescending phrasing and terminology Mr.
Misner employed while telling this woman's
unparalleled story of courage in the face of
certain death and unspeakable physical abuse.
I found his use of the flashback sequenc-
ing in his storytelling quite distracting and a
hindrance during reading, and the lack of a
proper timeline left the article formless. Mr.
Misner's description of the town of Princeton,
Fla., was full of unnecessary data -what was
the point of mentioning the racial and finan-
cial makeup of said suburb? His likening Ms.Edwards' drug addiction and IIV infection to
leprosy literally left me agape. Mr. Misner's
classification of Ms. Edwards as an inhabitant
of another world further alienates her from so-
ciety as a whole, something I am certain Ms.
Edwards would not welcome. I do not believe
that this writing style did Ms. Edwards' story
justice, and I hope that in the future your writ-
ers will perhaps show some more sensitivity
to the subjects of their human interest articles.
Breanne Palmer
UF freshman
Reitz Union needs repairs despite vote
Amidst all the turmoil of the recent UF
student government election, one importantfact seems to have been forgotten: The critical
repairs that the Reitz Union needs aren't go-
ing away simply because the referendum vote
didn't pass. The reality is $42.5 million dollars
of problems still remain in our student union.
Renew Your Reitz was initiated specifically
to educate the student body on the deficiencies
in our current union, to explain the possible
benefits of tomorrow's union and to locate all
possible funding sources to help repair and
renovate the Reitz. Although our one-week
awareness campaign and referendum were
narrowly defeated, our mission has only just
begun. That we received 45 percent of the vote
shows how contagious our message really is.
While most new student union buildingsin our state have been funded solely by stu-
dent fees, Renew Your Reitz is committed to
finding other resources to help minimize any
student fee. With our recent success exploring
Capital Improvement Trust Fund and admin-
istration and alumni contributions, we believe
the referendum's estimate of the student fee
was inaccurate and any fee would be lower.
Moving forward, we will continue to edu-
cate every student and organization about
the problems in our union. It is our hope that,
much like students from other schools in Flor-
ida and across the country, UF students will
band together to help renew our union.
Alex Cornillie
Renew Your Reitz campaign spokesman
Guest column
SG should stop dodging Reitz questions, get down to facts
If I were in Student Government, I'd shake my head this
week wondering why the Reitz referendum didn't pass.
But it wasn't clear who the referendum represented.
In a democracy, people are usually around long enough to
have their decisions affect them. For instance, unless you die in
the next six years, your vote for president of the United States
in 2012 will directly affect you. Sure, it affects others too, but
when you vote, you're representing yourself.
In contrast, college is a place where many of the decisions
made outlast the students. I'm in the Study Abroad Peer Advi-
sors club, which has almost entirely upperclassmen because it's
a club people join after they study abroad. So last year, it ended
up that not one person voting for this year's officers would ac-
tually be in the club now. When they voted, they were dispas-
sionately removed from the situation because no matter what,
it wouldn't affect them. Their votes represented the club.
The Reitz referendum was a failure of democracy because
no one knew whether they were representing themselves orWill Penman UF. This is my last semester here, so I
Speaking Out knew what I was representing: the his-
tory of UF. But a freshman friend asked
whether the changes would benefit her.
"Of course they would," I said. "You still have three years!"
We decided to ask one of the official Reitz referendum rep-
resentatives. "When will any of these benefits be seen?" I asked.
She stammered and stalled and I realized she had no idea. The
next week during SG elections I was ushered through the rain
by a nice Unite party campaigner pushing the Reitz measure.
"Last week, I asked a girl about this," I said, "and in her
answer, she threw in 'for your children.' It's not going to take
twenty years to fix the Reitz, is it?"
"Well, the architects are actually just coming up with the
plans now," Mr. Unite said.
"I know," I said. "I don't need to know if it'll open in seven
months versus eight. I need to know if the renovations will be
slowly rolled out or all come at one time, and how long thatwill take. Five years? Ten years? Fifteen years?"
I made it up to "Thirty years?" before he cut in, the polite
veneer gone, and said, "I don't know, man."
And that's the problem. SG should have at least told their
own people whether we're talking three years or 30, because it
changes the way people vote. The US House of Representatives
forces salary changes to take place after the next election so rep-
resentatives have an incentive to be less self-serving. Voting for
the Union is the same way.
I like UF, and I would be willing to start paying into some-
thing that I won't see. But if the changes can happen in four
years, next year's class can pay for it if they want to, and I'll stay
out of it. The debate over this being a worthy sacrifice is moot.
SG should drop the misleading "Know your Reitz" puns,
drop the assumption that students can't think long-term and be
honest about how much history is at stake here. Then actually
let them decide.
Will Penman is an English senior. His column appears weekly.
HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
S BlueCross BlueShield
of FloridaA, u l-, 373-0775
Form Number: 18533-599SU 3669 S.W. 2nd Avenue
Check it out atall THig EtO Spo ts alligatorSports.org
.E CAST or subscribe onTune in for the latest Gators sports iTunes.news and analysis from our beat
writers and columnists. alliga t rSTUDENT LOANSTHE BEST PLACE TO PARK AI
24/7 SHUTTLE * 24/7 SECURITY * EXCEPTIONAL, SPEEDY SERVICE Cash For Anything!FBest Jewelry and Loan
511 1W 11rd *v -171-4117 * 71-1MIS
" .CWant a bigger
PARK & pi ec of th
Airport Parking ( Suttle Service pie?
www.vippark.net
606
S
60vs. North Carolina&BallState
Theffist1,000fas wilireceive draw-string
backpacks couttesofVerizon
IAsHleyKerr verizon
% Stephen C. OnneH Center Pam Carpenter
Alachua County Supervisor of Elections
www.VoteAlachua.com
(352)374-5252
8, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 4,2010
Roe v. Wade lawyer speaks about gender roles
0 ABOUT 350 PEOPLE ATTENDED.
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Writer
When Sarah Weddington graduated from
law school in the late 1960s, her first inter-
view involved convincing a man that she
didn't have to be home to cook dinner every
night.
It was just one of the many prejudices
Weddington encountered on the way to be-
coming the youngest women to win a Su-
preme Court case -Roe v. Wade in 1973."The ideas about woman in those times
were ridiculous," she said.
Weddington shared her experiences with
about 350 people in the Reitz Union Ballroom
on Wednesday night in a program co-spon-
sored by Accent, Women's History Month
and the Graham Center for Public Service.
Throughout her life, she said she has
owed her successes in pushing back barriers
for women to her determination to make her
mark.
"Leadership is the willingness and ability
to leave your thumbprint," she said.
Weddington was was asked to work on
Roe v. Wade at 26 because she was the onlywoman willing to do it for free, she said.
After arguing the Roe v. Wade case before
the Supreme Court, Weddington awaited the
decision and was uncertain of the outcome of
the case. She decided to go home and run for
the Texas Legislature in 1972.
National She won and was re-elected
News twice.
She said throughout her
time as a lawyer, politician and adviser to
former President Jimmy Carter, she always
turned to the law as her guiding light.
"I call law the wind beneath my wings,"
she said.
During the question and answer session,some students asked her specifically about
her opinion on the current arguments of
abortion rights versus anti-abortion.
Again citing her dedication to the law, she
gave public relations junior Ruth Michel her
view on the moment when life begins.
"It's the moment of birth that determines
citizenship," said Weddington, who was
paid $7,500 to speak.
Michel, who is anti-abortion, later said she
agreed with some of what Weddington said
about women's rights, but she still believes
life begins sooner than birth.
"I think we can say life begins when an
egg and a sperm come together," she said.
13th Annual
April 10, 2010 at 8 a.m.
Behind North Florida
Regional Medical Center
Benefiting the student-run Equal
Access Clinic of Gainesville which
provides free healthcare to
underprivileged populations.
For more info:
Call Stephanie Mazariegos at
(813) 484-8031 or go to
ufpremed.org/easc
Gerard donated in his
mother's name.
His gift provided shelter for
the Tyler family after a fire.
Support the Red Cross
and save a life, starting
with your own.
Call 1-800-RED CROSS
or visit redcross.org
American
Red Cross
SAFETY BELTS
SMART FROM
THE STARTGE is looking for more
top talent
GE is a proud member of the invest in America Alliance, a
coalition of American businesses dedicated to investing in
the future of our country. In support of this initiative, GE is
committed to doubling its U.S. university hires in 2010.
If you'reJust starting your career, now is a great time to join
GE. Whether your interests lie in engineering, finance,
manufacturing, marketing and sales, human resources or
information technology, we have an opportunity for you in
leadership programs and entry-level positions. If you are
graduating in May 2010 and have unrestricted authorization
to work in the U.S., submit your resum6 to the Career Center
before Wednesday, March 17.
The American Renewal is happening.
Right now.
Innovation Today for America's Tomorrow
imagination at work ge.com/careers-'IN
theA enue Va8 e-fe
ready. break!
U,
0
Rachel Calderon, Peter Hughes, Annie Hawkins and Emmanuel
Gutierrez model this Spring Break's hottest bathing suit styles at the
Wildflower Apartments' pool.page11LOCAL SPRING BREAK TIPS:
By MICHELLE PROFITS
avenue writer
Stuck in Gainesville over Spring Break? We've got
you covered. Here are some fun things to keep you
occupied throughout next week:
Start your week by rolling out the red carpet and
watching the biggest awards show of the year. The
Hippodrome Theatre will air the Oscars at its Acad-
emy Awards Gala on Sunday. With a reception, gour-
met food and the show airing in HD, this is one red
carpet event you don't want to miss. Tickets are avail-
able online at thehipp.org.
Then, rest up on Monday so you can hit up Common
Grounds on Tuesday to check out pop/folk group Port
O'Brien. The band just released "The Pan American
Sessions," an EP with all proceeds benefitting Haiti.
Port O'Brien is touring with Portugal. The Man and
The Dig. Tickets are $10 in advance. Doors open at
8 p.m.
Spend the rest of the week relaxing and enjoying
your hiatus from papers and tests before getting a
taste of Broadway. Danscompany of Gainesville will
perform its annual rendition of "The Wiz" at the Phil-
lips Center for the Performing Arts on March 13. Per-
formances are at 2 p.m. and 7:30 p.m., and tickets
are $12.
WHEN YOU GET BACK.
Don't be bummed when you head back to school
because SGP is bringing Ben Folds to the Phillips Cen-
ter on March 17. Tickets are going fast, so buy yours
at the University Box Office before you leave town.
Effortless ways to avoid packing on the pounds this break
You'll only burn 120 calories if you have sex for 60 min.
By LANCE FULLER
avenue writer
If you've spent the whole semester, or
at least the past couple of weeks, work-
ing hard in the gym to get slim and show
off your best beach body, you don't want
to destroy all of your hard work through
inactivity and too many pina coladas.
Here are some ways to maintain your body
and stay in shape during Spring Break with-
out having to step foot in a gym.
On the beach
There are plenty of fun calorie-burning
activities to do in the sand or in the wa-
ter. Depending on your weight, playing
an hour of beach volleyball can burn up
to 600 calories. The best part? You'll be
having fun playing in the sand with your
friends and will easily lose track of time.
You can burn even more calories when you
decide to relax and jump in the water, as anhour of general swimming in the pool or the
ocean can burn more than 500 calories.
On a cruise
If you're going on a cruise this Spring
Break, chances are the ship will have a work-
out room. But you might as well use some
of the ship's other features that you can't
use in a regular gym like a rock climbing
wall. Ascending rock climbing is one of the
most strenuous activities you can do; it will
increase your heart rate and work your fore-
arms, shoulders and biceps.
An hour of vigorous rock climb-
ing can burn around 900 calories.
Also, if you feel like taking a relax-
ing walk, walk around the cruise ship.
Most ships average about 1,000 feet in
length. Walking (or stumbling) the length
of the ship five times equals one mile.
On the slopes
Some Spring Breakers will break themold by going skiing out in the Rocky
Mountains in Colorado or at Lake Tahoe.
Downhill skiing and cross-country skiing
are popular snow activities, but although
you are more likely to burn more calories
cross-country skiing, doing about 30 min-
utes of downhill can burn 245 calories.
Don't feel like skiing and just want to take
a sled out to a hill with
some friends? No prob-
lem! An hour of sled-
ding downhill in the snow
can burn 540 calories.
Hooking up
While Spring Breakers
will inevitably be looking for that memorable
hookup with a complete stranger, sex may
not be the calorie-burning, heart-pounding
physical activity they think it is. To lose one
pound of fat, you would have to burn 3,500
calories.
According to healthdiscovery.net, if youweigh 165 pounds and have sex at a moder-
ate effort for 60 minutes, you'll burn about
120 calories. Intercourse may seem more
entertaining than some of these other activi-
ties, but don't look at sex as a means to burn
calories and lose weight over the break. As
always, if you are going to engage in some
hooking up, make sure it is consensual and
protected.
Pace yourself
There are seven calories per gram of
alcohol, so if you're going to drink, do it in
moderation and responsibly. After all, you do
want to come back with a liver.
Drinking light versions of different beers is
a good idea, and believe it or not, dark beers
like Guinness have fewer calories than most
light-colored beers like Budweiser because
the darker ingredients are less fermentable,
thus less alcohol is made.
Editor's Note: How much you weigh and
how longyou exercise will determine how
many calories you will burn.thursday, march 4, 2010
10, ALLIGATOR* THURSDAY, MARCH ,20104, 2010
0.
arnerican
Cafe Gardens
For over a third of a century,
the Original World Famous
Cafe Gardens has been serving
Gators with delicious food and
a large selection of beers and
wines. Located just across from
campus near the Florida Book
Store, this quaint landmark es-
tablishment with award winning
courtyard dining is perfect for
any date or gathering. For live
music schedule, call 376-2233.
Hours: Mon-Wed 11am-10pm,
Thurs-Sat 11am-1am,
Sun Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave. Join us on
Thursday late nights for "Mid-
night in the Garden" with Food
& Drink specials and DJ.
cafegardens.net
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and
Stacks. The only way to
describe the Stack is that it
is outrageously delicious! Its
uniquely different presenta-
tion -three 6 inch flour tortillas
stacked high with fresh grilled
ingredients and just the right
accent of cheese -is strangely
inviting to ones palate. Come
out and try our 1/3 lb Burgers,
steak seasoned Panchos &
Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the The Home Grown
and Homemade Black Bean
Hummus! Now serving draft and
red Stripe beers! We deliver!
Open late to serve your late
night cravings!
Sun-Wed:lam-3am. Thurs &
Sat: 1la,-4pm. 34th St. Plaza
(Sweetbay) @ 2124 SW 34th St.
672-6111
www.jdoobies.com
The Swam p
Restaurant
The Swamp Restaurant has
been the gathering place for ga-
tors of all ages for the past 15
years. It's your first stop in town
& your last chance to see Gator
memorabilia for as far back as
1994. Our food and staff are
award winning. Always make
the Swamp your only stop for
lunch, dinner and drinks on our
famous front lawn. The Swamp
Restaurant-Where Gators
gather. Open 11:00am-2:00am.
Daily food and drink specials
and happy hour from 4-8pm.
www.swamprestaurant.com
1642 W. University Avenue
(352) 37-SWAMP
barbecue
David's 660
MARCH MADNESS $5.99 Pork
Plate All day everyday at David's
BBQ. Voted #1 in Gainesville.
Mon-Sat 7am-9pm. Drive thru
until 9:30. FREE WIFI. 352-
373-2022. Have Gatorfood.com
deliver David's BBQ to you!breakfast a
unch
43rd Street Deli and
Breakfast House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to
for over 25 years -we probably
served your parents. Biggest
4 egg omelette, French toast,
and daily specials. Not full yet?
Have lunch with us & enjoy a
large selection of sandwiches,
the best Reuben, gyros, and
soup all at a reasonable price.
Vegetarian? Not a problem. We
have a selection that is sure to
fulfill your needs. We now offer
free WiFi! Open All day Every
day 7am-3pm. 4401 NW 25th
Place 373-2927. 3483 Williston
Rd 373-5656. Conveniently
located off 1-75
cracker
The Yearlin9
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog legs,
and alligator, as well as USDA
Prime beef, seafood, grits, greens
& hush puppies. Open ThursdayE Friday 5pm-1 Opm, Saturday
l2pm-l0pm & Sunday 12pm-
8:30pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999
www.theyearlingrestaurant.com
Icluban
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301r,dozen reot
D'Lites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
d'licious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly without
the diet taste. We also feature a
whole array of cookies, chips, and
various grocery treats that appeal
to Atkins@, Weight Watchers,
and other dieters. Our every day
daily specials make shopping
at D'Lites a special value!
Come weigh your options at
the Marketplace Plaza at NW
16th Blvd. and 43rd St. (next to
the Hollywood Video) or at thefrozen treafs
Shoppes of Williston at SW. 34th
Street and Williston Rd. (next to
Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!
Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts,
loose leaf teas, and beer, with
lots of vegan options. Now open
24 hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
blocks east of campus at 1025 W.
University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve frozen
yogurt as a healthy dessert
alternative. Our yogurt has 0%
fat and contains live and active
cultures. Choose any combination
of 8 different flavors and over 30
toppings. Everything for just 45
cents an ounce. 3841 SW Archer
Rd (next to Bento Red) Open
from noon to midnight daily!
Manuel's Vintage
Room
This family owned restaurant is
perfect for dinner any day of the
week. Come in and check out
one of the best wine lists in town.
Ask questions and learn while
you wait for the chef to put out
nothing but goodness from the
kitchen using fresh, simple, and
local ingredients. Try the Early
Dinner Sunday, Tuesday-Thurs-
day 5-7pm. $3 wines/$1 0 bottles.
$10 Menu. Ask about our Monday
Wine Dinners and private parties
for lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
St. (352)375-7372
G re Ma n a
vegetarian
*Gee nMango
U
UThe best Indian food in Gaines-
ville. Serving Gainesville since
1991. The best Samosas in
Florida. Offering many vegan
dishes. We are specialized in
catering any group size. Delivery
available-free delivery on any
purchase over $25! Open 7 days
Mon-Sat 11:30am-9pm, Sunday
1 pm-8pm. Call 352-505-6200.
7625 W Newberry Rd
omoicon
Caribbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
and oxtail. Opened Mon thru
Thurs 11 am-7:30pm, Fri & Sat
11 am-11:45pm
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
352-374-8111joponese
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a hip,
trendy atmosphere. Two great
locations with outside eating.
Open every day for carry-out
or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.
chnne
Green Plantains
The best MoFongo, churrasco,
& chofan in town. $5 To-Go
Dinners. Mon-Sat from 4pm.
Don't miss out $4.95 dinner +
soda on Thursday, student night
from 4pm-10pm. Visit us at
5150 SW 34th Street at the new
Publix Shopping Center 7 days
a week. We cater. Check us outron Gatorfood.com
352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.comcaa
or ga n!c
U
UTHE JONES
Gainesville's own independently
owned community restaurant
dedicated to bringing sustain-
able, local, and organic food
to the table. Oh, and it's really
yummy. Herbivores, carnivores,
& omnivores welcome! NOW
SERVING DINNER EVERY
NIGHT! New hours: open every
day 8am-1Opm. Check out our
facebook page for specials and
events. 401 NE 23rd Avenue.
352.373.67771
Mildred'sN
Big Citu Food
Eat Gainesville's Best Food at
Mildred's. We support LOCAL
and SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh
Dishes Made From Scratch!U
OPEN SUNDAYS!
COVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371-1711
MildredsBigCityFood.comocal
organic
New Deal Caf6
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burgers! This 12oz.
Goliath is Naturally Aged and
Fresh Ground. MONSTROUS
desserts. HUGE Martini's. $5
glasses of wine and 20 wines
under $20! Mon-Thurs. 11am-
10pm
Fri & Sat. 11am-11pm
371-4418
newdealcafegainesville.com
Located next door to Mildred's.
Keepin' it fresh -Keepin' it real!
m edJterraneoan
Ti Amol
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine
agrees, "[the chef] adds visual
flair to every dish to make it as
good-looking as it is flavorful."
NEW Happy Hour Specials!
Every day from 4pm-7pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices & terrific
service.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.com
12 SE 2nd Ave. 378-6307
.nexicon
Boca Fiesta
Best Margaritas in Town!
Fresh-squeezed + all natural!
Tasty tacos, burritos, nachos!
Cheap beer, full bar, open late!
Now serving brunch!
232 SE 1st St Downtown
336-TACO!neighborhood
bar &gri
Farah's on the
Avenue
Farah's on the Avenue
now celebrating 30 years
in Gainesville! Located on
University Avenue, between
Modern Age and Bank of
America, just minutes from UF.
Farah's is newly remodeled and
offers a cozy, fun atmosphere
with a fireplace, the area's
largest indoor atrium and an
open air patio. Farah's also
boasts a full bar and seven new
flat screen TVs airing a variety
of sports programming. The
extensive menu features award-
winning wings and burgers as
well as vegetarian and vegan
fare. Perfect for private events
or casual dining. Now offering
"smoke till you choke" hookah
specials on Friday and Saturday
and drink specials all week
long, including $1.50 Pabst, $5
pitchers, $2 wells.
Hours: MO & TU 1lam-10pm,
WE & TH 11am-12am,
FR & SAT 11am-2am.
1120 W. University Ave. 378-5179.
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade, meals,
sandwiches, soups, home-baked
desserts. Brunch Weekends.
Specials: Cupcake Mon.,
Southern Cooking Tues., Greek
Wed 6pm, Ethiopian Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH l0am-9pm.
Fri -Sun Oam-8pm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
U
U
@g A1~au q@c wS(b
b~%a~ ~aju~o ?Y&9Sneaking by security easy for your booze cruise
By GABRIELLE FALONEIRI
avenue writer
Many Spring Breakers will hit the decks of cruise
ships for vacations that leave little bits of dignity scat-
tered about Mexico, Central America and the Carib-
bean.
This alcohol-fueled debauchery puts serious dam-
age on the bank account because cruise lines realize
that with a captive (and thirsty) audience, they've got
all the control.
Spring Break isn't a time for fiscal responsibility or
limits, but college students don't really have the ex-
tra cash to spend on pricy cruise beverages no mat-
ter how much they love those little umbrellas.
But clever travelers of all ages have perfected the
art of sneaking booze on cruises. From hiding it in
shampoo bottles to the lucky few that get through se-
curity with a handle stashed in their luggage, balling
on a budget comes in many forms.
The most successful sneaking attempts depend
on chance, but there are a few tactics that take
smuggling endeavors over the edge.
"One of my friends put vodka in a mouthwash bot-
tle and dyed it blue," said J.R. Hillman, an engineer-
ing student. "He also took the seal off really carefully
so he could replace it."
Some Spring Breakers manage to get alcohol on
the boat by hiding it on themselves; the single serv-
ing bottles make this a lot easier.
More important than all of these, however, is at-
titude."When you go on a cruise line, the trick is not to
look like the catthat swallowed the canary," said Jim
Desmond, creator of Rum Runners flasks, a product
used to sneak alcohol on cruises.
Nowadays, every piece of luggage that goes on
a cruise ship gets X-rayed. Security guards mostly
look for dangerous objects like weapons but keep
their eyes peeled for bottle shapes as well, Desmond
said.
Desmond's product cuts out some of the risks
and drawbacks that come with water bottles and
shampoo containers. Since they're flexible, cruis-
ers can squeeze them around suitcase corners
and there's no air space, meaning no pesky slosh-
ing sounds.
The biggest downfall of putting liquor in previ-
ously used bottles? The original liquid taints the li-
quor's taste forever, he said. Last time we checked,
vodka and rum should be fruit-flavored, not sham-
poo and mouthwash.
Sneaky travelers need to remember that smug-
gling can carry consequences. Although some high-
er-end cruise lines allow their passengers to bring
alcohol on the boat, the popular Spring Break com-
panies like Royal Caribbean and Carnival don't let
any outside alcohol on board.
Cruisecritic.com listed confiscation as the most
common punishment, but cruise lines maintain their
right to refuse entry to anybody caught with alcohol
in their luggage.
"People need to understand thatthe worsttime to
get stuff on cruises is Spring Break," Desmond said.The increased traffic, especially by college students,
makes companies extra strict.
So to those about to smuggle, we salute your bra-
vado. Not wanting to pay inflated drink prices is total-
ly understandable. It's hard enough to plan a Spring
Break extravaganza on a nearly broke college budget
without averaging $8 per cocktail. Plan smart, act
cool and don't get caught. You wouldn't want your
vacation to end before you even get on the boat.
Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator Staff
Rum Runner Flasks are used to sneak alcohol on cruisesTHURSDAY, MARCH A, 2010 *ALLIGATOR, 11
7
0r lI
12, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 2010
What happens on Spring Break doesn't always stay there
* DO'S AND DON'TS OF
SPRING BREAK 2010
By MICHAEL PERRONE
and AMELIA HARNISH
avenue writers
A good Spring Break is one that
is awesomely wild and a bit hazy, so
go out, get drunk and get laid. DO
have the time of your life. But DON'T
leave all your dignity at the dock.
Even a pact with the devil can't
guarantee everything that happens
on Spring Break stays on Spring
Break.He says.
DO hit on anyone and everyone.
Ninety percent of the sweaty, half-
naked co-eds around you will be giv-
ing it away like it's prom night. Just
think Dan Werner: Jack up enough
shots, and one is bound to land in
the bucket. DON'T get absolutely
plastered and try to spit game. By
all means, drink and have fun, but
going nuts won't get you anywhere.
DO flaunt it if you got it. You've
spent the last two weeks at South-
west trying to turn that gut into a
"Situation." And if you DON'T got it,
show it off anyway. With enough con-
fidence, it won't matter whether youlook like Brad Pitt or Seth Rogen.
DO attempt the kinkiest stuff
possible once you getthe girl. DON'T
even think about sliding in between
the legs of a random girl without
sliding on a condom. I will spare you
the lecture, just be sure to wrap it
up.
She says.
DO feel free to be aggressive.
Getting a guy's attention with an
ass-grab is totally acceptable. You
may not normally take matters into
your own hands, but now is the per-
fect time to master the art of getting
from bar to bedroom.
DON'T abandon all self-worth byseeking attention through flashing
or entering one of those hideous wet
T-shirt contests. Anything that re-
quires you to dance nearly naked on
stage is disgusting in any setting.
DO drink the day away. There is
no limit to the amount of pina cola-
das or tequila shots you consume in
any given day. Go ahead and shot-
gun a few Natty Lights in there, too.
But DON'T drink so much that you
forget to eat, black-out and then
barf all over the guy you just brought
back to the hotel.
DO have fun in the hot tub, but
don't forget to get out of the water
before penetration. Not only can youstill get pregnant and catch an STD
in a hot tub or hotel pool without
proper protection, the water reduc-
es the amount of natural lubrication
you produce, meaning it's probably
going to hurt, and the chlorination
can cause an infection.
DO hook up with random strang-
ers. Again, this is what Spring Break
is all about, so don't feel guilty not
knowing more than his name.
DON'T go home with anyone be-
fore tellingyour friends where you're
going. And if they tell you he's an
ugly creep, DON'T throw a drunk-
girl temper tantrum. Just listen and
thank them later.
5exTo oVI
-2A a, C/ese2,01
Toj e call 3 -371-9444
.kacb@gmail.com
" ~ ided! Free giveaways!
Presented y Keep Alochua County Beautiful
Donate Teddies to
Cancer Patients
Donate new or nearly new
teddy bears to American Cancer
Society's Bears
for Cares9tay safe in the 9UN
By MICHELLE PROFITS
avenue writer
This Spring Break, your liver isn't the only thing you should
be taking care of. With most of us jetting off to tropical
locales, this is prime time to do some serious damage to
your skin. Use these tips to take care of that bod as you're
basking in the glorious rays of Spring Break:
* Put enough sunscreen on and reapply:
Make sure you lather sunscreen on after you take a
dip in the pool or ocean to maximize protection.
* Avoid the midday sun:
UV rays are at peak intensity between 10 a.m. and
4 p.m. Try and take a time-out and get under the
shade.
* Keep it cool:
According to Cancer Research UK, storing sunscreen
in hot temperatures can ruin its protective chemicals
and decrease shelf life.
ApInvest in some aloe vera: m z nApply aloe to help heal and moisturize skin burns.U
Erica Ervin / Alligator Staff
Ap AHEI TIAl
Due to Spring Break, the Alligator will have the following
advanced deadlines:
Deadline for Monday, March 15 paper:
TODAY by 4 pm
Deadline for Tuesday, March 16 paper:
FRIDAY, March 5, by 4 pm
Theses deadlines apply to both Display and Classified advertising, as well as all
customers wishing to renew their classified ads March 15 or March 16.
Classifieds 373-FIND Display 376-4482April 17, 2010
from 8 am to 3pm
at the Martin Luther King Center
Help clean
up trash
and litter,
plant trees,
and paint
over graffiti.4CCIATO&
It
W10
0
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
*3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
INCLUDES EVERYTHING
4/4's & 2/2s from $399 to $509
24hr Fitness*4 BUS LINES
DJ by the pool on weekends
GainesvillePlace.com*352-271-3131
4-21-71-1
0
FULLY LOADED @ $399
Individual w/free roommate matching
Cable, Internet and utilities
Pick New 42" TV or Sofa Set
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, University Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2 $665 * deluxe 2/2 $699
3/3 $639*4/4 $539 *All prices are all inclusive
*Close to UF* EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST Townhouse near UF,
Shands, shopping; easy access. 2BR/2.5BA;
great for student/family. Only $750/mo; short-
term lease available. Renovated & ready! Ed
305-972-6432 3-24-10-85-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. 239-250-6149 3-19-10-45-1
LUXURY 2STORY TOWNHS. 2B/2.5Ba
FULLY FURN. 2 min to UF, Great bus routes
& parking, Pool/gym, Free wifi, All utils incl.
Both rooms avail June 1st or later, Individual
Leases $540/$520 Martha 786 246-3049
3-5-29-1
4/4 COUNTRYSIDE APTS. Spacious 4 bed-
room close to UF! Close to major shopping
areas and located on 3 bus routes that go to
center of UF. Every room has full bathroom
& large walk-in closets. Entire place is fur-
nished. High efficiency W/D. Rent is $400/
room/month. Utilities included! SD $200.
Available June or August. Call (305) 799-
7042 3-25-30-1
IMMEDIATE/SUMMER AVAILABILITY
2,3 and 4 bedroom suites
STARTING @ 349
All inclusive, fully furnished
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-10-30-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
2/2*3/3*4/4
Experience the Good Life
Text "Enclave" to 47464
4-21-09-71-1
ADORABLE VINTAGE HOMES 2BR/1BA.
Minutes from UF. Wood floors, stone tile, util-
ity room. Cats ok. $625, first, last, $200 sec.
352-256-0999 3-16-10-10-1
>>2 FULLY FURNISHED BEDROOMS"
Each with private bath in 4/4 Oxford Terrace
II. Located 3 blocks from campus on sorority
row bus route. $575/month & parking avail-
able. Call (305) 747-1532. 3-16-10-10-11BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $400/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished +
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 3-17-10-26-1
Summer Sublease
Private Bedroom and Bathroom furnished
Oxford Terrace 11
-walking distance to campus and across the
street from sorority row bus stop
Dates: May 3- August 3
Cost: 575/month
If interested e-mail: ccally@ufl.edu or call
(985) 264-1691 3-19-1-1
$600/month Room for rent in 3/2.5 town-
house. 1.5 miles to UF and on 2 bus
routes. Fully furnished with W/D. Digital
cable/internet & utilities inclu. Avail. May 15.
(772)633-6687 3-16-10-5-1
Spacious 4/4 fully furnished condo available
in SW G'ville area 5 minutes to UF! Indiv.
leases, $375/room/mo. On 3 bus routes
and close to major shopping/food areas.
Utilities inc. up to $200/mo. $200 SID. Avail.
immediately/summer/fall. (352) 262-0628
3-31-10-16-1
2BR/2BA Condo at University Commons
East (1 mile from UF) Great price $300
per Month. Includes Washer/Dryer, wood
floors, walk-in closets, fully furnished. Email
faalfaro@yahoo.com or call 407-844-8641.
3-16-5-1
2 Blocks to UF $290/mo
Furnished bedroom in 4BD condo.
Rent includes utils, cable TV & internet.
378-4626 / 262-4290 4-21-10-31-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901 4-21-
10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
THIS FALL LIVE DOWNTOWN!
Live where you play, love where you live
Studios*Ones*Twos*Threes
Big city living without the big city price
Limited availability! 352-338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
AFFORDABLE RATES! QUIET COMMUNITY!
www.frederickgardens.com
1 BR/1 BA $469 * 2BR/1 BA $569
Great Move-In Fee Specials!!!
Adopted pets live free!! 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOWor FALL 2010.
2/2 from $999 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$699 2/2-$799 3/2-$899
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464
4-21-71-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
14, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 4,2010
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
*THE POLOSO
Already have your roommates?
ALL utilities Included
2's: From $479/person; 3's: From $399/person
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
HUGE FLOORPLANS!
1 Bed-$589*2Bed-$719
Tennis*Pool*Basketball
FREE Personal Trainer!
Great School Districts!*332-7401
4-21-71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
SORORITY ROW 2BR
2BR/2.5BA for $1199
W/D & utils included. We <3 pets!
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
That's what She Said!
I LOVE Hidden Lake because.
Cable & internet are Included,
roommate matching is available,
furniture & utility packages are available,
I'm just 1.5 miles to UF & midtown,
there's FREE tanning & a 24-hr gym,
a designer pool AND pets are welcome!"
Come see for yourself!
call 1374-3866 for a tour or text
HIDDENLAKE to 47464 OR.
Next time you're on facebook,
creep on over to Hidden Lake's page
to see floor plans, pics & more!
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $505 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2$394 ALL INCLUSIVE
Upscale Student Living
TV IN YOUR APT!*Ask how
Bus line through the Complex!
GainesvillePlace.com*352-271-3131
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
i BR 1 Mo free 2BR 2 Mo free
if everyone is full time undergrad at UF.
3 Mo free if full time grad at UF.
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$600 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 3-5-10-85-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -WE'VE GOT IT ALL!
1/1 from $589 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis*1 mile to UF*Huge Laundry Facilities
377-7401 * www.biketouf.com
4-21-09-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $540;
1BR $465. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $490;
2BR $590 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 3-19-10-45-2
** Across From UF
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-21-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1 bedroom from *$457 2 bedroom from *$558
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 bedroom 1 bath from *$549
2 bedroom 2 bath from *$641
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Additional $200 off next month
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 $549
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
3-18-10-40-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
GOT ROACHES?
Buy Harris Famous Roach Tablets.
Guaranteed to kill. Available at: Zells
Hardware, 3727 West University 3-17-10-
35-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Clean modern
4BR/2BA (accessable from all BRs) house.
fenced backyard, pets ok, fireplace, W/D
provided, wooded pvt big yard. $1425/mo,
cent H/AC. 2606 NW 34th St. 352-339-2342
3-5-10-25-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 3-5-10-25-2
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 3 bd/ 2 ba
Completely Remodeled
W/D inc. Spiral Staircase
Walk to Class, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
*Walk to Class & Stadium*
2/1, W/D, Granite Countertops
Hardwood Floors & Fireplace
Huge Bedrooms,Covered parking
$1300/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Large 5 Bedrm House**
1 full & 3-1/2 baths
Plant Atriums, Unique floorplan, W/D
Plenty of Parking, 8 blocks N of UF
$2,500/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Great Parking! Walk to UF! 4BD/4.5 BA
Located near SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St.
Call today to view @ 352.373.7578
Union Properties www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
2BD 1 BA WALK TO UF
Charming Quad near AGH
1005 SW 3rd Ave
Hardwood floors & parking
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
NEWLY REMODELED
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
em
I
-3
Ie0
S.
I
*
FI& V
THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished unfurnished
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
3-31-36-2
$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1BA
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands.
W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500sec., $495/
month. 3120 SW 26th Way Unit A. 562-2782
or 514-6869 if interested. 3-16-25-2
2BR/1 BA cent heat mobile home.
Shady lot. From $300 -$450/mo
First month half price incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887 3-31-36-2
705 NW 10th Avenue <9Blks from UF
3BR/1 BA, 8rooms + 400 sq.ft.porch, Central
A/C, W/D, $1,250 + util. Avail. Aug. 275-
1259, ATucker458@aol.com 3-5-10-22-2
**MUST SEE -IN-LAW SUITE**
1BR full BA, living room, dining room, full
kitchen. w/cable & W/D. Inc all utils. Near
Haile. Quiet. $750/mo. Call 352-367-0372
3-5-1-21-2
10houses.com
3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$1000 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
3-5-10-20-2
WALK ONE BLOCK TO CAMPUS!
1, 2, 3, and 4 BR units available now and
for Fall 2010. Locations between SW 1st
ave, SW 5th ave & SW 12th St. Call Kinetic
Properties at 352-337-9600 (no dogs please)
3-19-10-25-24Br/3Ba Large Home w/ 2 car gar, 8 min from
UF, large fenced yard, dogs ok. Exquisite
oaks & landscaping, wood & tile floors, new
appliances. $1,600/mo. 352-466-0358. Avail
summer or Aug. 3120 NW 31st Blvd. 3-5-
10-20-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 3-5-
10-20-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 3-22-
10-25-2
Baxter Cottage 2 blks to UF campus, 1013
SW 4 Ave 2BR/1 BA, Bright, clean, complete-
ly remodeled, 500 sq ft, Cent AC/Ht,wood
firs, DW, W/D, NS, NPets. $500+util. Lease
runs thru 7/1/10 ATucker458@aol.com 3-5-
10-18-2
$650, 2 bdrms, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet
school & campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furnished; Parking; 352
376 0080; 352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
3-5-10-17-2
Beautiful 3/3, close to schooldir. on bus!
Brand new appl, paint, bedding, remdld
bthrms, Frnt bldng, upstrs. $1250/mo.
bdduf86@comcast.net
3-4-10-14-1
2BR/2.5BA townhouse condo, 1 mi from
UF on bus route. Inc W/D, community club-
house, pool & fitness center. Wired for inter-
net & security sys. $878/mo. Avail 5/1 or 8/1.
Call/text 332-8841 lindalu@gatorhomes.com
3-22-10-20-2
I-
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers*THE POLOSO
"You want it, We got it!"
#1 in Amenities
2/2's: From $799; 3/3's: From $979
Includes FREE Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-42-2
Amazing 4/4 house Fall-walk to UF or Law
Sch.-on bus line 2 blocks north of university.
Huge bedrms-new paint, c/air, high ceilings,
Ig home. Need 2 roommates @ $575/each
Can email pics-954-270-4000 3-15-10-14-
2
2BR HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area. Wood floors, new kitchen
vinyl, Cent H/AC, DW, fenced yard, wood
deck, parking, $1080/mo. Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 3-17-
10-15-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority
Row/Norman Hall area. W/D, ice maker, ce-
ramic tile. Cent H/AC, DW, parking, fenced
yard. $1545/mo. Pets extra? Avail Aug 16. 1
yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 3-17-10-15-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area, remodeled baths, new:
stove, DW, disposal & AC, W/D, wd firs. cent
H/AC, parking. $2400/mo Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg
3-1 7-10-15-2
2 Bd,1.5 Ba,1200 sq ft townhouse in the
heart of the Historic Duckpond. Tile, french
doors,hardwood fls,DW.Amazing location,
blocks to downtown.379-4952 $895mo 508
NE 4th ave. avail now 3-5-10-10-2
Large 4BD/2BA home with D/W, W/D, Tile &
Wood flooring. 1 block from Newberry Rd &
Royal Park Plaza, 1 mile from UF. Available
now! $1500/mo + utils. 3806 SW 2nd Ave.
(407) 363- 7198 or cell (407) 234-1380
3-16-10-11-2
Houses Available for Fall!
2631 NW 1st Ave -$1845
402 NW 36th -$1425
315 NW 17th St. -$875
4 NW 25th St -$1499
717 NW 34th St -$1320
FREE UF Parking!
352.371.7777
4-21-71-2
DOWNTOWN 414 SE 2nd St 2BR/1BA
DUPLEX apt w/loft, central heat, window air,
off-street parking, convenient access to ev-
erything. $630/mo, 1st, last, $600 dep. Call
352-373-6551 3-16-10-2
3 br/1ba house near corner sw 34 st & nw 8
av separate dining & living areas, new kitch-
en, carport, wd/hook up, storage shed, front
lawn and fenced back yard. Water included
in rent. $945/mo -call 258-4184 3-26-18-2
APTS and HOMES for rent near UF!
Avail Summer and Fall, visit our website at
merrillmanagement.net or
Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494 x10
3-30-10-19-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue. St. Croix Apts
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 x1O or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
2BR 1BA, Wood Floors, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 or tazzie2l@bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-23BR 1.5 BA Home off NW 16th
Ave. Tile Floors, Laundry Hkups,
Central H & Air. $750/Mo
319 NW 16th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
*2BR HOUSE 611 NW 34th Ave. Cent A/C,
wood floors, close to UF. Flex lease. $625/
mo. Avail now. *1BR huge, close to UF,
SFC busline. Water included 352-318-8822
3-16-10-9-2
Short Term Lease Thru 7/31
lbdrm in Historic Mansion OR
3bdrm/2bath Condo
Close to Campus. $350 obo
Contact: Eric 352.682.7424 3-5-10-6-2
***HOUSE 4BR/2BA***
Available 8/1. Lovely, remodeled. W/D. Bike
to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. $1400/
mo. 373-1558, 246-8645, or 256-8370 3-16-
10-8-2
Hidden gem 2/2 walk to shands/VA
just renovated/wood floor/new paint
w/d pool balcony free parking,water
REDUCED $850/mo.352-281-0733
thuycarroll@yahoo.com 3-25-10-15-2
2BR/1.5BA upstairs/downstairs. Half carpet,
half tile. Pet friendly. Close to Bus routes 9,
34, and 36. $625/mo 352-275-4889 3-19-
10-1 1-2
$199 Move-In Special
$500-$700 2BR/1BA
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or 352-505-9264 4-16-10-
30-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $700/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220. (leave
a voicemail) 3-31-17-2
Available now. HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo. All
4BR/2BA $11 00/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183
3-15-10-5-2
5 BEDROOM HOUSE
Walk to Class, Right Across from the
football stadium, $530 per room, please call
John @ 561-866-8234 for additional info
3-5-10-4-2
Like Rural Living? Horses? Barn
Eff Apt, Stalls Avail, Loft Bed
W/D provided, Pets OK, 15 Ac
Jonesville, $400 Apt, $150/Stall
Whole Oper $1350 954-292-2244
3-18-10-7-2
Spacious 1 BR apt for rent.
1 BR/1 BA apt near Oaks Mall.
Walk to mall, restaurant and coffee shops.
New appliances. Call 352-258-4695 3-16-
10-5-2
DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY!!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Short Term Lease Thru 7/31
lbdrm in Historic Mansion OR
3bdrm/2bath Condo
Close to Campus. $350 obo
Contact: Eric 352.682.7424 3-5-10-6-32b/2b available for immediate sub-lease,
Cobblestone townhouse, 1270 sq ft, free
cable, 24 hr fitness ctr, free wireless at pool,
free unlimited tanning, only 5 mths left in
lease. Originally $1000 mth, March already
pd, will discount to $900 for remaining 4
mths. call 352-514-5904 3-15-10-7-3
$450/mo OBO furnished or unfurnished
1/1 in 4/4 avail SUMMER '10. Oxford
Terrace on sorority row bus stop. W/D,
dishwasher,internet,cable included. female
or male. Call 321-278-6222 3-4-5-3
$575/mo OBO furnished/unfurnished 1/1
directly behind Midtown at College Park.
Walking distance to UF. Parking included.
Female or male. Call 305-587-1122
3-26-10-3
orRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES
IN FURN 4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF.
$290/mo incl elec, cable tv, internet, pool,
laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626
4-21-09-71-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
3-19-10-38-4
Female seeks roommate for 4/2.5 town-
house, cricket club, all included, no pets,
$400 954-557-4769 3-4-10-30-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
3-26-10-35-4
Looking for roommate to share 2/2 at
Lakewood Villas. $525 per month with inter-
net/full digital cable/utilities included. On bus
route. 850-585-4405. 3-5-10-13-4
Female wanted to share new 3BR/3BA home
near campus(SW area)2400sf. On bus route.
Washer & dryer included. Furnished, except
your bedroom. $395 plus utilities. Serious,
non-smoking students only. 813-610-1698
3-18-10-4
STUDENT NEEDED
New townhome, W/D, clubhouse, pool, gat-
ed, packing, bus route. $350 + utilities. 727-
729-1561 3-31-19-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room -utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Bball, pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd FIr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, or 352-636-4814 3-31-10-18-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsNVA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$350/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220
(leave a voicemail.) 3-31-17-4.
$350 Room 4 Rent!
FEMALE ONLY! Available now in 2BR apt!
Rent (incl water) +1/2 utils. (786) 797-1377
3-16-5-4
3 Female Roommates needed beginning
summer A, 375+utilities, 4/4 condo, walk in
closets, pool +hot tub, fitness center, on bus
route, Countryside Apts. washer and dryer.
561-719-5558 3-19-10-7-4
16, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 4,2010
R Estate Furnishings Motorcycle ds Autos Aut
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Campus Edge / Somerest VillageWalk to
Shands/VA/class 2units, 2bd/2ba vault-
ed ceilings 2nd/3rd floor w/d in unit,best
locations parking. $8,000 tax credit.
$164,900/$132,900. Move in Ready 954-
439-2301 stedel@bellsouth.net 4-21-10-
41-5
Large 4BD/3BA home 1 block from Newberry
Rd & Royal Park Plaza, 1 mile from UF.
Ind separate in-law apartment, wood &
tile floors. 3806 SW 2nd Ave $249,000
Call (407) 363-7198 or cell (407) 234-1380
3-16-10-11-5
GAINESVILLE $199,000
3BR/2.5BA, large yard
Double (+) garage
3794 SW 56th Rd.
352-494-8848 3-22-10-10-5
F Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
CERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECHO
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
3-31-10-52-7
W IFor Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***Www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
Your roommate hasn't done the dishes in
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the
Alligator Classifieds.
WEIutIP
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
*NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
3-31-09-103-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Chevy Camero $999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
96 Chevy Blazer $1999 cash
97 Plymouth Voyager $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699 cash
94 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Kia Sephia $999
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1999
97 Olds Delta 88 $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
98 Ford Explorer $1900
97 Mits Diamonte $1999
98 Ford Contour $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
94 Nissan Altima $1999
98 Pontiac Transport $1999
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Chevy Malibu $1999
95 Chrysler LHS $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
02 Kia Rio $3900
03 Buick Century $4900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k, $8999CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k, $6999 CASH
2000 Ford Mustang, 111k, $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Ford Escape, 95k, $6999 CASH
2000 GMC Sierra, 166k, $5999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k, $5999 CASH
2007 lsuzu Trooper290 Truck, 46k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Dodge Stratus, 78k, $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
HAVE YOU BOUGHT A CAR FOR
SUN CITY AUTO and it broke down?
Please email me this week
test@celebrationnews.net 3-4-10-4-12UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948. 3-5-10-72-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 3-5-
10-72-13
OSOSOPERATION CATNIPOOSO
Many needs and opportunities can be found
at www.nmhp.net. Feral cat capture, spay-
ing, volunteering, office work earn Disney
Tix, etc. Email: operationcatnip@nmhp.net
Wanted Now you can easily
-submit your classified ad
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
JUMBLElor print. andior web edions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
a , ,
U.
Copyrighted Material
*kSydicatedConen
Available from Commercial News Providers
0 .Nwf 0
THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 17
UF HelpWanted HelpWanted f Help Wanted Personals Evntotices
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
LATE NIGHT DRIVERS
$15-$17/hr 10pm -4am.
Apply @ gatordominos.com 4-21-10-60-14
U,
a)-
0L_
a) CS -
Sa E
-E
C3
-
ccCamp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have a fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
OSOATTENTION SMOKERS!@@@
SODo you want to quit smoking?@@
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking
cessation study. You may be compensated.
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic 328-6603 or
email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com 3-15-
20-14
Attention Smokers! Smokers are needed
to participate in a smoking cessation study.
You will be compensated for your participa-
tion. If interested, call the UF Smoking Lab
and Clinic at 352-273-2151 or email us at
ufsmokelab@gmail.com. 3-4-10-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable.
Writing skills a must, accounting skills a plus.
Call Carrillo & Carrillo @ 352-371-4000.
3-29-10-20-14
HIRING STYLIST AND NAIL TECHS!!!
LOCATION: THE SALON "O"EXPERIENCE;
ON NW 6TH ST GAINESVILLE, FL 32609.
50% COMMISSION OR RENTAL IF
DESIRED. CONTACT SALON MANAGER
MRS. CAROYLN 0 AT 352-284-1320 OR
352-672-6339. 4-1-23-14
SPA COORDINATOR NEEDED.
Must be available spring break. Call 352-562-
4610 to set up an interview. 3-5-10-7-14
Web company seeks Office Manager for
administrative, accounting, general of-
fice tasks. Must be computer + internet
savvy. QuickBooks exp a +. Resume to
GnvWebCo@gmail.com 3-17-10-10-14
HOUSEKEEPING -CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available
Mon-Fri, 10am -5pm. $7.25/hr, experience
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323
for more info and interview. 3-5-10-6-14
Seeking experienced housekeeping room in-
spectors. Good starting wage and benefits
Apply in person @ the Paramount Plaza
3-4-10-5-14
Seeking experienced AM & PM restaurant
servers, Line cooks and dishwashers.
Apply in person @ the Paramount Plaza
3-4-10-5-14
Sales rep for Internet finance company.
Must be able to work independently & meet
deadlines. Strong attention to detail, organi-
zational, & research skills are a must. Sales
exp is helpful. Salary starts at $24k/year +
commission. Excellent earning potential
for motivated individuals. Email resume to
jobs@nationaltechmark.com or fax to 1-866-
728-4579. Put "Financial Sales" in subject
line. 3-18-10-10-14
F/T sales associate wanted for specialty run-
ning store. Enthusiastic personality with pas-
sion for running preferred. Please email re-
sume to mike@runningandwalkingstore.com
3-5-10-5-14
Tutor -- UF Managerial Accounting
(ACG2071) $15/hr,
approx 6 hr/wk. hrs flexible. email qualifica-
tions to chawn@ufl.edu 3-4-3-14
GENERAL HELP WANTED!
Mon-Fri, 10am -5pm. starting $8/hr
No experience required. Apply in person at
1031 NW 6th St. Suite A-3. Contact number
352-379-2812 3-17-5-14
BARTENDERS OPENINGS
Earn $150-250/day. No exp required. Will
train. Call now 352-678-5246 3-17-10-5-14
PSYCH MAJORS WANTED
Full or part time. Good pay.
352-337-8333 3-5-2-14IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71 -
15
Local Immigration Attorney -Marriage
Green Cards/Fiance Visas/Naturalization
Matters -$295.00 Attorney Fees Plus Costs
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
6-1-45-15
Horseback Trail Rides
with gentle horses, eco-tours,
mule-drawn hay rides, bonfire parties
safe and fun. 352-682-4192
3-5-5-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 3-16-
10-15
ANY JOBS -LARGE OR SMALL
JC Landscaping & Janitorial
Landscaping, Hauling, Inside/Outside
Cleaning, Power Washing.
Call 224-5693 or 303-9831 3-15-10-5-15
WIHealth Servicesi
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
Grieving the loss of someone?
National Students of AMF
Join our Facebook group:
"Gator Students of AMF"
TalkAboutLoss.org 4-21-43-16
A Woman's Answer
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716 8-24-74-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
FINALLY.SPRING BREAK!!
Going to the beach? You need new flip-flops.
Reef, Roxy, Quiksilver, Chaco, Keen and
Teva Sandals. Just call Lloyd Clarke Sports
352-372-7836. 1504 NW 13th St. 3-5-7-18
STRETCH BOARDSHORTS!
Great for surf, volleyball or just hanging out.
Quik, Billabong, Fox and Hurley. Check
it out. Lloyd Clarke's 1 mi N or UF on 441.
www.lloydclarkesports.com 3-5-7-18
SAVE $ ON RUNNING SHOES!
We'll help you find the right shoe for your
unique foot, strike and run style. We offer
free gait analysis. Hundreds of choices in
stock. Lloyd Clarke Sports. 352-372-7836
3-5-7-18
IVE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
WJCOnnections
Male professional, 70 years old, tall, from Sri
Lanka seeking white female, fair hair, 60-80
years old. Animals okay.
Write to MFP P.O. Box 1823, FI 32656
3-26-19-19
Mature artist, mid-80's, but much younger
looking & acting is looking or attractive fe-
male with sense of humor to take to dinner,
companionship, life's adventures & who
know? Call Bob 352-226-8449 3-4-5-19NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Gainesville Urbanized Area Metropolitan
Transportation Planning Organization
(MTPO) announces a public meeting to
which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME; March 15, 2010 at 6:00p.m.
PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium, County
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the
MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by
calling 352-955-2200, visiting our website
at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation -
MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-
lar buisiness hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place,
Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-
ability, familial status, religious status, marital
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.
Persons who require special accommoda-
tions under the Americans with Disabilities
Act or persons who require translation ser-
vices (free of charge) should contact Marlie
Sanderson at 352-955-2200, extension 103,
at least seven (7) days before the public
meeting. 3-4-10-1-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
WJL Rides
Now you can easily G Gix~sonOW OU anel~ y GMG TRANSPORTsubmit your classified ad FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
for print andlor web editions RThur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
r -r Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
right thru our website! Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
Just gt charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
Jutg- $45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
wwwalliaatororn/classifiedS 4-21-71-23
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
iEvent Nices
Book reading and signing by Fred Malphurs,
retired CEO, of the North Florida/South
Georgia Veterans Health System. Fred's
internet radio show, Adventures in
Healthcare will also be discussed.
His books: MY Life in the VA, Meanie
Mouse verus the Orlando Operators and
Mexia. At the Thomas Center,
March 10, 5:30 to 8:30 pm
3-5-10-8-20WEZPets
Furry, feathery, scaly .no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
@ 2 yr old male Boxer named Macado, AKC
certified, fawn color with black mask & white
markings. Ears and tail cut, declawed, well
trained, very obedient. $500
* Male boxer puppy $250 -(386) 496-1058
3-16-10-5-24
Dog Wheelchair 15to20 lbs never used
paid $150.00 will take $75.00
if picked up 352-378-5622 3-5-10-2-24
Sports
THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Florida set for rematch with Auburn in SEC Tourney
0 THE GATORS TOPPED THE
TIGERS IN DOUBLE OVER-
TIME IN JANUARY.
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens @a rigator org
The start of the Southeastern
Conference Tournament means a
clean slate, and the Gators are hop-
ing they can return to the form they
showed when SEC play opened in
January.
Today at 2:30, No. 7-seeded
Florida (14-15, 7-9 SEC) will get a
rematch with 10th-seeded Auburn
in the first round at The Arena at
Gwinnett Center in Duluth, Ga.
UF began league play 2-0 with
a win at Arkansas and at home
against the Tigers (14-15, 5-11 SEC)
in double overtime earlier in the
season.
The Gators have fallen on hard
times since, losing five of their last
six contests -a stretch that includ-
ed five top-25 opponents and a loss
to unranked Alabama. The Tigers
are coming off an upset win overNo. 2 seed Kentucky.
The double-OT win UF escaped
with at home on Jan. 7 against Au-burn was a tale of two halves. Flori-
da led by 18 in a dominant first half
-holding the Tigers to five fieldgoals while committing just six
turnovers -before Auburn roared
back and outscored the Gators 37-
Ana Goni-Lessan/ Alligator Staff
UF freshman Jennifer George will be counted on to give the Gators a presence down low if center Azania
Stewart is unable to play today at 2:30 p.m. against Auburn in the first round of the SEC Tournament.
UF hopes to bounce back
By TONI-ANN MILLER
Alligator Writer
Just four days after its first loss of the
season -an 18-5 blowout at North Car-
olina -Florida (2-1) returns home for a
matchup against St. Bonaventure tonight
at 6:30.
This game could set the tone for the
rest of the season for Amanda O'Leary's
young Gators if they're able to bounce
back from the devastating loss to the Tar
Heels.
Coming off the defeat in Chapel Hill,
UF was forced to examine its composure.
The team couldn't stay close to UNC af-
ter trailing by just two at the half, and it
allowed the Tar Heels to score 12 goals in
the second period.
After the game, O'Leary said her play-
ers needed to use the matchup against
North Carolina as a learning experience,
stick to their game plan and stay com-
posed when things don't go their way.
"It's a matter of being able to stop thebleeding a little bit," she said. "When we
get into a situation (where) they go on a
two or three-goal run, we need to be able
to answer back, and if it means coming
up with a big save or coming up with a
big defensive stand, or if it means scor-
ing a goal at the other end, we need to do
something to change the momentum of
the game."
UF gave up against North Carolina
when the Tar Heels went on a second-
half runSunday, O'Leary
said.
However, she talked
to the team about main-Lacrosse taining its poise in up-
coming games.
Although the Bonnies are not of the
Tar Heels' caliber, the Gators will need
consistency and composure throughout
Thursday's match.
One of the likely candidates to take on
the task for UF is attacker Ashley Bruns.
SEE LAX, PAGE 1940-yard dash is
verybody knows the main event at the
NFL Combine is the 40-yard dash.
It's when you finally get to see
how fast, or slow, a player can run.
And those four-plus seconds can affect a
player's draft stock drastically.
This is bad news for Joe Haden.
People were expecting him to clock the
best time for a cornerback at the combine.
Instead, he ran a 4.57 and his top-10 status
is now in jeopardy.
It seems every year one of the best play-
ers is negatively affected by his 40 time,
and this year the big name is Haden.
Haden has always looked fast in person
and was one of the best players at his posi-
tion the last two years, but his poor show-
ing at the Combine is likely to cause scouts
to start worrying about his ability to play at
the next level.
"If you are sure he has been timed
enough and you are sure the times are le-
gitimate, you know a 4.6 cornerback can't
cover a 4.4, 4.45 receiver, especially with
him running backwards 68 percent of his
time in coverage, so if he can't run forward
faster than that, you just say, 'He's a nice
kid. I really like him. He's a good kid. May-
be he can play something else for us,"' said
Ron Marciniak, who was an NFL scout for
26 years before retiring recently.19 after intermission.
Three three-pointers from then-
scoreless Steffi Sorensen in the sec-
ond overtime gave UF just enough
breathing room.
"We've just gotta look at the first
half and draw a lot of confidence
from the fact that we did play one
of our best 20-minute segments of
basketball against them and try to
dwell on that positive," UF coach
Amanda Butler said.
Six-foot-4 center Azania Stew-
art was pivotal in the win, scor-
ing 21 points, nailing a pair of free
throws that sent the game into the
second overtime while corralling
11 rebounds. Stewart, who hasn't
played in the last five contests be-
cause of a stress fracture in her left
foot, has been listed as day-to-day.
If she's unavailable, the load will
fall on freshman Jennifer George.
It's been a good few days for the
6-foot George, who earned her first
career double-double against Ala-
bama on Sunday and was named
to the SEC All-Freshman Team on
Tuesday.
SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 19
King of Combine
While it seem
dumb that two slow
40-yard dashes coul
affect his status tha
much, tape can lie.
Haden looks fas
Bobby Callovi and I'm sure he wil
Bobby's World run better than 4.5
bcallovi@alligator org at Florida's Pro Da
on March 17. but it'
hard to tell on tape
how fast he is.
You don't know how fast the people op-
posite of Haden were.
So for now, the only thing to judge just
how fast Haden can run is his times at the
Combine. Luckily for him, the 40 is not the
only thing that is going to be taken into
consideration.
"To me, the 40-yard dash is a very im-
portant factor, but it is just that -a factor,"
Marciniak said. "There are 10 factors, at
least, for every football player."
But now, those other factors that scouts
and coaches are evaluating are going to
have to be even better because they are
going to be looking at him even closer to
make sure Haden is still worth drafting
with a high pick.
SEE BOBBY, PAGE 19
0 Lauren Embree from the women's
team and Bob Van Overbeek from
the men's side were both named
SEC Freshman of the Week on
Wednesday.allgaoorSports Ptddast
U Bobby Callovi, Phil Kegler and Kyle Maistri
join host Adam Berry to discuss how the
UF players fared at the NFL Combine and
the men's basketball team's recent losses.
Download it on iTunes.TEEING OFF WITH BOBBY CALLOVI
U Players on Texas A&M-Commerce were arrested for drug possession, but they
made sure the word would not get out. Not by keeping it a secret, but by stealing
every newspaper. The Gators might want to consider this next time a player gets
arrested. .John Daly tweeted a reporter's phone number bashing him in a story.
Kyle Maistri should hope this doesn't become a trend.s
d
t
7
THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
L S tdII% to %,-the-rI.gnd% tfn rntq-in.tiOndIt ?qri-dl
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Bruns has
led offense
this season
LAX, from page 18
Bruins has been one of the Gators'
stand-out freshmen and a go-to
player so far.
She's second on the squad
with seven goals scored behind
midfielder Brittany Dashiell,
who has eight.
Bruins also leads the team in
t assists, dishing out eight in three
games.
Bruins said the squad will
forget its loss against the Tar
Heels and focus on beating St.
11 Bonaventure.
7t She will be expected to lead
the Gators against the Bonnies
because she is often in the point
guard or shooting guard role,
distributing the ball, dictating
the offense and making shots.
"It's really important for her
to have a good game, but if she
doesn't, we hope we have play-
ers that can step up into that
same role and do that," O'Leary
said.
sai She added that, if need be, the
Gators have other players like
Dashiell and midfielders Colby
Rhea and Julie Schindel who can
help run the offense.
"It's going to be a really com-
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff petitive game," O'Leary said.
UF freshman Ashley Bruns leads the team with eight assists and is second in goals with seven. The Gators will need her offense when they take "How we come off of a big loss
on St. Bonaventure tonight at 6:30 in Gainesville. the rest of te seao we react to
Stewart's injury has increased George's role
WHOO PS, from page 18
Her recent success is a reflection of her added min-
utes, including 31 against the Crimson Tide, which
came about after Stewart was sidelined.
"I don't know about a blessing in disguise, be-
cause you never want to see your teammates get
hurt," George said of Stewart's injury. "But it did
force me to mature a little bit more in my game and
forced me to be more accountable."
Over the past five games, she led the team withseven rebounds per game and was second on the
team with nine points per contest.
If George is going to have a chance at replicating
her recent performance, she'll need help against Au-
burn and 6-foot-7 KeKe Carrier.
One poor half nearly cost the Gators their last
matchup against Auburn, so they'll be focused on
starting fast and playing a strong 40 minutes.
"We'll learn from what's happened this whole
season," George said. "If we get a lead, we'll keepBOBBY, from page 18
While the coaches are paying more attention to his game
film to find any other flaws in his game, Haden has the next
two weeks to prepare himself to run the best 40-yard dash of
his life.
"Pro Day and the Combine is the fastest that player runs the
rest of his life," Marciniak said. "Anyone who runs in the Com-
bine will never run that fast again. They take three-and-a-half
months to practice with track coaches and condition their body
five days a week to ready for two or three 40-yard dashes."
If Haden can improve his time, he should easily re-establish
himself as a top-10 pick unless the two weeks give scouts time
to find another problem.
Haden's slow time made things harder on himself and ex-
emplifies why the 40-yard dash is the headliner at the Com-
bine.
It takes just 4.57 seconds to hurt a player's draft stock.
20, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 4,2010
Castillo adjusting to diminished role after surgery
0 THE FORMER ALL-AMER-
ICAN HASN'T COMPETED IN
ALL-AROUND THIS SEASON.
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
When Amanda Castillo partially
tore her left Achilles tendon last sea-
son, she wasn't sure what her place
on Florida's gymnastics team would
be moving forward.
But with her senior season wind-
ing down, the seven-time All-Amer-
ican is accepting and adjusting to
her new role.
As a freshman and sophomore,
Castillo earned All-American hon-
ors in the all-around and was one of
the Gators' best gymnasts.
But as ajunior, pain in her left foot
set in after a fall in the preseason.
She battled through the injury for
part of the season before shutting it
down after the team's meet withUtah, and underwent surgery at the
end of March.
"So many things were going
through my mind when it hap-
pened," Castillo said. "'This can't be
happening. Why is this happening?
What did I do wrong?'I'm a compet-
itor, and I had goals. I went through
denial and felt bad I couldn't be
there for the team."
After the surgery, Castillo went
through a six-month recovery pro-
cess before slowly returning to the
gym. She pushed herself and came
in on her off days to do everything
she could before making her return
at the beginning of this season.
Coach Rhonda Faehn said it was
a hard time for Castillo, who didn't
realize how difficult making a come-
back would be because it was new
territory for her.
Since returning, Castillo has seen
a diminished role, competing on
the bars every week, but she hasn't
returned to the all-around competi-
tion this season."At first, it was hard," Castillo
said about adjusting to a different
role. "But I'm a senior, and I've got
three years of college gymnastics un-
der my belt. I'm trying to be more of
a motivator now and be there for my
team and give them the confidence
they need, especially the freshmen."
Castillo has been working on the
all-around in practice, and Faehn
said she had planned for Castillo to
return to the all-around this season,
but things didn't go as scheduled.
The coaches didn't want to over-whelm Castillo in competition.
"Of course I would love to be in
the all-around, but this is a team, and
I want to be able to help any way I
can," Castillo said. "I'm honored to
at least still be competing."
The first part of this season was
a struggle for her and a few weeks
ago she had a breakdown, but Faehn
helped Castillo with her confidence
and reassured her they would figure
things out.
Since then, Faehn said Castillo
has really come to peace with her-self and has realized she will play a
role in the success of the team, even
if it means being more than just a
performer.
Against Auburn last week, Cas-
tillo's 9.875 earned her a share of the
event title on bars, which was her
second win this season. She said it
showed that she's not done yet, and
still has something left in the tank to
help her team.
"I want to be able to lay my head
down at night and know that I gave
it my all," Castillo said.
2007 2008 2009 2010
Vault a * Q*
Uneven
Bars U
Balance
Beam
Floor M @M n 
.
ExerciseP
Max Weissler/ Alligator StaffMatt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF senior Amanda Castillo's career was derailed by a foot injury, as she hasn't been able to regain the
form that made her a seven-time All-American prior to surgery.
GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
2% OFF any one GNC Product m G FT
Cannot be combined One Coupon per customer
3914 SW Archer Rd Butler Plaza Newberry Square
Daly Specials 377-6020 Exp3/31/10 335-1232 332-3937
What c ors do you bleedP
Blood Drive Challenge
Help us
beat UK
by donating
blood!
Monday, March i -Friday, March 5 ok
9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
LifeSouth Donor Centers and Bloodmobiles on UF Campus
Join LifeSouth for a competition to see which team can bring
in the most blood donors. Help Florida beat Kentucky on and
off the court.
Donor Center Locations:
North of Campus, 1221 NW 13th Street LIFM southWest of Campus, 4039 Newberry Road CommunityBloodCentersSpxaclerit Liing Guid
SpJifli, 2010
x
376-4482 All-y
Around |
By advertising in the
Student Living Guide,
you will reach over
50,000 readers who
are looking for new
apartments, condos,
furniture, appliances,
household items and
more!
-liaopC.) cl) Cl) CollV-111Z) VZ1ZJ M
