the independent florida
the
Avenue
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 91 We Inform. You Decide.10~cycle
THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010
Graduate students voice Reitz fee concerns
About 50 people attended the forum
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
Talk of the new student union
raised questions, concerns and
hostility at a forum on Wednesday
afternoon.
About 50 graduate students,
undergraduate students and Reitz
Union employees gathered in theRion Ballroom Wednesday to dis-
cuss the proposed Reitz Union fee
with Student Body President Jor-
dan Johnson.
The fee would fund the repair
and expansion of the union, and a
referendum question about the fee
will be placed on the spring Stu-
dent Government election ballot.
The proposed fee would charge a$20 flat fee per semester and $3 per
credit hour.
Johnson answered questions
about the fee
Student and its implica-
Government tions for gradu-
ate students.
He said the new union could
include an entire floor dedicated to
office space, study rooms and otherresources for graduate students.
"Graduate students are in a
place right now where they need
help on this campus," Johnson
said.
He said he wants to work hard-
er to get higher wages for graduate
students.
If they were paid what they de-
serve, Johnson said, the additional
fee might not be so dramatic, and
they would have new resources at
their disposal.But most graduate students in
attendance described the fee as an
extra burden.
Graduate student Robert Gor-
don said he came to the forum be-
cause he does not want to pay the
fee.
He said he is not against the ren-
ovations but wonders what alterna-
tives SG and the Board of Trustees
explored other than implementing
a student fee.
SEE FORUM, PAGE 5
ON CAMPUS
McCain talks politics
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
Meghan McCain believes in limited gov-
ernment and the anti-abortion movement.
She also supports the wars in Iraq and Af-
ghanistan.
But she believes the Republican Party
needs to evolve.
McCain spoke at the University Auditori-
um Wednesday night, and about 360 tickets
were distributed for the Accent event. She
was paid $10,000, according to the UF Stu-
dent Government Finance Office.
"The Republican party has a serious
PR problem," McCain said. "Anyone who
doesn't think so is smoking something."
Describing herself as a "progressive Re-
publican," McCain, the daughter of U.S. Sen.
John McCain, focused on the need for civilitywithin the realm of politics and the need for
the Republican Party to become more recep-
tive toward divisive social issues.
"I'm not saying, 'Let's abandon the core
ideals of the Republican Party,"' she said,
noting how there are many people who love
the party but believe its
ideals have been lost. "I'm
i& asking the Republican
Party to stop being stub-
born and close-minded."
She also touched on the
widening of the political
divide within the country
McCain and how it is inhibiting
Americans from reaching
a political consensus.
She blamed pundits from both the right
and the left, such as Rush Limbaugh and
SEE MCCAIN, PAGE 5
Five businesses robbed
0 THE BUSINESSES WERE ON THE
SAME BLOCK OF NW 23RD AVE.
By MATT HARRINGER
Alligator Writer
Five businesses were robbed of cash,
credit cards and laptops in northwest
Gainesville at about 9 p.m. Tuesday.
Herbert M. Webb Law Office, Coun-
tryside Dental Care, Cecile's consignment
shop, Helping Hands Chiropractic Center
and the dental office of Dr. Patricia Ship-
man were ransacked, said Art Forgey,
Alachua County Sheriff's Office spokes-
man.Police were called to Helping Hands
Chiropractic Center, 4400 NW 23rd Ave.,
after an employee found the front door
broken open.
Investigators discovered that four oth-
er businesses on the same block were also
robbed.
Kim Russo, Helping Hands Chiroprac-
tic Center owner, said she went into the
office after police notified her of the ran-
sacking.
"Papers were all over the floor, and it
looked liked it was vandalized," she said.
Russo said they only stole about $100,
and the business was open Wednesday.
Forgey said police were looking into
the robberies and processing evidence.
Two killed in house fire Wednesday morning, yet to be identified
The State Fire Marshall's office is inves-
tigating the cause of a fire that burned a
Gainesville home to the ground Wednesday
morning, killing the two inside.
At about 12:15 a.m., Alachua County De-
partment of Public Safety personnel reached
the wood-framed home, 20294 SE 219th Ave.
They found the house on fire, according to
an Alachua County Fire Rescue release.
The two bodies found in the rubble have
not been identified, according to fire rescuespokeswoman Carol Davis, but two of the
house's residents were unaccounted for.
The third resident wasn't home at the
time of the fire, according to the release.
The department remained at the scene
throughout the night to control the burning
debris and prevent the blaze from reigniting,
according to the press release. Volunteer fire
departments also responded.
-KATHERINE BEINToday
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 8 'It
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS12
14
17Sunny
71/43
visit www.alligator.org0 Junior forward
Alex Tyus scored
a team-high 23
points on iO-of-14
shooting to lead
Florida to an 87-71
win over Georgia on
Wednesday night,
giving UF its fourth
straight victory.
See Story, Page 17.Ana Goni-Lessan/ Alligator Staff
Bust a Move
Brian Nguyen, 18, a member of UF's Hip-Hop Collective, break dances on
Turlington Plaza Wednesday afternoon.
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Gator Disc Golf Club Meeting
Today, 7 p.m.
Reitz Union, Rooms 272 and 273
We will be discussing all spring
activities including tournaments,
practice and general info about
the club. For more information
please visit http://grove.ufl.
edu/-gatordgc
Student Government Qualifying
Friday- Sunday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Reitz Union, Room 284
Stop by if you're interested in
running for an executive office
position or a Student Senate seat.
Please bring your Gator 1 Card or
a photo ID with you to qualify.
ON-CAMPUS
Students stop by study
abroad fair
About 2,000 students cruised
through the Reitz Union Col-
onnade Tuesday for the Study
Abroad Fair.
Study abroad adviser Angela
Grindal said about 60 UF summer
programs and about 30 non-UF
programs were present at the fair.
"Students can go anywhere in
the world, as long as it doesn't have
a travel warning," Grindal said.
UF usually has about 2,500 stu-
dents study abroad each year, with
1,200 traveling during the summer,
Legalize it. Don't criticize it!V
Pd. Pol. Adv. approved by Richard Selwach
V( Y RichardSelwac!S
www.selwachformay IIornCopyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
she said.
"The four most popular des-
tinations for UF students are
Spain, Italy, France and the U.K.,
Grindal said, but the interest in
Asia is increasing.
Other popular countries in-
clude New Zealand, Africa, Ire-
land, Australia, Russia, Argen-
tina, Scotland and Nicaragua,
Grindal said.
Miki-Lei Chung, a linguistics
junior, is hoping to study abroad
in Asia this summer.
"I really want to go to Malay-
sia," she said. "I wouldn't mind
maybe even living there one
day."
-LYN KRAMER
Journalism school to
require Mac laptops
When incoming journalism
freshmen purchase a laptop,
they won't have to debate be-
tween a Mac or PC.
The UF College of Journal-
ism and Communications said
Tuesday evening at a UF town-hall meeting that it will begin
requiring freshman journalism
students to purchase Macintosh
computers in fall 2010.
Current journalism students
will not be required to purchase
the technology package, which
includes a Mac or MacBook Pro
laptop computer, an audio re-
corder and a digital camera with
audio and video, but could be
eligible for discounts through the
college.
David Carlson, the execu-
tive director at the UF Center for
Media Innovation and Research,
said the requirement will not ap-
ply to other majors in the college.
-MELINDA CARSTENSEN
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
Smile.
A7
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
A Biotest
From Nature for Lfe
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431SDONT I M A1EL SATURDAY
M S ! WITHl SPECIAL GUEST M C E M tsp, Ap-_4,) FEBRUA RY 0a the independent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 91 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Flonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Mana
Manag
Assis
alligatorEditor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
ging Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta @alligator.org
ing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner, jmisner@alligator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, ctillo@alligator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
tant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
rSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligatororg
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Corey McCall, Amanda Milligan,
Emily Morrow, Andrew Pantazi,
Paul Runnestrand, Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Shaun O'Connor
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 3
STUDENT LIFE
Southwest Rec. to lose 14 treadmills during revamp
By SOMA NWOKOLO
All igator Contributing Writer
Working out just got a little bit
harder.
As part of an ongoing expan-
sion project at Southwest Recreation
Center, it will be clearing out its car-
dio room.
Fourteen of its 16 treadmills will
be stored on a racquetball court
while the other two will remain
available in the weight room.
Other cardio room machines will
be moved to basketball court No. 4
by Saturday.
The basketball court does not
have electricity to power the tread-
mills, said Gary Zetrouer, associate
director for resource and project
management for the Department ofRecreational Sports.
The machines will remain on the
court until the expansion is complet-ed. In the meantime, Southwest has
ordered two tread boards, which are
similar to treadmills but don't re-quire power to operate, he said.
"Think of it as a gerbil wheel,"
said Patrick Reynolds, a fitness as-
Cardio
equipment Activity
Racquetball moved to Rooms Eastcurtb indoor and West At.eRestroom closedr basketball Locker rooms closed for Finish:
renovation remsid f court 4 during closed for remainder of All closedBroke bega remainder of renovation remainder of renovation areas
ground expansion renovation reopen
September January 4 Mid-January Late January Mid-March May August
2009 2010
Albert Perez-Maspons / Alligator Staffsociate at Southwest. "You walk in,
and it's a giant wheel."
Amber Pope, 19, said she works
out at Southwest five days a week.
She was considering moving her
workouts to Student Recreation and
Fitness Center, but after spending 10
minutes trying to find parking Tues-
day night, Pope changed her mind.
Angela Garcia, a fitness associate
at the Student Rec Center, said there
are five treadmills in the strength
and conditioning room at the Stu-
dent Rec Center and five in the
O'Connell Center Weight Room.
However, her primary recom-
mendation is for students to start
running outside, adding she prefers
to run on the track at James G. Press-
ly Stadium, which is open to the
public daily from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m.
5 students bash brick
By ERICA JOHNSON
Alligator Writer
On a makeshift wall of cinder blocks
painted with phrases such as "plastic
whore" and "dumb blonde," Ana Laura
Martinez saw a familiar word: "Cuban."
A UF Spanish senior, she was one of
about five who protested the Writing on
the Wall Project Wednesday afternoon on
the Plaza of the Americas.
"They are going to tear down a wall
with my ethnicity on it?" she said.
The Writing on the Wall Project has
been conducted at UF for eight years,
and Cary Warsetsky, executive director
of the project, said he has never heard of
students having a problem with a single
brick until this year.
Warsetsky, a UF chemical engineer-
ing junior, said the project involves stu-
dents painting words they find offensive
on blocks, which are then made into a
40-foot-by-9-foot wall. After a week, thewall is torn down to represent the break-
ing down of barriers between people.
When Lidice Ferrera, a UF English and
French junior, received a text message
telling her the word "Cuban" was on the
wall, she went to see it for herself.
"Seeing that on the wall was like see-
ing my name on the wall," Ferrera said.
She created an event on Facebook so
others who were offended by the brick
could protest at the wall. About 65 stu-
dents said they would at-
On tend.
CampuS But Caroline Miazgow-
icz, a UF advertising senior,
said people shouldn't have problems with
any of the bricks.
"It says 'vegan' up there, and I'm a
vegan who doesn't understand how that
would be negative," Miazgowicz said.
Despite the protest, Warsetsky believes
this is a sign the project is doing its job.
"The purpose of this wall is to start
a dialogue, and that's what's going on
here," he said.Ana Martinez (right), a senior Spanish major, protests against the Writing on the Wall Project
Wednesday. She was insulted someone wrote "Cuban" on the wall as an offensive term.
1A
Short of Cash? Donate Plasma! Thousands do.
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6th St Gainesville (352) 378-9204
Ja Ah "Where It Pays to Care", -. Forget the Roses,Send Your Lover
1 yExRGARANTL a Kinky Gift 
&
a Note Delivered
Butter Plaza Newberry S uare 819 W. University Ave.
335-1232 332-3937Cal327-68
YOU NEVER VISIT.
1124 W University Ave
OVER ~YO 31VE DfeetSnwCes.YoC505224
YOU NEVER FAX.
505-0223
HOURS
WHAT, I'M UP WITH
- THE CHICKENS!
Sun-Wed 6am-10pmskst Thurs-sat 6am-3am
denied All 13a"
tl E!) F_ TAKEOUT OR DELIVERY?
Now Open in O~E GETOR IEY
Midtown NOW SERVING
1124 W University Ave -ER&WNE
OVER. 31 Different Sandwiches
to Choose From!all.gatorSportsT HE P OD C A ST
Tune in for the latest Gators sports
news and analysis from our beat
writers and columnists. Checkitoutat
alligatorSports.org
or subscribe onalligator Tun Ies.
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010
Avaabeo fom Commerdai Nows Pfov' desHip-hop spices up plaza
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Writer
Breakdancers moved fluidly on a
piece of cracked white linoleum taped
to the ground on Turlington Plaza
Wednesday afternoon.
More than 50 people stopped to
watch UF's Hip-Hop Collective per-
form for about 45 minutes.
Students circled around the lino-
leum pad, clapping to a makeshift beat
bashed on a plastic trash can.
Vincent Alvarado, the group's
spokesman, said the group's usual
beatboxers and guitarists were unable
to attend.
The group decided they would just
improvise with a beat and a chant of
"no music."
"It's all from the soul. It's self-ex-
pression. It's hip-hop," Alvarado said.
UF freshman Joanne Millendez said
she loved the jam because it displays
an important part of hip-hop culture."It brings people close together,"
she said.
The loose-limbed breakers includ-
ed members of the organization and
anybody else who wanted to jump in.
Some flared their legs around them as
they balanced on their hands. Some
did handstands and froze, striking
poses to the beat.
J.J. Richardson, an industrial and
systems engineering
On graduate student, said
CampuS each breaker's style is
different.
"It's playing with the musicality
and putting yourself into it," he said.
Graduate student and Career Re-
source Center staff member Kevin
Tate jumped in during the perfor-
mance. He wore a blue button-down
shirt tucked into his khaki pants and
busted moves even after his change
fell out of his pocket.
"Faculty, staff and students," Rich-
ardson yelled. "That's how we roll!"
Two magical weekends at the Alachua
County Fairgrounds in Gainesville
Tv
Jnuy30 -31 & ebzumyG 6 -7
10 am -6 pm $14 bults/$7 fg; 5-17
[Rdy,[bpucwq 5
9:30 am -3 pm 1/2 Z[bmitgton
Cheer battling knights, birds of prey and human chess games.
Visit the marketplace where artisans sell their wares.
Performances by magicians, musicians and jesters.
www.gvlculturalaffairs.org
352.334.ARTS
City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation & Cultural Affairs
THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Graduate students say they have different needs than undergraduates
FORUM from page 1
Gordon, a member of the Grad-
uate Student Council, which voted
unanimously against the fee, said
many graduate students would be
angry if the fee passed.
"What I'm wondering is how he
feels about alienating an entire de-
mographic of this Student Body toget this fee passed," Gordon said.
Johnson said he hopes a new and
improved Reitz Union would bring
the Student Body together and en-
courage graduate students to use
the Reitz Union as a resource, just
as the undergraduate students do.
"I think that's what's important
here," Johnson said. "This is a stu-
dent union."Emily Leary, another graduate
student at the forum, said gradu-
ate students do not use the Reitz
Union for food
Student and entertain-Government ment the same
way under-
graduate students do. Johnson said
the building still needs millions of
dollars in repairs."This building, over time, has
become insufficient for students,
no matter what kinds of students,"
Johnson said.
Ben Cavataro, the Student Al-
liance party candidate for Student
Body president, said the forum
generated concern among students
opposed to the fee but did not ad-
dress why the fee would be perti-nent for undergraduate and gradu-
ate students.
He said he thinks a lot of people
are upset the fee has been discussed
behind closed doors.
"Student Government needs to
hear the voices of the students, and
right now I feel they might hear,
but they're definitely not listen-
ing," Cavataro said.
She called for evolution
of the Republican Party
MCCAIN, from page 1
Keith Olbermann, as being equally damaging to the country.
Although she addressed serious political issues, she inject-
ed a touch of humor into the dialogue, comparing the heated
health care town hall meetings to episodes of MTV's "The Jer-
sey Shore."
She also commented on her feud with conservative politi-
cal commentator Laura Ingraham, who created a controversy
when she commented about McCain's weight.
"I told her she can kiss my size-12 ass, [and] she can continue
to kiss my Republican ass," she said.
After her speech, which lasted about 30 minutes, McCain
answered questions from the audience.
She addressed topics such as health care, the ongoing con-
flict between Israel and Palestine and the effect of the "religious
right" on the Republican Party.
When asked about her views on Sarah Palin, McCain de-
ferred to her upcoming book, "Dirty Sexy Politics: A True Sto-
ry," which will discuss her views of Palin more thoroughly.
She said the former governor of Alaska would have a good
chance of winning a presidential campaign and would be inter-
ested to see how she would fare in the primaries and the gen-
eral election.
Hakeem Hasan, a UF political science sophomore, said he
was impressed by McCain's insistence on civility and open-
mindedness, notably on gay rights issues.
McCain embodies the spirit of compromise, Hasan said.Meghan McCain speaks to a crowd at the University Auditorium Wednesday evening.
-
Get Your Property on the Board
I Don't let the competition pass you by!
Student Living Guides
By advertising in the Alligator, you
will reach over 50,000 readers who
are looking for new apartments,
condos, furniture, appliances,
household items and much more!
GAINESVILLE REAL ESTATE MAP
DEADLINE: January 29
RUN DATE: February 3
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING FAIR/
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE 2010
DEADLINE: March 18
RUN DATE: March 25
GAINESVILLE REAL ESTATE MAP
DEADLINE: April 2
RUN DATE: April 7-J
0
C
0 l
Call your rep
today!
352-376-4482
alligatorHEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
' rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShieldof Florida 3 3 0 7
Form Number: 18533-599SUr
3669 S.W. 2nd AvenueW""""""b KU "/ i"""LU
,
*
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010
Editorial
The Plastics
America should ease up
on plastic surgery
In light of "The Hills" star Heidi Pratt's recent transfor-
mation from cute to creepy, The Editorial Board has one
message: Slowly step away from the scalpel.
We know we gave her a DART last week for treating her
body like a '92 Chevy Cobalt on "Pimp My Ride," but the
poor girl is getting crazier by the day.
Tuesday night, Botox Barbie announced on "Nightline"
that she's giving her mom a generous gift for Mother's Day:
plastic surgery. Maybe she doesn't understand; it doesn't
work like cute shoes you can give as a gift and then use
yourself.
Pratt clearly has a dangerous obsession. After undergo-
ing a total of more than 10 procedures, she's already look-
ing forward to an upgrade. Despite the fact that her plastic
surgeon has cut her off (can we take a moment to marinate
on that?), Heidi has said she plans to inflate her beach balls
-er, breasts -to a size H "for Heidi."
What she's doing to herself is risky and disturbing. Sure,
we're disgusted by the fact that she looks like a taxidermic
stick figure with small planets in her bra, and we don't even
want to think about what's going to happen when the sili-
cone starts shifting in 10 years.
But the scariest part is that it's starting to look like
she represents a significant portion of American women.
According to the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic
Surgery, U.S. surgical procedures have doubled since 1997.
We're just hoping Heidi and her Frankenface aren't a
preview of what most of our generation will look like by
age 30.
Hair Don't
Someone really needs totell a couple of schools
the dos and don'ts of
the education process.
The first thing to correct
them on would be to stop
permanently scarring the
children at their schools.
There have been two
recent cases of teachers or
schools totally overstep-
ping their boundaries when
it comes to little boys' hair-
styles.
An Ohio teacher and
teacher's aide are being sued
after they put an 11-year-old
boy's long hair into pony-
tails.
But it doesn't stop there.
They also gave him a girl's
name and made him stand in
front of the class (you know,
so the other kids could make
fun of him).
And all the school did wasreprimand the teachers.
Likewise, a 4-year-old boy
in Dallas, Texas, was separat-
ed from his classmates from
November to early January
because he chose to wear his
hair long.
The school made him sit
in the library in in-school
suspension and only let him
back in because his mom
French braided his hair and
pinned behind his head.
There are far more impor-
tant things teachers and prin-
cipals should be doing than
measuring little boys' hair -
like preventing bullying (and
not participating in it).
The Editorial Board
would just like to tell these
schools to back off and do
their jobs.
Let the parents decide
what is an acceptable 'do and
what isn't.
01 the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Aye, or send them to P0 Box 14257,
GainesvilIle, FL 32604-22570Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions
POPLE GeT ANG \/ VJWCN THEY
J6~Y sr~m i ok-'FN MAVE.
E} Y
Column
Baby boomers caug
here are many avenues President Obama could
have traversed with his first State of the Union
speech, and I suppose that he can be forgiven for
wanting to stick with whatever it is his teleprompter told
him to say Wednesday night. I probably would have
paid attention if he were wearing a T-shirt with three
wolves on it.
With his unilateral health care hopes dashed by his
own capitulation to Congress and the shameless way
Democrats sold their souls to the health insurance lobby,
Obama now faces stiff opposition from emboldened Re-
publicans led by a spirited, young male stripper.
Most Americans want to hear what our leader has to
say regarding his plans to move the country forward -
provided, of course, that President Obama leans heavily
on General Larry Platt for advice and counsel when he
puts together his second big push for health care legisla-
tion.
Great leaders are inspirational in times of crisis, and
no man has captured the ennui of 2010 better than the
singer of "Pants on the Ground."
Even though the song has not aged well in the two
weeks it has spent racing across cyberspace, the simple
ode to waist-level knickers can tell us a lot about how
baby boomers are preparing for their impending retire-
ment.
They are hustling.
General Platt came of age in Atlanta during the 1960s,
a prominent figure from that celebrated era that birthed
the social rights of Medicaid and Medicare. At the begin-
ning of the last decade, his generation stood poised to
retire and create the inverse pyramid that was supposed
to bankrupt Social Security and Medicare. They lookedALLIGATOR
www.aIIigato r.org/opinions
,.AN[" 4PPPRENTL , WiAN
i -AEY T-1 +INV- IV 311/WJY'MLF_3
-T\ T FTT1- (
ht with pants down
to the younger generations to hold
them up as they sprawled out on a
bed of shrinking entitlements, but
we couldn't support them because
we had our pants on the ground
and needed an extra hand to hold
Tommy Maple up our britches.letters@alligator org Even with pants at the accept-
able level, we'd probably need two
hands to text with and couldn't really help that much
right now.
So boomers like General Platt remained grinding
away at work while new equity in the inflated value of
their homes made their bank accounts look rosy. The de-
cade looked like it would end with baby boomers easing
gently into retirement.
All of a sudden, boom -pants on the ground again.
This time, though, it's the bankers with their pants on the
ground, pockets weighed down with gold bullion and
hats on sideways as they take off in a custom speedboat.
General Platt and his boomer ilk fought bravely to
secure social rights for a wider swath of America, but
now some of those social rights have been erased by the
reality of our economic collapse. Nothing could have
more effectively alleviated the impending pinch of baby
boomers on our wheezing social system than making
them work until they keel over.
Don't blame Platt, though. All the blame falls on
Obama for completely ignoring my repeated e-mails and
letters urging him to wear the ultra-powerful wolf T-shirt
and let the alien technology it contains fix our country.
Tommy Maple is an international communications gradu-
ate student. His column appears on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Wednesday's question:
Has Heidi gone too far with her Have you had you car
plastic surgery obsession? broken into?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org33% YES
67% NO
60 TOTAL VOTES
THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Avallab~e fr~ C ommr~Nws Prov~dr
Av' Iil fm ommoli I ofs
6ft 61 ^aotwa r sALetters to the Editor
Deleting economics class a mistake
The administration of the Warrington Col-
lege of Business Administration recently an-
nounced its plans to do away with managerial
economics, a long-required course for many
majors in the business college. The deans
have decided to replace this course with in-
ternational business, on the claim that a new
global economy demands business students
learn how to compete worldwide. However,
the real reasons motivating their decision
show little regard for the business college stu-
dents and the value of their degrees.
Managerial economics is one of the few
courses in the business college with a high
level of mathematical rigor. For example,
students must determine profit maximiz-
ing price with the aid of partial derivatives.
Though one could make the argument that
few people actually see this in the business
world, the course develops analytical think-
ing skills that are the real determination of
value in the corporate world.
At the risk of offending business majors,
many of the classes taken in the business col-lege lack rigor and can easily be passed with
the aid of a few Tutoring Zone sessions. There
are major exceptions to this generalization,
such as finance and managerial economics.
College should be a time of challenging
intellectual bounds, searching for new ideas
and seeking to add knowledge to the world.
Critical thinking and analytical tools are more
valuable today than at any other point in his-
tory. Replacing managerial economics with
international business will create more of a
punch-card culture in the college.
Essentially, substituting international
business for managerial economics amounts
to dumbing down the business school cur-
riculum. It makes a business degree from UF
less valuable, and it puts more money in the
pockets of the business school even as tuition
fees go up that, in theory, is supposed to go
totally toward undergraduate education.
Trying to pass the curriculum change off as
anything else is a joke, and the sad part is that
the joke's on students.
Travis Hornsby
2 CLAS
Guest column
U.S. should pay attent
Too often during times of chaos and conflict, children
are marginalized victims and face extreme suffering and
life-threatening problems.
This is especially true in Afghanistan, where an ongo-
ing war between U.S. and coalition troops against Taliban
insurgents has ripped apart the country and destroyed
many basic institutions. Today, Afghan children face
many problems and are being denied a basic human right:
an education.
Stories coming out of Afghanistan show children living
a dangerous life as smugglers, under cheap labor condi-
tions, or in constant fear of being caught in the crossfire.
By most estimates, only around eight million of Af-
ghanistan's 15 million children are receiving an education
from a broken national system.
They suffer from high illiteracy rates, attacks on their
school by Taliban fighters and an increasing dropout rate
throughout the country.
Even looking past their lack of access to education,
Afghanistan has one of the highest infant and child mor-
tality rates globally and, in 2009, was named by UNICEF
the worst place in the world to be born.on to educational instability in Afghanistan
Joshua Lee These facts make something
Speaking Out abundantly clear: It is the children
of Afghanistan who are suffering the
most during the current conflict and
are not receiving the education they need.
Many of us here take our education for granted, con-
sidering America's nationwide compulsory educational
system.
In Afghanistan, some children in remote villages have
little or no chance to receive a regular education, and
those who do go to school in dangerous situations.
Of course, this is by no means localized to Afghanistan.
Worldwide, there is a growing crisis as a future genera-
tion is growing up without the requisite educational base
to succeed and take the reins of civilization.
However, the situation in Afghanistan is dire and of
great importance due to the country's prominence in in-
ternational affairs.
The instability in Afghanistan plays a huge role in in-
ternational affairs, especially considering its history of
serving as a haven to Muslim extremists and narcotics
producers.Due to a series of successive civil wars, the educational
system in Afghanistan, along with many other vital insti-
tutions, has been in tatters for decades.
This has created a dearth of educated human capital in
the country to deal with many of the important problems
that threaten the lives of its citizens.
Revitalizing Afghanistan's educational system will
help create a base on which the country can grow and ad-
vance.
This involves a concerted effort to put international aid
to good use, bring educational opportunities to children
in isolated regions, and resolve to safely end the current
conflict that threatens to destabilize the country further.
It is this last requirement, an end to the fighting in
Afghanistan and neighboring regions, that is the most un-
clear and hardest to attain.
However, educating Afghanistan's children not only
serves to improve their lives during this current conflict
but help the country escape from the clutches of chaos
and instability while breaking the vicious cycle of educa-
tional malaise, social degeneracy and economic hardship
that has plagued the country for decades.
'THIS WEEK THEY LEARNED THE IMPERFECT VERBS IN ITALIAN,
UDIED THE" POLITICS OF THE EU, WOR K E D Q N A I N
INTERNATIONAL MARKETING PROJECT AND MADE GNOCCHI IN A
FOUR-CHEESE SAUCE
%a
USAC&
UMV .T [Thursdays at
$5 glass of wine
Bucket & appetizer specials
call us today at 352-380-9291WIHAT ARE YOU DOING THIS WEEK?
Discover where you'll study abroad at usac.unr.edu
theAvenue thursday, january 28, 2010
heath ledger's final film
vaiIabI fro5ICommerciaI NIwI-Pr5vidirs
Heath Ledger embraces co-star Lily Cole in his final role as Tony in "The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus."
Ledger died halfway through filming, but Johnny Depp, Jude Law and Colin Farrell stepped up to play dif-
ferent versions of his character in order to complete the film. Check out alligator.org/the-avenue for a new
fashion Web site, a SAG awards special and a Common Grounds show preview.
Blow jobs are a boy's best friend
By AMELIA HARNISH
and JARED MISNER
avenue writers
She says.
Blow jobs are like presents.
If I feel like you don't deserve a gift,
there's no way I'm puttingthat thing in
my mouth.
That's not to say women shouldn't
attempt to satisfy the sexual urge with
oral sex, but it might make you feel un-
comfortable the next day. Why is it that
girls are OK with casual intercourse,
but casual oral sex is always a source
of regret?
Even if he wants to return the favor,
oral sex makes many women wince.
At the root of every sexual relation-
ship is a system of checks and balanc-
es. If sex wasn't a game of power, we
wouldn't worry about being too enthu-
siastic in our text messages. It's not
just because we don't want to "seem
needy," it's because this neediness re-
veals the power the other person hasover us.
Sex is an exchange of mutual plea-
sure where both parties can get some-
thing out of it. But whether you're on
your knees or leaning over him, there's
no arguing against the inherent sub-
missiveness in this act.
When you're getting it on with
someone you care about, you are com-
fortable with losing control. The result
is the best kind of sex -- the kind where
you don't care about putting your lips
anywhere and everywhere. The kind
you never regret because it is a source
of intimacy.
Everyone has his or her own bound-
aries. Maybe you're a satisfied virgin
or you prefer to do things in a certain
order (mouth now, vagina later). Either
way, what matters is that you're com-
fortable with your sexual choices.
There really are no rules, so I'm
not ashamed to explore the quick and
dirty in the name of fun. And until I
once again find myself with someone
I really care about, I'll stick to being a"selfish lover."
He says.
Bill Clinton knew what was up: Blow
jobs are a boy's best friend.
I've never been caught with my
pants down in the Oval Office with an
intern on her knees, but I have been
known to arch my back against a bar's
bathroom handicap railing with my
jeans around my ankles once or twice
before.
Or in a pool. And definitely in the
shower. And I use that whole once-or-
twice thing liberally.
Oral sex has evolved to fit the idea
of a handshake more than an act of in-
timacy. It has become a casual, name-
not-necessary greeting among strang-
ers in bars and drunken friends alike.
It has become an expectation of
sorts among both short-term lovers
and club queens.
The ideas of sex are becoming
blurred, too.
I once had a romantic interest ask
me how many people I had "hookedpage 9
, girls:
up with" in my life.
In a world where e
president found diffic
ing a similar question,
new sex positions inve
faster than new ice cre
a world where blow j
little intimate significant
imagine my difficulty in
question.
The almost-casual
sex is gaining gener
across societal and gen
Although many womn
few men still see a blow
sive and as a present v
in diamonds, let's all bE
Times have change
Sex, however you w
it, doesn't have to be
sion with rules regulate
ceptable and what's no
Or it can be just the
be everything you've al
it to be with the person
dreamed.By SHAYNA BROKER
avenue writer
EASY WINTER CHILI
Ingredients:
1 1/2 tsp. olive oil
1 lb ground turkey
1 onion, chopped
1 cup water
1 (28 oz.) can canned crushed
tomatoes
1 (16 oz.) can canned kidney beans
1 (16 oz.) can canned black beans
1 (16 oz.) can chili beans
1 (5 oz.) can corn
1 packet taco seasoning
1 /2 tsp. salt
1/2 tsp. ground black pepper
1 tbsp. garlic, minced
Directions:
1. Heat the oil in a large pot over me-
dium heat. Place ground turkey in the
pot and cook evenly. Drain off excess
fat from turkey in colander over sink.
Return to pot, stir in onion and garlic
and cook until tender.
2. Drain and rinse beans in colander
under the faucet. Add beans, toma-
toes, corn and water to the turkey and
onion. Season with salt and pepper
and taco seasoning mix.
3. Reduce heat to low and simmer for
30 minutes. Serve with tortilla chips or
shredded cheddar cheese.
Nutritional Info: 198 calories, 7 grams
of fat per serving
For a video of how to make this recipe,
visit alligator.org/the-avenue
not so much
Whether you're comfortable blow-
ven our former ing an ex-boyfriend while a friend
ulty in answer- drunkenly slumbers two beds away
a world where from you or as you bear the grating
nt themselves pain of your bedroom carpet on your
am flavors and knees as you look up at your longtime
obs now carry lover as he smiles down at you in one
nce, you can of the most magical, intimate mo-
answeringthat ments you've shared in quite some
time, the decision is yours.
nature of oral I admit the best sex, oral and oth-
al acceptance erwise, is always with that special
der lines. someone you care very deeply about.
en and even a The result is special, meaningful and
job as submis- intimate.
orth its weight And even if that someone is an ex
realistic here. who you never talk to anymore, real
d. sex-making love-is something you
ant to think of can't trade for anything.
a formal occa- But until that someone comes
ing what's ac- along, feel free to soak up the fun in
t. drunken co-mingling. Don't be scared
opposite. It can to stumble home to casually blow,
ways imagined suck, lick or thrust.
you've always And in the meantime, I'll have the
kneepads ready.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010 +ALLIGATOR, 9
Ledger's last film hits theaters despite untimely death
By GABRIELLE FALCONEIRI
avenue writer
Heath Ledger's first on-screen
appearance in "The Imaginarium of
Doctor Parnassus" shocks the audi-
ence as his shadow reflects over Lon-
don's Thames River. Clad in white, he
dangles from a noose as the camera
pans toward his seemingly lifeless
body.
This first image is an all-too-eerie
reminder of when Ledger was found
dead in his apartment after an ac-
cidental drug overdose in January of2008. Ledger died halfway through
filming, but the plot provided the av-
enue for writer and director Terry Gil-
lam to continue the movie after Led-
ger's untimely death.
Johnny Depp, Jude Law and Colin
Farrell stepped up to play different
versions of Ledger's character. Once
Gillam made the decision to carry on
filming, he had to backtrack and re-
work earlier scenes in the movie so
the changes appeared plausible and
seamless.
In "Imaginarium" Ledger plays
Tony, a businessman who's rescuedfrom his precarious position by mem-
bers of a traveling theater troupe led
by the title figure, Parnassus (Christo-
pher Plummer). Disoriented, uncon-
scious and suffering from amnesia,
Tony joins the rest of
New the troupe as he at-
tempts to regain his
memory
Thetroupe's eclec-
tic mixincludes Parnassus's daughter,
Valentina (Lily Cole), a young orphan
named Anton (Andrew Garfield) and
Percy, a cynical dwarf played by Verne
Troyer (yup, Mini Me). The medievaltheater troupe juxtaposes the lights
and industry of London, and Doctor
Parnassus and crew bounce between
real life and a fantasyland accessed
through a magical mirror.
Each time a different person en-
ters the realm behind the mirror, the
scenery shifts to match his or her
imagination. A rich socialite sees a
world of stiletto heels and Faberge
eggs, whereas a young boy's imagina-
tion carries him to a land made en-
tirely of sweets. However, the imagi-
narium offers more than just a break
from reality. It offers a choice.And so the core of the movie re-
veals itself. Years ago, Parnassus
wagered with the devil (Tom Waits)
for the chance at immortality. The
inhabitant can either chose the path
of imagination and righteousness,
represented by Parnassus, or wander
into the hands of evil.
"Imaginarium" is now playing at
Butler Plaza, and the trailer is avail-
able at theimaginariumofdoctor-
parnassusmovie.com. The choice
is yours: Enter the fantasy behind
the imaginarium and see what lies
ahead.
5exTooV
IJ a~O~
InvHaiti fundraisers get fun
By JON SILMAN
avenue writer
Sometimes extraordinary things
come from ordinary people -in ordinary
places. Will Thomas, 33, a common
man with sharp blue eyes, works prep
at The Top and plays the drums in lo-
cal band Grabass Charlestons. He gets
up early enough to listen to the birds on
his way to work and NPR when he gets
there. On this particular Tuesday morn-
ing, while working in the silver, cluttered
kitchen behind shelves of clunky metal
pots and pans, the UF grad knew some-
thing was wrong.
"I could tell by the tone of the
reporters that something really se-
rious had happened. I could feel
the gravity of it," Thomas said, in
between sips of beer at The Top.
That "something" wasthe now infamous
earthquake that devastated Port-au-
Prince and much of Haiti. Thomas was
deeply affected by the tragedy and he
decided to do something about it. He or-
ganized a benefit concert taking place
Sunday at The Atlantic with all proceedsfrom the show going to the American
Red Cross for relief efforts in Haiti.
"We takeforgranted this cozy lifethatwe
live," he said. "To hearthe story as it un-
folded was completely heartbreaking."
There are five bands performing and
Against Me! has agreed to headline.
The show starts at 5 p.m. on Sunday,
at The Atlantic
8 Seconds is also hosting the AM/
FM Gainesville Music showcase on
Sunday, from 1
p.m. to 10 p.m. that
will feature 13 mu-
sical acts including
Moodhosa, Michael
Claytor and The
Footlights. Dona-
tions will be accept-
ed at the event, and all proceeds will go
to The American Red Cross and Doctors
Without Borders.
In addition, Farah's on the Avenue
is hosting "Hookah's for Haiti" on Satur-
day to join in on the cause. Farah's will
provide free hors d'oeuvres and grilled
wings, and all hookah costs will be do-
nated to Haitian relief funds.
The Adventures of
A section of the Alligator dedicated
to giving students tips on healthy
living and exercise!
Place your ad in the Fan .to a 10!
and Fitness section, and
change your business
from a zero.
Deadline: Thursday, Feb. 18
Run date: Wednesday, Feb. 24
Contact the Alligator today!
352-376-4482 r
10, ALLIGATOR THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010
~ ]LU~IO.oUUl
breakfast
and lunch
43rd Street Deli and
Breakfast House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to
for over 25 years -we probably
served your parents. Biggest
4 egg omelete, French toast,
and daily specials. Not full yet?
Have lunch with us & enjoy a
large selection of sandwiches,
the best Reuben, gyros, and
soup all at a reasonable price.
Vegetarian? Not a problem. We
have a selection that is sure to
fulfill your needs. We now offer
free WiFi! Open All day Every
day 7am-3pm. 4401 NW 25th
Place 373-2927. 3483 Williston
Rd 373-5656. Conveniently
located off 1-75
barbecue
David's BBQ
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, Eat-
in, Takeout, Drive-thru, Cater-
ing, or Tailgaiting. Everyone
loves David's 680 because,
unlike ordinary BBQ places,
David's cooks over a real wood
fire! Eat where the locals eat!
Voted #1 BBQ in Gainesville!
Approved caterer for UF's
Emerson Alumni Hall. Mon-Sat
7am -9pm. Sundays open at
8am. Drive Thru until 9:30pm
7 days! 352-373-2002. Have
David's BBQ delivered by Ga-
torfood.com. FREE WIFI. 5121
NW 39th Ave
www.davidsBBQ.com
cracker
cui,5ne
The Yearling
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog legs,
and alligator, as well as USDA
Prime beef, seafood, grits, greens
& hush puppies. Open Thursday
& Friday 5pm-10pm, Saturday
12pm-10pm & Sunday 12pm-
8:30pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999
www.theyearlingrestaurant.com
cuban
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301frozen treats
D'Lites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
d'licious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly without
the diet taste. We also feature a
whole array of cookies, chips, and
various grocery treats that appeal
to Atkins@, Weight Watchers@,
and other dieters. Our every day
daily specials make shopping
at D'Lites a special value!
Come weigh your options at
the Marketplace Plaza at NW
16th Blvd. and 43rd St. (next to
the Hollywood Video) or at the
Shoppes of Williston at S.W. 34th
Street and Williston Rd. (next toEPublix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!
Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts,
loose leaf teas, and beer, with
lots of vegan options. Now open
24 hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
blocks east of campus at 1025 W.
University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve frozen
yogurt as a healthy dessert
alternative. Our yogurt has 0%
fat and contains live and active
cultures. Choose any combination
of 8 different flavors and over 30
toppings, Everything for just 45
cents an ounce. 3841 SW Archer
Rd (next to Bento Red) Open
from noon to midnight daily!
Manuel's Vintage
Room
This family owned restaurant
is perfect for dinner any day of
the week. Come in and check
out one of the best wine lists in
town. Ask questions and learn
while you wait for the chef to
put out nothing but goodness
from the kitchen using fresh,
simple, and local ingredients.
Try the Early Dinner Sunday,
Tuesday-Thursday 5-7pm. $3
wines/$10 bottles. $10 Menu.
Ask about our Monday Wine
Dinners and private parties for
lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
St. (352)375-7372ndian and
vegetarian
Green Mango
The best Indian food in Gaines-
ville. Serving Gainesville since
1991. The best Samosas in
Florida. Offering many vegan
dishes. We are specialized in
catering any group size. Delivery
available-free delivery on any
purchase over $25! Open 7 days
Mon-Sat 11:30am-9pm, Sunday
1pm-8pm. Call 352-505-6200.
7625 W Newberry Rd
ja maican
I Caribbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
and oxtail. Opened Mon thru
Thurs 11am-7:30pm, Fri & Sat
11 am-1 1:45pm
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
352-374-8111
japaneseLBento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a hip,
trendy atmosphere. Two great
locations with outside eating.
Open every day for carry-out
or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.
8 W ve d
Cabana Cove
Key West Grille
Now offering a new bistro
inspired menu.
Open for lunch and dinner.
Full martini and mojito bar.
Voted nicest outdoor dining.
COUPON -DATE NIGHT -COUPON
Choose 1 appetizer, 2 entrees, a
bottle of wine, and share a slice
of Key Lime Pie.
All for only $39.99 (expires
12/31/09)
2410 NW 43rd Street
Gainesville
352-377-3278
Please visit us online at
www.cabanacove.net for
additional savings and coupons.-lain
chine~se
Green Plantains
The best MoFongo, churrasco,
& chofan in town. $5 To-Go
Dinners, Mon-Sat from 4pm.
Don't miss out $4.95 dinner +
soda on Thursday, student night
from 4pm-1Opm. Visit us at
5150 SW 34th Street at the new
Publix Shopping Center 7 days
a week. We cater. Check us out
on Gatorfood.com
352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.com
oca& 
L rganillcTHE JONES
.Gainesville's own independently
owned community restaurant
dedicated to bringing sustain-
able, local, and organic food
to the table. Oh, and it's really
yummy. Herbivores, carnivores,
& omnivores welcome! NOW
SERVING DINNER EVERY
NIGHT! New hours: open every
day 8am-1Opm. Check out our
facebook page for specials and
events. 401 NE 23rd Avenue.
352.373.6777
Mildred's
Big City Food
Eat Gainesville's Best Food at
Mildred's. We support LOCAL
and SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh
Dishes Made From Scratch!
OPEN SUNDAYS!
CONVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371-1711
MildredsBigCityFood.com
New Deal Cofe
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burgers! This 12oz.
Goliath is Naturally Aged and
Fresh Ground. MONSTROUS
desserts. HUGE Martini's. $5
glasses of wine and 20 wines
under $20! Mon-Thurs. 11am-
10pm
Fri & Sat. 11am-11pm
371-4418
newdealcafegainesville.com
Located next door to Mildred's.
Keepin' it fresh -Keepin' it real!mediterronean
Ti Amo!
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine
agrees, [the chef] adds visual
flair to every dish to make it as
good-looking as it is flavorful.'
NEW Happy Hour Specials!
Every day from 4pm-7pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices & terrific
service.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.com
12 SE 2nd Ave. 378-6307
mexican
Boca Fiesta
Best Margaritas in Town!
Fresh-squeezed + all natural!
Tasty tacos, burritos, nachos!
Cheap beer, full bar, open late!
232 SE 1st St Downtown
336-TACO!
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta, & desserts. All you
can eat buffet available!
Outdoor dining. Visit www.
newyorkpizzaplus.com for
coupons. We Deliver!
490 NE 23rd Ave.
376-3444
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade, meals,
sandwiches, soups, home-baked
desserts. Brunch Weekends.
Specials: Cupcake Mon.,
Southern Cooking Tues., Greek
Wed 6nm Ethionian Thurs 6nm
U
UMO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 10am-8pm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
@q am OAI@ @@ Ug gum -do U 0 0206C @M
o@@qm a wh@a &&Ww@@-0
@AQh@p N@@, ffg.G 
%
THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 201 0*ALLIGATOR, 11
MTV show
"shore "fire
win with
fist pumps
By REBEKAH SHEPPARD
Avenue Contributing Writer
Remember when MTV aired
shows that didn't render its acro-
nym a complete misnomer? If you,
like me, were still in diapers when
the "Real World's" first season
rocked the world of television, my
guess is that you can't. But today,
what the network lacks in sub-
stance it compensates for with its
remarkable abilityto repackage the
utterly talentless among us as en-
tertainment. The ratings ploy of the
season is the show that everyone
loves to make fun of: Of course I'm
referring to our orange-and-proud
friends on "The Jersey Shore."
Here, self-proclaimed "guidos"
and "guidettes" seem to not only
consent to, but revel in their status
as the laughing stock of the MTV
demographic. With nicknames like
"The Situation" and "JWOWW,"
these people fill the cultural void
vacated by professional wrestling
when its heyday came to an end.
Though the "Shore" was undeni-
ably created with the intention of
attracting more viewers who laugh
at the cast than with it,On the joke is ultimately on1 the audience. The show's
popularity illustrates a dis-
turbing trend in entertainment that
encourages outrageous behavior
for the sake of making good TV.
Because more people will tune in
to watch a house full of low-culture
stereotypes interact than, say, pro-
grams that feature such dispens-
able qualities as decent writing and
some degree of intrigue, networks
seem intent on discoveringthe next
big reality star (think "American
Idol" for morons with no talent to
speak of, minus the semblance of
a plIot).
This is to say that the viewers
are at least partially responsible for
reinforcing the behavior that they
love to mock. Without resorting to
tasteless antics, how else could
MTV's Shore dwellers attract the
attention of millions? It's not like
they can enamor us with witty ban-
ter or suspenseful action.
And it's no secret that over-
whelming media attention typically
translates to an enormous amount
of viewers and an equally huge
sum of advertising revenue in the
entertainment industry. Where
viewers have found cheap laughs
at the expense of this unfortunate
group, MTV execs have struck rat-
ings gold. As long as there is an
audience, characters like Snooki
(whose judgment is, to be fair, prob-
ably impaired by a too-tight Bump-It
restricting blood flow to her brain)
will continue to be legitimized as
entertainers.Murder FM gets bitter, intriguing for show
By NICOLE LA HOZ
Avenue Writer
Local venues can expect black liquid latex, airborne
broken items and mayhem when Murder FM takes the
stage on Tuesday at 7 p.m. at 1982.
"For the live shows, we mean business," singer and
guitarist Norman Matthew wrote in an e-mail.
Murder FM began as a project by Matthew. Beau Hill
(Alice Cooper, Interscope Records founder) produced its
debut EP "Anthems for the Used" after working with Mat-
thew's other band, Never 3nough.
Murder FM is a culmination of talents, stories and
sounds -ranging from the melodic intrigue of Depeche
Mode to Neurosonic's brashness.
"Anthems for the Used" is a solid EP: raw, unpro-
cessed and filled with emotion. Since its release in No-
vember, singles "As Beautiful As You Are" and "Don'tYou
Forget About Me" have soared with infectious chords,
painful sentiment and brutal clashes.
This year, Murder FM is releasing its 13 full-song al-
bum.
Matthew wrote that listeners should prepare at
shows because "Anthems" is a bitter record.
"It's about being a voice for those who don't have
one. I'm not perfect, I screw up quite a bit," Matthew
wrote, "but thing is, we are all human, so the music is
made up of human elements."
The effects are rewarding. Aside from consistently
receiving e-mails from fans on how its music connects
with them, the Murder FM front man takes a firm stance
against the rock star stereotype.
Matthew doesn't drink, smoke or do drugs because
he's pure adrenaline.
After the 1982 bar performance, Murder FM will
headline at Backstage Lounge on Feb. 4 at 7 p.m.
~~~j~c{{\ 1-7Greg Brooker/Glasstone Records
Murder FM members Norman Matthew, J6, Matt X3ro and Tim McCarver will play songs from
their newest album at 1982 bar on Tuesday and will headline at Backstage Lounge on Feb 4
VN ---1
By ASHLEY MCCREDIE
avenue writer
Just like Mother Nature, the world of fashion is preparing
for spring. We scoped the runways for the hottest spring trends
you can incorporate into your look this season.
* Trends for Her
1. Blues and Yellow. All over the Proenza:
Schoule Eilio Pucci and Giorgio Armani run- *
ways were mixtures of teals, blues and yellows.
The pieces were patterned with the two colors,
solids or subtle metallics. S
2. Statement Shoes. Pair decorated, color-
ful shoes with your mini skirts and short shorts to
draw looks together. Also, after months of wear-. .
ing boots, let your feet breath with sandals, and
what I like to call the "cut-out sandal." It is boot-like around the ankle but
allows freedom for the rest of the foot with lust a simple thong between
the toes.
* Trends for Hi
.i
* 4
.,,m1
1. Oxford Shoes. Close-toed, lace up Oxford
shoes walked down the runways over and over
again. The great thing about this trend is it works
for everything and comes in every color. Try all
shades of browns, khakis, grays and black.
2. Colored Pants. Look after look, black and
khaki would come down the runway and all of
the sudden -red, blue, green and more! Color-
ful pants are eye-catching and downright awe-
some. Pair them with a black top and a just-as-
colorful belt.
* Trends for Both
1. Pops of Red. Red has always been a classic color that instantly
catches the eye. On the spring 2010 runways, it did just that through
pants, bags, jackets, shoes, necklaces and ........
,fingernails. Please, don't be scared to wear
this color but do not go overboard (ie. red
from head to toe is not hot).
2. Denim. Dolce & Gabanna and Ralph :
Lauren (along with the Gap) are bringing
back denim. Jackets, vests, pants, dresses,
shirts -you name it, they have denim-afied
it. Light denim especially seems to be mak- ,
ing a comeback. So grab that lean jacket e
you bought six years ago and see what :
new things you can pair it with. 0 0 ......
.
Erica Ervin/ Alligator StaffDishes delight taste buds
* VIETNAMESE FLAVORS AT
SAIGON LEGEND SATISFY RESTAU-
RANT GOERS
By DREW WATKINS
and JOHN LANSING
alligator contributing writers
Drew: Tagged down behind enemy
lines, you might not expect to find a
delicious plate of crispy egg noodles.
But that's exactly what you'll encoun-
ter at regionally famous Saigon Leg-
end, located on 1228 W. University
Ave. This unassuming Vietnamese
eatery doesn't plaster its rooms with
glow-in-the-dark tables and new-age
bullshit; instead it brings a nice med-
leyof pork, chicken and Asian vegeta-
bles that will delight the senses and
set your taste buds ablaze.
John: As soon as you sit down,
you will be greeted by one of the wait-
ers who usually knows little to no
English. But don't worry, he or she
breaks the language barrier with a
hearty smile and never ever let your
drink get lower than three inches
below the rim. For drinks, I suggest
the coconut or canned soybean milk.
The coconut is a whopping $3, but
it's worth every penny as you get to
eat the coconut when you're done.
Maybe go ahead and order yourself
a crazy bubble tea; the black milk fla-
vor is the best.
Drew: If it's your first time to the
Legend, I suggest one of the crispy
egg or rice noodle dishes or a simple
Saigon Chicken. If you're a more dar-
ing eater, try the Beef Luc Lac or the
infamous Bun Heo NuongCha Gio. It
also has a pretty wide variety of veg-etarian options. A word to the wise,
though: The roast duck is not its spe-
cialty. If you like to turn up the heat,
try some Sriracha hot sauce on your
meal that's stocked at every table;
the taste will both cleanse your pal-
ate and clear your sinuses. Even pour
it in your soup for a little extra kick.
John: And oh my, what big soups
they have. If you were to charge $6 for
soup I would usually flip you the bird,
but at the Legend the soups are eas-
ily worth $10. The Pho soup is served
in a bowl the size of Tim Tebow's
neck. The other soups are stews of
beef, chicken or tofu with crispy bean
sprouts on the side, all for around
$6. Saigon Legend represents the
pinnacle of hole- in-the- wall restau-
rants, and the portions are so large
that you should even have enough to
bring half of your meal home.
Xaiqan Leqcnd
* Taste: 4.5/5
(Everything's real decent.)
-Value: 4/5
(Good bang for your buck.)
-Atmosphere: 2/5
(Don't bring a date.)
* Service: 3/5
(Usually dependable.)
-Overall: 4/5
(Try it now.)
Albert Perez-Maspons / Alligator Staff
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1,2,3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
$419 all inclusive 4/4
$509 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
24hr Fitness Center * 2 Pools
Now Feline Friendly352-271-
3131*GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-1
**CUT ME OUT AND SAVE BIG**
0
Lcinigtng,
The coupon is good for a $1200 value
Sign for a 2/2,3/3 or 4/4 for fall 2010
Furnished. All inclusive. Student suites.
$0 Signing Fees, 42" TV or New Sofas
352.373.9009 lexingtoncrossinguf.com
**CUT ME OUT AND SAVE BIG**
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$250/MO
Fully Furnished Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, Campus Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2*3/3*4/4
Rates from $386*Close to UF
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $750/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432
2-3-09-55-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4/4 indiv leases. $395/mo ind cable, inet &
util. Unfurn optional. Avail fall, or June + July.
dyeung888@embarqmail.com 239-250-6149
1-29-10-15-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Unit. $450 ea. W/D.
Property has clubhouse, fitness and busi-
ness/computer ctr. Utilities incl. On bus
route. Windsor Park.
305-788-5681/Windsor5l5@gmail.com.
2-26-10-28-1
ADORABLE VINTAGE HOMES 2BR/1BA.
Minutes from UF. Wood floors, stone tile, util-
ity room. Cats ok. $675, first, last, $200 sec.
352-256-0999 2-8-1 0-1 0-1
LUXURY 2STORY TOWNHS. 2B/2.5Ba
FULLY FURN. 2 min to UF, Great bus routes
& parking, Pool/gym, Free wifi, All utils incl.
Both rooms avail June 1st or later, Individual
Leases $540/$520 Martha 786 246-3049
3-5-29-1
For RentF unfurnished
LOW COST MOVE IN
1 BR & STUDY -$395/mo.
372-6881 or 213-3901 4-21-10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
LIVE THE DOWNTOWN LIFE
Steps from clubs-blocks to UF
Studios, 1/1's, 2/2's & 3/3's
The best location.GUARANTEED
Reserve NOW for fall! 338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
1 & 2's * AFFORDABLE RATES!
1 BR/1 BA $469 * 2BR/1 BA $569
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Adopted pets live free!! 2 Pools!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions 0LOS
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOW or FALL 2010.
2/2 from $1019 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$679 2/2-$779 3/2-$829
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464 for info
4-21-71-2Three Bus Routes (9,34,35,36)!
1.5m to UF, Shand's, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$799 3/3-$979
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75 SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 4-21-
71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
SORORITY ROW 2BR
2BR/2.5BA from $505/person
W/D included. No Move-in Fees!
Pets welcome! FREE Parking!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next
www.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, imitation, or discrimination because of color, region, sex, handicap, family status, or national origin, or intention to make imitation, or discrimination." We wll
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising thatis know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 13
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For RentF nfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available-
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
* SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$465, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * Pets welcome
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
BRAND NEW REDUCED RATES!
1's, 2's, 3's
Inclusive Pkgs Available
* Pet Friendly!
Immediate or Fall Move In
352-374-3866
4-21-09-71-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$419 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-2Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2*3/3*4/4
Rates from $386*Close to UF
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay 0 Sun Key 0 Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$600 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2550 oror
paloverde332o@yahoocom 2-1 9-1 0-75-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 2-5-10-
62-2
Working at Shands or VA- nice 2/1 @ Summit
House across the street. $700/mo + $200
dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 1-29-47-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -WE'VE GOT IT ALL!
1/1 from $589 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis*1 mile to UF*Huge Laundry Facilities
377-7401 * www.biketouf.com
4-21-09-71-2
* 2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE
7209 SW 45th Pl. $600/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 2-3-10-
38-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 1-29-09-35-2
BLOCKS TO UF
Available August 2010. Now showing
multiple houses. 2BR/2BA, 3BR/2BA,
4BR/3BA, 5BR/3BA. www.dalyproperties.
com or call Carol 359-3341 2-26-10-43-2
Move-In Now & Walk to UF
2BR $300/br * 1 BR $599 * Studio $720
Dorm style $509 Roommate Matching Avail
www.ForRentNearUF.com * 352-376-6223
4-21-71-2100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $540;
1BR $465. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $490;
2BR $590 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
Luxury Student Condos Close To Campus
Includes internet and utilities
From $385 per month each.
Please call us for the details.
Bristol Park Realty (352) 367-2669
1-29-09-20-2
Luxury student condos close to campus.
Includes interent & tuilities
From $385 per month each.
Please call us for the details.
Bristol park Realty 352-367-2669 1-29-10-
20-2
$199 Move-In Special
$500-$700 2 bed/i bath
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or (352)505-9264 2-17-10-
30-2
Holiday Special/ Valentine's Day
NO MOVE-IN COSTS -Free Rent
(Don't Pay Anything til 2/14/10)
Please Hurry. Only A Few Units Avail!
(We speak Spanish) 352 240-9009
2-12-09-27-2
Rocky Point Apts 3100 sw 35th pl- 376-1619
Country Garden 2001 sw 16th st- 373-4500
Regency Oaks 3230 sw Archer rd 378-5766
Southwest Villas 3643 sw 20 ave 336-9000
Archer Woods 3020 sw Archer rd- 373-8727
2-12-09-27-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2Cute & Clean! Vintage 1-BR with wood floors
& great front porch in quiet NW area. Walk to
Ward's, Publix & buslines, bike to downtown
& UF. Avail. NOW! $575/mo. 352-338-7670
or email shepley@cozygator.com 2-5-10-
21-2
Baxter Cottage
2 blks to UF campus, 1013 SW 4 Ave
2BR/1BA, Bright, clean, completely remod-
eled, Cent AC/Ht,wood firs, DW, W/D, NS,
NPets. $650+util. ATucker458@aol.com
1-29-10-16-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
1BR home on a hill, 14' x 24' living room with
view, dining area seats 6, huge patio, private
entrance, carport, near UF, NW 8th Ave. All
utilities paid. $850. 352-395-6250 or 332-
1429 1-29-10-16-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile floor, W/D
in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate. 239-250-
6149, dyeung888@embarqmail.com
1-29-10-15-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
1-29-15-2
One Block to UF:2/2.5 bath townhouse. W/D,
Dishwasher, Garbage Disposal, wood floors,
ceiling fans, GUARANTEED Parking call
Todd at 514-4915, VERY Nice townhouse
1-29-10-13-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1st Nice large
4BR/2BA house. Big bedrooms, big living rm.
W/D provided, game rm $1425/mo. 2100 NW
8th Court. Call for diretions. Pets ok, fenced
yard. Other houses available 352-339-2342
2-2-10-15-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1075
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111 4-21-
65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
0 *1 bdr. from $459 2bdr. from $639
If IfNear UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/1 from $619 2/2 from $729
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Sunrise Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1bdr from $469
NO APP FEE. Near UF, Shands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1 bdr. from $599
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Ashton Square Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 & 3 bdrs from $719
Huge floorplans. Available from Commercial News Providers s Moont Fre a MslolI!Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Summer Place Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1bdr from $469 No rent until Jan,
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
14, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010
For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished S ublases
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Sundowne Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Studio from $439 1 bdr from $479
Walk to Butler Plaza and Regal Cinemas
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Gator Village Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1bdr from $489
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Walk to UF. Openings in Feb, May & Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
2-26-10-32-2
$300 ALL Inclusive, Utils, CableTV,
SecureWiFi, BR/Pvt. BA, W/D, Newly
Remodeled & Furnished Common Area. On
UF Bus Rte. January FREE. OPEN MINDED.
954-854-9445 1-28-10-10-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/i s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
2-11-10-20-2
4 BR/4 BR apt in Oxford Terrace 11. $545 a
month. Fall'10-Summer'l. Utilities, cable,
internet, Washer/dryer, all included. Very
close walk to campus! Call 954-608-9531 or
email geoff265@ufl.edu. 1-29-10-10-2
*2/1 Brandywine $495 sm. pet ok***
*3/2 House W/D $725 pets ok***
Near UF, Shands, VA. On bus route.
Short term ok.
AVAIL NOW 352.284.2654
1-29-10-10-2
DUCKPOND
Stone cottage studio. Small but cute. Good
sized kitchen. Blocks to downtown, restau-
rants. Available now. $475/mo. 306 NE 6th
St. 379-4952 1-29-10-10-2
DUCKPOND
2BR/1 .BA 1200 sq ft townhouse. Amazing
location. Tile floor, new countertops. Blocks
to downtown. Available now. $850/mo. 508
NE 4th Ave. 379-4952 1-29-10-10-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 1-29-10-9-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
216 SW 12th St. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 1-29-10-9-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 1-29-10-9-2
SORRENTO SUBDIVISION
Newer 3BR/2BA 2 car gar, split plan home.
Eat-in kitchen, living & dining rms, fireplace,
high ceiling, lanai, fenced yd, sec sys. $1300/
mo yearly lease. 813-205-0220 lv mssg. 2-1-
10-10-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-22BR/2.5BA 1308 SW 61st St.
$595/mo. $300 sec dep.
Call 352-332-4088
2-2-10-10-2
GOT ROACHES?
Buy Harris Famous Roach Tablets.
Guaranteed to kill. Available at: Zells
Hardware, 3727 West University 3-17-10-
35-2
Quiet SW large 3/2, dining & fireplace,
screened back patio, attached garage,
fenced backyard. Pets w/ deposit. $1000/
mth. 1st and $1000 security req. Call 352-
375-7030 1-29-6-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
100 1 SW 16th Ave.
2BR iA APT $560/mo incl. water, sewer,
pest control, garbage. Top floor, carpet, large
windows. Walk to UF or take RTS 13, 16 or
17. 407-922-0029 2-5-11-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 2-4-10-
10-2
Move in Special: No Security Deposit
2/2 Condo with washer/dryer, screened-
in porch, newer condo, near UF. Shands,
located off 34th & Archer Rd. 2 units
available $750/mo. Call 317-5060 215-5996
3-1-10-27-2
VIEW OF STADIUM
Spacious 1BR/1BA apt. Large yard. Freshly
painted, new flooring. 6 mo or 1 yr lease.
$599/mo 352-335-4790
1-28-10-5-2
*2/1, 3 Blocks to UF
*Near Sorority Row, HW Floors
Pet Friendly $900/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-55-2
*2/1 Apt, 8 Blocks to UF
*1000 SF, WD hookups
Centr. AC, Pet Friendly $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-55-2
2BR/1BA Duplex, WALK to SF College.
Tile Floors, Newly remodeled kitchen, pri-
vate parking, fenced in yard. Rent $600/mo.
Deposit $300. Pet Deposit $200. Please call
352-278-2897. 2-8-10-10-2
HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles to UF, near the
Landings Apts. On UF bus rte. Bike to UF.
Fenced backyard, fireplace, cent H/AC. 3627
SW 15th St. $900/mo. All 4BR/2BA $1100/
mo. Call 327-2931 or 376-6183 2-8-10-10-
2
2BR/1BA Mobile Home. Very clean, tile in
kitchen. Oak Park Village. $650/mo, sec
$500. Landlady pays garbage pickup, water,
sewer & yard maintenance. Call 372-2107
2-1-10-5-2
450/mo -Roommate Wanted in new 2/2 -
On Newberry & nw55th st -cable/net/utilities
NOT included-NO PETS-Grad student pre-
ferred-close to campus-bus route#5 -Email
ajkgator@ufl.edu 2-4-10-7-2
5/3, 1900sf, nice, w/d, no pet fee, no lease
1st month free, 1500 month, 15 min to UF.
352-301-2403 2-2-5-2
SMALL CABIN 2/1, 20 ACRES
Watermelon Pond views. 27802 SW 120th
Lane, Newberry. Horse pens, dog door.
Needs work. $575/mo. $750 move-in 330-
329-8834 2-2-5-2
***HOUSE 4BR/2BA***
Available 8/1. Lovely, remodeled. W/D. Bike
to UF. No pets. Details: 3532 NW 7th Ave.
$1400/mo. 373-1558 or 246-8645 2-2-10-
5-2DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY!!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
$300 ALL Inclusive, Utils, CableTV,
SecureWiFi, BR/Pvt. BA, W/D, Newly
Remodeled & Furnished Common Area. On
UF Bus Rte. January FREE. OPEN MINDED.
954-854-9445 1-28-10-10-3
room in 3/3 at the woodlands. male or female
welcome. $580, all inclusive. First month
free, no move in fees. Move in Immediately.
3059236495 1-29-10-7-3
Gainesville Place sublease $300 per
month including utilities. 4/4 with only 2 cur-
rent roommates. 2 Bus stops within the com-
munity, 2 pools, 2 basketball courts, gym,
tanning center. 305-798-8303 2-5-10-7-3
OFRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $299/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 4-21-09-71-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail now
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 2-2-
10-516-4
1 ROOMMATE NEEDED ASAP For 4bd/3ba
House. Shared With 3 UF Dance Students.
$440 + 1/4 Utils. House Fully Furnished.
Private Bath! Car Garage. W&D Inc. Call
Jessi 813 244 1919 Ready To Move In!
1-29-10-17-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
2-2-10-10-4
15 Minutes to UF/SFCC 1900sf, 5/3 MH. Will
rent by room 350 up, or whole house 1400.
Mth to Mth lease. 352-301-2403 1-29-8-4
Mill Pond/Gainesville Health & Fitness!!
Need roomate to share 2BR/2BA condo
on the water. Completely furnished except
your BR! Move in immediately and receive
free month rent!!! 352-538-5170 ask for Kyle
2-3-10-10-4
Female seeks roommate for 4/2.5 town-
house, cricket club, all included, no pets,
$400 954-557-4769 3-4-10-30-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-71-
5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
HOUSE FOR SALE-N OF UF-1724 NW
7TH-AVAILABLE IN MAY; 3/2/1 WOOD &
TILE FLOORS W LGE MASTER STE, PKG
& ENTERTAINMENT AREAS; SCR. PORCH
(813)968-5804;(813)956-0487 $299,990
2-5-10-8-5
Won't Last
3/2 -Great Community
Owner Financing
$650.oo/mo
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Only 3 miles from the Ocean
3 and 2 beds avail/low down/low monthly
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
2 & 3 bdr's
>From $599.00/month
Owner Financing
Low down
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Score higher -guaranteed!
Enroll by February 1
kap t tgom/1 o
1.g00-KAP-TEST ADSSOND
h
Avai ab e fom Commerdai Nets P0 WersI I
p am
IICopyr~ghIed MMer~a
a a
pp-p
THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
tReal Estate Furnishings Furnishings Motorcycles, Mopeds Autos
Move In Ready
3/2 Adorable
>From $99.00/mo
Westside/owner finance
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
OWNER FINANCING
3 & 2 bedrooms avail
Great Locations
Call 352.378.4411
today! 2-26-10-22-5
Up to $8K tax credit
For 1st time home buyers
3 & 2 bdrs avail
WE FINANCE
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
m m
Co Ig1i Ma6ioa
Avable r om Commera0 Ws Provi desBed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21 -09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
UF-omputers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
OCERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECHO
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
1-29-10-14-7
Gator Computer Solutions, Inc. On-Site
Service. Microsoft Certified Professional.
UF IT Grad. MCSA, A+, Network+, XP,Vista,
Windows7 Certified. $35per/hr. NO Travel
Cost in G'ville! Call 352-338-0132 2-12-10-
20-7
rz Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
MF For Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
Discount Hookahs at www.Hookaa.com.
Value Hookahs at dirt cheap prices.
We offer wide variety of Hookahs and
Hookah Accessories at deep discounts.
Visit us @ www.Hookaa.com
2-2-10-10-10-
Affordable High Quality Recording.
Musical Engineers, Private Setting.
Starting at $25/hr 352 258 8557.
www.medusasounds.com 2-5-10-10
Income For Life! Make $9,330 monthly with
GDI fast track. We help build your business.
http://www.xtracash4us.com 2-1-5-10
Moist Banana Bread, Homestyle Pecan Pie,
Chocolate Chip Cookies fresh baked using
organic ingredients, sweet cream butter and
real vanilla. Delivered overnight to you.
www.DorothysBakery.com 2-2-5-10
Motorcycle, Mopeds)
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***Www.B~uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
Discount Motorcycle Gear
www.turn2co.com. Up to 75% off original
MSRP. 904-294-8344 Turn 2 Gear 1-29-
10-26-11
OFL Autos
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
*NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
2-26-09-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
01 Kia Optima $1999 cash
96 Chevy Blazer $1999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699 cash
94 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Kia Sephia $999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-1296 Chevy Astro Van $1900
98 Ford Explorer $1900
97 Mits Diamonte $1999
94 Toyota Camry $1499
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
98 Ford Contour $2500
98 Dodge Ram $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
99 Saturn $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2500
00 Mercury Sable $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
02 Kia Rio $3900
03 Buick Century $4900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k, $8999CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k, $6999 CASH
2005 Chevy Monte Carlo, 43k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k, $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k, $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k, $5999 CASH
2003 Jaguar, 95k, $8999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
FWanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 1-28-10-71-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 1-28-
10-71-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
16, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010
J Help Wandted Hep Wanted Cf3 epnted Services Evntotices
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
Hair models wanted for long hair in motion
studies. Hip-length or longer only. No experi-
ence necessary. $70 to $120 and hour. Call
352 792-1824 modelslh@yahoo.com
1-29-10-42-14
UCB
Looking for energized individuals to work part
time as an office assistant mainly for packing
online orders.
High paced environment so attention to
detail is key. Hourly pay $8.50/hr. Very
nice job environment and 10 min from
UF! Preferred bilingual English/Spanish,
but not required. Please send resumes to
universitycollegebooks@gmail.com and
make sure your contact information is in-
cluded.
Thanks 2-2-10-20-14
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
Linux Administrator
Full time career position with a success-
ful 30 year employer located in Gainesville.
Must have strong Linux/Unix background
and should be conversant with the following:
kernel compiling, network configuration, ip-
tables/ipchains, Sendmail, Procmail, MySQL
and Apache. Please apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com. 2-3-10-20-14
GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS
FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY
PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT
JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-6300
2-8-10-20-14
OSOATTENTION SMOKERS!@@
SODo you want to quit smoking?@@
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking
cessation study. You may be compensated.
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic 328-6603 or
email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com 1-29-
14-14Bartenders and Wait Staff wanted at
Newberry's Backyard Bar-B-Q Restaurant.
Our friendly, high volume restaurant needs
capable, friendly, and smart employees to
deliver a great experience to our Guests.
Please apply in person. 25405 West
Newberry Rd. Newberry, FL 32669
(Across from City Hall)
1-29-10-12-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
Full time NANNY needed M-F
recent newborn exp req. $450/wk
grad students welcome;
Noah's Ark Nanny; send resume, photo,
short bio to gnv@nanoneone.com 1-29-
10-10-14
Gainesville-based travel agency
now hiring experienced sales agents.
Candidates must be outgoing, computer
proficient, and quick learners.
GREAT STUDENT JOB. GREAT PAY.
Please send your resume and availability
to bestontravelnet@gmail.com.
1-29-9-14
PART TIME WORK
Great Pay
Customer Sales/Service
Flexible Schedule
Scholarships/Internships
No experience Needed
Conditions apply,
CALL 352-371-9675
2-16-20-14
Help teenager with autism after school.
Help with therapies, social acitivities, home-
work, and chores after 2:30 M-F. Occasional
weekend hours for activities. Transportation
and references required, experience/train-
ing a plus. Send resume to afterschool-
care4son@gmail.com 1-29-10-8-14
Salesperson, $15-$20/Hr. Attorney based
Debt Settlement. No experience required.
Good communication skills. Evenings shifts.
Apply in person 4-6pm. 3501 SW 2nd Ave,
Suite 2300, 2nd floor Creekside Mall 1-29-
7-14
Sexy party promotions / Fantasy role play
/ Costume models $50 hr.+ to start, South
FL. Call 954-593-8120 No exp. req. Will
train, Full career support, Safe & legalSexy
only pls. (954)593-8120 for more info.
2-5-10-12-14
LATE NIGHT DRIVERS
$15-$17/hr 10pm -4am.
Apply @ gatordominos.com 4-21-10-60-14
WANTED -AFTERNOON NANNY
-SPEECH, OT, CHILD PSYCH or
EDUCATION BACKGROUND A PLUS
Responsible, loving, fun and smart part-
time after school nanny for our 12-year-old
(seventh grade) and 9-year-old (third grade)
children. Both are active and happy children.
Older child has Aspergers and requires a
consistent and structured approach with
plenty of TLC. Excellent practical experience
for Special Ed students or future students.
Responsibilities include picking-up from
school, overseeing homework, outdoor play
and driving to limited activities. Must be
available from 3pm every week day. $12 per
hour. Please send resume to
pflugg@bellsouth.net.
1-29-10-5-14
Newborn Photographer
Our365 is currently seeking a motivated in-
dividual with sales or photography exp. to
take photos of newborns at North Florida
Regional Medical Center. Part-Time. Apply
online at www.our365.com/opportunities.
1-28-10-3-14
TECHNICIANS NEEDED
FOR INDEPENDENT FILM
Exp in audio/visual work. Salary negotiable,
based on exp. 386-454-7170, 352-316-5642
2-8-10-10-14**MOTHER'S HELPER FOR 4 & 6 yr old.
M-F, 3-6pm. Student w/childhood education
& experience preferred. Must have reliable
car w/good driving history. Mileage + good
pay. Send Resume: alligatornanny@gmail.com
2-2-10-5-14
Need a tutor for a freshman to teach pre cal-
culus and macroeconomics as well as study
skills. Will Pay $10/h. Contact (352) 871-
0817 1-29-3-14
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children.
FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA
in education. Benefits available with FT. Call
377-2290 or 373-1481 2-9-10-10-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Entertainment
352/672/1892 2-23-10-20-14
GIRLS WITH A DEMANDING ATTITUDE!!!
Now casting PAID 18+ actresses in HD web
dominatrix roles. PG-rated broadcasts only!
Easy money in fun & clean Gainesville studio
Live chat audition -dom4dollars@yahoo.
com 1-29-3-14
UF PROFESSOR SEEKS ENERGETIC,
KIND PERSON TO SPEND QUALITY
TIME WORKING WITH OUR 16 YR OLD
SON WITH SPECIAL NEEDS. FLEXIBLE
HOURS/GREAT PAY AND SUPPORTIVE
FAMILY! (352)376-9706 2-3-5-14MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
1-28-15-15
FHealth ServicesOHOOKAHS FOR HAITIS
This Saturday, Jan 30th
Open til Close
FARAH'S ON THE AVENUE
For more info:
Contact Hookah Geeks
armorken@gmail.com
1-29-3-20
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call Entertainment
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
STD/Pregnancy Testing
Confidential, Affordable, Fast and Easy.
www.JustGetTested.com
5% Off with Discount Code UF2010 2-3-
10-20-16
WI 3 ces 53Personal
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS * *
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
* * PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES * *
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards
Employment Visas & Naturalization
www.ruthlaw.com (352) 335-6748
2-2-40-18
"The Lost Passkey to Life:
The Spiritual Exercises of ECK
ECK Worship Service, Sun. Jan 31,
11 AM, Courtyard By Marriott
(by Butler Plaza). Call 378-3504.
ECKANKAR -ExperienceWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-21-09-71-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
OOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
OF-ZRid Z
the Light and Sound of God!
www.eckankar.org -as .A
1-28-4-18
GMG TRANSPORTi Event NiCes FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT? charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL -$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 4-21-71-23
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE Zumba Fitness class Monday,
February 1st, 5:30pm. 601 S. Main St.
Parking in rear. Free water and snacks and
lots of smiles. Two instructors for twice the
fun. www.ZumbaGypsy.com 904-742-0188
2-1-10-6-20
* Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Sports
THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
UF MEN'S BASKETBALL
Gators overcome slow start in win
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
a be rry@aIlIigator org
Looking to avoid getting trapped in a slowed-
down, half-court game, the Gators returned to the
full-court pressure that brought them success ear-
lier this season.
After a back-and-forth start, Florida (15-5, 4-2
Southeastern Conference) used its athleticism and
full-court press to pull away from Georgia (9-9,
1-4 SEC) late in the first half and never looked
back, sparking a 87-71 rout of the Bulldogs in the
O'Connell Center on Wednesday.
Ahead 30-26 with 3:26 left in the first half, the
Gators came out and forced back-to-back turn-
overs in their press to key a 12-5 run.
"The press was big. It gave us an early lead,"
freshman guard Kenny Boynton said. "If we can
play like that every game, we can beat any team."
Power forward Alex Tyus scored a team-high
23 points, Boynton added 21 and point guard Erv-
ing Walker notched his first career double-double
with 21 points and 10 assists to propel UF to its
fourth-straight SEC win.
The Gators had not won four consecutive con-
ference games since 2007.
Georgia shot 59.6 percent from the field and
57.1 percent from beyond the arc, but UF scored
33 points off 19 UGA turnovers, setting the pace of
the game and not allowing the Bulldogs to settle
into a halfcourt offense.
"I felt that we were really going to need to get .N.
the game going up and down, try to make our
press a little bit more of a factor than it has been
the last couple games," UF coach Billy Donovan
said. Steven H. Keys/ Alligator StaffGeorgia jumped out to an early lead, scoring the UF forward Alex Tyus takes a shot during the Gators' 87- 71 win
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 18 over Georgia on Wednesday night.
UF cruises to easy victory over UCF
By JAIME MANHEIMER
Alligator Writer
The UF women's tennis team im-
proved its record to 2-0 when it defeat-
ed UCF on Wednesday.
The entire match was dominated
by the Gators, as they beat UCF 3-0 (8-
2, 8-2 , 8-1) in doubles play and 6-1 in
singles.
Florida improved its all-time record
against UCF to 8-0 and extended its
regular season home match win streak
to 78 games (not including post-season
play).
No. 92 senior Anastasia Revzina cap-
tured her second-career straight-sweepwin (6-0, 6-0) and her first since her
freshmen year, overpowering UCF's
Jenna Doerfler.
"(Revzina) just hit the ball too big
today," UCF coach
Stephanie Nickitas
said. "She was quick-
er and did a good
job on staying on top
of Jenna the whole
match."
Revzina's back-Emnbree hand was her most
effective shot Wednesday.
She started the seventh doubles
game of the set with a strong backhand
that thoroughly impressed spectatorsand even her teammates.
"She does that a lot," Revzina's dou-
bles partner, freshmen Lauren Embree,
said.
No. 15 Embree also won her singles
match, defeating UCF's Andrea Yaca-
man (6-0, 6-1).
"We are a young team, and we have
great communication," said Embree.
"We love playing together, and we just
want to improve every match."
The Gators were without their other
impact freshman Allie Will, who did
not play Wednesday due to a coach's
decision.
"Your only allowed to play in 25
SEE TENNIS, PAGE 18Walker's recent
play has led to
team'"s success
this season
efore the men's basketball season started,
I wasn't sure how good Florida would be
or how the Gators would fare against a
much tougher nonconference schedule.
But I did know UF would have a quality
guard with a No. 1 jersey who would be enter-
taining to watch on a nightly basis.
I was right, but it's No. 11, Erving Walker,
carrying Florida rather than No. 1, Kenny Boyn-
ton.
Walker, a sophomore, has done a tremen-
dous job stepping up into the point guard role
left vacant by Nick Cal-
athes' departure.
Certainly Florida would
be better if Calathes was
still around, and my praise
of Walker isn't a slight on
Phil Kegler the freshman Boynton.
Phil on the Hill The 18-year-old has
pkegler@aligator org struggled in making the
transition to the college
game. He averaged 17.4
points in his first five Southeastern Conference
games, but he took 15.6 shots per game. He took
just less than nine three-pointers per conference
game entering Wednesday and connected on
29.5 percent of them.
In a way, this should be seen as good news
for Florida fans, because it seems unlikely at this
point Boynton will be a one-and-done and jump
to the NBA.
"When you're coming out of high school,
the things athletically that you're doing in high
school, sometimes you can't get away with at
this level," coach Billy Donovan said. "It takes
an understanding of how to go about using
your athleticism and being effective."
Walker has been there to help ease the transi-
tion, especially as SEC season hit.
In the Gators' last four nonconference games,
the sophomore was mired in a terrible shoot-
ing slump. He made just 3 of 21 three-pointers
(14.3 percent). Then league play hit, and Walker
started lighting it up. Entering Wednesday, the
sophomore was connecting on 61.3 percent of
three-pointers and was tied for fifth in the SEC
in scoring in conference games (18.8 per game).
"Earlier in the year, (Walker) was overpen-
SEE PHIL, PAGE 18
BASEBALL RANKINGS
E The Gators are ranked No. 7 in
Baseball America's preseason poll
on Wednesday. They are the second-
highest ranked team in the SEC
behind No. 3 LSU.SOFTBALL PRESEASON AWARDS
E Senior outfielder Francesca Enea and
junior pitcher Stephanie Brombacher were
two of 50 players named to the 2010 USA
Softball Collegiate Player of the Year Pre-
season Watch List.TEEING OFF WITH MIKE McCALL
U Photos of Greg Oden's -um -member hit the Web, and I'm fairly certain it
could post up Erving Walker. .Last week, columnist Bobby Callovi laid out his
top candidates to transfer from UF's football team. Looking back on a similar
column I wrote in 2007, I nailed all three of my predictions: Cameron Newton,
Jamar Hornsby and Jarred Fayson. Though I did get some help from Johnny Law.
18, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010
Three UF players score at least 20 points for first time since 2007
HOOPS , from page 17
game's first four points and hold-
ing that advantage until 12:47 re-
mained in the first half, when UF
went ahead 12-11 on a layup by
junior center Vernon Macklin.
UGA forward Trey Thomp-
kins and guard Ricky McPhee
led the Bulldogs with 24 and 21
points, respectively, and com-
bined to miss just five shots fromthe field.
With a force down low like
Thompkins and a sharpshooting
guard like McPhee, Walker said
the team's focus in practice this
week was forcing turnovers and
getting out in transition -some-
thing UF was unable to do against
South Carolina on Saturday.
"Since we started preparing
for Georgia, we wanted to go up
and down," Walker said. "Even
if we made a few mistakes, wewanted to just keep going because
we know in the end we wanted to
make fatigue a factor."
"Since we started prepar-
ing for Georgia, we wanted
to go up and down."
Erving Walker
UF sophomore point guard
Walker led UF in the first half
with 14 points, and Tyus andBoynton scored 15 second-half
points apiece, giving the Gators
three 20-point scorers for the first
time since 2007.
"We need scoring from every-
body," Walker said. "We look at
Kenny and Alex as two of our
main scorers. As you can see to-
night, they're playing really well,
and we need that from them."
Tyus was especially dominant
after intermission, scoring seven
straight points in a little morethan a minute, and the junior
finished just two points shy of
his career high. Tyus has scored
in double-digits in 11 straight
games.
"I think he's figuring out how
hard he's got to play and the ag-
gressiveness that he needs to play
with," Donovan said. "He's really
starting to understand what goes
into this, and it's good to see him
have some of the success that he's
had this year."
Will sits out competition because of NCAA limitations
TENNIS , from page 17 PHIL , from page 17
etrating, taking bad shots, off-balance
shots, trying to draw fouls," Donovan
said. "Lately, he's probably gotten a
little bit better at picking his spots."
Walker said he went through a simi-
lar cold spurt at the beginning of his se-
nior season in high school, which gave
him something to look back on this
time. He, like every other shooter usu-
ally does, said he never lost confidence
in his shot but admitted doubt can creep
in over time.
And Walker has a pretty good shoot-
er close by if he needs advice. Donovan
made a living on his jump shot during
his playing days at Providence.
"That's part of the reason I came to
Florida," Walker said. "I know he's tall-
er than me, but I knew he would be able
to relate to me in a way."
The toughest part about watching the
5-foot-8 Walker is knowing he would be
even better if he were just a few inches
taller. He is quick, has NBA shooting
range and has shown pretty good court
vision in his first full season as a college
point guard.
He tries not to think about it.
"I've never been an inch or two
taller," Walker said. "I've always kinda
been the shortest player, but this is just
what I'm working with."
This year that has been plenty
enough.
Open House
The Alligator is looking to
fill the following positions:
Opinions Editor,
Multimedia Editor,
Graphics Chief,
Video Game Blogger,
Photo Stringers
and Video Stringers.
Interviews will be held on-site, so please bring
your resume, clips and portfolio if you have one.
The Alligator is located at 1105 W. University *
Ave, two blocks east of UF campus, across the afliga r
street from the Bank of America.matches," UF coach Roland Thorn-
qvist said. "She has to sit two matches
in spring, and Lauren will have to miss
one, so I decided to sit Allie today."
Embree and Will are in an elite class
of Gators freshmen. They were the third
pair of freshmen in program history to
start the dual match season in the No. 1
and No. 2 positions.
Embree participated in the 2009
French Open, preparing her for college
tennis.
"All her Grand Slam experience
makes it less daunt-
ing to play as a num-
ber one for the Florida
W men' Gators as a freshmen,"09 Thornqvist said. "TheTennis traditional freshman
couldn't come in and
play the one position for us right in
the middle of the year with everybody
watching and not be overwhelmed, but
I think she's handled it very well."
UF's only loss of the day occurred
in Wednesday's longest match, when
UCF's senior Katie Orletsky defeated
sophomore Claire Bartlett in a tiebreak-
er (7-5, 3-6, (10-7)).
"Katie did a good job of staying
competitive the entire match," Nikitas
said. "Claire kept coming back, chal-
lenging Orletsky, but she did a good
job of staying on top and not letting her
come back and take the match."
UF's next match is Friday against
BYU.
; SOT
T4 hO (Wi 1A-NIA
352.338.7467C=
13" MIR[[
Only 6 Blocks from UF Campus!Senior Anastasia Revzina serves during her doubles match in UF's 6-1 win over
UCF on Wednesday.
A,
% ,0arI. I%
(TH-URSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
0 to a 
.
*Copyri ghted Material
Syndicated VttF
Available from Commercia l ewsroviders
School Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 1 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.comShi His gift provided shelt fo
mothers name. the Tyler family after a fire.
Support the Red Cross and change a life, American
starting with your own. Red Cross
Call 1-800-RED CROSS or visit redeross.org.
Take part in a variety of programs at a library near you
Headquarters
Sunday, February 7'at 02:00 Pmn
Black History Outside the Book
Tuesday, February 16' 0110:30 am
Preschool Storytime:
"Celebrate Black Culture"
Wednesday, February 17' at 7:00 pm
Author Visit:Carl Joseph:
They Called Me SUPERSTARMillhopper Branch
Sunday, February 28' at 2:00 pm
Film: The Pursuit of Happyness (PG-13)
Tower Road Branch
Thursday, February 4'at 4:00 pm
Teen Movie: Glory Road (PG)
Tuesday, February 23'
s a10:30 am & 7:00 PmH
Preschool Storytime:
"Miss Mary Mack and All Her
Friends"
Black History Month events, visit www.aclib.us
For more information on these programs and a complete list of all
alachua county library district
Live Long & Prosper.
Drive Sober.R VOT
PDATE
Pam Carpenter
Alachua County Supervisor of Elections
www.VoteAlachua.com
(352) 374-5252
13th Annual
April 10, 2010 at 8 a.m.
Behind North Florida
Regional Medical Center
Benefiting the student-run Equal
Access Clinic of Gainesville which
provides free healthcare to
underprivileged populations.
For more info:
Call Stephanie Mazariegos at
(813) 484-8031 or go to
ufpremed.org/easc** %woI %j
20, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2010
Pink means more for junior
U GOODWIN'S AUNT WAS DIAGNOSED "That moment was kind of 'Wow, I'm
WITH BREAST CANCER IN AUGUST. actually wearing pink, and I'm doing it for
someone related to me who's affected by it,"'
By TOM GREEN she said.
Byligator WriteEN Her aunt's illness has been tough on her
and is something Goodwin said she tries not
I- k- b1 l Ah
Maria Farias / Alligator
Junior Alicia Goodwin will have her aunt on her mind when No. 4 Florida wears pink
leotards Friday against No. 13 LSU raise awareness for breast cancer.When the Gators take the floor Friday in
the O'Connell Center for the fourth annual
Gators Link to Pink meet, it will have a more
significant meaning for junior Alicia Goodwin
that the first two times she competing in it.
Teams put their school colors aside and
sport pink leotards for the meet as part of a
Southeastern Conference initiative intended
to help raise awareness for breast cancer, a
cause that hits close to home for Goodwin.
In August, before the fall semester began,
Goodwin found out her aunt Carolyn Good-
win back home in Dallas was diagnosed with
the disease.
"It was a big deal," Goodwin said. "She
was pretty upset and our family was, too. But
everyone just tried to stay positive about it
and keep her in our prayers."
She learned about her aunt's diagnosis
through a call from her father. When she
found out, she called her aunt to talk and tell
her that she was thinking about her.
Goodwin said this meet has always meant
a lot because it's a great cause, but this year
the competition takes on a new importance to
her.
When her aunt was first diagnosed, she
asked Goodwin if she would wear pink for
her, and Goodwin gladly told her she would,
making her chance to wear the color in this
meet special.LO L in1 aOUL a te Lime.
When she's in the gym, she tries to keep
her mind off of her aunt's situation because
she said it's important to stay focused.
"That moment was kind of 'Wow,
I'm actually wearing pink, and I'm
doing it for someone related to me
who's affected by it."'
Alicia Goodwin
UF junior gymnast
But that was difficult for Goodwin in the
fall when she had to deal with her family is-
sues as well fighting through a string of nag-
ging injuries, spraining her both ankles and
elbow.
"It was a lot to go through at once," Good-
win said. "But I tried to always keep in mind
that everything happens for a reason."
Coach Rhonda Faehn said everything
Goodwin experienced has made her a tough-
er person, and she has rebounded nicely to
start the season.
Because she's so far from home, Goodwin
calls everyone in her family -some of whom
will be in attendance Friday -to keep in
touch and said it's always great to talk to her
aunt when she can.
"She's doing better," Goodwin said. "Ev-
ery day is a blessing."
