We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 104 ISSUE 69 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2010Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgDrunk-to-keep-warm defense works for Missouri DWI suspect
JACKSON, Mo. — A man in southeast 
Missouri has been acquitted of drunken 
driving after claiming that he consumed alcohol to keep warm after — but not be-fore — he lost control of his vehicle on an icy road.
Thomas Drummond of Jackson told a 
court that he had been driving home after a night out with friends last February when his vehicle veered off the slick highway and into a culvert. 
Drummond says he was not intoxicated 
while driving, but that he was by the time emergency workers arrived more than two hours later.
The Southeast Missourian reports a jury 
acquitted Drummond last week.
Defense attorney Stephen Wilson says it 
was a set of facts you don’t see every day.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Cloudy
63/32FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 10
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 16
Bahhhh! Brains!
Zoology and 
psychology major Rachel Sanford, 21, merges her passions as she dissects a sheep’s brain with Brad Wilkes, 22, dur -
ing a meeting of the Neuroscience Club on Tuesday evening. The club, which will continue to hold meetings in the spring, gathers bi-monthly in the CSE Building.
n SHE POINTED OUT THE 
IMPROVED COMMUNICATION UNDER HER ADMINISTRATION.
By CHELSEA HULL
Alligator Contributing Writer
After seven months in office, the 
Student Government executive of-
ficials gave the annual State of the 
Campus address Tuesday night.
“We all wake up every day and 
want to do something new for our Student Body,” said Student Body 
President Ashton Charles. “It’s 
something we are extremely pas-
sionate about, and we all feel very fortunate to serve.”
Charles provided an update on the progress SG has made on the Unite Party platform from last 
spring. 
Under her administration, SG 
has revitalized its website, started publishing a monthly newsletter 
and collaborated with the Inter-Res-idence Hall Association to welcome freshmen to campus, according to Charles.
By MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
Gators who want to assess their 
sexual health can receive free test-
ing today. 
In recognition of World AIDS 
Day, GatorWell will provide free 
HIV testing at the Florida Gymna-sium from 5:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m.
The event, sponsored by the Col-
lege of Health and Human Perfor -
mance and Eta Sigma Kappa, pro-vides students with an opportunity 
to become aware of their HIV status 
and learn prevention techniques to keep themselves safe.
“You can’t tell if a person is HIV 
positive by looking at them,” said Samantha Evans, Sexual Health Educator for GatorWell. “The only true way to know is to get an HIV test.”
World AIDS Day, observed Dec. 
1 each year, is dedicated to raising awareness worldwide about HIV/AIDS and the importance of know-ing one’s status. 
According to statistics released 
by GatorWell, only 31 percent of UF students know their HIV status.
“We have a flier that says, ‘Check up before you hook up,’” 
Evans said. “It’s better to be safe 
than sorry.”
About 1,000 AIDS cases and 645 
HIV cases were reported to the Ala-chua County Health Department as of September 2010.
As of 2008, 117,612 diagnosed 
AIDS cases in Florida were re-ported to the Centers for Disease Control, making the state the third 
highest reported rate of HIV/AIDS 
in the country behind New York and California. 
The testing will be by appoint-
ment only. Students can make an appointment by calling GatorWell at 352-273-4450.
GatorWell also offers additional 
free HIV testing by appointment Wednesday afternoons and Friday mornings at the GatorWell main office on the first floor of the Coun-seling and Wellness Center on Ra-dio Road.Charles touts SG 
accomplishments
Free AIDS tests today
By ALYSSA VILLARREAL 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Southbound lanes on Interstate 
75 were closed Tuesday morning 
for more than two hours after a fatal car crash shut down the high-
way just north of Newberry Road.
Lisa King, a 41-year-old 
Gainesville woman, was pro-nounced dead at the scene of the 
crash.
According to Florida Highway Patrol, King was headed north on Interstate 75 at about 8:30 a.m. and passing vehicles when she lost 
control of her black 2006 Toyota 
sedan and ended up 
counter-clockwise 
on the southbound 
lanes. 
FHP spokesman, 
Lt. Pat Riordan, said as King’s Toyota crossed the median to the southbound lanes it was T-boned 
by a Dodge truck.“The car was so destroyed I 
couldn’t tell the model of the Toy-
ota,” Riordan said. 
The Dodge Ram was travel-
ing southbound on the interstate by James Edward Bloomer, 63, of Dade City, who suffered minor 
injuries to his wrist at the scene of 
the accident.
Bloomer’s wife, V eronica Irene 
Bloomer, 61, was taken to Shands Hospital at UF with non-life-threatening injuries.
The southbound lanes were re-
opened around 11 a.m.Fatal crash stops traffic on I-75SEE SPEECH, PA gE 8
“It’s better to be safe     
than sorry.”
Samantha Evans
sexual health educator PUBLIC HEALTH
The crash occurred at 8:30 a.m.  “We all wake up every day 
and want to do something 
new for our Student Body.”
Ashton Charles
Student Body President
Tom Plevik / Alligator Staff
NewsLocal
n  UF point guard 
Lanita Bartley 
scored all 10 of her 
points in the 
second half as 
Florida came from 
behind to beat Old 
Dominion 63-55 in 
the O’Connell 
Center on Tuesday.
See Story, Page 16.News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 104 ISSUE 69 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2010
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Emily Fuggetta, 
  efuggetta@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Stefania Ferro, sferro@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Matt Harringer, 
  mharringer@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Anthony Chiang, 
  achiang@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Tyler Jett, tjett@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Jared Misner, jmisner@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Emily Fuggetta, Paul Runnestrand,   
  Stefania Ferro, Jared Misner
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editors Lane Nieset, lnieset@alligator.org, 
  C.J. Pruner, cpruner@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Alison Schwartz
  aschwartz@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Kyle Maistri, Corey McCall, 
  Mike McCall, Amanda Milligan, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Nicole Deck, 
  Safid Deen, Desiree Farnum, 
  Olivia Feldman, Greg Fink, 
  Josh Isom, Emily Morrow, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Briana Seymour,   
  Matthew Watts, Hannah Winston
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
 Display Advertising Clerk Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker,
 Sales Representatives Joshua Andersen, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Niko Pifferetti, Jocelyne Sanchez,   
  Alexander Silva, Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Germany’s verzerrtes Bild: 
Reimagining Postwar Territory”
Today, 11:45 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.Turlington Hall 3312
This project traces the history of 
West Germany’s cartographic self-reinvention after the Second World War.  By briefly giv-ing an overview of Germany’s cartographic history , and by emphasizing the growing im-portance of mapping absolute spaces in the modern era, the 
speaker, graduate student Matt 
Mingus, makes clear the urgen-cy with which West Germany faced a postwar world.  The cartographically shattering ef-fect of WWII coincided with the popular emergence of public relations — a discipline which would be taken full advantage 
of by the West German postwar 
government. Drinks and snacks will be provided.
Education Innovation: Learning 
in the Digital AgeToday, 6 p.m. to 8 p.mPugh HallThe Dynamo hosts a forum on 
the opportunities presented by 
education technology and the challenges that leaders in edu-cation will face due to reform of the current system. Topics will range from the use of Kindles to the consequences of the virtual classroom, and audience par -
ticipation will be encouraged.
Heath GlobeTalk 
Today, 6:30 p.m.International Center in the HubA panel of returned Peace Corps 
volunteers will be answering 
any questions you may have, as well as sharing their experi-ences. Communities across the world are currently suffering socially and economically from compellingly updated to a con-temporary high school setting. Admission is free.
Gators for Free the Slaves 
Meeting
Today, 8:30 p.m.
Little Hall 205Gators for Free the Slaves will be having a meeting today . 
Come join us to hear from our 
guest speaker who will educate us on the issue of human traf-ficking and how we can combat it. There are 27 million reasons 
to end modern day slavery . 
You can find us on Facebook (Gators for Free the Slaves group) or email us at gatorsfor -
freetheslaves@gmail.com for more information.
Hanukkah Party
Today, 9 p.m. to11 p.m.
UF Hillel
Celebrate the first night of 
Hanukkah with UF Hillel. Join 
us for a casino-style dreidel 
tournament, latkes and apple-
sauce, after the candle lighting 
ceremony at 6 p.m. Free and 
open to all students.the AIDS pandemic. Peace 
Corps health volunteers serve 
in a broad range of areas, in-cluding HIV/AIDS education and prevention.
Islam on Campus Meeting
Today, 7 p.m.Little Hall 113We will be having our last meeting of the fall semester in order to wrap up the semes-ter. We will discuss possible constitution updates and  will be voting on our SG Liaison 
for the Spring semester. Also, 
there will be a fun activity and free pizza and drinks for everyone.
Psychology Club & Psi Chi 
Meeting
Today, 7:20 p.m.
LIT101This is our last meeting of the semester! Bring your items for the Child Advocacy Center. 
Do not forget to buy a ticket 
for the Fall Banquet. As al-ways, come early for pizza.
RUB Entertainment presents 
“Brick” 
Reitz Union Auditorium
Today and Thursday , 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m.A teenage loner (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) pushes his way into the underworld of a high school crime ring to investigate the disappear -
ance of his ex-girlfriend. This 
entertaining homage to noirs 
past has been slickly and 
CLOUDY
63/32SUNNY
63/33SUNNY
68/36SUNNY
69/45SUNNY
73/43SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2010 n ALLIGATOR, 3
Tom Plevik / Alligator Staff
Rock-appella
Keith Garr, 21, sings an a cappella rendition of *NSYNC’s “I Want You Back” at Orange & Brew on 
Tuesday evening. A cappella group The Staff performed alongside other university acts to raise money for the Performing Arts Partners Program.
AROUND GAINESVILLE
By DANIELA ABAD
Alligator Contributing Writer
In Fine Arts C, Room 310, 240 
photos are taken in 180 minutes.
A man wearing white-framed 
eyeglasses sits in the middle of 
the room, facing the screen of a 
MacBook. He is unsure where 
his idea will take him, but he has a clear vision.
Jorge Perez Gallego, along 
with six other graphic design graduate students, launched “I___Local” during Art Bash. 
As part of the campaign, the 
“I___Local” photo booth will 
be at the Union Street Farmers’ 
Market from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. to-night.
The campaign aims to create 
an online database that provides local advice from residents to construct a community where neighbors know one another.
“People always find the an-
swers on the Internet, but it is not nearly as fun,” Perez said. “If someone can help you, it would be your neighbor.”
Campaign members are in 
charge of taking pictures of at-tendees with a sign that reads what they do on a daily basis. 
Participants are able to access 
the database through Facebook, but soon all the pictures will be displayed on http://localiam.org.
Robert Finkel, a member of 
the group, said in order to attract Gainesville residents, members decided to carry out their second campaign downtown.
The group realized the Farm-
ers Market brought the com-munity together by selling local goods, which is the principle it hopes to transmit with “I___Lo-cal.”  
Attendees can take home 
pamphlets that explain the mis-sion of the campaign.Students launch 
video program
“People always find the 
answers on the Inter -
net, but it is not nearly 
as fun. If someone can 
help you, it would be your        
neighbor.”
Jorge Perez
Campaign memberBy MAX REED 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Can you imagine watching your land, your house and 
your child’s playground being bulldozed and demol-
ished? “It’s emotionally exhausting,” said Gal Maugah Lu-
gassi. “I’d rather get shot with a rubber bullet than have to go through that.”
Lugassi, an Israeli activist and representative for An-
archists Against the Wall spoke during a guided discus-sion Tuesday about her experiences, the occupation of the West Bank and Gaza and the isolation of Palestinians 
from the rest of the world. 
About 35 people attended the open forum, Stand Up 
Against The Wall: Liberate Palestine, hosted by Students 
for Justice in Palestine at the Reitz Union in Room 282. 
According to Vice President Mohammad Tina, the 
group spent $500 on the event. 
Lugassi spoke of riot-control methods such as skunk 
water, teargas and rubber bullets, which are everyday oc-currences for Palestinians within Bil’in and Nebi Salah. 
The persistent peoples within these Palestine cities have 
rioted every Friday for the past six and four years respec-tively. 
“There will be justice when the occupation is removed,” 
Tina said, “when the Apartheid Wall is removed and when Palestinians are given full human rights.” 
The Wall, which began construction in 2002, will run 
over 400 miles and zigzag through 10 out of 11 West Bank districts. 
During the open forum, a video clip was shown, illus-
trating life within Palestine. Members of the Israeli De-fense Force were shown destroying olive trees and guard-ing checkpoints. 
Lugassi said that taking away olive trees is like taking 
away a basic human right of Palestinians— the right to provide for themselves with dignity.
Israelis have privileges that people who live a few 
miles away don’t have, she said. 
“I’m forced to call them privileges because the people I 
meet every week don’t have them.”
Lugassi said the AATW is here to raise awareness 
about the struggle and raise money for legal costs. Lu-gassi said she has been arrested at least seven times at demonstrations.
Tina made sure to clarify that Palestinians are against 
Zionists and the occupation, and not Judaism.
“Have an open mind and don’t be spoon fed things,” 
Tina said. “It’s a cold world out there, and we have to be aware.”4, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2010
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Gal Maugah Lugassi, an activist for Anarchists Against the Wall, spoke to a group of students about her experiences 
as an activist and of the occupation of the West Bank and Gaza on Tuesday night at the Reitz Union Room 282.
‘Anarchists’ speak out against wall through West Bank
By NADINE KORIOTH
Alligator Contributing Writer
JoAnn Demarc’s 7-year-old 
JanSport is barely blue any-
more.
But Demarc, 51, who uses her 
backpack to carry items like her diabetes test kit and coffee cup, said it’s still as sturdy as ever.
She attended the JanSport: 
Telluride Film Festival on Tues-day night in hopes of winning a new backpack and learning more about the company she is so fond of. 
The event, hosted by Reitz 
Union Board Entertainment, featured three documentaries and giveaways such as water bottles, backpacks and T-shirts.
According to Abby Swartz, 
co-director of the RUB Enter -
tainment film committee, about 100 people attended. 
Two of the films shown, 
“Bag It” and “Man Alone on the Wall,“ were part of the Telluride Film Festival in Colorado this year. The third was a biography on Jansport co-founder Skip Yowell, who was at the event.
JanSport is a sponsor of the 
festival, which offers grants to environmental filmmakers to produce documentaries they otherwise could not afford to do, Yowell said in an interview.
Yowell started the company 
in 1967 with his cousin when they graduated from college.
“The idea of starting a busi-
ness that incorporated our pas-sionate outdoors lifestyle was very appealing at the time when we didn’t want to get a real job,” he said.JanSport founder hosts film festBy ANNIE BOGGS
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Office of Off Campus Life 
is encouraging students to take ad-vantage of free massages, yoga and board games to take their minds off looming exams.
This week and next, the office 
is promoting stress management during the nerve-wracking time be-fore exams with 50-minute “stress breaks.”
Although final exams don’t 
start until Dec. 11, the stress breaks will start Wednesday and continue Thursday and Monday at 11:45 
a.m. 
“We wanted to do something 
that was pertinent to student life 
this semester,” said Leah Villan-ueva, the graduate assistant for Off Campus Life.
The breaks combine stress-
management information with free snacks and activities. They will be 
located at Peabody Hall room 411, 
according to Off Campus Life Di-rector Nora Kilroy . 
“It’s a high-stress time of year for 
most students,”  Kilroy said. “It’s something new we tried this year.”
On Wednesday, a yoga instruc-
tor from Gainesville Health and Fitness Center will put on a demon-
stration for students. On Thursday, there will be five-minute massages 
by a therapist from the Southwest Recreation Center. 
On the last day of the stress 
breaks, there will be board games and other activities for stressed out students to play. Jenga, Candyland, Apples to Apples and Taboo are 
among the games that will be avail-
able.
“I definitely think they’re going 
to be successful,”  Villanueva said. “They’re activities to get students’ minds off the constant stress of school.”
The activities promote learning 
about stress management in a prac-tical way with a lecture-styled for -
mat, Villanueva said. 
“Not only does it 
feel good, but a mas-sage is actually good 
for you,” said Villanueva, who cited muscle tension relief and circulation as the health benefits. 
In addition to the stress breaks, 
other facilities at UF will be offer -
ing special programs during exam week. 
The Student Recreation & Fitness 
Center will be offering eight hours of non-stop yoga Dec. 14. For those hitting the books, Library West and 
Marston Science Library will have 
extended hours before and during exams, remaining open until 4 a.m.Off Campus Life office 
offers stress solutionsn STAFF ANSWERED QUESTIONS ABOUT 
THE PLANNED WILDLIFE REMOVAL.
By MERDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Contributing Writer
Local residents herded into a small audito-
rium Tuesday night to speak up for the bison 
and horses in Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park.  
In the Doyle Conner Building on 34th street, about 90 people gathered, leaving standing room only. 
They listened to David Jowers, park manager 
and biologists, present the Florida Park Service’s draft plan to remove the majority of the park’s bi-son and horses, including all of the males.
Park staff answered questions that many in the 
audience had been wondering since the plan first came to light in September. 
“Are you going to literally kill these creatures?”  
activist Lisa Grossman asked.
“No, we don’t plan to kill anything,” said Dan 
Pearson, environmental specialist for the Florida Park Service.
“Would you purposely sell them to people you 
think are going to slaughter them?” she asked.
“I hope not,” he answered.UF student Sen. Andrew Hart announced the 
Senate’s resolution to denounce the removal of the 
bison and horses, which was passed Tuesday.
Hart read part of the resolution, which stated 
the Senate “implores the Florida Park Service to 
find another solution.”
He received a round of applause.Jim Weimer, a park biologist, said one of the 
reasons the bison and horse herds are being culled is because they are not vital to the ecosystem.
“There’s a big difference between natural re-
sources and cultural resources,” he said. “The live-stock have no ecological role in these resources.”Residents discuss park plan
“The livestock have no ecological role 
in these resources.”
Jim Weimer
Park Biologist
OnCampu s
Three films were shownWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2010 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
UF senior Shannon Parrish lays out letters on her Peace Ribbon for Staff Sgt. John Reiners on Tuesday 
night in the Reitz Union Basement.
n THE PEACE RIBBON 
PROJECT BEGAN IN 2005. 
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Contributing Writer
Staff Sgt. John Reiners was a 
Florida Gators fan. If you wanted 
to find him, you would just have to look for his blue Gators baseball cap.
Reiners was killed Feb. 13 when 
a roadside bomb was detonated in Afghanistan. 
So when Jacque Betz got a call 
from Reiners’ mother to make a memorial panel for him, she knew it had to be Gators-themed.
Reiners’ panel is one of a few 
new additions to the 400-plus col-
lection that makes up the Peace 
Ribbon Project started by Betz. 
The Peace Ribbon Project made 
its first appearance at UF on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday with 25 panels, including two for soldiers from Gainesville who died in war.
Each piece of 2-feet-by-3-feet 
cloth in the ribbon represents sol-diers and civilians who have been killed in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars.“Our goal is to keep mak-
ing panels until all the troops are brought home and the wars are over,” Betz said.
The project is part of CodePink: 
Women for Peace and has traveled across the United States since it be-gan with 25 pieces in 2005. 
Michelle Harris, president and 
founder of the Campus CodePink for Peace chapter at UF, said she was happy about the interest in the project as students passed by the tent.
A workshop was held in the 
basement of the Reitz Union, where a panel was made for Rein-ers in orange and blue fabric with 
a mini Gators jersey.
Harris said she got involved 
with CodePink, a women’s anti-
war group with the goal of bring-ing the troops home, because it is very women- and family-orientat-ed. She said war is an issue that directly affects families.
“I’ve always been interested in 
people’s stories and showing injus-tices,” Harris said.  “I guess unjust wars fall under that, too.” 
Betz said the ribbon and the 
panels serve as a reminder of what war does and who it kills.Peace Ribbon honoring fallen soldiers comes to UF  
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON — Senate Republi-
cans intend to block action on virtually all 
Democratic-backed legislation unrelated to 
tax cuts and government spending in the current postelection session of Congress, 
officials said Tuesday, adding that the lead-
ership has quietly collected signatures on a letter pledging to carry out the strategy.
If carried out, it would doom Democratic-backed attempts to end the Pentagon’s prac-
tice of discharging openly gay members of 
the military service and give legal status to young illegal immigrants who join the mili-
tary or attend college.
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid has 
made both measures a priority as Democrats attempt to enact legislation long sought by 
groups that supported them in the recent midterm elections.
A nuclear arms treaty with Russia that President Barack Obama wants ratified would not be affected, since any debate 
would take place under different rules than 
those that apply to legislation. Even so, its passage is not assured as Republicans are 
seeking concessions from the White House.
It was not known how 
many of the Senate’s 42 Re-publicans had signed the 
draft letter, which the leadership intends to 
make public quickly.
Senate Democrats need 60 votes to over -come any delaying tactics, meaning they 
could be thwarted if 41 Republicans join in 
the commitment.
Democrats’ chances of passing politically 
charged legislation will dim when the new Congress convenes in January, since Repub-
licans will take control of the House and gain more Senate seats.
The letter comes after comments by Sen-
ate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell and others in his party that the voters made 
it clear in the elections they want lawmakers 
to focus on economic issues.Senate Republicans’ letter calls for blocking most bills
NewsNationalIt would halt Democratic legislationThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2010
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Emily Fuggetta 
EDITORPaul RunnestrandStefania FerroMANAGING EDITORSJared MisnerOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Is it too early for Christmas music?Monday’s question: Should hats be allowed on the House floor?
69 TOTAL VOTES28% YES72% NOColumnist mourns Nielsen’s death
There are a lot of important things going on in the 
world right now. WikiLeaks reared its ugly head back into the national spotlight with the release of 
diplomatic cables and a lot of juicy gossip. 
North Korea is putting on the political and military 
equivalent of a toddler’s temper tantrum, the Senate just 
passed food safety regulations, the Pentagon’s review of “don’t ask, don’t tell” was released Tuesday and there’s a climate summit going on in Cancún. 
There are  nuclear talks with Iran, Comcast is fighting 
over Netflix usage, there’s a problem with the Prius, home prices are slowly rising, CBS’ “The Early Show” is being restructured and a weekend of NFL and college football to talk about is all in the air as we embrace the beginning of December. 
But there’s one piece of news that hit me straight in 
the chest when I heard it this week, one piece that af-
fected me more than all the other stories pulsing the newswire.
Leslie Nielsen had died in his sleep of complications 
from pneumonia Sunday.
For some, this might have been just a bummer. For 
others, it was just another nameless celebrity they never knew. For me, one of my comedic heroes had moved out of town — for good.
Recently, Nielsen’s been featured in films like “Scary 
Movie 3” and “Scary Movie 4” in addition to “Spy Hard,” “Mr. Magoo” and “Superhero Movie.” If one wasn’t to know Nielsen, he/she would sound like a ter -
rible judge of movie merit. Nielsen was so much more than that.
My first exposure to Nielsen was the 1980 film 
“Airplane!”which I watch regularly and plan to watch again in the next few days as a memorial to Leslie’s life. Nielsen played Dr. Rumack, who had a 
knack for witty puns based on 
the paranoia of interim pilot Ted Striker. “Airplane!” was the movie that defined my middle school 
film watching; it was my after- 
school special. It was the thing I’d 
come home to watch and something that always guar -
anteed me to be on the floor laughing even if it was the 11th or 12th  time I’ve watched it. My parents didn’t 
care there’s a brief scene of nudity  because they knew 
how much the movie meant to me. I’d try to convert my friends too, so someone would get my references when I walked around school screaming Dr. Rumack’s lines. 
“I am serious, and don’t call me Shirley!” 
I don’t know what it was about “Airplane!” or what 
it was about Leslie Nielsen that drew me to this com-
edy over the Will Ferrell or Adam Sandler movies at the time, but I felt it was a bit  more intellectual than the fart 
jokes in the modern comedies at the time.
Leslie started out as a serious actor, but that role in 
“Airplane!” changed him. He was featured in the TV 
series “Police Squad,” and then moved on to the Police 
Squad films that were aptly titled “The Naked Gun.”  
These films, the first two made by the same directorial team as “Airplane!” took an absurd twist on detective movies and enhanced Nielsen’s stock even further.
Nielsen’s name is now synonymous with spoof films, 
and he’s one star Hollywood will truly miss.
Sean Quinn is a first-year political science student. His 
column appears every Wednesday.Asked, told
Pentagon study           
was unnecessary
Lindsey Graham should probably quiet down now.
Saying Sunday that the military’s “don’t ask, don’t 
tell” policy prohibiting openly gay members to serve 
wouldn’t be “going anywhere,” the Republican senator from 
South Carolina is sure to be just smitten with the Pentagon’s report released Tuesday. 
The Pentagon’s 10-month study on the effects of a repeal 
of “don’t ask, don’t tell” found enormously positive results, including 70 percent of those surveyed admitting the over -
turn of the military’s legal discriminatory policy would have either positive or no results. But perhaps the greatest finding of the study was simply that most members of the military just don’t care who they fight alongside. 
Based on the responses of 115,000 troops and 44,200 troop 
spouses, the study will hopefully end debate on a ban that has already been ruled unconstitutional. 
“Don’t ask, don’t tell” has already been overturned in the 
House of Representatives but was blocked in the Senate by every Republican and Arkansas Democrats. 
Sen. John McCain, the leading force behind the Senate’s 
refusal to overturn the policy, said the military is at its highest point in professionalism and capability, “so to somehow al-lege that this policy has been damaging the military is simply false.”
We’re dismayed at McCain’s inability to see the inherent 
harm in forcing members of our military to remain silent, and we’re dismayed at his encouragement for the continuity of federally enforced homosexism.
But most importantly, we’re dismayed our government 
had to conduct a 10-month study to conclude what many of us have never doubted. 
A gay soldier’s blood is just as worthy as a heterosexual’s, 
and to conclude anything else is to endorse bigotry. 
While we understand the Senate Republicans cite the lack 
of permitted debate on other unrelated provisions in the defense bill in which the overturn of “don’t ask don’t tell” was attached, what we don’t understand is their problematic and subversive attempts to scapegoat the “lack of debate” as the reason they killed the defense bill and with it a repeal of ”don’t ask, don’t tell,” and coincidentally, in one giant mo-
tion, the DREAM Act. 
While we lend enormous support for continued debate on 
most issues, especially on bills with such a high price tag as 
the defense bill, we realize there’s simply no excuse or reason 
to debate condemning discrimination. 
To request debate on the issue of overturning “don’t ask, 
don’t tell” is to claim the other side, the ugly side of discrimi-
nation, has a valid viewpoint and should be heard.
We should all be as abhorred with senators requesting de-
bate on ending “don’t ask, don’t tell” as we would be with 
debate on civil rights issues with blacks, women, religious mi-
norities and any other group who is discriminated against. 
And those who counter that this issue is different because 
it involves the military currently engaged in two wars, and 
now possibly three with North Korea rearing its weaponry, 
just lost their last excuse with the Pentagon’s study released 
Tuesday.
We’re glad a large majority of military members support 
what a majority of Americans have long known and never needed a despicable study to deduce: Bigotry has no place in the land of the free and the home of the brave.
Sean Quinn
letters@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2010 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
WikiLeaks a detriment to diplomacy
I have accepted I will disagree with the 
editorial staff of the Alligator on almost 
any given political issue, but Monday’s of-
fensive editorial  needs to be addressed.
The editorial in question, which had the 
temerity to endorse the odious WikiLeaks 
release of thousands of diplomatic com-
muniques, cannot in good conscience be 
equated with Woodward and Bernstein’s reporting on the Watergate scandal, and the damage to diplomacy worldwide is in-calculable. 
Of course, the Alligator brings up the 
non-surprises that the Saudis support ter -
rorism and the Karzai government is cor -
rupt.
I am a bit surprised the Editorial Board 
mentioned Obama’s prisoners-for-access blackmail on Slovenia, but it didn’t men-tion the administration responsible for that reprehensible exchange.
The real casualty is a frank discussion of 
issues because every country that has dip-lomatic relations with us is less likely to share its real views with us if those views 
are likely to end up in the public sphere.
Additionally, some of the information 
divulged by WikiLeaks was gathered by 
real people, sometimes at considerable 
risk to themselves. But hey, it’s no skin off 
the editors of the Alligator if those people 
are endangered; the editors are safely en-
sconced in their office in Gainesville.
That’s the only thing that matters to our 
teenage arbiters of the truth. 
Ron Binns 
UF student
n n n
Kyoto not about climate change
While the Kyoto Protocol has been 
signed and ratified by virtually every world power, the exceptions being the 
United States and Australia, the interna-
tional policy itself offers no real solutions to climate change. 
It has done nothing to curtail the pollut-
ing policies of the world’s now No. 1 pro-ducer of greenhouse gases and has served 
as little more than a multinational taxation 
system from developed countries to unde-veloped.
The most disturbing portion of the 
Kyoto Protocol is not that it offers new fi-
nancial incentives for multinational firms 
to pollute and exploit developing nations, but that the policy does not deal with the most important element of our climate — 
forestry conversion and urban sprawl.
Nations like Brazil and Indonesia are 
depleting forest at record rates to produce 
hydroelectric power, sugarcane for etha-nol and palm or soybean oil plantations 
for biodiesel. 
Many of these dams release more car -
bon dioxide into the air through forest 
flooding or removal than they would if 
their lifetime equivalent power supply 
were produced from burning coal. 
Sugarcane production pushes monocul-
ture farming deeper into the most valuable, biodiverse environments on the planet. 
Palm oil production dries swamps and 
converts entire ecosystems in a fuel pro-duction regimen which will take centuries in cultivation to become carbon-competi-
tive with fossil fuels’ output even without 
considerations for the destruction of the rain forest itself. 
All of these dangerous practices are en-
couraged by Kyoto. The protocol has cre-
ated a system wherein energy either comes 
from renewable resources at the expense of old growth forest, or is produced from 
fossil fuels in poorer countries for the ben-
efits of developed nations. 
Regardless of motivation, I believe the 
United States’ decision to abstain from 
Kyoto has removed the most prosperous 
economy in the world from supporting this short-sighted wholesale destruction of precious natural resources. Kyoto cannot be supported by climate 
science when it has proven to encourage practices more harmful than the ones it discourages.
Ian Mitchell 
UF student
n n n
“Don’t ask, don’t tell” unconstitutional
The idea of the “don’t ask, don’t tell” 
policy is ridiculous. 
First, the point of the rule is to “allow” 
the soldiers to serve. We shouldn’t be “al-lowing” them to serve, we should be en-couraging their dedication to this country even with all the hatred and discrimina-
tion they face here. 
Second, many proponents of the rule 
say it keeps the heterosexual soldiers saf-
er.
 If that were true it would mean homo-
sexual soldiers are dangerous, and that the rule actually does something to stop them from being dangerous. 
Also, the law only hides the fact they 
are different and doesn’t stop anything from happening. 
The main reason homophobia truly ex-
ists in this country is all thanks to Chris-tianity and other religions. Although this 
might be just one thing to keep in mind 
when someone tells you “it’s in the Bible,” remember the things the Church have his-torically been wrong about: heliocentric-
ity, slavery, a flat earth, etc. 
Many people need to recall the First 
Amendment rights that guarantees a free-
dom of religion. 
This amendment was made to create a 
country not built based on a religion, but rather a community of people with differ -
ing ideas and freedoms to believe what-
ever you want to believe.
Chris Moody 
UF student  Reader thanks writer for column
Editor’s note: This letter, sent to staff writer Jon Silman, is being printed with the permission of its author.
I think alcoholism is a subject that gets 
joked about far too often in college. I’m 
hoping that some people will have read 
your column and taken a step back to eval-
uate themselves.
My mom was a drug addict and alco-
holic for most of my childhood. While I 
have never had to struggle with it myself, 
I have had to live with it second hand for most of my life.
 I’ve been to several AA and NA meet-
ings and the stories I have heard there al-
ways surprise me. 
Addiction is something that can strike 
at any point in one’s life and can happen 
to anyone.
 It is definitely a misunderstood subject. 
I sometimes see warning signs among my friends and I often hear them joke “I’m not an alcoholic until I graduate.”
I think some people assume that be-
cause they’re in college, they’re going places, that they can’t fuck up, that they don’t have a problem. I’m glad you told your story, and I hope it opens some peo-
ple’s eyes. It must have taken a lot of cour -
age to write.
My mom, by the way, has been sober 
for over two years now, and this time I re-
ally hope it sticks. 
I also hope for your sake that you are 
able to stay sober. I know it’s a struggle, but you should never have to feel that worthless again. 
I also hope for the sake of any family 
you might raise someday that they don’t have to go through what I did growing up. Don’t give up, and always think about your future!
Jason
UF student
While setting up for a party a few weeks ago, I noticed one of my female friends trying to hoist a large oak table and carry it into the next room. 
Appropriately enough, I asked if she needed my help. Af-
ter all, the table was heavy and she was just one person. 
I never thought that such an innocent offer would war -
rant the kind of whoopass that my friend was about to deliver.
Among other things, she exclaimed, “My biggest pet 
peeve is when people ask if I need help with something. I’ve done more labor-intensive work than anyone here, but people insist that I need help just because I have boobs!”
Needless to say, I haven’t offered her help with manual 
labor since then.
Let us ignore science for a moment. You know: the 
empirically proven fact that males, on average, are physi-cally stronger than females. 
Let’s examine this from a simple human-interaction 
point of view. One individual tries to do something, an-other offers help, and the pair usually manages the work more efficiently and effectively as a result. This is the way Neolithic human society has always worked. And 
although gender roles have traditionally shaped this dis-
tribution of labor, they have absolutely no bearing on the communal instinct to help one’s fellow human. I would 
have made the same offer to a male friend.
There seem to be two major camps of feminists. The 
members of one group believe in equality and focus on 
very real modern issues such as disparity in wages be-tween men and women. They serve an essential role in 
modern society, in which feminism has come under attack 
because of the irrational and circular arguments made by members of the second group. These individuals, who represent a highly vocal minority of the feminist move-ment, have learned to extrapolate 
feminism to every domain of daily 
life. They are hypersensitive to criticism, actively look for 
evidence of sexism and find it everywhere.
As one who cares deeply about equality issues, it pains 
me to see legitimate issues hijacked by those who use the 
movement as a method of personal vindication, like when 
my friend felt slighted that I offered her help moving fur -
niture.
She is one of those “feminists” that bandy about the 
term without demonstrating a true understanding of what it means. On account of their frenzied finger-pointing and paranoia, feminists as a whole have come to be perceived as extremists that eschew showering and relish their arm-
pit hair.
Along with giving real feminists a bad name, the pseu-
do-feminists alienate men as well.  Hypersensitized by 
the narrative that they have imagined, they are quick to accuse a man of implicitly belittling a woman when he of-
fers to help and ignoring her plight when he refuses. The 
innocuous act of kindness, generosity or even apathy is interpreted as an intentional and malicious attack on the 
sovereignty of women everywhere. I’m not saying that a 
man’s actions are always absent of ulterior motives; I am saying that as adults we should be able to tell the differ -
ence.
The irony is that not enough individuals at Princeton 
are willing to publicly proclaim their feminism, as Caro-line Kitchener pointed out in her column “Where have all the feminists gone?,” and I think it’s at least in part be-cause of this vocal minority.
 The stigma caused by this minority is a real one, as ev-
idenced by many of the comments on past ‘Prince’ articles 
related to feminism. While varying in content, the gen-
eral tone of these comments is, “Enough already. There is no conspiracy to put women down. Get over it.” In this way, a very vocal minority of extremists have effec-tively pushed the issue beyond the sphere of reasonable 
discourse. In complaining about unimportant issues, they 
are reducing the urgency of the real ones. No one wants to hear any more about feminism once they’ve learned to associate feminism with complaining. 
Once this association is made, all bets are off; real femi-
nism has no chance.
Feminism is not a selling point, nor is it a label that au-
tomatically legitimizes what you are saying. Feminism is 
a school of thought and philosophy that must not be used 
as a street-corner soap box, lest everything it stands for be cheapened or destroyed.
It is easy to make a point by shouting the loudest or by 
inundating your opponent with a mass of statistics that he 
or she cannot possibly begin to decode. But the fight for 
race and gender equality is not one that is won by attri-tion, by wearing your enemies down until they no longer 
have the energy to fight. 
It’s a hearts-and-minds campaign in which you aim 
to turn those who once stood in your way. I understand 
where they’re coming from. But gender extremists cannot hope to effect real change without first learning to pick 
their battles.
David Mendelsohn is a student at Princeton University.Gender extremists hurt feminism, should choose battlesUWire
David 
Mendelsohn
UWire8, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2010
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Ian Elsner, president of the UF juggling club, Objects in Motion, practices juggling on 
the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday afternoon.
By CHELSEA HULL
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ian Elsner puts safety first: No fire in-
doors, and new members are not allowed to 
play with knives.
Elsner is the president of Objects in Mo-
tion, the official UF juggling club. The club will hold its first solo performance, “Objects 
in Motion Live! and in 3D” Saturday at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. 
“As a club we’ve wanted to do a show-
case for a long time,” Elsner said. “Seniors will be able to do solos, and it will let new members get a taste of performance.”
Objects in Motion has more than 50 active 
members, with an average of 30 participants at each activity, he said.
The club meets every Wednesday at 9 
p.m. and represents all types of juggling. 
Contact jugglers balance an acrylic ball 
on their bodies and allow it to roll across their arms, shoulders and hands. 
Poi spinners twirl sticks with small 
weights tied to them with colorful string or ribbon. Jugglers toss clubs and balls alone or in groups.
Outside of practice, members often get 
together to juggle on the Plaza of the Ameri-cas.
The jugglers try to draw in bystanders 
with what they call “the free juggling les-son” — guaranteed success or your money 
back.
Elsner said 90 percent of the people he 
approaches tell him that they have below av-
erage coordination, which, as a statistics ma-
jor, he is quick to point out is a mathematic 
impossibility.
“You’re human, so you’re actually pretty 
good at this intuitively,” he said. “All we have to do is spend about half an hour with 
you to teach you the method.”
Andi Clinton, a biology junior, was one of those unsure bystanders less than three years ago. Despite a bit of stage fright, she 
now performs regularly with Objects in Mo-tion and can juggle, spin poi and ride a uni-cycle.
“I think what is most important about our 
club is that it’s really chill, and that anyone can do it,” she said. “I ride a unicycle and I trip over my own feet sometimes.”
While juggling may not be as difficult as 
it seems, when it comes to juggling knives or fire, club members act with added precau-tion.
Fire juggling is never done on campus. 
Instead, the jugglers meet at a member’s house, where the lawn and trees have been hosed down. 
Elsner is sure to keep emergency supplies 
of water and fire blankets, and the lighter fluid is stored away from the jugglers.
Juggling knives are also weighted, and are 
designed to look real. They look and sound 
dangerous, but are otherwise harmless.
Elsner is happy to say that, due to plan-
ning and attentiveness, no one has ever been 
injured during a meeting, practice or perfor -
mance.
Both Elsner and Clinton have made jug-
gling a part of their lives and look forward to continue their passion after college. 
“Once it clicks, once you sort of get into 
the rhythm, it feels amazing,” Elsner said. “It’s not only one instance; it’s a constant recalibration of your throws. You’re sort of feeling the way that the balls are moving 
and it’s an extension of something that goes 
on for a while, like a conversation.”Student juggling group 
brings circus to campusBy ALI ROBERTSON 
Alligator Contributing Writer
This week, members of the UF 
crew team will have the endurance, 
the equipment and the motivation to row the distance. They’ll only be missing one thing — water.
From 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. today and 
Thursday, the team will suit up and head to Turlington Plaza to partici-pate in Row Across Florida, Florida 
Crew’s annual fundraiser. Using 
indoor rowing machines, known as ergometers, members will simulate the distance it would take to cross the state, said Will Maxwell, presi-dent of the team.
Nearly 80 men and women of 
both the varsity and novice teams 
will each row a 10k to raise money 
for more practice and racing equip-ment. 
While last year’s event raised 
about $8,000, the team increased 
that goal to $20,000 this year. Max-
well said as more novice rowers join the team, there is 
a need for more 
equipment.
Row Across Florida also serves 
a dual purpose as the team’s main recruitment event. As last year’s recruitment chair, Maxwell said 
about 40 to 50 students stopped by the table on Turlington Plaza during the event to find out how to get in-volved. 
When Alberto Salazar saw Row 
Across Florida on Turlington Plaza, 
he developed a sudden interest in 
the sport. His dad had told him row-
ing was a great workout, so he de-cided to give it a shot. 
This year, Salazar will join his 
fellow varsity teammates on the er -
gometers as he experiences the event 
from the recruiting side. While he thinks students will enjoy watching the event, he said the real action hap-pens out on the lake during races.
“That’s the best part,” Salazar 
said. “You can see every stroke. 
You’re pulling ahead, then they’re 
pulling ahead. You get an adrena-
line rush.” Crew team to row on land to raise money for gear
Senators supported canceling classes the day before Thanksgiving
During this term, SG partnered with the UF Bookstore to 
establish a textbook rental service and held a tax-free text-
book day, which, according to Charles, saved students thou-
sands of dollars.
In the Student Senate meeting following the speech, Al-
exandra Moore, allocations chairwoman of the Unite Party, 
discussed future international relief trip hearings to decide 
how to allocate $20,000 for trip funding.
“These trips are usually funded by the Health Outreach [Association], but that money goes to dental and medical stu-dents,” said Sen. Severin Walstad, who represents the Unite 
Party. “Now the Allocations Committee can fund under -
graduates in their efforts.”
The Senate unanimously passed resolutions concerning 
the bison removal from Paynes Prairie and the faculty senate proposal to cancel classes on the Wednesday before Thanks-giving.
Sen. Andrew Hart, who represents the Student Alliance 
party, was one of the authors of the resolution condemning 
the bison removal.
He said preserving the bison habitats is important.“It’s something that is profound to the cultural heritage 
of the state of Florida,” said Hart. “As the fourth most popu-
lous state in the nation, we are quickly losing resources, so it’s important to hold onto national treasures for current and future generations.”
For Senate Minority Leader Kevin Kleponis, the resolu-
tion supporting the cancellation of classes on the Wednesday before Thanksgiving was  personal. A Miami native, he left at 5 a.m. on Thanksgiving to beat the traffic home on what he called the busiest traffic day of the year.
“Giving students the extra day off really gives them a 
window so they can get home safely,” he said.SPEECH , from page 1The row will take place on Turlington Plaza today, Thursday
“All we have to do is spend about 
half an hour with you to teach you 
the method.”
Ian Elsner
President of Objects in MotionStudent
ActivismTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
McLEAN, Va. — A Virginia toddler 
was walking out of a shopping mall with 
relatives when her grandmother suddenly flung her over a railing, sending the girl on a fatal plunge to the pavement several sto-
ries below, police said Tuesday.
Carmela Dela Rosa, 50, of Fairfax was 
arrested and charged with murder, said 
prosecutor Ian Rodway. Authorities said interviews with witnesses and Dela Rosa led them to the conclusion that the girl’s fall Monday night was no accident, but they couldn’t yet explain why the grandmother threw her.
The 2½-year-old child, Angelyn Ogdoc, 
died in a hospital several hours later. She fell from a walkway linking the mall’s third floor to the parking garage’s sixth floor at Tysons Corner Center in Fairfax, just south of Washington, D.C.
Fairfax County police spokeswoman 
Tawny Wright said Dela Rosa was leav-ing the mall with the toddler and two other 
adult relatives when she abruptly picked 
the girl up and threw her over the railing.Dela Rosa was being held without bond, 
and a preliminary hearing in the case was set for Jan. 4, Rodway said. Deputy Public Defender Dawn Butorac, who is represent-ing Dela Rosa, declined to comment on the case.
No one answered at Dela Rosa’s home 
in Fairfax on Tuesday morning, but neigh-bor Russell Jackson, 51, described them as “a happy family” and said Dela Rosa lived with her husband and a son and often cared for her granddaughter.
“She was a sweet, hap-
py baby ,” said Jackson, who lives in the rowhouse 
next door.
Dela Rosa would sometimes leave the 
blinds in the front window open when she 
was caring for the girl during the day.
“You could see them in the window 
waving at you,” he said, adding she would encourage the toddler to throw kisses to her neighbors.
Dela Rosa’s daughter and granddaugh-
ter were frequently at the home, and the group were often seen going on outings as a family, as they did Monday.WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2010 n ALLIGATOR, 9
AP Photo
A walkway at the Tysons Corner Center shopping mall where a toddler fell to her death in 
McLean, Va. on Tuesday.
Police: Grandma threw 
toddler off walkway
NewsNationalClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2010BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$380 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-8-10-74-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
12-8-74-1
Greenwich Green 2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352.372.8100
12-8-10-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-8-74-1
Gainesville Place
Now leasing for 2011-2012!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
 (352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-8-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $379***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
12-8-10-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-8-10-74-1
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
Student Friendly 4/4's 
$424 for EVERYTHING
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-8-74-1
ONLY $410/person
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES
3Bedroom/3Bathroom
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-8-10-74-1
MOVE-IN TODAY!
All-Inclusive Student Living from $424
4/4's with Roommate Matching
GainesvillePlace.com -- (352) 271-3131
12-8-74-1
1/1 avail. in 4/4 Countryside condo on SW 
23rd. Fully furnished, W/D, includes utilities 
cap. $300 dep. $400/mo. Call 352-514-3398   
12-8-21-1
Very nice,furnished 2 BDRM 1 BA Lge Liv 
Rm w/ parquet wood floor All new BA w/tile 
floor Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans 
Like new Kit appliances Laun Rm w/W/D 
Cent. H/A Internet/Cable available Every RM 
furnished On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $735/mo. 
Call 727-423-9463 jlglackin@yahoo.com   12-
8-10-5-1
2 ROOMS AVAIL. IN 2/2 APT AT WINDSOR 
PARK. ALL UTILITIES INCLUDED. 3 BUS 
ROUTES, 10-15 MIN TO UF. GREAT 
AMENITIES. $450/ROOM. CALL/TXT ANGIE 786-239-2740 FOR INFO.   12-8-6-1
QUIET SPLIT-PLAN HOME IN HAILE
Has furnished 2BR/1BA. $385/per BR.Cable, utils, use of W/D, kitchen.Non-smoker. Leave message 352-377-1648   1-5-10-7-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2 1\2B. $549 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
12-8-10-74-2 Studios $599 Downtown location
Arlington 352-338-0002
12-8-10-74-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
12-8-10-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-8-10-74-2
Pinetree Gardens
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
12-8-10-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, 
fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term 
available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-8-10-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-8-10-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-8-09-168-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-8-10-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
*NEWLY UPGRADED APT HOMES*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-8-10-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
12-8-10-74-2 
Cobblestone
3/3 Twnhme $1059
Cable and internet included
Call now 352-377-2801
12-8-74-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
12-8-10-74-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg.        12-8-10-74-2
Madison Pointe
2 Bed 2 Bath $869
One Month Free
Call 352-372-040012-8-74-2
●3/3 Only $899/month●
Mention This Ad To Receive
$0 MOVE IN FEES!!
3 Bus Routes (9,34,35) & Great Amenities!
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-8-10-74-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
12-8-10-74-2
The A  School District!
1Bed-$599*2Bed-$779
4Bed-$1099*Pool*Tennis
Townhomes*Walk in Closets
Personal Trainer*332-7401
12-8-74-2No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-8-10-74-2
$499 ALL INCLUSIVE
Steps from SW Rec.
1room available in 3/3
Female Roommate Match
(352) 379-9255
12-8-10-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-8-10-74-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
12-8-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-8-10-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SUN KEY
2.1  bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $550 /mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352.376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2010 � ALLIGATOR, 11
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-8-10-74-2
● Amazing Rent on 1 and 2BR apts.
Ranging from $390 to $545.Sorry no pets or Section 8.Madison on 20th. 335-7066      4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $540.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
12-8-10-74-2
WALK TO UF!
● Studios $295-$325●1BR $425● 2BR $700 - 1 MONTH FREE RENT!Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com             12-8-10-74-2
 2 & 3 BR   Huge Floorplans!
·         2/2 from $659 * 3/2 from $779
·         Washer/Dryers * Pets Loved!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness!
·         Call Now! * 377-7401
12-8-10-74-2Renting Now!!
We have REAL 1/1s
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE-1 MO FREE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
3Blks to UF- GATOR NEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS 1 MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
1-31-10-68-2
LOOK!! NEAR UF
Many properties available near campus! 
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352-373-7578
12-8-10-74-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
12-810-74-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $699 2/2's from $799
3/3's from $899
352-335-7656  www.thepolosuf.com
12-8-10-74-23/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    12-8-10-74-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
2.1 1/2 Bath Townhome
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $499 /mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352.376.6720 or 352.376.7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2
SUN BAY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $550 /mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2
2/2 & 3/3 RMM
Walk In ClosetsPrivate BathroomsCable w/HBO & ShowtimeFull size W/DPet friendly352-374-3866                   12-8-10-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
12-8-10-74-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhouse
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $550  mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2
SUN BAY
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $399  mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2SUN KEY
1.1  bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $550 /mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2
NAPIER GRANT
"HUGE" 2 BR/1BA
Starting at $575.
W/D hookups. Pets OK
Walk to Vet School
352-377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/napiergrant
Text: napiergrant@65374
12-8-10-74-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   12-8-
10-93-2
ONLY $394
Gainesville Place Apts.
Move-In TODAY
4/4's with Utilities Included
352-271-3131 
12-8-74-2
GATOR GREAT!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
12-8-10-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs  
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.  
Must see! Call 332-7700
12-8-74-2
● Walk to UF ●
Sorority Row Area
2/1 1000SF
$750/mo 352-375-8256
12-8-10-69-2GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
Modern 2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across 
from Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, Rent Neg. K&M Properties 372-1509      1-5-10-67-2
1BR/1BA, full kitchen. Near UF. 
H2O & sewer incl. $475/mo.
Call 352-332-8481 or 352-359-1644   1-5-10-51-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   12-8-
10-41-2
2 Months Free!
Sundowne Villas
Studio *$430 and 1/1 *$457
Located behind Butler Plaza
Pet friendly No weight limits!
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
12-8-10-37-2
One Month Free!
Courtney Greens
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 *$499
Near Oaks Mall Near UF and Butler Plaza
Cyber Cafe and 24hr Fitness Center
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
12-8-10-37-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$447
2/1 *$548
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
12-8-10-37-2
2 Months Free
Sunrise Villas
One Bedroom Villa *$428
Near UF and Shand's
Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Ph. 372-4835  www.gremco.com
12-8-10-37-2
Creekside Villas! Off NW 13th by Lowes
1/1 laminate floors, vinyl floor in kitchen, re-modeled bathroom, washer/dryer $525/mo incl water, sewer, trash, $400 dep 352-562-6509    12-8-10-30-2
First Month Free
Campus Walk Apartments
All Inclusive Individual Leases
4 Bedroom Townhomes and flats
Located on UF campus
$350 per bedroom All Inclusive
Semester Leases available!
(352) 376-0828
(Rental office at Homestead Apts.)
www.gremco.com 
12-8-10-27-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceilingfans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, security.No dogs. 538-1550 aprleve@aol.com   1-5-10-22-2
HISTORIC HOUSES ● 3BR/1.5 BA front 
porch, ceiling fans, hardwood floors. $1280/
mo 222 NW 4th Ave. ● 3BR/1BA 923 SE 4th 
St. Large yard, $1000/mo 1st, last, sec. No dogs. aprleve@aol.com or 352-538-1550   1-5-10-22-2
● HOUSE 4BR/3BA 2816 W University Ave 
1 mi to UF. Fenced-in nice backyard. W/D, DW. $1450/mo Negotiable.●3BR2BA 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo.327-2931, 376-6183    1-5-10-22-2
1 BLK TO UF! Behind Leonardos 
Pizza.  2BR 1 BA Apts
Central H & Air, 1234 Sw 1st Ave- 
$650/Mo   Call Merrill 
Management Inc 352-372-1494     12-8-10-
18-2
12, ALLIGATOR � WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2010
$475 per Month  2BR 1BA Apts
3  BLKS TO UF! 840 Sq. Ft. 
Large Rooms,  Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. 
Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  
St. Croix Apts, Call Merrill Management Inc. 
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie21@bellsouth.net     12-8-10-18-2
2BR 1BA Apt  3 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo  Window A/C,
Nat Gas Ht. 216 SW 12th Street.  
Call Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494     
12-8-10-18-2
EFFECIENCY -2 Rooms(not bedrooms)
Shared Bathroom, Window A/C
Carpet, Across from UF Stadium
1830 NW 1st Avenue  $295/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494     
12-8-10-18-2
GRAD II APTS
1236 SW 4th Avenue
1BR 1BA Apt 1 BLK to UF
Central H & Air, Inclds
Wtr, Swg, Pest Contrl 
$500/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 x10       12-8-10-18-2
TUMBLING CREEK CONDOS
1BR/1BA. Close to campus. $550/mo, $550 
dep. 352-493-3487 or ronrobis@gmail.com   12-8-10-16-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $450 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF FT Students only
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
1-5-10-13-2
●●1BR/1BA APARTMENT●●
Cent heat/air, new carpet/paint, new applianc -
es, new cabinets. 1109 NW 41st Ave. $500/
mo. www.AndreeRealty.com 352-375-2900    1-5-10-13-2 
●●●4BR/2BA HOUSE●●●
One mile to UF, offers fenced yard, washer/
dryer, lawn service, pest control included. $1150/mo ANDREE REALTY 352-375-2900    1-5-10-13-2
●Quaint NW 3br house, ceramic tile through-
out, washer/dryer, includes yard care & some utilities, small pet ok, ●Renovated NW 2br, 2ba home with ga-rage, new appliances, interior paint, & car-pet, $800/mo●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year lease, $700/mo●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr lease●NW 2br flat with utility rm, close to Millhopper & Hunters Crossing shopping, li-brary & banks. Affordable for retired folks or the young professional, $620 includes yard care●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and tennis courts. $1000★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
12-8-10-11-2
Spring housing available
The Estates has limited spring spaces avail-
able. Apply online at www.theestatesuf.com 
or call 352.692.1313.
12-8-10-10-2
4br/2ba. Close to Santa Fe. Will be available 
January 1st. Big backyard.Garage has been made into extra room. For inquiries call Ryan at (904)838-3812.    12-1-10-5-2DUCKPOND STONE COTTAGE STUDIO
Located behind vintage house. Small but 
cute! Full kitchen, bath, W/D, large yard, 
quiet. Avail Dec/Jan. $475/mo. 306 NE 6th 
St 352-538-6527   1-5-10-7-2
1 BD APT IN VINTAGE 100 YR OLD HOME!
Hardwood flrs ,tile kitchen and bath, new 
cabinets, high ceilings, large closet, washer/
dryer, fireplace. free internet. 115 NE 9th St 
$500 per mo 317-1458 Avail now.  1-5-10-
7-2
2 large bedrooms/2 bath house. 1,250 sq. 
feet. Wood floors. Front screened porch. 
Quiet residential neighborhood 1.5 miles 
from campus. Convenient location. Energy 
efficient. Garden space. $800/mo. 374-0848.   
12-7-10-5-2
MILL POND CONDO
3BR/2BA, garage. Across from GHFC. $1000/mo. Available January. 331-6872   1-5-10-7-2
Sublease a 1bd/1ba in a 2bd/2ba. $460 
ALL INCLUSIVE. FULLY FURNISHED. SW 
20th Ave, Cabana Beach. Lease goes until 
August 2011. Females prefered. On bus 
route. Please call or text 340-998-5910.   
1-5-10-13-3
Sublease a 1/1 in a 3/3 at The Crossings @ 
Santa Fe. Common living room, kitchen, din-
ing w/ washer and dryer. Lease goes to Aug 
2011 $449 per month 561-386-3781   12-3-
10-5-3
Stratford Court
Reduced $300/mo!
1 BR Luxury Apartment--800 sf plus balcony
$829/mo; walk 1 block to UF campus
Contact Stephanie at 954-536-5133
1-5-10-7-3
Attractive 1/1 available in a 2/2 just 1 block 
from campus. Available Jan through July. $500/mo + utils. W/D, dishwasher, parking, 
pool, pet-friendly. Living room furnished & 
bedroom upon request. 407-538-2886  12-
7-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-8-74-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Furnished Room sublet
$400/mo + 1/4 utils,
incl cable & internet, Casablanca West, 4 bus routes. Serious student roommates. (772) 538-5458                         12-2-20-4
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA upgraded condo 
at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & pool. Avail immed. $425/mo1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-792912-8-10-24-4
Female seeking same $385+1/3 utl (Wrls int, 
Sat tv, & GRU). Room for rent in 3/2 house in NW neighborhoods, quiet area. Avail now.Pet friendly, W/D, wood flrs, fenced yard.Bus route 8. Jessica 352-222-6900   1-12-10-30-4LARGE BEDROOM, PRIVATE BATH in 
3/3 townhome. Share with 2 UF Seniors. 
Washer/dryer, pool, tennis. Screened porch 
faces trees. On bus route. $395 plus 1/3 utili-
ties. 301-305-6206.   12-8-10-10-4
Avail. Dec - 5 Blocks to UF Great House;
2 Roommates Needed; N/S - 4 Bed/2Ba 
House $450/mo ea + 1/3 Util Sandy 352-
359-8484    12-8-10-12-4
Walk to campus! Need 1 female to rent room 
in 4/2 @ Royal Village Dec./Jan. - Aug. 2011. 
Dec. & Aug. already paid for. $529/mo., utils 
incl. Bus routes to UF & SFC. Great ame-
nities, 3 friendly roommates! Call Erin 786-
556-1590.    12-1-5-4
look for female rmmt in 3/3 @ hidden lakes 
incl util,cable,internet,w/d,pool,tanning,gym 
locate on bus route 5 min uf $437/mon avail 
mid dec call deb 352-438-4692    12-8-10-
10-4
Seeking 2 prof/grad females.3 bed/2b house 
in NW palm grove subdivision, quiet fam-
ily environ, washer/dryer/electricity included 
$450, RTS bus route, 7 miles from UF/
Shands, excellent bike route!352-5140316   
12-8-10-7-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551   12-8-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4 
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,  University Realty at 352-219-2879.  12-8-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL 2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-355112-8-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS - New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879   12-8-74-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-8-10-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-8-10-74-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-8-10-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   12-8-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      12-8-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    12-8-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      12-8-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
12-8-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  12-8-74-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     12-8-10-74-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
12-8-10-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-8-10-74-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-8-10-74-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-8-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-8-74-10★BK CHRISTMAS TREES★
Containerized Southern Red Cedar & Arizona Cypress. 2ft - 12ft, $5 - $65. 20926 NW 75th St, Alachua. 386-462-2060    1-5-10-9-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-8-
10-74-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
★★★GatorMoto★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No le-
git shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275 GatorMoto.com  12-8-10-
74-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   
12-8-10-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2010 � ALLIGATOR, 13
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
!NOW OFFERS FREE PICK UP!
For Motorcycles & Scooters for the
remainder of 2010. In Gainesville only.
Call 352-377-6974     518 SE 2nd St, 
12-8-74-11`
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 15 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    12-8-74-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-8-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
12-8-10-56-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $149997 Pontiac Transport $149996 Chevy Blazer $1999352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $199998 Ford Expolorer $199997 Lincoln Town car $1999352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $499999 Ford F150 $599998 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit checkMove  vehicles $500 & up!352-375-9090     12-8-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay hereCars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans30 day warranty352-375-9090     12-8-73-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $590002 Chevy Camero $699903 Ford Taurus $6999352-375-9090       12-8-73-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $899903 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      12-8-73-12
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243.  12-8-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and 
for walks and shopping as needed. We’ll 
have lots of fun! And you will make a new 
friend!  Contact 219-6948.   12-2-10-74-13
BE A BLESSING TO ME, AND COME HELP 
ME LEARN TO RAKE KNIT, 2 Wednesday 
evenings a month. The things we will make 
WILL BE SENT TO HAITI AND OTHER 
PLACES. Call 352-219-6948.     12-2-10-
74-13
St. Francis House is a
homeless shelter and soup kitchen located 
in downtown Gainesville and
we are looking for help from
volunteers like you. St. Francis House is in 
need of donations such as razors, body  
wash, soap and toothbrushes.
If you are interested in helping
please contact:
Jared Salter at (352) 378-9079
or by email at:
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
10-3-6-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs12-8-10-74-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and Communication skills. PC skills needed. Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G. 352-371-5888 x 111                  12-8-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-8-10-74-14
HIRING 50 DRIVERS
Domino’s is hiring drivers for all shifts.  Applicants must have 1 ticket maximum in the last 3 years, a 2003 or newer car and a positive attitude.  $12-$15 per hour.  Apply at gatordominos.com.    12-8-10-74-14STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys    12-
8-10-74-14
 Earn $1000-3200 per month to 
drive our car with ads.
www.AdCarDriver.com   12-8-10-32-14
Academy Medical is offering an internship to 
help build out its technology infrastructure. 
Candidates must have strong IT skills includ -
ing SQL. Previous experience with building online databases is a plus. 20 hours week @ 
$15/hr. Please send resumes to rob@acade -
mymedical.net. Questions call Rob Fischetti 
at 804-690-4422.   1-5-10-21-14
CNAs who believe in compassionate care & 
uncompromising services are encouraged to 
apply on-line at http://ck546.ersp.biz/employ -
ment. Strict background checks/drug screen. 12hr shifts, days, nights & wkends avail.   12-
6-10-14-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply 
in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 
NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 
9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    12-2-10-10-14
FT NANNY needed M-F start by JAN;
min 2 wks/mon for 80hrs;  travel w/ mom;
3yr old / 9 mon; $12/hr; exp; good refs;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    12-1-
10-9-14
BARN HELP
Sundays only in exchange for lessons 
at Hunter/Jumper facility. EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 352-359-4149   12-2-10-10-1
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE 
NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. $7.50/hr + incen -
tives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 NW 13th St   12-3-10-10-14
Extended Day
Enrichment Program
Is Hiring Now for Jobs
Starting January 2011
SCHOOL BOARD OF ALACHUA COUNTY
AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM -VARIOUS LOCATIONS-●ENERGETIC PEOPLE TO TEACH OUTDOOR GAME - $10/hr - BA desired or successful exp. working w/ children.●CREATIVE PEOPLE TO TEACH ARTS & CRAFTS - $10/hr - BA desired or success-fule exp. working w/ children.●Girl Scout Leaders, Tennis Instructors, Dance Instructors & 4-H Leaders.
Hours required -
M,T,Th,F - 1:45-5:30, Wed - 12:30-5:30 PM
DRUG TESTING REQUIRED-BACKGROUND CHECK CONDUCTED-AA/EOE
For More Information Call: 352-955-7766
Apply online www.sbac.edu
12-3-5-14
RGIS INVENTORY SPECIALISTS
Part-time hourly workFlexible schedules$8 an hour to startApply online at RGIS.COM    12-8-10-7-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   1-7-10-9-14
CAREER POSITIONS
Stay in Gainesville. Great benefits and op-portunities. Flexible hours.
● ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT
● SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
Please apply online at http://www.gleim.com   
12-8-10-6-14THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-8-74-16
A Woman's Answer
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals352-376-2716        12-8-74-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-8-11-18
TRY OUR At-Your-Location-Business. No 
Set Up Costs! Sell Vacation Properties From 
Your Location! Take FREE Vacations! Call 
Now! 1-877-465-8463   12-6-10-4-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-8-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS
PET ADOPTION FESTIVAL
THIS WEEKEND BEHIND OAKS MALL
Over 100 pets from local shelters
will be there and many will be
available for only $5!
Sponsored by Helping Hands Pet Rescue. 
352-281-4358 for more info.
12-3-3-24
LOST VIDEO CAMERA
Panasonic SDR H40 42x
Last seen at the bathouses Sat 10/9/10
Any info call (850) 543-3762
REWARD $500
1-6-25-25
FOUND LITTLE GRAY BUNNY
Sweet boy, loves to be petted. Found at NW 
16th Av. & NW 6th St.  377-4217   12-4-4-25
FOUND: CAR KEYS
Near Courthouse last Wednesday, Nov 24th. Call to identify 376-2998                12-3-3-25OFFICE ASSISTANT
Flex hours. Excellent Word, Excel, typing, 
internet skills. $7.25/hr. Indicate available 
schedule, major, graduating semester. si-
va1950@yahoo.com   1-5-10-7-14
PORTRAIT SALES
Help wanted for busy retail stores.
Full time, part time, local and some travel.Call Dominick 352-229-1004   12-7-10-5-14
SALES CONSULTANT
Solutions Bridal
25-35 hours+ Commission
Weekends a must
Fax Resume to:
352-372-7293
12-3-3-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-8-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  12-8-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-8-74-15
FREE HORSES FOR
TLC HORSEBOARD
Call Charlie at 352-278-1925.12-8-74-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES/UHAUL
$39 storage units/mo. Student discounts available. UHaul truck/trailer rentals. No line, 
no waiting. Call 24/7, 352-373-6294  
minimaxiwarehouse.com       12-8-74-15
Do You Need a Photographer?
Weddings ●Events ● Posters ● Slideshows
Gator Alum $100/hr You keep the digital files
www.mrdigital.biz  352-672-5206
12-8-10-74-15
NEED A DOG WALKER?
Aloha Pet Sitting & Dog Walking(352) 792-5598www.AlohaPetSitting.infoLicensed, Insured, Bonded   12-6-10-15-15
International Health teams for students!
Our trips work around your schedule.Check out our website for an experiencethat will change your life! www.islonline.org   1-5-10-7-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-8-74-16
n MICHIGAN IS 7-5 THIS SEASON.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. — Michigan ath-
letic director Dave Brandon refuses to let 
speculation about Rich Rodriguez’s future change his timetable to evaluate the foot-ball coach.
“Everyone needs to take a deep breath,” 
Brandon said Monday morning.
The first-year AD reiterated that he 
won’t do performance reviews of any of his coaches until their seasons — not just 
the regular season — are over.
That might make for another uncom-
fortable month for Rodriguez.
He helped the Wolverines qualify for a 
bowl — possibly the Insight Bowl on Dec. 28 — for the first time in his three seasons 
in charge of college football’s winningest 
program.
The situation swirling around Rodri-
guez’s status had a chance to turn into a 
circus at the team’s banquet Thursday 
night because Stanford coach Jim Har -
baugh planned to be there to be honored 
along with his 1985 teammates. Harbaugh 
said Saturday night there’s a “75-percent 
chance” he will be at the event, adding he 
needed to rearrange some recruiting trips. 
Two days later, Michigan Football Bust 
ticket chairman Jeffrey Holzhausen wrote 
in an e-mail that the University of Michigan 
club of greater Detroit officials received a 
call indicating Harbaugh wouldn’t be able 
to make it.
Many of those who want Rodriguez to 
be fired want Harbaugh hired.
Michigan’s regular season ended Satur -
day with a 37-7 loss at Ohio State, losing its seventh straight to the rival and dropping 
Rodriguez’s record at Michigan to 1-10 
against ranked teams.
“I’ll be mad for a while,” Rodriguez 
said after the game. “This will sting.”
Rodriguez was asked at the postgame 
news conference whether he knew he would be back, or hoped he would be back, and he acknowledged being worried about his future every day.
“But nothing is going to change how we 
work,” he said. “I took this job to make it the best program in America.”
He’s got a long way to go.Rodriguez lost a school-record nine 
games in his debut with the Wolverines two years ago, was 5-7 after starting 4-0 
last season and turned a 5-0 start into a 7-5 
finish this fall.
He has three years remaining on his six-
year contract that pays him about $2.5 mil-
lion per season.
Brandon said earlier this month that the 
NCAA violations committed under Rodri-guez didn’t give him cause to terminate his contract.
If Brandon and school officials decide to 
fire Rodriguez without cause before 2011, it would cost $4 million. On Jan. 1, the buy-out drops to $2.5 million.
ESPN analyst and former UM star Des-
mond Howard has confidence Brandon will make the right decision.
“I don’t think you use recruiting as an 
excuse or reason to act sooner than you’re 
ready because this is bigger than one re-
cruiting class,” Howard said. “Dave his has finger on the pulse of this situation and he’s very calculating. It gives me some comfort and confidence that he’ll make the decision that is in the best interest for Michigan.”
Brandon understands and appreciates 
the passion so many people have for Mich-igan football, but wishes the coaches and players didn’t have to deal with constant scrutiny about Rodriguez’s status.
“Rich has an opportunity to go through 
15 practices to prepare for a bowl that his team has earned a right to play in,” Bran-don said. “My approach is to give him the opportunity to do his job without doing a 
performance review at this time. It would 
be great if everyone let Rich do his job and 
let me do mine because the timetable for reviews is not going to change for any of our sports.”14, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2010
AP Photo
Rich Rodriguez is at the center of numerous coaching rumors. He holds a record of 15-21 in three seasons as Michigan’s coach.
Rodriguez’s status still unknown despite rumorsEver since Florida’s season 
started falling apart in ear -
ly October, I’ve been wait-
ing for an old-fashioned press conference blowup.
In a season like this — when 
bad became depressing and de-
pressing became pathetic — you 
can usually rely on an honest, somewhat-embarrassing rally-ing cry. But not at Florida. Urban Meyer is too introverted, at least 
publicly.
And his players have been 
programmed to answer questions 
with one of three responses: “We 
just got to keep working hard,” 
“We beat ourselves” or “You should see how good we are on film.”
So here we are, watching a 7-5 
team and hearing nothing about practice habits (What are we talkin’ about? Practice?) or let-ting a game slip away (Les Miles 
was who we thought he was!). 
In a year like this, the art of the impromptu rant could relieve the sadness, if only briefly.But if Urban won’t do it, we 
should at least applaud someone who would. When Bob Green 
retired two weeks ago after 24 
seasons with the proud Montana Tech Orediggers, the sporting world lost the Vince Lombardi 
of NAIA postgame press confer -
ences. 
So, drawing from his most fa-
mous speeches, here is how we 
can imagine Green would have 
reacted to Florida’s downfall this 
season.
“Those are gone. I got a short 
memory. Just like when I was in the 
third grade — two of the best years 
of my life.”
After Florida dropped games 
to Alabama and LSU, the Gators needed to move on. There were 
still six games left in the regular 
season, and they could still win the SEC East. 
“We’re kind of like a woodpecker 
in a petrified forest. Just keep busy and look for opportunities.”
There is no more damning way 
to describe the futility of Flori-da’s offense this season. Florida kept 
looking for 
solutions. 
First it 
was the 
“dive play, 
all day” of-fense. Then it was a 
two-quarterback system. Then it 
was a three-quarterback system. 
And, finally, it was a no-huddle attack like Orgeon.
But no matter what Florida 
ran, nothing worked. Among SEC teams, the Gators rank 10th in total offense.
“We’re kind of like (79-year-old 
country singer) George Jones going 
to a hip-hop concert. Not much har-
mony there.”
At least part of Florida’s of-
fensive problems can be blamed 
on its line. 
The Gators have allowed 23 
sacks this season, good for just 
seventh-best in the conference.Florida’s front five was billed 
as one of the best in the nation entering this season, but the unit 
has underwhelmed. The Gators’ 
formerly explosive offense is av-eraging just 4.3 yards per rush, and John Brantley was never able 
to get in a rhythm. 
“When I was your age, I studied 
far into the night by the light of a 
single candle. I sat right in the front row, walked both ways uphill five 
miles to school, raised my hand all 
the time, studied and one day I final-ly got an ‘A.’ And my grandma beat the heck out of me for cheating.”
Florida’s offense seemed to 
finally click after losing to Mis-sissippi State. Steve Addazio said he was happy to see his group’s hard work finally pay off with 
wins against Georgia and Van-
derbilt.
But those wins held little val-
ue. They were nothing more than 
smoke and mirrors against bad 
competition. And when Florida played South Carolina at home for the SEC East championship, the Gators looked ugly once again.
“That’s a double-edged sword. 
It’s kind of like watching your moth-er-in-law go off a cliff in a Cadillac. You’ve got mixed feelings.”
You won’t ever be happy los-
ing to Florida State. The Semi-noles were your little stepbrother — useful only because they made you look better. 
But Saturday’s loss, a 31-7 
thrashing, finally put this dread-ful regular season to an end. 
Also, losing so poorly to a 
rival will be motivating. And 
pretty much any premier recruit 
could start immediately next sea-son, if that sort of thing appeals to them.
And at least there’s still a bowl 
game. The Gators, who have split their last two games, can end the year on a positive note.
“It’s kind of a math thing, you 
know. If we lost our last one, we’d lost two out of three. But if we WON our last one, we’d won our last two out of three.”
Montana Tech coach explains UF’s problems better than anyone
Tyler Jett
The Jett Stream
tjett@alligator.org
Twitter: @iam_tylerWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2010 n ALLIGATOR, 15
Harrison Diamond / Alligator
Former UF defensive line coach Dan McCarney helped lure in a 2010 recruiting class that included Ronald 
Powell, Sharrif Floyd and Dominique Easley.
McCarney eighth Meyer              
assistant to become head coach
to bed each night proud to be 
a member of the Mean Green family.”
McCarney served as Iowa 
State’s head coach from 1995-2006, and he’s the eighth as-sistant to leave Urban Meyer’s 
side to become a head coach.
“I’m happy for coach Mc-
Carney and his family,” Meyer 
said. 
“He has a proven track re-
cord as a head coach, and we were fortunate to have him on our staff for the last three years. He did a great job with our de-
fensive line, and I fully expect 
him to be successful at North Texas.”
While McCarney tries to re-
build at North Texas, his suc-
cessor at UF will face a similar 
challenge.
The Gators will lose starting 
defensive ends Justin Trattou 
and Duke Lemmens to gradu-
ation, and defensive tackles Lawrence Marsh, Terron Sand-ers and Brandon Antwine are also headed out the door after 
the bowl game.Omar Hunter and Jaye How-
ard are expected to return at 
tackle, but their backups and the ends will be lacking in ex-perience.
McCarney helped bring in a 
2010 defensive line recruiting class that was hyped as one of the best ever, including Rivals.com’s top-rated defensive end 
(Ronald Powell) and top two 
defensive tackles (Sharrif Floyd and Dominique Easley).
Powell and Floyd, who have 
combined for 45 tackles this 
year,  were the only ones to earn 
regular playing 
time this season, and they’ll have 
to make a leap to 
reliable starters next year without 
McCarney.
And his departure has al-
ready started to have an effect on this year’s recruiting class, as Asheville (N.C.) High defen-sive end Jeoffrey Pagan — rated 
a four-star prospect by Rivals.
com — rescinded his oral com-mitment to Florida and cited McCarney leaving as a reason why.gAtors , from page 16
FootballMurphy spent offseason in Gainesville to improve body, athleticism, 3-point stroke
Another factor contributing to his improvement is a full 
offseason to work on both his game and his physique. 
Murphy opted to stay in Gainesville this past summer to become stronger, enhance his athleticism and rediscover 
the 3-point touch he displayed in high school.
“I think he took advantage of his time here this summer 
to improve, and he’s made some good strides,” coach Billy Donovan said. 
Murphy’s increased bulk has been evident so far this season, as he leads the team in blocks with seven and ranks third with 11 offensive rebounds despite playing a little more than 15 minutes per game. 
Those numbers are a startling increase from the 2009-10 
season, when he blocked just eight shots the entire year 
and often faced questions about his toughness. 
“My understanding of where to be, being in the right 
position and what we’re trying to do on defense got a lot 
better,” Murphy said. 
While Murphy’s improvements under the basket have 
been noticeable, his contributions from behind the arc have been limited to this point. 
The sophomore has attempted just four long-range 
shots this year, but he has managed to convert on a pair of 
them, including a momentum-stealer at the end of the first 
half against Florida State that stretched UF’s lead to nine. 
Although the quantity hasn’t been there, the purity of 
his stroke has shown opponents that they need to guard him out to 21 feet, even if he isn’t likely to turn into a vol-ume shooter any time soon.
“I’m happy with those; they’re open looks for me,” 
Murphy said. “I’m not going to try to force anything, but if they’re open I’ll take it.”
Murphy’s ability to stretch the defense may play a ma-
jor role in his strength crashing the offensive glass and scoring in the paint, where he has 3.3 points per game this season. 
Overall, Murphy’s points per game have increased from 
3.5 as a freshman to 8.2 as a sophomore.
Murphy attributes that improvement not just to this 
last offseason of work but also to years and years of work-ing on the fundamentals with his dad, Jay, a former NBA 
player.
Today, Jay does everything he can to catch his son’s 
games and make sure Erik is doing things the right way. 
“He doesn’t watch just to watch, he watches and he gets 
on me a little bit,” Erik said. “He says, ‘Just keep working, 
keep playing hard and trying to do all the right things, and keep focused.’”HooPs , from page 16
Matt t ripp / Alligator s taff
UF forward Erik Murphy leads the team with seven blocks and is third with 11 offensive rebounds this season. He 
has also made two 3-pointers through the Gators’ first six games.
“I think [Erik Murphy] took advantage of his 
time here this summer to improve, and he’s 
made some good strides.”
Billy Donovan
UF men’s basketball coachSports
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
Coach Amanda Butler, above 
all else, demands toughness from 
her players.
The young Gators team epito-
mized Butler’s desired attribute to the fullest Tuesday, overcom-ing a slow start to defeat a veteran Old Dominion squad 63-55 in the 
O’Connell Center.
“I saw a lot of toughness, a 
heck of a lot of toughness,” But-
ler said of her team following a couple of disappointing days of 
practice. “We’ve struggled a little 
bit and for us to come out of those 
two days feeling like we can-
not only play with a great team 
like this but also beat them is all toughness.”
No Gator exhibited that more 
than junior guard Lanita Bartley.
After a slow first half, Bartley 
said her coach inspired her to be more aggressive.
With the Gators (6-1) trailing 
51-50 late in the second, Bart-ley drove to the basket on three consecutive possessions, making 
tough shots in a forest of post 
players en route to a 13-4 Florida run that secured the victory. 
“Coach just told me to forget 
about the first half and said if I’m going to take it to the hole then go hard and finish,” Bartley said. “If you aren’t going to go hard and finish, don’t go in there at all.” 
The junior guard scored all 10 
of her points in the second half and also racked up four steals, two rebounds and an assist. But 
Butler said her value to the team 
cannot be measured on the stat sheet.
“Lanita just took over the 
game,” Butler said. “She just 
wasn’t going to accept anything 
but us winning.”
Old Dominion (3-2) has made 
a habit out of jumping ahead of opponents early in games this season, and Tuesday wasn’t any different. Aided by two Florida 
turnovers, the Monarchs rushed 
out 7-0 to start the game and held that lead for all but a few seconds in the first half. The Gators’ shooting woes 
continued early as they opened 2 of 9 from the field and were shoot-ing just 31 percent at the break. Florida rallied in the second half, 
shooting 47.8 percent to bring the 
game average to 38.2.But it was still a cold night for UF.
Florida, averaging just un-
der six 3-pointers per game this 
season, missed all nine of its at-
tempts from beyond the arc in the first half and finished without a 3-pointer (0 of 11) for the first 
time since 2007. 
“That’s kind of a positive,” 
Butler said. “I think it’s a big deal for us not to shoot the ball well 
from the 3-point line and still be 
able beat a really, really good 
team.”
The guards for Florida strug-
gled early, shooting just 2 for 12 
in the first half. But with the game 
on the line, the backcourt made the difference. 
Freshman guard Kayla Lewis 
scored a team-high and career-high 13 points on 6-of-10 shooting and also added four rebounds. 
Jaterra Bonds also got into 
double figures, recording 10 points off a stellar 6-for-6 show-ing at the free throw line, includ-ing five pivotal makes with less 
than a minute to go.
RUMOR CONTROL SCOREBOARD RANKINGS
AP NCAA Men’s Basketball Poll
16. Georgetown17. San Diego State18. UF19. Texas20. Illinoisn After reports surfaced that the UF football team trashed the visitor’s locker 
room after its loss against FSU on Saturday, officials from both schools denied 
the rumors.NBAPistons  79
Magic  90
Grizzlies  98
Lakers  96Saj Guevara / Alligator
UF guard Lanita Bartley scored all 10 of her points in the second half of the Gators’ win Tuesday.
Bartley wills UF to comeback win
n UF WILL PLAY UCF TONIGHT AT 7.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
Given the hype surrounding the five returning starters 
and the excitement that comes with a top-notch recruiting 
class, it’s easy to see how last year’s eighth man could get lost in the shuffle. 
But on Sunday night, sophomore Erik Murphy stood 
out in a big way. 
With Florida leading by two and the Seminoles surg-
ing, Murphy sealed a victory with a critical left-handed 
reverse layup in the paramount moment of what has been an impressive start to his sophomore season.  
Murphy will have a chance to con-
tinue his early success tonight at 7 when 
No. 18 Florida (5-1) takes on UCF (5-0) in 
Orlando. 
Part of Murphy’s increased produc-
tion has been precipitated by a position switch, as the sophomore returned to power forward thanks to the ar -
rival of freshman center Patric Young. 
Last season, Murphy had to play most of his minutes at 
the five to fill in for an injured Kenny Kadji. 
“I feel more comfortable on the perimeter playing this 
position,” Murphy said. “This is more natural for me.”Murphy thriving 
in role off bench
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15Men's
Bask etballGators used late 13-4 run
UF FOOTBALL
By MIKE McCALL
Alligator Staff Writer
mmccall@alligator.org
 
With five key contributors set 
to graduate, Florida’s defensive 
line is facing a major overhaul 
before next season.
That task just got a lot tough-
er.
Dan McCarney left his posi-
tion as the Gators’ defensive line coach Tuesday to take over as the head coach at North Tex-as, where he’ll try to resurrect a 
program that hasn’t won more 
than three games in a season since 2004.
“I am truly honored and humbled to accept this position as the head coach at the Univer -
sity of North Texas,” McCarney said at his introduction. “The 
ability to help 
start a new chapter in this tremendously proud program 
is exciting and 
I am looking forward to re-turning it to a 
championship level. 
“I will pour my heart and 
soul into this job, and I will wake up every morning and go McCarney named North 
Texas’ head coach
McCarney
SEE GATORS, PAGE 15