the independent florida
theAvenuealiat
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 96 We Inform. You Decide.1b Re
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2010
Gators sign another top recruitir
By BOBBY CALLOVI
Alligator Staff Writer
bcallovi@alligator org
When Urban Meyer an-
nounced on Dec. 26 he was
stepping down, then switched a
day later to just taking a leave
of absence, it was supposed to
negatively affect the Gators' re-
cruiting efforts.
Since that time, Florida has
turned what started out as a
good class into arguably the
best group of recruits ever.
Meyer added four five-star
prospects, including the na-
tion's top-rated player Moreno
Valley (Calif.) Rancho Verde
High defensive end Ronald
Powell, convinced five-star
safety Matt Elam to return to
the class after a brief switch to
FSU and got five other commit-
ments to round out the class.
Meyer said he was surprised
how good of a class he got de-
spite all the coaching turmoil.
"Urban Meyer and his staff
deserve the credit for doingFLGR9A this: They got the program to
the zent oclee football,Matt Tripp/ Alligator Staff enith of college
UF coach Urban Meyer speaks to the media Wednesday about the players who sent in their letters of intent ESPN recruiting analyst Tom
on National Signing Day. Luginbill said. "I think prospec-tive student-athletes are savvy
Homeless count lowers
0 THERE WERE 1,624 HOMELESS
PEOPLE IN 2009.
By MELINDA CARSTENSEN
Alligator Contributing Writer
In 2009, there were about 1,624 homeless
men, women and children on the streets of
Gainesville.
But according to a census conducted by the
Alachua County Coalition for the Homeless
and Hungry, that number has decreased to
about 1,300.
"To see even a slight decrease in homeless-
ness in the current economy tells us that area
service providers are doing a better and better
job helping people get back into housing as
quickly as possible," said Jon DeCarmine, the
coalition's executive director.
This year, the coalition covered areas within
0 UF coach Billy Donovan
(right) and the Gators
will travel to Alabama to
take on former assistant
Anthony Grant (left) and
the Crimson Tide tonight.
Grant coached under Don-
ovan for 12 years, includ-
ing 10 seasons at Florida
and two at Marshall.
See Story, Page 17.a 53-block radius of downtown Gainesville.
But local homeless advocate Pat Fitzpatrick
was skeptical.
He said he doubts the number of homeless
people in Alachua County has decreased.
"I'd actually say there's more," Fitzpatrick
said. "But homeless people
are told to scatter and hide.
It's hard to find them."
DeCarmine isn't sure
what adjustments the coali-
tion will have to make this
year to reflect the results, but
he said homelessness can-
DeCarmine not solely be fixed by giving
people jobs.
The problem, he said, has more to do with
wages.
"The minimum wage is not nearly enough
for people to support a home and lifestyle,"
DeCarmine said. "We're talking about broad
systematic changes we'll have to make."
Goats get penned after repeated rosebush nibbling
The neighbor's unruly animals were hold livestock, Forgey said.
beginning to get her goat, so she had the The owner had been warned about his
Alachua County Sheriff's Office take his. repeat offenders in the past and must pay
ASO Rural Services Unit caught eight a $75 fee to have them returned, or they'll
bothersome goats from the 2800 block of be put up for adoption, he said.
Northeast 71st Avenue Wednesday after The owner is not sure that he'll be
one woman complained they were eating able to raise the money anytime soon,
her rosebushes, according to ASO spokes- but Forgey is hopeful something can be
man Art Forgey. worked out.
The goats were taken to the rural ser- -KATHERINE BEIN
vices animal farm, a 30-acre lot designed tog class
enough to realize a program
like the University of Florida
has a lot to offer, so that means,
the program is bigger than one
individual."
With 11 players in Rivals.
com's top 100, including three
in the top 10, the Gators topped
the rankings of two of the three
major recruiting sites -Scout.
com and ESPN.com.
"I completely and utterly
agree with that (U F's class
is the best ever), but
my warning is recruiting
classes are on paper,"
Tom Luginbill
ESPN recruiting analyst
UF's 2006 class earned na-
tional praise when Meyer signed
former Gators Tim Tebow, Per-
cy Harvin and Brandon Spikes.
That year, the Gators only had
six in Rivals.com's top 100.
With so much talent coming
in, it is easy to see why people
are calling this the greatest class
ever.
"I completely and utterly
agree with that (UF's class is the
SEE SIGNING DAY, PAGE 5
plans next semester, according to a
proposal endorsed by the Food Ser-
vice Advisory Committee at a meeting
Wednesday.
While the proposal calls for each of
the five plans to cost $50 more, it also
grants 50 more flex bucks for all but the
most expensive plan.
On Flex bucks can be
Campus spent at campus restau-
rants and convenience
stores.
The proposal comes at a time when
meal plans are becoming more popu-
lar.
For more about campusfood changes
see alligator org.
Today
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6 -
the AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 12 Rain
CROSSWORD 14 66/56
SPORTS 17
visit www.alligator.orgReitz gets pizza, 'Panda'
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Writer
Students hungry for change will
see adjustments to the food options
and dining hall hours on campus.
Papa John's will replace the Noodle
Bar, and Panda Express will replace
Subway in the Reitz Union food court.
Eddie Daniels, Reitz Union execu-
tive director, said he expects both ven-
ues to be open by Summer B.
These new restaurants could be
coupled with new price hikes for meal
plans.
Students who buy meal plans
might see a $50 price increase for alln
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4,2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
The Hip Hop Collective
Presents: Icing on the Break
Saturday, 8 p.m. to 12 a.m.
Santa Fe College, Room R-001
The Hip Hop Collective is
hosting its first two-on-two
break-dancing battle and hip-
hop jam of the year that will
include a popping-and-locking
showcase, freestyle emcees and
a special performance by Shay-J.
You will see break dancers bat-
tling out by unleashing intense
moves to win. You will hear
crazy rhymes, beats and perfor-
mances. You will be immersed
into the underground world of
hip-hop. This is not "America's
Best Dance Crew" or "So You
Think You Can Dance." This is
the real thing. The event is free
to UF and Santa Fe students
with a valid student ID and $5
for the general public.
Gator Growl applications
Gator Growl 2010 is
now accepting applica-
tions for director positions.
Applications for positions in a
wide variety of fields are avail-
able in the Florida Blue Key
Office on the Third Floor of the
Reitz Union. Applications are
due Friday.
Network of Enlightened
Women (NeW)
Today, 7 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Turlington 1105
NeW is a female conservative
political group seeking informa-
tion in all aspects of politics and
what is going on in the world.
NeW creates a comfortable en-
vironment to discuss issues
from a wide political range. If
you're looking to get involved
on campus with politics, NeW
can open the door to a great op-
portunity for you. NeW mem-
bers welcomed.
Got something going on?
And want to see it in this
space? Send an e-mail with
"What's Happening" in the
subject line to efuggetta@al-
ligator.org. Please model your
submissions after above events.
Improperly formatted "What's
9 Equal Access Clinic
13th Annual 5K Run
April 10, 2010 at 8 a.m.
Behind North Florida Regional
Medical Center
Benefiting the student-run Equal
Access Clinic of Gainesville which
provides free healthcare to
underprivileged populations.
For more info:
Call Stephanie Mazariegos at
(813) 484-8031 or go to
ufpremed.org/easca the independent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 96  ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Flonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Happening" submissions may
not appear in the paper. Press
releases will not appear in the
paper.Mana
Manag
Assis
alligator
Copyighted Material
Syndicated Comnn
4aviiablItfo Commercial Wews Provid
CORRECTION
An article in Wednesday's
edition of the Alligator incor-
rectly reported that Rudy Cur-
rence signed with Ludacris' la-
bel, Disturbing the Peace, and
with Mic Check Entertainment.
The correct names are Disturb-
ing Tha Peace and Mike Chek
Entertainment. The article also
incorrectly refers to Outkast's
song "So Fresh, So Clean" as
"So Fresh, So Sing."
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org
School Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 1 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.comEditor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
ging Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
ing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner, jmisner@a//igator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, cti//o@a//igator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
tant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
rSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Corey McCall, Amanda Milligan,
Emily Morrow, Andrew Pantazi,
Paul Runnestrand, Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Shaun O'Connor
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@a//igator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
Wheelchairs to get
* THE HANDLES COULD
REDUCE SHOULDER PAIN.
By ERIN O'DEA
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF professor has a handle on
wheelchair technology.
Mark Tillman, an associate
professor in the College of Health
and Human Performance, said he
received federal funding for a re-
search project that could lead to
the creation of handles for manual
wheelchairs that would allow us-
ers to propel themselves without
pushing on wheel frames.
The handles, which have been
designed but not built, would be
bolted to the wheelchair, Tillman
said. Unlike in an electric wheel-
chair, users would still use their
body to move the chair by pushing
and pulling the handles.
Tillman said manual-wheel-
chair users often suffer from
shoulder pains because they con-
stantly are moving their arms back
into a strained position to propelthe chair.
The handles are designed to
help reduce shoulder pain by
keeping users' arms in front of
them, Tillman said.
"The idea is that your joints
will be in a more neutral position,"
he said.
Orit Shechtman, an associate
professor in UF's department of
occupational therapy, and Scott
Banks, an assistant professor in
the department of mechanical
and aerospace engineering, will
be working with Tillman on the
project.
Tillman said he and the other
professors hope to
On create a product that
Campus can be applied to a
current wheelchair
model or manufactured as part of
a completely updated wheelchair
model.
He said the handles could be
customized for individual chairs.
The National Institutes of
Health awarded funding for the
project through the Basic to Clini-
cal Collaborative Research Pilot
Program in January, Tillman said.redesign
Tillman said the handles will
take about a month to manufac-
ture and will be placed on an ex-
isting lab chair in the department
of applied physiology and kinesi-
ology.
Tillman and his team will con-
duct a study with 24 wheelchair
users examining posture, wrist po-
sition and physical exertion when
using the device.
"Ultimately, we'll want to have
them have less pain, but it would
be nice if they could have less pain
and not be using extra energy,"
Tillman said.
Richard Nelson, coordinator of
the Disability Resource Center and
an electric-wheelchair user, said
the handles could be a tremendous
advancement for those with the
appropriate upper-body strength.
He likes the sense of indepen-
dence that the electric wheelchair
gives him because it's hard for him
to use a manual wheelchair.
"If this device, this new style
of wheelchair provides that sense
of independence to even one user
then I think that it's a damn good
product," Nelson said.By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
U.S. Supreme Court Asso-
ciate Justice Clarence Thomas
will be speaking at the UF Levin
College of Law today at 10 a.m.
in the Marcia Whitney Schott
Courtyard.
Thomas, who spoke at the
Stetson University College of
Law in Gulfport Tuesday, will
answer questions from a panel
of four law students chosen by
faculty, according to Debra Ami-
rin, law school spokeswoman.
Admission to the event is
closed to the general public.
However, a live Web cast of the
event will be displayed on the
law school's Web site.
Thomas, who is not beingpaid for his appearance, is the
fifth Supreme Court justice to
visit UF's law school in the last
five years.
"It speaks well of the power
of the Gator Nation," Amirin
said.
Accord -
ing to the UF
Levin College
of Law Web
site, 700 tickets
were available
for the event.
Thomas The other
justices who
have visited UF include Chief
Justice John Roberts, John Paul
Stevens, Sandra Day O'Connor
and Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
To see the Web cast of Thom-
as' lecture, visit law.ufl.edu/.
utu alrtor hearthte's
Place a Heartine message for your
special someone in the Alligator's
Valentine's Day Heartlines Section
and be eligible to win prizes from:Aushiest
llPRANGE'S
i ' I r i s I
PPODROMET A F T H EA TR Estrangest
37unniest
Manuef's
Vintage fRoom
Placing your Heartline
is easier than ever!
www alligator.org
Aost
sincere
Each Category winner will recieve flowers and candy.
In addition, the Judge's Choice, picked from those winners,
will also win dinner for two and theater tickets.
Five (5) prizes will be awarded by live in-house judges. Deadline for sbmission is 4pm on Feb 5th. All Heartli ne messages placed will be automatically
entered in the contest. Winners will benotified prior to Feb 12th. Winners will be announced in the Feb 12th edition. Positive ID required tocollect win-
nings. Officers, directors, employees & their family members of the Alligator, or affiliates of the contest are not eligible to enter contest. You do not need
to be present to win. Prized cannot be transferred. Gratuity and sales tax not included. Dinner certificate must be used by March 31, 2010. No purchase
necessary to enter. Contact Classified Office lo .detail i d.p-1 r.*I"alligatorVegetable Tempura. 9.95 Teppanyaka Vegetable. 9.95
Chicken Tempura. 10.95 Shrimp Teppanyaka. 11.95
Chicken Sawamura. 10.95 Scallops Teppanyaka. 12.95
Shrimp Tempura .11.95 Sukiyaki and Chicken .12.95
Combination Tempura. 11.95 Sukiyaki Steak.12.95
Chicken and Shrimp.12.95 Sukiyaki and Shrimp.12.95
1 E24 S\\/ 1 3th St. GirnesviI l, L_
3~S 7V.BI EZ7S
Datng tip #2 a promot
Dating Ti~p #2
8 out of 10 UF
students find
a drunk perso
less attractiveTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
Law school to host
Clarence Thomas
Test
P oem
n
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2010
Professor
discusses
future of
personal
identity
U JAIN: BIOMETRICS WILL
BECOME MORE IMPORTANT.
By MINCH MINCHIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Future college students may start
to find underage drinking a little
more challenging.
Anil Jain, an award-winning re-
searcher and professor of electrical
and computer engineering at Michi-
gan State University, talked about
how biometrics technology could be
used in the future of personal iden-
tification to about 60 people at Pugh
Hall Wednesday night.
Fingerprints, iris scans, voice
scans and face scans could replace
driver's licenses and passports in the
future, Jain said.
"Sooner or later [biometric tech-
nology] will affect all of us," he said.
"So it is important to understand
it."
Jain discussed the problems with
current identification technologies.
Passwords and personal iden-
tification numbers, he said, are be-
coming increasingly easy to crack.
Passports and driver's
Public licenses are also simple
Health to forge, he said.
College students,
he said, represent one of the largest
populations of people who possess
fake or duplicate IDs.
These forgeries may soon end as
biometric science provides cheap,
effective identification, Jain said.
Simple biometric programs are
used in stores, shops and factories to
limit access to sensitive information
and verify employee data.
Disney World also uses biomet-
rics, using face scans to replace em-
ployee timecards.
Even if the technology becomes
cheap and effective enough to use,
intelligent people will still be able
game the system by creating false
fingerprints or distorting their faces,
Jain said.
"These errors are inevitable," he
said.
Besides the errors, questions
about civil rights and liberty must
also be addressed, he said.
"The U.S. government is con-
cerned with the abuse of the technol-
ogy to suppress peoples' freedoms,"
he said. "What will happen in the
event of misidentification?"
Despite these problems, biomet-
rics still has a bright future, he said.
Travis Pillow, a senior journal-
ism major, said he appreciated Jain's
candid discussion.
"There are a lot of what-ifs here,"
Pillow said. "If you don't explore
those, then you're in trouble. He did
a great job of dispelling the myth of
the perfect fingerprint."Katie Chandler is finding balance as the legal guardian
of her teenage sister, her busy life and her promising career.
Every day, she's feeding her life, her career and her future.
Feed your future at www.pwc. tv
PRICEWATERHOUSECgDPERS 3
@ 2010 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP All rights reserved. "PricewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware limited liability partnership) or, as the context requires, the PricewaterhouseCoopers
global network or other member firms of the network, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
AROUND GAINESVILLE
Campus construction increases local gym usage
By DANIELA ABRATr manager of Gainesville Rock Gym, " , But Brian Russell, spokesman for using the gym this semester than
Alligator Contributing Writer 704 S. Main St. We're getting 20 new Stu- Gainesville Health & Fitness Center, last.
UF students now make up about dents a day." 4820 Newberry Road, disagrees. He "I attribute any changes to the
As Southwest Recreation Center two-thirds of the total membership Ken Hynema has not seen notable increases in stu- time of the year, not our construc-
construction continues, students are there, with about 150 new members general manager of Gainesville dent membership and believes New tion," Hightower said.
getting their fitness fix off campus. this semester alone. Rock Gym Year's resolutions account for any Alex Mirea, a UF criminology
"We have had one of the largest Powerhouse Gym, 3441 W Uni- increases. and mathematics senior, said he
increases this semester, probably versity Ave., has experienced similar Pam Hightower, Southwest Rec- uses Southwest Recreation Center
the largest since we've been in busi- growth. Manager Steven Dillenbeck dent membership to 18 percent. reation Center facilities coordinator, about three times a week, and the
ness," said Ken Hema general said the gym saw a membership "We're getting 20 new students a said there has been no significant construction has had no impact on
surge in January, doubling its stu- day," he said. difference in the number of students his routine.
Drawn Up
Dan Perjovschi draws on a wall of the Ham Museum's rotunda as part of dozens of illustrations. The
illustrations are part of the new gallery Project Europa: Imagining the impossiblel, which opens Satur-
day. See alligator.org for more on Perjovschi's art and the upcoming gallery.
The Adventures of
A section of the Alligator dedicated
to giving student tips on healthy
4 living and exercise!
Place your ad in the Fan .to a 10!
and Fitness section, and
change your business \
from a zero.
Deadline: Thursday, Feb. 18
Run date: Wednesday, Feb. 24
Contact the Alligator today!
352-376-4482 rUF adds six to D-line
SIGNING DAY, from pageI
best ever), but my warning is recruiting classes are on pa-
per," Luginbill said.
The players in the 2006 class obviously turned their po-
tential into success on the field, becoming the winningest
class in Southeastern Conference history.
Although the top three players from that class -
Tebow, Harvin and Spikes -led the way, the rest of the
recruits exceeded many's expectations of them. Something
the other 17 players not in the top 100 will have to do if
this class is going to have the same type of on-field success
in their time at UF.
"They have elite players in this class across the board,"
Luginbill said. "The middle third and bot-
tom third of this class is as strong, if not
stronger, than any other class in the country.Football Those are the guys that are going to have to
be great because not everyone at the top is
going to pan out.
In the past, Meyer has been quick to proclaim one or
two of his new signees the next great thing, but he re-
frained from doing it this year.
But he could not help but gush over the defensive line
his coaches have assembled in this class.
The Gators brought in the top defensive end and two
four-star prospects at the position. To fill the inside of the
line, UF got the top-two defensive tackles and a four star
as well.
"I've gotten myself in trouble by anointing players be-
fore they are deserving of it, but as far as a defensive front,
I don't think I've seen anything like this," Meyer said.
IHAITI
We can help!
Heart for Haiti 5k Run/Walk
Sunday, Feb 14 at 2:00 p.m.
$10 ($12 on race day)
T-shirts & Refreshments
Proceeds donated to Partners in Health
fi",
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4,2010
Editorial
GOP Barbie
Larimer's views cheapen
Republican women
hen the Editorial Board read that Republican Na-
tional Committee co-chair Jan Larimer thought
women need "more hand-holding" than men
throughout the election process, we envisioned a patroniz-
ing man who happened to have a Scandinavian first name.
We were wrong.
Alas, Google Images revealed the awful truth. Larim-
er, a woman, recently explained why she thought so few
women participate in the Republican party.
She blamed the problem on women's reliance on friends
to help them make decisions.
Larimer said committee workshops aimed at involv-
ing women with the party focus on helping them make up
their own minds and carve their own paths.
The statement sounds empowering, but we have to ask:
Who in her right mind would decide to get involved in
politics without first consulting a confidante for advice?
Larimer implied she did. Did she shake up a GOP Mag-
ic 8-Ball or crack open a fortune cookie and hope for an
answer?
We would ask a few good friends for their opinions in-
stead of stubbornly rushing into a situation of such mag-
nitude.
Friends and loved ones who advise someone not to run
for office aren't trying to put a damper on the mood or
crush a political party one household at a time.
They're only trying to save someone from a mistake
that's the political equivalent of getting a tattoo while ut-
terly sauced.
Perhaps a select few could make such a massive choice
on their own, but politicians have teams running the show
from behind the scenes once the ball gets rolling.
Larimer's point is ridiculous. To involve oneself in a
government for the people, by the people and of the peo-
ple without leaning on close comrades for advice seems
obnoxious.
It puts her out of touch with Americans, especially
those with XX chromosomes.
We don't think it's the hand-holding that's alienating
women from her party.
It's probably the condescending stereotypes Larimer
helps perpetuate.
Granted, much of the Board's reaction stems from the
sheer amount of estrogen in the newsroom, but Gallop
polls show that women have a notable tendency to become
Democrats.
It doesn't take a genius to see why.
By painting women as swaying with the fluctuations of
society and basing their political values on their spouses,
girlfriends or book clubs, Larimer takes Americans on an
unhappy trip down memory lane and into the kitchens of
the 1950s.
Someone needs to tell her and much of her party that
times have changed.
Today, women use their own minds and hearts to make
choices -but with input from others.
They even win offices based on the strength of their
campaigns and beliefs, even if Larimer doesn't see many
success stories in her own party.
0the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University A e, or send them to PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/opinions
Column
Tebow ad is stealing Super Bowl limelight
tarring in a controversial anti-abortion commercialbankrolled by a fundamentalist Christian group, Tim
Tebow headlines the first-ever "issue ad" aired on
Super Bowl Sunday and has effectively hijacked the pre-
Super Bowl hype machine.
The biggest issue I have with this commercial is the
tone-deaf nature of the content. The Super Bowl is a time
for commercials featuring anthropomorphic animals and
partial-male nudity, not hot-button social issues. Pretty
much the only time I want to get sentimental with Super
Bowl ads is when I ponder the regal Clydesdale.
Shoehorning fundamentalist Christian beliefs into our
grand orgy of violence and capitalism is bumbling and
tactless.
While I personally suspect that this media maneuver
is designed to start into motion the forces that will even-
tually lead to a paramilitary junta that installs Tebow as
president of the Philippines for life, perhaps it is simply a
vivid example of the brave new world our Supreme Court
has envisioned for us.
When the Supreme Court ruled that corporations and
groups no longer had stringent regulations limiting their
involvement in the political process, maybe gauche politi-
cal advertisements during the most expensive time slots of
the year were exactly what the Supremes had in mind.
Forcing Americans to think about their personal views
on abortion may seem rather jarring to Super Bowl watch-
ers used to GoDaddy.com ads obviously tailored for ap-
ple-faced mouth breathers with pressing Web needs, but
a far more shocking ad will likely never see the light of
day.
President Obama has been feeling the heat over his
campaign promises to close the Guantanamo Bay deten-
tion center where we hold Muslim people suspected ofH
Tommy Maple
letters@alligator orgterrorist ties. Rumor has it that
MTV brought out the big Guido
guns in an effort to justify the con-
tinued use of Cuba as a holding pen
for religious zealots.
Titled "Gym/Tan/Call to
Prayer," this 30-second commercial
stars some of the more prominent
"Jersey Shore" cast members frol-
icking in the tropical beach prison. The opening shot has
Mike "The Situation" Sorrentino in a beachside razor-wire
cell dressed in traditional Muslim garb and holding what
looks like a copy of the Quran.
As the camera pans out, The Situation opens up his
holy book and then keeps unfolding it until the audience
sees it is a shiny silver, face-tanning reflector. The Situ-
ation sits down on a lounge chair, and Snooki is seated
next to him looking content and serene. You can tell it's
her by the orange face peeking out from under the hijab
and the overwhelming sense that she is really wanting to
make out.
The rest of the Jersey Shore/Guantanamo commercial
seems far too controversial for people with even a hint of
decency or compassion, and even MTV thought it too in-
cendiary for public airwaves. Muslims are one of the last
minority groups to successfully stave off total assimilation
into the coarse commercial culture America manufactures
like so many Fords and Chevys.
Don't be surprised, though, when the Jersey Shore
"Adhan Abs" DVD hits stores in time for Christmas -
with the tagline "Feel the bum and the blessings of Allah
wherever you worship or work out."
Tommy Maple is an international communications gradu-
ate student. His columns appear on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question:
Should the Super Bowl be free of
hot-button social issues?Monday's question:
Have you studied abroad?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org30% YES
70% NO
43 TOTAL VOTES
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Student Alliance party should put its
money where its mouth is
Mark McShera's letter to the editor
Tuesday was an example of how disgust-
ing, vile, hateful and forgetful members of
the Student Alliance party can be.
In his rambling rage, filled with fac-
tual errors and half-truths, he launched
personal attacks against one of the most
fair and bipartisan leaders on this campus,
Ashton Charles.
Ashton Charles once stepped aside in
an election for a Senate position to allow
Mark McShera to step in.
Her reasoning? It was important to her
to allow more minority party representa-
tion in Senate.
In his letter, McShera accused Charles
of not getting in Senate on her own mer-
its (even though she was elected twice
by overwhelming margins) but instead
through the secret workings of a corrupt
system.
This sort of twisted McCarthyism has
never worked for you, Mark. When you
ran a slanderous and exceedingly negative
campaign with the Orange and Blue Party
last year, you were shot down by students
who wanted to hear about your experience
and ideas.Now, the Student Alliance party is pol-
luting the Alligator with this filth again. I
speak for my fellow students when I say:
Enough is enough.
I want the Student Alliance party to put
its money where its mouth is and do as
the Unite Party is doing: Run a campaign
about positive ideas and values that cares
more about displaying its own candidates'
experience than attacking the opposing
candidates.
ME.
Groups should not be judged by the
most extreme of their members
I have concern over the prevalence of
the "Islam is of the devil" T-shirts on the
UF campus.
I am neither Muslim nor anti-Muslim,
but a neutral third party who hopes for
mutual respect. At least within our stu-
dent community.
I consider it an act of aggression to
wear clothing with such sweeping gener-
alizations, and I consider the intelligence
and ethics of the persons involved ques-
tionable.
Boston University International ProgramsIn the current global scenario, I un-
derstand it is quite easy to feel insecure
because of out-groups, especially if those
out-groups have a number of radical fun-
damentalists who preach and practice vio-
lence.
In spite of this, as critical thinkers, we
college students should not fall into the
trap of severe and unhealthy stereotyping
or resort to despicable, underhanded ac-
tions.
Chris Jaeger It makes me wonder, if we had fewer
UF student restrictions placed on us by our society,
would we too resort to armed violence as
a response to diversity of beliefs and opin-
ion?
Furthermore, such comments hurt de-
vout Muslims, who are just as good people
as anyone else.
When we recall the past, we see the cru-
sades, whose impacts are perhaps still be-
ing felt.
While Jesus taught forgiveness, accep-
tance and love, crusaders called them-
selves "Knights of Christ" and waged
bloody wars motivated by greed and thirst
for power -regardless of initial intent -
on behalf of Christ, who symbolized ev-
erything in the world that is peaceful and
good.Just as it is unfair to judge a Christian
based on the crusades, it is unfair to judge
a Muslim based on a group of fundamen-
talists or jihadists.
Many religious or nonreligious groups
have had periods in their histories that are
not praiseworthy.
It is not sensible to discard or dismiss a
majority based on the actions of a minor-
ity.
The word "Islam" means purity, peace
or obedience, and the word "Muslim" is
defined as someone who submits to the
will of God.
Those who wear words such as "Islam
is of the devil" simply exhibit their own
lack of knowledge, especially when they
are supposed to represent any religious af-
filiation.
I hope UF students and alumni will
be torchbearers of love and enlighten the
world about peaceful coexistence as well
as an appreciation for diversity, rather
than falling to the level of blinded reli-
gious extremists.
Let us tear down the walls that sepa-
rate us from one another and help build a
united world.
Deepthy Alias
3 CLAS
Legalize it. Don't criticize it!
Pd. Pol Adv. approved by Richard Selwach
IvR? ® RichardSeiwacit
WWW.s! waChformayo .j
TROPICAL
SMOOTHIE CAFE
This Saturday, Feb 6th,
come celebrate Bob Marley's
Birthday with us.
Island Fevers $2, Jamaican
Jerk and Carribean Luau
only $3 all day!
OPEN 24 HOURS
I EYEl
I EXAMS
(by Independent Optometrist)
3911 M Corner of
HN NW t3 St.
& 39th Ave.
Near Publix
EYECARE
I EXPRESS I
L (352)375-6133
PREVIEW ONLINE AT
FREERIDESURFSHOP.COMBOSTON
UNIVERSITY
theAvenue thursday, february 4, 2010
he shoots. he scores. he styles.
aGators basketball star
Chandler Parsons stands at
6'9" and can still find stylish
jeans that are long enough
for him. Inside: An Avenue
fashion exclusive look at
what he changes into after
he scores the winning shot of
the game. Tune in to ESPNU
tonight at 7 as Chandler
and the Gators take on the
University of Alabama.
Plus, Spring Break fitness
tips to get you in perfect
bathing-suit shape, five rea-
sons why you should drink
local, an all new sexToon
and an interview with the
producer of The Sundance
Film Festival's "Bass Ack-
wards."
page 11MUSIC REVIEW:
CO LOURSLIDEI
pI
iir
Go to alligator.org/the-avenue
for a Q&A with Stria, a "Gay-
tor Nation" column and a look
at the grand opening of Paul
Mitchell's Beach Break Salon.
Plan B (irth control): Who's buying and how does it work?
By Michael Perrone
and Amelia Harnish
avenue writers
He Says.
Nothing can make you go from
ecstasy to agony faster than pulling
out of your lady friend only to wit-
ness the mangled wreckage that
used to be your condom. Instead of
giving yourself a celebratory pat on
the back for another job well done,
you must now act with Jack Bauer-
like cunning to ensure that in nine
months, you won't be in a delivery
room yelling "Push!"
Luckily, the science community
has bestowed upon us the perfect
solution for when your Trojan de-
cides to fall apart like Tim Tebow at
the Senior Bowl: Plan B. Fellas, I'm
sure you know all about "The Pill."
Consider Plan B "The Other Pill." This
emergency contraceptive gives your
lady a super dose of hormones, and
assuming she takes it within a cou-
ple of days of the incident, prevents
her from getting pregnant.But don't expect this contingency
plan to be as cheap as the one-night
stand that got you into this mess.
Typically, Plan B sells for about $50.
If the lady in question is your girl-
friend, or you just happen to be a
nice guy, go to Walgreens and drop
the cash.
If she is some random girl you
don't plan on seeing again and you
wanna be an asshole, feel free to
leave her hanging. If she threatens
that she won't take the pill unless
you pay, call her bluff. Around Day 2,
she will be driving to CVS so fast you
would think she was Danica Patrick.
Of course, I don't condone such
douchebaggery. My suggestion: Of-
fer to throw down half, that way she
feels comfortable taking the pill,
you don't come off like a jerk and
you leave the door open for a future
booty call.
Ladies, to avoid the panic that
occurs when he tells you that his
rubber broke, be proactive and have
Plan B at your house, just in case.
Too embarrassing? Imagine how we
guys feel when we have to go up tothe 60-year-old female cashier with
a box of condoms and a container of
lube.
Speaking of condoms, guys, learn
the right way to use it. That reservoir
tip is there for a reason; make sure
to leave enough room. And unless
you are hung like Greg Oden, don't
buy Magnums. The golden package
may impress her atfirst, buttrust me,
she is not gonnabe too happy when
it falls off and you
are trying to fish it
out of her.
And finally, if
at any point dur-
ing sex you say
to yourself, "This
feels really good
all of a sudden," you might want to
get a status report on your condom.
Otherwise, get ready to dial up Plan
B.
She Says.
Accidents happen. Condoms
break.
You forget to take your pill or
you're not on the pill and he doesn't
pull out.Whatever the scenario, the freak-
out follows -obsessing over when
your last period ended, cursing your-
self for having sex in the first place,
and maybe even googling abortion
clinics. Er, I mean, shmashmortion
clinics.
Relax and praise the sexual
health gods. You have Plan B, a little
pill that offers another option, sav-
ing you from a bigger decision that
no one, regardless of which side of
the issue you fall on, ever wants to
think about.
Plan B is not an abortion pill,
explained Phyllis Craig, registered
nurse practitioner and women's
health expert at the Student Health
Care Center. It only changes the uter-
ine environment, making it harder to
get pregnant. It does what the birth
control pill does, except after the
act.
With the advent and growing
popularity of this helpful tool, some
etiquette regarding its use needs to
be discussed.
Craig recommends keeping a
pack of Plan B pills in your bathroomfor these scary occasions. If you're
18 or older, you do not need a pre-
scription, and you can get it at the
Student Health Care Center or any
pharmacy.
But Plan B is not a suitable plan
A. Not only does it not protect against
STDs, it's not as effective as being
on the regular pill, and at about $50,
it's expensive, Craig said.
And guys, you are not exemptfrom
worrying about this. If an accident
happens, you should offer to help
your girlfriend (or the girl you brought
home last night) secure a dose,
meaning drive her to Walgreens and
cough up $25. The least you can
do is offer because the haunting
thoughts of unwanted pregnancy are
much worse for her, and she'll appre-
ciate the thought, trust me.
In regards to this, Craig agreed,
saying she often sees partners ac-
company women seeking emergen-
cy contraception at the Women's
Clinic.
"This is a mutual responsibility,"
she said. "It's a discussion couples
should be having."By BENJAMIN EVANS
avenue writer
Gainesville's most
promising alternative act,
Colourslide, delivers an al-
bum of radio-ready singles
with its sophomore album,
"Everybody's Right About
Everybody." The record's
11 tracks are a tribute to
stadium-filling acts of the
last 20 years.
The album opens with
"Reasons," a pounding
dance track that shows gui-
tarist Dean Newman's ad-
miration for U2's The Edge.
"Komplikated" is epic
enough to compete with
Coldplay.
But the album standout is
"You Got Lucky," a cosmic
disco song about true love
with a synth riff that'll melt
you into your chair. Go to
colourslide.com for more
info.U,
N
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2010 +ALLIGATOR, 9
Alligator starts MusiCast
By J. HUNTER SIZEMORE This week, your host, Frankie Fusco, take
managing editor online a look back on how the Gainesville mus
Although Gainesville's music scene is one
of the most vibrant in the state, it hasn't re-
ceived the consistent coverage it deserves. To
remedy this, the Independent Florida Alligator
is launching a weekly podcast, the Alligator
Local MusiCast, to satisfy all of your local mu-
sic needs. Find out about the best upcoming
shows, recent local releases and features on
local artists and events by listening directly on
Alligator.orgor downloadingthe podcastfor on-
the-go enjoyment.s
ic
scene has been helping Haiti. Then, he'll take
you through the week ahead, which is jam-
packed with must-see shows from Rehasher
to Murder FM to The Silent League. And don't
forget the special events going on, like 1982's
"Mustachaganza!" and Grow Radio's "Action
Research #47."
Finally, he'll bringyou an exclusive interview
with the organizers of last Sunday's AM/FM
Gainesville Music Showcase. To catch the Alli-
gator Local MusiCast visit alligator.org/blogs/
musicast-
Sundance film released
By JOEY FLECHAS
avenue writer
With the Sundance Film Festival clos-
ing out Sunday, many of the screened
films have a few months before hitting
theaters.
Anybody who isn't a film critic or a
member of the Hollywood elite would
have to wait for wide release dates, and
if it's a smaller independent film, it might
not even reach that wide of an audience.
That's where "Bass Ackwards" strays
from the norm with a marketing approach
fit for its title.
The film was released Monday
through major digital retailers including
iTunes and Amazon.com, one day after
Sundance closed.
Producer Thomas Woodrow said he
knew the idea had never been done be-
fore, and that was part of the reason it
sounded so appealing.
"It lines up with the hook of the mov-
ie," Woodrow said. "The trajectory of the
film is bass ackwards."
Two companies, New York-based New
Video and Zipline Entertainment, are
handling the new, innovative distribution
method.
The comedy, which Woodrow said
was well-received at Sundance, centerson a man who takes his modified-VW bus
cross-country after an affair with a mar-
ried woman ended badly.
It stars little-known Linas Phillips, who
also directs.
Woodrow said Phillips has been very
receptive to different ideas throughout
the process of puttingthe film together.
"Linas is a very collaborative guy. He'll
hear a good idea and take it," he said.
"The trajectory of the film is bas,
aekward&."
THOMAS WOODROW
producer
He also acknowledged that part of
the rationale behind such a bold market-
ing plan is to take advantage of a world
where getting movies-even new ones-is
just a click away.
There are still plans to release the
film in theaters later in the spring.
Woodrow said that even these days
the quality of the film and the thrill of
moviegoing will always draw people to
the Silver Screen.
"I take it as a complete misconception
that digital platforms make people less
likely to see it in the theater," he said.
----s--
-t+Tips for Guys:
Focus on a muscle-
building workout
that is high intensity
with heavy weight
and a low amount of
repetitions.
+Tips for Girls:
To get toned and
slim, concentrate
on endurance train-
ing with moderate
strength training.
Lunges:
Works: Glutes,
hamstrings,
obliques, core
and lower back.
How to do it: Step
forward with your
right leg and lower
your body down
so that your thigh
and shin form a
90-degree angle
and the knee
doesn't go past
the toes. Your
left knee should
touch the ground.
Alternate legs.
That's one rep.By LANCE FULLER
avenue contributing writer
With Spring Break five weeks away, it's time to hit the gym if you want that
perfect bathing-suit body We have tips from UFstrength and conditioning coach
Allison Bradshaw and Derek Rakestraw, graduate assistant for strength and
conditioning for UF's Department of Recreational Sports, on the best ways to
get in shape for this year's break
Pull-ups:
Works: Biceps, forearms, upper back and fats.
How to do it: Grab a pull-up bar with your palms facing away from you. Slowly lower
yourself so that your arms are straight and your back is flat. Using your arms, shoul-
ders and back, pull yourself up so that your chin crosses the bar and squeeze your
shoulder blades together. Lower yourself back to the dead-hang position. That's one
rep.
Squat:
Works: Quads, hamstrings, glutes, calves, upper back, abs and obliques.
How to do it: Place the barbell on the top of your back and below the neck. With the
feet slightly wider than shoulder-width apart, keep your back flat and sit down lower-
ing yourself so that your thighs become parallel with the floor, keeping your weight on
your heels. Extend your legs to stand back up. That's one rep.
Deadlift:
Works: the lower body and back, hamstrings and glutes.
How to do it: With a barbell on the ground, place your feet underneath the bar with
shins touching the bar. Grip the bar with your palms facing the floor, sit down so your
thighs are parallel with the ground and using your hips, stand up. That's one rep.
For videos of these workouts visit alligator.org/the avenue
Erica Ervin / Alligator Staff
Five reasons to drink local
By RICHARD 0. STEHLI
avenue writer
Last summer, you never would have heard me
telling you to drink local, because you couldn't.
Thankfully, that all started to change in April, when
Swamp Head Brewery brewed its first batch of
beer. Founder Luke Kemper returned home from
his undergraduate work in beer-soaked Boulder,
Colo., and saw Gainesville to be lacking. In his
own words, "I realized how great it would be to
have a local beer in Gainesville." Last Friday, I had
the chance to sit down with Kemper and Swamp
Head master brewer Craig Birkmaier to sample
the beer and talk shop, and let me assure you, it
is great to have a local beer in Gainesville.
The Beer Is Good -With five very distinct
brews from Swamp Head, it's easy to find some-
thing to love. For those who prefer a light, crisp
taste, we have the honey cream ale, Wild Night.
For the wheat lover there is Cottonmouth, a Bel-
gian wheat with some elements of a hefeweizen.
Midnight Oil packs an incredible amount of cof-
fee flavor into an already solid oatmeal stout.
The pale ale, Stump Knocker, is hoppy enough to
satisfy yet easy to drink. Swamp Head's flagship
beer is Big Nose, a fantastic India Pale Ale that
pairs a massive shot of hops with a full body.
It's Only Getting Better -The only thing I
liked more than Big Nose IPA was the new and
improved Big Nose IPA, soon to replace the old
recipe. Birkmaier is always playing with the mainlineup and creating new beers. Kemper, always
tweaking the business aspect of the brewery, is
working on certification to bottle and sell Swamp
Head in stores.
The Work of Men, Not Machines -Birkmaier
is as much an artist as a scientist. His recipes
have been tailored from years of award-winning
amateur brewing and are notjust based on some
generic algorithm. Several started as copycats of
big name beers, but as Birkmaier says, "Why try
to clone it when I can do better?"
Keeping It Local -The guys at Swamp Head
let their beers showcase the products of North
Central Florida. Wild Night is flavored with Tupelo
Ashoney, world famous for its
quality but collected exclusive-
lyin Florida. MidnightOiluses
locally roasted organic Sweet-
water coffee. "It's expensive,"
Kemper said, "but we figured
we should use the best."
This Is Your Beer -Put
Swamp Head among the ranks of Tim Tebow,
championship rings and Burrito Brothers as rea-
sons you are proud to be a Florida Gator. As an
early adopter, you get bragging rights for all time;
you can tell your kids thatyou drank Swamp Head
back in 2010. When you are proud of what you
drink it tastes so much better.
Drink Swamp Head exclusively atStubbie Shirt
Pub, Satchel's Pizza, Alcove, The Laboratory and
The Market Street Pub.
10, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2010 T
O O0UFashion: athletes' style off the court
* AVENUE EXCLUSIVE!
breakfastand lunch
43rd Street Deli and
Breakfast House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to
for over 25 years -we probably
served your parents. Biggest
4 egg omelette, French toast,
and daily specials. Not full yet?
Have lunch with us & enjoy a
large selection of sandwiches,
the best Reuben, gyros, and
soup all at a reasonable price.
Vegetarian? Not a problem. We
have a selection that is sure to
fulfill your needs. We now offer
free WiFi! Open All day Every
day 7am-3pm. 4401 NW 25thh
Place 373-2927. 3483 Williston
Rd 373-5656. Conveniently
located off 1-75
Cafe Gardens
For over a third of a century,
the Original World Famous
Cafe Gardens has been serving
Gators with delicious food and
a large selection of beers and
wines. Located just across from
campus near the Florida Book
Store, this quaint landmark es-
tablishment with award winning
courtyard dining is perfect for
any date or gathering. For live
music schedule, call 376-2233.
Hours: Mon-Wed 11am-1Opm,
Thurs-Sat 11lam-1am,
Sun Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1 st Ave. Join us on
Thursday late nights for "Mid-
night in the Garden" with Food
& Drink specials and DJ.
cafegardens.net
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and
Stacks. The only way to
describe the Stack is that it
is outrageously delicious! Its
uniquely different presenta-
tion -three 6 inch flour tortillas
stacked high with fresh grilled
ingredients and just the right
accent of cheese -is strangely
inviting to ones palate. Come
out and try our 1/3 lb Burgers,
steak seasoned Panchos &
Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the The Home Grown
and Homemade Black Bean
Hummus! Now serving draft and
red Stripe beers! We deliver!
Open late to serve your late
night cravings!
Sun-Wed:lam-3am. Thurs &
Sat: 11a,-4pm. 34th St. Plaza
(Sweetbay) @ 2124 SW 34th St.
672-6111
www.jdoobies.combarbecue
David's BBQ
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, Eat-
in, Takeout, Drive-thru, Cater-
ing, or Tailgating. Everyone
loves David's BBQ because,
unlike ordinary BBQ places,
David's cooks over a real wood
fire! Eat where the locals eat!
Voted #1 BBQ in Gainesville!
Approved caterer for UF's
Emerson Alumni Hall. Mon-Sat
7am -9pm. Sundays open at
8am. Drive Thru until 9:30pm
7 days! 352-373-2002. Have
David's BBQ delivered by Ga-
torfood.com. FREE WIFI. 5121
NW 39th Ave
www.davidsBBQ.com
r rack .r
The Yearlin9
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog legs,
and alligator, as well as USDA
Prime beef, seafood, grits, greens
& hush puppies. Open Thursday
& Friday 5pm-1 Opm, Saturday
12pm-10pm & Sunday 12pm-
8:30pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999rwww.theyearlingrestaurant.com
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301
D'Lites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
d'licious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly without
the diet taste. We also feature a
whole array of cookies, chips, and
various grocery treats that appeal
and other dieters. Our every day
daily specials make shopping
at D'Lites a special value!
Come weigh your options at
the Marketplace Plaza at NW
16th Blvd. and 43rd St. (next to
the Hollywood Video) or at the
Shoppes of Williston at S.W. 34th
Street and Williston Rd. (next to
Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!frozen treats
Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts,
loose leaf teas, and beer, with
lots of vegan options. Now open
24 hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
blocks east of campus at 1025 W.
University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve frozen
yogurt as a healthy dessert
alternative. Our yogurt has 0%
fat and contains live and active
cultures. Choose any combination
of 8 different flavors and over 30
toppings. Everything for just 45
cents an ounce. 3841 SW Archer
Rd (next to Bento Red) Open
from noon to midnight daily!
~~ Manuel's Vintage
Room
This family owned restaurant
is perfect for dinner any day of
the week. Come in and check
out one of the best wine lists in
town. Ask questions and learn
while you wait for the chef to
put out nothing but goodness
from the kitchen using fresh,
simple, and local ingredients.
Try the Early Dinner Sunday,
Tuesday-Thursday 5-7pm. $3
wines/$10 bottles. $10 Menu.
Ask about our Monday Wine
Dinners and private parties for
lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
St. (352)375-7372
Lndion andv egetoan
Green Mango
The best Indian food in Gaines-
ville. Serving Gainesville since
1991. The best Samosas in
Florida. Offering many vegan
: .dishes. We are specialized in
catering any group size. Delivery
available-free delivery on any
purchase over $25! Open 7 days
Mon-Sat 11:30am-9pm, Sunday
1pm-8pm. Call 352-505-6200.
7625 W Newberry Rd
amohoan
Coibbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
and oxtail. Opened Mon thru
Thurs 11 am-7:30pm, Fri & Sat
11lam-i 1:45pm
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
352-374-8111japaneae
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a hip,
trendy atmosphere. Two great
locations with outside eating.
Open every day for carry-out
or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.
key wea
Cabana Cove
Keg West Grille
Now offering a new bistro
inspired menu.
Open for lunch and dinner.
Full martini and mojito bar.
Voted nicest outdoor dining.
COUPON -DATE NIGHT -COUPON
Choose 1 appetizer, 2 entrees, a
bottle of wine, and share a slice
of Key Lime Pie.
All for only $39.99 (expires
12/31/09)
2410 NW 43rd Street
Gainesville
352-377-3278
Please visit us online at
www.cabanacove.net forr additional savings and coupons.
atm
ctinease
Green Plontoins
The best MoFongo, churrasco,
& chofan in town. $5 To-Go
Dinners. Mon-Sat from 4pm.
Don't miss out $4.95 dinner +
soda on Thursday, student night
from 4pm-1Opm. Visit us at
5150 SW 34th Street at the new
Publix Shopping Center 7 days
a week. We cater. Check us out
on Gatorfood.com
352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.com
Eorgornc
THE JONES
Gainesville's own independently
owned community restaurant
dedicated to bringing sustain-
able, local, and organic food
to the table. Oh, and it's really
yummy. Herbivores, carnivores,
yuommynrivorescare!NiOres
SERVING DINNER EVERY
NIGHT! New hours: open every
day 8am-1Opm. Check out our
facebook page for specials and
events. 401 NE 23rd Avenue.
352.373.6777ocald
orgonic
Mildred's
Big Citg Food
Eat Gainesville's Best Food at
Mildred's. We support LOCAL
and SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh
Dishes Made From Scratch!
OPEN SUNDAYS!
COVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371-1711
MildredsBigCityFood.com
New Deal Cof 6
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burgers! This 12oz.
Goliath is Naturally Aged andEFresh Ground. MONSTROUS
desserts. HUGE Martinis. $5
glasses of wine and 20 wines
.under $20! Mon-Thurs. 11am-
10pm
Fri & Sat. 11am-11pm
371-4418
newdealcafegainesville.com
Located next door to Mildred's.
Keepin' it fresh -Keepin' it real!
rmediterranean
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine
agrees, "[the chef] adds visual
flair to every dish to make it as
good-looking as it is flavorful."
NEW Happy Hour Specials!
Every day from 4pm-7pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices & terrific
service.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.com
12 SE 2nd Ave. 378-6307
Umexican
Boco Fiesta
Best Margaritas in Town!
Fresh-squeezed + all natural!
Tasty tacos, burritos, nachos!
Cheap beer, full bar, open late!
232 SE 1st St Downtown
336-TACO!
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta, & desserts. All you
can eat buffet available!
Outdoor dining. Visit www.
newyorkpizzaplus.com for
coupons. We Deliver!
490 NE 23rd Ave.
376-3444
-- le g e tar
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade, meals,
sandwiches, soups, home-baked
desserts. Brunch Weekends.
Specials: Cupcake Mon.,
Southern Cooking Tues., Greek
Wed 6pm, Ethiopian Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 10am-8pm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
Matt Tripp/Alligator Staff
Above, Christie Garcia and Chandler Parsons pose in going-out attire Below, from left to
right, Garcia juggling sexy shoes and schoolbooks, Parsons kickin' back in fashionable
flannel and Garcia flying high in a tulle mini skirt and her own tan bootsBy ASHLEY MCCREDIE
avenue writer
You've seen him in his basketball
shorts and jersey running down the
court, and you've seen her cheering
on the sidelines in her glittery uni-
form, but you've never seen them
like this.
UF basketball player Chandler
Parsons and Dazzler Christie Garcia
showed us what they wear off the
court during a photo shoot Monday.
Garcia arrived first, carrying
a Gator orange duffel bag full of
clothes, shoes and accessories from
her stylish closet. Parsons showed
up five minutes later in blue jeans, a
gray sweatshirt and black Converse
sneakers, all of which were used in
the shoot. His girlfriend accompa-
nied him, and he reached for his
double chocolate chip Frappuccino
before we started shooting.
Garcia and Parsons were dressed
in shirts, accessories, dresses and
jeans provided by Wolfgang and
Calzatura in addition to the clothes
they brought from their own ward-
robes.
Garcia's tiny frame made every-
thing look fabulous, but Parsons
couldn't fit into everything provided
for him, seeing as he is 6 feet 9
inches tall. But his personal style
shone through as he made a state-
ment in his own Ed Hardy jeans.
I am pretty fashionable, but
pretty laid back," he said. "To class
I usually just wear basketball stuff,
but when I go out I will wear a but-
ton-up, polo or V-neck."
Garcia said her style is "punk
rocky, but [she] still like[s] to look
girly. Not too scene-ish."
After stylingthree looks each, the
shooting began. Parsons was quitenatural in front of the camera and
was comforted by his girlfriend's
presence (she's only 5 feet 2 inches
tall -we don't know how it works ei-
ther). Garcia's smile shone through
the lens, and she showed off her
Dazzler moves and dancing muscles
with some jumping shots.
During the shoot, we also got to
know their shopping secrets.
"I love Express, Banana Repub-
lic and American Apparel," Parsons
said. "I usually shop in Orlando."
Garcia, who is turned off by the
lack of stylish stores at the Oaks
Mall, said she does her shopping at
"Bebe, Marc Jacobs, Michael Kors
and Arden B." She also loves Inter-
mix because it carries many brands,
and she said she gets her shoes
from Koko & Palenki (a boutique in
Miami).
"I lovs Express, Banana
Republic and American Apparel.
I usually Thop in Orlando."
CHANDLER PARSONS
UF basketball player
Garcia and Parsons differed in
sense of style and shopping loca-
tions, but both commented on their
love of shoes and watches.
"I like casual shoes," Parsons
said. "My favorites are Creative Rec-
reation."
And Garcia accessorizes her out-
fits with fun boots and high heels
adorned with studs.
The shoot had to wrap up pretty
early so both student-athletes could
make it to class and practice on
time, but as they walked away, it
was clear that Garcia and Parsons
can manage school, sports and es-
pecially style. Be sure to cheer on
Parsons and the Gators as they take
on Alabama tonight at 7 on ESPNU.
U~
tflo doh ea®Q®2) Lto &W-o ddadRfi&A
g@aod flHua&& AOtps
taogm ff)G ?6Ufm3THURSDAY, FEBRUARY A, 2010*4ALLIGATOR, 11
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
$419 all inclusive 4/4
$509 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
24hr Fitness Center * 2 Pools
Now Feline Friendly352-271-
3131*GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-1
0
Crnss Ig
OPEN HOUSE ON FEB 6TH
TOUR A 2,3 AND 4 BEDROOM
THERE WILL BE FOOD & PRIZES
GREAT SIGNING SPECIALS!
TOUR! SIGN! ENJOY!
3700 SW 27TH ST 373.9009
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$250/MO
Fully Furnished Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, Campus Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1
REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2*3/3*4/4
Rates from $386*Close to UF
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST Townhouse near UF,
Shands, shopping; easy access. 2BR/2.5BA;
great for student/family. Only $750/mo;
LEASE/BUY OPTION -OWNER FINANCED.
Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432 2-17-
09-65-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. 239-250-6149 2-12-10-25-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Unit. $450 ea. W/D.
Property has clubhouse, fitness and busi-
ness/computer ctr. Utilities incl. On bus
route. Windsor Park.
305-788-5681/Windsor515@gmail.com.
2-26-10-28-1ADORABLE VINTAGE HOMES 2BR/1BA.
Minutes from UF. Wood floors, stone tile, util-
ity room. Cats ok. $675, first, last, $200 sec.
352-256-0999 2-8-10-10-1
LUXURY 2STORY TOWNHS. 2B/2.5Ba
FULLY FURN. 2 min to UF, Great bus routes
& parking, Pool/gym, Free wifi, All utils incl.
Both rooms avail June 1st or later, Individual
Leases $540/$520 Martha 786 246-3049
3-5-29-1
Furnished room for rent -flexible lease terms
$299 per month -females only call 704-677-
2018 2-5-10-5-1
NICE COLLEGE HOUSE!4/3 Close 2 UF,
Pool, Firepl., Full kitchen, big yard, nice area.
Live in College owner. Need roommate(s).
Rent all inclusive! Free to check out. Call-
813 748 6042 2-9-10-5-1
4BR/4BA, large living, next to bus stop, fairly
new condo. $399/mo each room. Close to
shopping, school & library. Call 941-232-
1960 3-3-10-20-1
For FRentF unfurnished
LOW COST MOVE IN
1 BR & STUDY -$395/mo.
372-6881 or 213-3901 4-21-10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
LIVE THE DOWNTOWN LIFE
Steps from clubs-blocks to UF
Studios, 1/1's, 2/2's & 3/3's
The best location.GUARANTEED
Reserve NOW for fall! 338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
1 & 2's * AFFORDABLE RATES!
1 BR/1 BA $469 * 2BR/1 BA $569
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Adopted pets live free!! 2 Pools!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOW or FALL 2010.
2/2 from $1019 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool W/D Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$699 2/2-$799 3/2-$869
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464
4-21-71-2
P P OLOS
Three Bus Routes (9,34,35,36)!
1.5m to UF, Shand's, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$799 3/3-$979
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-21's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75 SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 4-21-
71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
SORORITY ROW 2BR
2BR/2.5BA for $1199
W/D & utils included. We <3 pets!
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF-
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees *We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
BRAND NEW REDUCED RATES!
1's, 2's, 3's
Inclusive Pkgs Available
* Pet Friendly!
Immediate or Fall Move In
352-374-3866
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $505 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$419 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2*3/3*4/4
Rates from $386*Close to UF
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$600 -W/D ind
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 2-19-10-75-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 2-5-10-
62-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -WE'VE GOT IT ALL!
1/1 from $589 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis*1 mile to UF*Huge Laundry Facilities
377-7401 * www.biketouf.com
4-21-09-71-2
BLOCKS TO UF
Available August 2010. Now showing
multiple houses. 2BR/2BA, 3BR/2BA,
4BR/3BA, 5BR/3BA. www.dalyproperties.
com or call Carol 359-3341 2-26-10-43-2
Move-In Now & Walk to UF
2BR $300/br * 1 BR $599 * Studio $720
Dorm style $509 Roommate Matching Avail
www.ForRentNearUF.com * 352-376-6223
4-21-71-2
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 13
Rent For rrRent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
100+ apts: Live by UF
Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $540;
1BR $465. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $490;
2BR $590 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
$199 Move-In Special
$500-$700 2 bed/1 bath
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or (352)505-9264 2-17-10-
30-2
Holiday Special/ Valentine's Day
NO MOVE-IN COSTS -Free Rent
(Don't Pay Anything til 2/14/10)
Please Hurry. Only A Few Units Avail!
(We speak Spanish) 352 240-9009
2-12-09-27-2
Rocky Point Apts 3100 sw 35th pl- 376-1619
Country Garden 2001 sw 16th st- 373-4500
Regency Oaks 3230 sw Archer rd 378-5766
Southwest Villas 3643 sw 20 ave 336-9000
Archer Woods 3020 sw Archer rd- 373-8727
2-12-09-27-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
Cute & Clean! Vintage 1-BR with wood floors
& great front porch in quiet NW area. Walk to
Ward's, Publix & buslines, bike to downtown
& UF. Avail. NOW! $575/mo. 352-338-7670
or email shepley@cozygator.com 2-5-10-
21-2Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 2-12-10-25-2
One Block to UF:2/2.5 bath townhouse. W/D,
Dishwasher, Garbage Disposal, wood floors,
ceiling fans, GUARANTEED Parking call
Todd at 514-4915, VERY Nice townhouse
2-26-10-33-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1st Nice large
4BR/2BA house. Big bedrooms, big living rm.
W/D provided, game rm $1425/mo. 2100 NW
8th Court. Call for diretions. Pets ok, fenced
yard. Other houses available 352-339-2342
2-5-10-18-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1075
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111 4-21-
65-2
* One Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $499 2/1 $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/1 from $599 2/2 from $699
Additional $200 off next month
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
0 -
'G ml n |li'l Copyr gh0d MM erImsluaOne Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Sunrise Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $509 Additional $200 off the next month.
NO APP FEE. Near UF, Shands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 $599
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Villas at Ashton Square
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/2 $719 3/2 $849
Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Summer Place Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $519
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Sundowne Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Studio $469 1/1 $519
Walk to Butler Plaza and Regal Cinemas
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Gator Village Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1/1 $489
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Walk to UF. Openings in Feb, May & Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
2-26-10-32-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
2-11-10-20-2
*2/1 Brandywine $495 sm. pet ok***
water incl. $495 dep required.Near UF,
Shands, VA. On bus route.
Short term ok. (4-6 or 15 mo)
AVAIL NOW 352.284.2654
2-5-10-15-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
GOT ROACHES?
Buy Harris Famous Roach Tablets.
Guaranteed to kill. Available at: Zells
Hardware, 3727 West University 3-17-10-
35-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
1001 SW 16th Ave.
2BR 1BA APT $560/mo incl. water, sewer,
pest control, garbage. Top floor, carpet, large
windows. Walk to UF or take RTS 13, 16 or
17. 407-922-0029 2-5-11-21/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 2-4-10-
10-2
Move in Special: No Security Deposit
2/2 Condo with washer/dryer, screened-
in porch, newer condo, near UF. Shands,
located off 34th & Archer Rd. 2 units
available $750/mo. Call 317-5060 215-5996
3-1-10-27-2
2BR/1BA Duplex, WALK to SF College.
Tile Floors, Newly remodeled kitchen, pri-
vate parking, fenced in yard. Rent $600/mo.
Deposit $300. Pet Deposit $200. Please call
352-278-2897. 2-8-10-10-2
Available now. HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo. All
4BR/2BA $1100/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183
2-8-10-10-2
450/mo -Roommate Wanted in new 2/2 -
On Newberry & nw55th st -cable/net/utilities
NOT included-NO PETS-Grad student pre-
ferred-close to campus-bus route#5 -Email
ajkgator@ufl.edu 2-4-10-7-2
***HOUSE 4BR/2BA***
Available 8/1. Lovely, remodeled. W/D. Bike
to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. $1400/
mo. 373-1558, 246-8645, or 256-8370 2-9-
10-10-2
Available Now. 2BR duplex behind Norman
Hall. Cent H/AC, ceiling fans, $625/mo. $500
sec dep. 1117 SW 7th Ave. No dogs. Call
372-4903 or 917-416-6968 2-4-5-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Large 4BR/2BA house,
Wash/dry provided, privacy fenced, pets ok,
full sized hot tub on back screened porch,
dishwasher, carport, $1600/mo. 3413 NW
8th Ave 352-339-2342 2-5-10-5-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. 3BR/1BA house. Nice.
Nine blocks from campus, wash/dry pro-
vided, cent H/AC fenced private backyard,
hardwood floors, detached garage. $1125/
mo. 924 NW 9th Ave. 352-339-2342 2-5-
10-5-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Nice 4BR/2BA house.
Close to campus, hardwood floors, wash/dry
provided, private back yard, fireplace, central
heat/air. 352-339-2342. $1550/mo. 1105 NW
10th Ave. Plenty of parking. 2-5-10-5-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Clean modern 4BR/2BA
house. fenced backyard, pets ok, fireplace,
wash/dry provided, wooded private big yard.
$1425/mo, central heat/air. 2606 NW 34th
Street. 352-339-2342 2-5-10-5-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Clean nice 4BR/2BA
house, privacy fenced backyard, pets ok,
hardwood floors, fireplace, plenty of parking,
wash/dry provided, dishwasher, cent heat/air
$1400/mo 830 NW 16th Ave 352-339-2342
2-5-10-5-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. 4BR/2BA clean nice
house 1 block from campus. Hardwood
floors, wash/dry provided, fireplace, modern
bathrooms. $1800/mo 1203 SW 1st Ave.
352-339-2342 2-5-10-5-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. 3BR/2BA house one
block from campus, hardwood & tile floors,
wash/dryer provided, fireplace, dishwasher,
modern baths 110 SW 12th St. $1350/mo
352-339-2342 2-5-10-5-2
829 NW 41 Ave. 3BR/1BA house. Garage,
fenced yard, washer & dryer, pets ok. $800/
mo Deposit $800. Call 352-335-1788, 222-
3056 2-5-10-5-2
3BR/2BA house. Huge fenced backyard. Pets
ok. Nice neighborhood. $925/mo. Please call
Kathie at 378-3082 2-9-10-7-2
Near Campus. 1/1 Cute with Washer/Dryer
and Dishwasher. Safe. Second floor of
Tumbling Creek on SW 9th st. Pets w/ de-
posit. First and $500 Security Deposit to
move in. Call 352-375-7030. 2-11-10-8-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 3-31-37-2**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 3 bd/ 2 ba
Completely Remodeled
W/D inc. Spiral Staircase
Walk to Class, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
*Walk to Class & Stadium*
2/1, W/D, Granite Countertops
Hardwood Floors & Fireplace
Huge Bedrooms,Covered parking
$1300/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Large 5 Bedrm House**
1 full & 3-1/2 baths
Plant Atriums, Unique floorplan, W/D
Plenty of Parking, 8 blocks N of UF
$2,500/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 2-12-10-9-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
216 SW 12th St. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494 x10
2-12-10-9-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 2-12-10-9-2
3BR 1.5 BA Home off NW 16th
Ave. Tile Floors, Laundry Hkups,
Central H & Air. $750/Mo
319 NW 16th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 x10 2-12-10-9-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Walk to UF/Sorority Row 4bd/4.5ba
3 stories w/ 4 master suites. w/d incl.
Near corner of SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
2BD 1 BA WALK TO UF
Charming Quad near AGH
1005 SW 3rd Ave
Hardwood floors & parking
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
14, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4,2010
For Rent asesrnishings Computersunfurnished
NEWLY REMODELED
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer in. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
2-26-18-2
$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1BA
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands.
W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500sec., $495/
month. 3120 SW 26th Way Unit A. 562-2782
or 514-6869 if interested. 2-23-15-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $700/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220.
2-26-18-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home. Shady lot.
From $300 -$450/mo incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887 3-2-20-2
1 BR apt. for rent off Tower Rd. $385/mo. We
accept Section 8. We will pay you $500 cash
back for 1 year lease on Section 8. 352-498-
3035 3-2-10-20-2
705 NW 10th Avenue <9Blks from UF
3BR/1 BA, 8rooms + 400 sq.ft.porch, Central
A/C, W/D, $1,250 + util. Avail. Aug. 275-
1259, ATucker458@aol.com 3-5-10-22-2
SMALL CABIN 2/1, 20 ACRES
Watermelon Pond views. 27802 SW 120th
Lane, Newberry. Horse pens, dog door.
Needs work. $575/mo. $750 move-in 330-
329-8834 2-10-5-2Cabana Beach Sublease $300/month fur-
nished, private bath, including utilities. 4/4
with 2 current male roommates. W/D in unit,
24 hourfitness, lagoon pool. Available imme-
diately. 352-870-6231 2-9-5-3
1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $400/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished +
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 2-9-10-5-3
Roommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $299/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 4-21-09-71-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail now
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 2-9-
10-56-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
2-12-10-18-4
Female seeks roommate for 4/2.5 town-
house, cricket club, all included, no pets,
$400 954-557-4769 3-4-10-30-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
2-26-10-20-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsVA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$350/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220.
2-26-18-4
F Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
Subleases J SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551DON'T WAIT 4-21-71-5
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Gainesville Place sublease $300 per
month including utilities. 4/4 with only 2 cur-
rent roommates. 2 Bus stops within the com-
munity, 2 pools, 2 basketball courts, gym,
tanning center. 305-798-8303 2-5-10-7-3NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-71-
5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
HOUSE FOR SALE-N OF UF-1724 NW
7TH-AVAILABLE IN MAY; 3/2/1 WOOD &
TILE FLOORS W LGE MASTER STE, PKG
& ENTERTAINMENT AREAS; SCR. PORCH
(813)968-5804;(813)956-0487 $299,990
2-5-10-8-5
Summer Sublease Manufactured Homes. Won't Last
7 blocks from campus 3/2 -Great Community
$500 per month, utilities included Owner Financing
fully furnished $650.00/mo
678-315-0500 2-11-10-3 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5Manufactured Homes
3 and 2 beds avail/low down/low monthly
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes 2 & 3 bdr's
From $599.00/month
Owner Financing
Low down
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes. Move In Ready
3/2 Adorable
From $99.00/mo
Westside/owner finance
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured homes.
OWNER FINANCING
3 & 2 bedrooms avail
Great Locations
Call 352.378.4411 today! 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes. Up to $8K tax credit
For 1st time home buyers
3 & 2 bdrs avail
WE FINANCE
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
OPEN HOUSE EVERY SATURDAY
MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITIES
GREAT HOMES, GREAT PRICES
WE FINANCE, LOW DOWN,
LOW MONTHLY 904-400-0421,SUSAN
2-26-10-20-5
Manufactured Home Communities-
Jacksonville Use your tax refund
Get a 42" TV with purchase
Limited offer, call for details
904-400-0421 Susan 2-26-10-20-5
4BR/4BA fairly new condo for sale. Ideal for
students or family. Within 2 miles of every-
thing: school, shopping, library. Quick sale.
$139,000. University Terrace on 34th St. Call
941-232-1960 3-3-10-20-5
Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7OCERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECHO
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
2-26-10-34-7
Gator Computer Solutions, Inc. On-Site
Service. Microsoft Certified Professional.
UF IT Grad. MCSA, A+, Network+, XP,Vista,
Windows7 Certified. $35per/hr. NO Travel
Cost in G'ville! Call 352-338-0132 2-12-10-
20-7
Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
Copyr~ghIed Mater~a
Sydo0d ot~
Av a e10 foCommero m News Prvues
r a-
IS
U-computersFor Sale
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
For Sale Motorcycles, Mopeds Motorcycls,Mopeds Autos Autos
Affordable High Quality Recording.
Musical Engineers, Private Setting.
Starting at $25/hr 352 258 8557.
www.medusasounds.com 2-5-10-10
Motorcycles, Mopeds
***WWWRPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***Www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
OFAutos
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS 0
ORunning or not!O
*NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
0Over 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy6SellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
Placing your heartline
1i5 eaier than ever.
Visit www.alligator.org or fill out the
form below to place your heartline today!
PRAUGE'S Your Heartline will automatically be entered to win
) 1 i S t prizes! Judges will vote on the following:
PODROME Funniest V Most Sincere ? Mushiest V Best Poem Y Strangest
,n ' Each Category winner will recieve flowers and candy.9f~anuef s In addition, the Judge's Choice, picked from those win-Vintage '(om ners, will also win dinner for two and theater tickets.WE BUY JUN
Titles Only. Call K.T. (3
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & T
Call Anytime 352
2-26-09-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up
352-338-1999 4-
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cas
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
01 Kia Optima $1999 cash
96 Chevy Blazer $1999 cash
352-338-1999K CARE
52) 281-998
RUCKS
-339-515E
1-71-12
h
4-21-71-12
ace each: V
itional fee.
OK)
each.
e ad.
00
Deadline: February 5, 2010 fubliIhed February 12, 2010 Acct. # Exp. /
r------------d--------alligator THIS INFORMATION WILL NOT APPEAR IN THE AD.
BRING TO: Name
The Independent Fla. Alligator 373-FLIND AySres1105 W. University Ave. C73tyINT Zipy
Must arrive by 4pm Feb. 5, 2010 Phone
Allow I space for each letter, space and punctuation mark. Use 2 spaces for each capital letter.
I------------------------------------------I
I------------------------------------------II I
I------------------------------------------I
I------------------------------------------I
I------------------------------------------II I
Use the space below for additional lines at an additional charge of $2.00 per line.
I------------------------------------------II I
Attach additional paper for more lines if needed
Five (5) prizes will be awarded by five in-house judges. Deadline for submission is 4pm on Feb 5th. All Heartline messages placed will be automatically entered in the con- e fl.6de
rest. Winners will be notified prior to Feb 12th. Winners will be announced in the Feb 12th edition. Positive ID required to collect winnings. Officers, directors, employees &
their family members of the Alligator, or affiliates of the contest are not eligible to enter contest. You do not need to be present to win. Prized cannot be transferred. Gratuity Ii Z iL o r
and sales tax not included. Dinner certificate must be used by March 31, 2010. No purchase necessary to enter. Contact Classified Office for details.92 Plymouth Van $699 cash
94 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
0 92 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Kia Sephia $999 cash
8 98 Chrysler Cirrus $999 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
98 Ford Explorer $1900
97 Mits Diamonte $1999
94 Toyota Camry $1499
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
98 Ford Contour $2500
98 Dodge Ram $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
99 Saturn $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2500
00 Mercury Sable $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
02 Kia Rio $3900
03 Buick Century $4900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k, $8999CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k, $6999 CASH
2005 Chevy Monte Carlo, 43k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k, $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k, $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k, $5999 CASH
2003 Jaguar, 95k, $8999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
Toyota Corolla 1990 automatic 4-door, 246K
miles, radio, AC, heat, well maintained, local
only, $1500 cash, jbramb@gmail.com. 2-5-
10-3-12
Ml Wantd
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 2-11-10-71-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 2-1 1-
10-71-13l Read & Fill out all information completely
1The following symbols can be used and count as one sp
1 Bold, centered or larger type is also available for an add
1No obscene or foreign languages, or double entendres
No last names or identifiable descriptions (last initial is
1 No abbreviations of Valentine's Day
$6.00 for 5 lines. Additional lines $2.00
No refunds or credits after placing th
COST 1 DAY = $6.1
Additional Lines X $2.0 =
SUBTOTAL $
Centering of type or elements costs an
additional one time charge of $4.00.
Bold print in any or all of your ad costs
an additional 50% of the subtotal.
Have your ad published online for
an additional 50% of the subtotal
TOTAL COST $
Charge: MC VISA Cash: $ Check #
16, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4,2010
Wanted Help Wanted Help Wanted Health Services Entainment
MONEY 4 CLASS
The Social Site that
Pays $2.00 per invite.
www.mysocialclub.info
antonio.marshall35@yahoo.com 2-5-10-
5-13
LOOKING FOR LIVE-IN COMPANION JOB
to take care of the elderly. I have references
and can work up to seven days/week. Please
call 352-495-1438 2-6-10-5-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS
FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY
PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT
JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-6300
2-8-10-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14PART TIME WORK
Great Pay
Customer Sales/Service
Flexible Schedule
Scholarships/Internships
No experience Needed
Conditions apply,
CALL 352-371-9675
2-16-20-14
Sexy party promotions / Fantasy role play
/ Costume models $50 hr.+ to start, South
FL. Call 954-593-8120 No exp. req. Will
train, Full career support, Safe & legalSexy
only pls. (954)593-8120 for more info.
2-5-10-12-14
LATE NIGHT DRIVERS
$15-$17/hr 10pm -4am.
Apply @ gatordominos.com 4-21-10-60-14
TECHNICIANS NEEDED
FOR INDEPENDENT FILM
Exp in audio/visual work. Salary negotiable,
based on exp. 386-454-7170, 352-316-5642
2-8-10-10-14
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children.
FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA
in education. Benefits available with FT. Call
377-2290 or 373-1481 2-9-10-10-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Entertainment
352/672/1892 2-23-10-20-14
FARAHS ON THE AVENUE
Now hiring exp waitrons. FT/PT. No calls.
Apply 1120W. Univ. Ave. Mon-Thurs 2-4pm.
2-5-5-14
BARTENDER OPENINGS
Earn $150-250/day. No experience required.
Will train. Call now 352-678-5246 2-26-10-
20-14
No jobs available, but we buy LPs, CDs &
DVDs. (And we sell them, too!)
Hear Again Music and Movies
201 SE 2nd Ave. (Suite 105), 32601
352-373-1800
2-26-19-14
Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have a fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
NOW HIRING WAITSTAFF
with experience. No calls. Apply at 7038 NW
10th Place -between 2 & 4pm in person,
LaFiesta behind Red Lobster. 2-8-10-5-14
Marketing/Sales Coordinator. Local educa-
tional book publisher seeks experienced self-
starter to coordinate marketing, conferences,
and sales. Full-time, benefits, competitive
salary. Details: jgraddy@maupinhouse.com.
2-9-10-5-14
BUSY CHIROPRACTIC OFFICE
PT Front Desk Position -Fun, PC skills,
detail-oriented. Fax Resume, References,
Cover Letter drangelaleone@yahoo.com
fax 352-505-3485. No phone calls. 2-12-
10-5-14
Bartender
Meet new people work in an exciting
environment. Take home cash tips after
each shift. No experience necessary training
available. Call (877) 568-7296
2-19-10-12-14SUMMER IN MAINE
Males and females
Meet new friends! Travel!
Teach your favorite activity.
Tennis Swim
Canoe Sail
Waterski Kayak
Gymnastics Archery
Silver Jewelry Rocks
English Riding Ropes
Copper Enameling Art
Basketball Pottery
Field Hockey Office
Softball Photo
Newletter Soccer
Lacrosse Dance
Theater Costumer
June to August. Residential.
Enjoy our website. Apply on line
TRIPP LAKE CAMP for Girls:
1-800-997-4347
www.tripplakecamp.com
2-4-1-14
WE ServiceS
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
FREE CELL PHONE SERVICE! WOW
Mobile. Customers & Reps, Make Residual
Income, $7700/Day Realistically, Joshua:
352-359-3127. www.WOWMobile4all.com
2-5-5-15
WJHealth Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
MF Personal s
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
Ke WRidesM FEnter tainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-21-09-71-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
JUMBLEGMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
a 9%I
Copyrighted Materilal-
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers.11 a
0
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Donovan to face
former assistant
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
At least one apple didn't fall too far from Billy Donovan's
coaching tree.
Anthony Grant, a longtime assistant under Donovan, has tak-
en the reins at Alabama this season and will face his former men-
tor tonight at 7 when the Crimson Tide (13-8, 3-4 Southeastern
Conference) host the Gators (15-6, 4-3 SEC) in Tuscaloosa, Ala.
Grant coached under Donovan for 12 years, two at Marshall
and 10 at Florida, serving as the associate head coach on the 2005-
06 national championship team before taking his first head coach-
ing job at VCU the next season.
"Obviously my relationship with coach Donovan
is much bigger than basketball, but when the
game starts, it's a basketball game and it's the
guys on the court that really make the differ-
ence."
Anthony Grant
Alabama head basketball coach
After Grant left UF, Donovan told VCU athletics director Rich-
ard Sander he just made one of the biggest steals in the country, as
Grant should have been a head coach long before 2006.
"I was really surprised in a lot of ways that earlier on, he was
not approached more about being a head coach," Donovan said.
"I'd almost liken it to a little bit of the Charlie Strong situation,
where Charlie probably should have been a head coach a long
time ago. I think a lot can be said for Anthony in the same re-
spect."
Grant is one of four former assistants under Donovan to be-
come a head coach in recent years, along with Arkansas coach
John Pelphrey, Marshall coach Donnie Jones and Shaka Smart,
who took over at VCU when Grant signed on at Alabama.
Donovan and Grant have remained friends and still speak
with great admiration for each other, and both said this week
that their close relationship has made the buildup to their first
matchup that much more difficult.
"I don't like it," Grant said. "Obviously my relationship with Alligator File Photo
coach Donovan is much bigger than basketball, but when the Anthony Grant (left) served as an assistant under Billy Donovan for 12
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 19 years. They'll face each other tonight when Florida plays Alabama.
UF FOOTBALL
Gators round out recruiting class with lineman
By JAIME MANHEIMER
Alligator Writer
TAMPA -In front of friends and family,
Tampa Catholic High offensive lineman Chaz
Green made his college intentions known by
'Gator chomping.'
Green signed his letter of intent to play at
Florida at a ceremony at his high school, becom-
ing the 28th and last member of the Gators'2010
class.
At 6-foot-6, 290 pounds, Florida is getting an
impact lineman who can't wait to arrive in The
Swamp."I'm looking forward to running onto the
field on game day," Green said. "I'm ready to
come in and work hard."
Green has always been
known for his attributes off
the field but needs to im-
prove in certain areas to suc-
ceed at the next level.
"The Gators are getting
a great player, with a great
Green work ethic, and great natural
ability," Green's high school
coach, Bob Henriquez, said. "He needs to get
stronger, he's a great pure athlete, and he hasto learn how to really play the position. Right
now, I think his pass blocking is a little ahead
of his run blocking ability, but going up against
bigger stronger guys in practice is going to help
him get better."
Henriquez remembers Green as a 6-foot-5 ju-
nior, whose main sport was basketball. He had
just transferred from Palm Harbor High where
he played defensive end and tight end.
"When I first met Chad he was about 260
and had a deep basketball background," Hen-
riquez said. "He came to me and asked 'Coach
SEE RECRUIT, PAGE 19UF kicks off
three-game
homestand
U THE GATORS HOST NO. 22
VANDERBILT TONIGHT AT 7.
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@alligator org
Three home games in a row for the
Gators could mean one thing: a spike
in business at Jimmy John's Gourmet
Sandwiches on University Avenue.
That's where guard Jordan Jones
stops to eat as part of her routine before
home games.
UT (12-9, 5-3 Southeastern Confer-
ence) starts a three-game home stint to-
night at 7 by hosting No. 22 Vanderbilt
(16-6, 5-4 SEC).
Coach Amanda Butler expects this
game to be one of the most physical
games for her team this season, if not
the most physical.
She stressed the Commodores' intel-
ligence, pointing out how they rarely
run set plays, rendering them more
unpredictable and harder to gameplan
against than most teams.
Add the fact that four of Vander-
bilt's starting five are
upperclassmen, and
it's no wonder Butler
stressed the need for
Women's her team to be defen-
Basketball sively aware.
Without sets to
look at on film, the
Gators will be looking at defensive con-
cepts: how to handle a certain screen or
what to do when a certain Commodore
is on the perimeter as opposed to trying
to anticipate the play because of Van-
derbilt's dribble drive offense.
Limiting Vanderbilt's looks from
behind the three-point line will be
paramount, as will limiting the Com-
modores' transition- and half-court of-
fense.
Against the Rebels, UF surrendered
a 17-point lead on transition buckets
and three-pointers before reclaiming
the lead.
"There can't be a worse feeling than
having a huge lead and thinking 'We
got this' and we worked so hard for
that lead and then end up on the wrong
side of it," Jones said. "I don't want to
find out the hard way against Vandy
that we had a big lead and we blow it."
Since the Gators can't memorize the
Commodores, they are focusing on de-
SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 19
FSU RECRUITING
* Rank: No. 10 (Rivals.com)
* Breakdown: 24 total, two five-stars,
eight four-stars and 18 three-stars
* Key players: DB Lamarcus Joyner, LB
Christian Jones, LB Jeff LucMIAMI RECRUITING
* Rank: No. 24 (Rivals.com)
* Breakdown: 28 total, zero five-stars, six
four-stars and 18 three-stars
* Key players: RB Storm Johnson, OT Mal-
colm Bunche, DT Tavadis GlennUSC RECRUITING
* Rank: No. .(Rivals.com)
* Breakdown: 20 total, five five-stars,
14 four-stars, one three-star
* Key players: OT Seantrel Hender-
son, WR Kyle Prater, ATH Rob WoodsALABAMA RECRUITING
* Rank: No. 5 (Rivals.com)
* Breakdown: 26 total, one five-star,
15 four-stars, nine three-stars
* Key players: DB DeMarcus Milliner,
CB John Fulton, QB Phillip SimsI r51 ft'i"
18, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4,2010
Linebacker
Coconut Grove Ransom
Eerglades
6-foot-2, 197 pounds
No 33 outside linebacker
Alagbe played running
back in high school, and
he'll bring 4 6-second 40-
u yard dash speed to the
Ajagbe liebacking corps
Cest Pam Beach Dwyer
HIgh
6-foot-3 232 pounds
*Enrolled at UF
Chnistian s an impressive
athlete, and withcsome
G e ra Iu polishing up, he could be
Christian a starter next season
W de receiver
M ami Booker T
Washington High
6-foot-3, 170 pounds
No 24 wide receiver
Dunbar needs to add
-4 some weight, but he has
great hands and epIn&U~i !MnonI abilityDunbar
*Defensive tackle
Philadelphia (Pa ) George
Washington High
6-foot-3, 311 pounds
*No I1defensive tackle
Floyd can succeed by just
bowling his opponents
.over, but with some-Sharrif- proved technique, he's
F yd set to be a starDespite uncertainty surrounding coach Urban Meyer's future, Florida pulled
in the nation's No. I recruiting class, according to Scout.com and ESPN.com.
The Gators landed 28 prospects, including 11 ranked in Rivals.com's top-100
overall recruits.
All rankings and photos from Rivals.com
Defensive end
Jackson (Ga ) High
6-foot-3, 196 pounds
No 19weakside
defensive end
E rolled at UF
Ball also played LB, but
-Iron he's better at rushingN n the quarterback than
Ball defending the pass
Wide receiver
West PalIm Bea ch Dwye r
5-foot-9, 161 
pounds
Enr oiled at UF
Clark is unheralded, but
then, so was Brandon,
James He'll likely need toRober make his mark on special
Clark teams
Wide receiver
Pahokee High
5-foot-11, 170 pounds
No 9 wide receiver
Dunkley is another
elusive wideout who the
Gators hope will develop
V ghri into a Percy Harvin-like
Dunkle playmaker
Dunk.y 
.Running back
Lithonia (Ga ) King High
5-foot-11, 190 pounds
No 13 running back
Brown is the first all-
purpose back to choose
UF out of high schoolMack under Urban Meyer
Brown
*Wide receiver
Baltimore (Md ) City
College High
6-foot-2, 195 pounds
No 35 receiver
Coxson uses strength
1 and "football speed" asria a substitute for blazing
Coxa n accelerationCoxson
Defensive tackle
Staten Island (N Y) Curtis
High
6-foot-3, 270 pounds
No 2 defensive tackle
Easley was MVP of* the UnderArmourAll-
American Game, and hisDominique quickness off the ball
Easley could make him a forceQuarterback
Venice High
6-foot-3, 214 pounds
No 18 dual-threat
quarterback
Enrolled at UF
Burton has the
athleticism to succeed,Trey but his accuracy will need
Burton some work
Bradenton Southeast
High
6-foot-4at 185epounds
l ha Dowling is a great all-
around athlete, but his
,Jnt n instincts lend him to a
Dowln career in the secondary
Safety
West Palm Beach Dwyer
High
5-foot-10, 199 pounds
No 2 safety
E nrolled at UF
Elam will be used at
safety, though Meyer saidmattl& he could see a little time
Elam at unning back
Offensive lineman Safety
Tampa Catholic High Fort Washington (Md
6-foot-6, 290 pounds Friendly High
No 6 offensive tackle 6-foot-2, 202 pounds
No 12 safety
The last addition to the Enrolled at UF
class, Green's height
will make him an ideal Haden isn't big but like
Sa1 prospect at tackle, wherehis brotheroe, he .Chaz he'lprovide depth Jorda strongand fast enough to Darrin
Green Haden hang with most receivers KitchensLinebacker
Homestead High
6-foot-3, 215 pounds
No 71 outside linebacker
Kitchens has the speed
and agility needed to play
on the outside, but he'll
need to improve his pass
coverage skills
Tight end
Tampa Blake High
6-foot-6, 230 pounds
No 24 tight end
*A former basketball
player McFarland has the
frame to be an effective
tight end, but he needs toel get stronger firstQuarterback
Wethersfield (Conn ) High
6-foot-2, 190 pounds
No rating
Murphy adds some depth
at quarterback as a dual
threat, but look for his
athleticism to be used
elsewhere
MurnhvDefensive tackle
New Port Richey Gulf High
6-foot-5, 344 pounds
No 11 defensive tackle
Enrolled at UF
Orr is huge, but he's agile
for his size He played
tight end as well, whichLeon gives a pretty clear ideanr of ohis skill set i-Solomon
PnttnnWide receiver
Mobile (Ala ) S S Murphy
High
5-foot-9, 167 pounds
W No 45 wide receiver
E nrolled at U F
Despite his small stature,
Patton is versatile and
can make catches over
the middleI- 
-Itiv
Teams run similar schemes on offense, defense
HOOPS, from page 17
game starts, it's a basketball game and it's the guys on the court
that really make the difference."
Having worked together for more than a decade, Grant and
Donovan developed similar coaching styles, and their teams
run many of the same plays and defensive sets. Donovan said
the Gators and Tide will employ most of the same concepts to-
night, with the differences due to the teams' personnel.
UF will look to get its guards back on track after a shaky per-
formance against Tennessee on Sunday, while Alabama will
rely on the inside-outside combo of guard Mikhail Torrance
(15.1 points, 5.5 assists per game) and forward JaMychal Green
(14.6 points, 7.2 rebounds per game)."We're doing a lot of similar things on offense and defense,"
Donovan said. "In a lot of ways, preparation-wise, there will be
some concepts that our guys totally understand."
While at UF, Grant recruited guard Ken-
ny Boynton as a ninth and 10th grader, andS the freshman made strong comparisons be-tween Donovan and his prot6g6.Men's "Alabama's more of a team that plays just
Basketball like us with coach Grant," Boynton said. "He
coaches just like coach Donovan."
"They're running basically the same stuff
that we run," Boynton added. "I think he's a great coach -a
lot like coach Donovan. That's who he learned from, so they're
a lot alike."
UF looks to match Sunday's hot shooting output
WHOOPS, from page 17
fensive principles and knowing Vander-
bilt's personnel.
That starts with senior Merideth
Marsh (14.9 points per game), who ex-
ploded for 26 points last time against
UF.
Nearly a year later, the Gators haven't
forgotten about her offensive threat,
which has grown with her ball-handling
skills and evolution into a more complete
player."She's one of the reasons why they're
playing sophysically,"
she said. "She's one of
the ones that really
sets the tone for that."
Jence Rhoads com-
pliments Marsh with
13 points per game.[J If there's any game
Rhoads the Gators have rea-
son to go in feeling
good about their offense, it's tonight's
game, coming off a 48-percent shootingeffort on Sunday.
Look no further than the individual
workouts during Florida's bye week last
week, when players started 30-minute
individual workouts that had shooters
drenched in sweat at the end.
"The more practice and reps you get,
the more confident you are," Butler said.
"Shooting is about confidence, so yeah -
picking up a couple extra hundred shots
in a week, should you feel better going
into that week's game? Absolutely, and
that's what we saw."
Start Your Career
in Accounting.
r a
Northeastern's MS in Accounting/MBA
for non-accounting majors:
.Earn two degrees in just 15 months.
* Complete a 3-month paid residency at a leading
accounting firm.
* Proven track record of 100% job placement.
Take the first step.
Visit us online or at an information session near you. Learn
more about the program and upcoming events at:
www.msamba.neu.edu.
617-373-3244
g sa aneu.edu Northeastern UniversityUF Office of Sustainability and Neutral Gator will be on hai
to provide "Green" tips for fans!
Gator Sports Management Club Challenge!
Members of the GSMC are invited to attend the game and ei
Lose weight by Spring Break
Alliance
Permanent Weight Loss Program
Healthy lifestyle alterations
developed for your
individual needs by
Physicians & Medical Practitioners
Appetite Suppression Medication
No special foods or starvation -
We show you how to be healthy
and lose weight at the same time.
ALL Medications and Injections included.
Call Donna at (352) 337-3961
for information & appointments
www.AllianceWeightLoss.comYAtGLARXNE/
Butler Plaza Newberry are
3351232 332-3937
Want a bigger
piece of the
pie?
-HANDE~a@ @
Pam Carpenter
Alachua County Supervisor of Elections
www.VoteAlachua.com
(352) 374-5252THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Green chose Florida
over USC, Tennessee
RECRUIT, from page 17
what posihon do you think I should be playing?'
I responded by saying 'Chaz, if you play your
cards right you can be playing offensive tackle on
Sundays,' and he gave me a look that showed me
he had a little doubt."
Henriquez then assured Green of his poten-
tial.
"I said 'Chaz, let's be realistic,"' Henriquez
said. "I told him he'd be 290 (pounds) by spring
of his junior year. He came back from Christmas
break and we were having a workout and I asked
him how much he weighed. He said 290. The rest
is history.
"And since then, with all of his athletic ability,
he's been so determined to get better everyday. "
Green, a four-star recruit according to Rivals.
com, had offers from USC, Tennessee and Ohio
State before he ultimately chose Florida.
Also highlighting Tampa Catholic's signings
was Green's teammate Christian Green. The four-
star athlete had Florida in his top-three schools,
according to Rivals.com, but went with FSU.
20, ALLIGATOR 0 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4,2010
"U"-turn to UF
Gators pick up recruits out of Miami
By JAIME MANHEIMER
Alligator Writer
The city of Miami has always been a trend-
setter, especially on the gridiron.
Since 1999, one trend has been Miami
Northwestern High's annual beatdown of in-
ner-city rivals Booker T. Washington High.
Until, on Oct. 3, Booker T. Washington
upset nationally ranked Northwestern 35-28.
At the end of the game, two of Washing-
ton's top prospects, four-star defensive end
Lynden Trail and wide receiver Quinton
Dunbar, went to midfield and started a cheer
that was unfamiliar to most residents of the
area to celebrate their team's first win over its
rival since 1999.
Instead of throwing up the "U" sign, they
started "Gator chomping."
"I was committed to the Gators for about
six months (before the Northwestern game),
and I had the Gators in my heart and knew
that's where I wanted to be," Trail said.
"When I put the hat on and went to the mid-
dle of the field to do the chomp, it felt like
reality was setting in, and I knew I wanted to
be a Gator."
Trail, who has been committed to Florida
since October, convinced Dunbar to switch
his oral commitment from Miami to Florida.
"Don't get me wrong. I love UM," Dun-
bar said. "I felt like I was going to UM for
the wrong reasons. Outsiders expected it and
were telling me to go to Miami. So I decided
to de-commit and go back to the whole re-
cruiting process and see what was out there
for me.
"When I came up to Gainesville (for an of-
ficial visit), I fell in love with it and knew I
wanted to play here for the next four years."Starting the Trend
Former Miami coach Howard Schnel-
lenberger popularized recruiting in Miami-
Dade County during the 1980s and turned
an ailing program at Miami into one of the
nation's most attractive.
Now, Miami-Dade County is one of the
most popular recruiting spots in the country,
an important title for the community.
"It's not just big, it's a way of life," Rivals.
com recruiting analyst Jamie Newberg said.
"Those kids take pride in how they play, the
programs they play for and the outcomes of
games. You got some really great programs
down there that have won not only state
championships, but national championships
as well. Those are great programs down
there."
Since Schnellenberg-
er's tenure as coach of
the Hurricanes, the
county's top pros-
pects have usually
remained loyal to UF defend
their hometown team.
"Typically those players (from Miami)
usually stay home and play for the 'Canes,"
Newberg said. "These guys usually want to
play for Miami, and the reasons are pretty
clear. [The Hurricanes] have a great tradition,
they put a truckload of guys into the NFL and
there is always that Miami persona."
Switching Loyalties
Trail and Dunbar plan on bringing that
Miami swagger with them to The Swamp.
"The Miami swag is one of the best swags
you can ask for," Trail said. "We bring great
competitiveness, we bring goofiness, but we
also bring seriousness. And when it comes
down to it, we have that drive to always win,and we're never going to lay down."
Both Trail and Dunbar hold the Hur-
ricanes close to their hearts and still feel a
special connection to the team they grew up
watching, even though they signed with the
Gators.
"Growing up in Miami, everybody loves
the Hurricanes," Trail said. "I grew up
watching UM, and my godfather is a huge
Hurricanes fan, and he brainwashed me a bit
to think the Hurricanes are the greatest team
of all time. But the bottom line is, when you
get down to the recruiting process you can go
with either your first love or that other option
which sometimes comes up and gives you a
better opportunity."
Even though Dunbar and Trail still hold a
special bond with the Hurricanes, they want
to pioneer a new trend, where Miami-Dade
players adopt the Gators as their team.
"Everybody expects us to go to Miami,"
Dunbar said.
"Lynden and
I had a better
situation for
us to play at
sive end Lynden Trail Florida, and we want to
show other Miami players that they don't
have to go to Miami. It's okay to go away
from home."
And Miami-Dade players are already
adopting the trend.
According to Newberg, out of 20 four-star
prospects in South Florida, Miami has only
two commitments from the group.
"It's absolutely shocking to me," Newberg
said. "It's a real head-scratcher."
The Gators aren't the only team that has
benefited from the plethora of talent in South
Florida.
Florida State signed five-star defensive
back Lamarcus Joyner (Ft. Lauderdale St.
Thomas Aquinas) and four-star linebacker
Jeff Luc (Port St. Lucie Treasure Coast High).West Virginia has also recruited well in
South Florida.
Last year, the Mountaineers brought in
four-star dual-threat quarterback Eugene
Smith (Miramar High). This year, they
signed four-star wide receiver Ivan McCart-
ney, Smith's former teammate.
"One thing you have to recognize is that
not everybody from South Florida can go to
Miami," Newberg said. "So that really opens
the door for other schools to recruit down
there."
Reloading the Gators
Next year, the Gators will be without
Heisman-winning quarterback Tim Tebow.
The team's identity has yet to be deter-
mined, but UF's 2010 recruiting class is built
around defense.
"[Florida's] identity depends on how their
team evolves," said Newberg. "The keys are
going to be turned over to (quarterback) John
Brantley, and he can't do it by himself so the
receivers have to step up. If they don't step
up, I imagine the team will be characterized
as a team whose offense struggles and wins
by defense."
Dunbar plans on being able to step up and
have an immediate impact on the field, while
Trail has done plenty of talking to other Flor-
ida recruits.
"The main thing I tell [recruits undecided
between UF and UM] is that they will have a
much better chance to play," Trail said. "The
main things we need are receivers. Randy
Shannon came out and said that there were
only a limited number of positions open at
UM.
"So what I did was start calling a lot of re-
cruits letting them know we need help at the
receiver position."
The 2010 Gators will feature a lot of new
faces on both sides of the ball, but those new
faces hope to bring back some old hardware.
Where DVD's Are Always
Buy One Get Two FREE!
Butler Plaza -Next to McAllister's Deli
1124 W UNIVERSITY AVE
505-0224STUDENT LOANS ON ANYTHING!
* TV's 9 Stereo's 9 Jewelry 
*
Musical Instruments -Tools
We buy gold & cash checks
BEST JEWELRY & LOAN
523 NW 3rd Ave. (352) 371-4367
pawn brokers
GOOD AT UNIVERSITY
LOCATION ONLY.
NOT VALID WITH DELIVERY.
LIMIT 1 PER VISIT.
EXPIRES 03/02110$2&$ 1i)WNTOWV,,
Regular PriceB LDERSHEOTE
15 W.University Ave. 1 (352) 373-4841
1 I r': NJ FR 6 pm
www.DTBarbershop.com
Gerard donated in his
mother's name.
His gift provided shelter for
the Tyler family after a fire.
Support the Red Cross
and save a life, starting
with your own.
Call 1-800-RED CROSS
or visit redcross.org
AmericanHEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATE ES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShield
of FloridaAdil~-Ll-,I t 373-0775
ED 131-C".". "d3;.lti
3669 S.W. 2nd AvenueFor Number 1533599SU
