the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 82 We Inform. You Decide.Scy e t7'*
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2010
Community shaken by earthquake in Haiti
* TWO UF STUDENTS WERE
IN HAITI WHEN THE
EARTHQUAKE TOOK PLACE.
By ELIZABETH BERHMAN,
KATHERINE FINNEY and
KIMBERLY CARPEL
Alligator Writers
UF graduate students Roman
Safiullin and Jon Bougher were
due to return from Haiti Tuesday.
But after an estimated 7.0-mag-
nitude earthquake shook Port-au-
Prince Tuesday, their whereabouts
had yet to be determined Wednes-
day.
"Everybody is trying to fig-
ure out where they might be,"
said profes-International sor Churchill
News Roberts, their
adviser.
Roberts said he spoke with the
families of the two students and no
one has been able to get in contact
with them after Tuesday's disas-
ter.
Safiullin and Bougher were in
Haiti filming a documentary about
an organization building a school
at an orphanage.
The film is part of their thesis
work in The Documentary Insti-
tute at the College of Journalism
and Communications.
The organization, Planting
Peace, was founded by Aaron Jack-
son and John Dieubon.
Roberts said he was able to get
in contact with some friends andcolleagues of Dieubon, and they
told him Dieubon was unhurt dur-
ing the earthquake.
"We think because our two stu-
dents are with this guy that they're
OK too," Roberts said.
Roberts said the students, who
had been in Haiti since Sunday,
were staying five to 10 minutes
away from the airport in Port-au-
Prince.He said he heard the airport Other UF students are also wait-
did not suffer as much damage as
some other structures in the area
and hopes the students were lucky
enough to escape major harm.
"We're all hoping for the best,"
Roberts said. "We are all quite anx-
ious and concerned. We won't rest
until we've heard the definite word
that they're OK,butwe [didn'thear]
any bad news [Wednesday]."ing for news of their families and
loved ones.
Perp6tua Ch6ry, a UF junior,
heard news about the earthquake
Tuesday at 5 p.m. and has been
trying to contact her family since
then.
She learned the condition of her
grandfather in Haiti from a cousin
in France.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Al ' lOtO
People search for survivors under the rubble of a collapsed building Wednesday after an earthquake
struck Port-au-Prince, Haiti, on Tuesday. The 7.0-magnitude earthquake flattened the president's pal-
ace, the cathedral, schools, hospitals, the main prison and whole neighborhoods."This is really frustrating,"
Ch6ry said, "Since we're having
difficulties getting communication
with Haiti."
She was still awaiting news on
the rest of her family Wednesday.
An e-mail sent by UF President
Bernie Machen Wednesday said
two UF faculty members in Haiti,
Florence Sergile and Ed Hanlon,
are safe.
UF organizations and local Red
Cross and Salvation Army chap-
ters are asking students to donate
money.
Del Villasane, an emergency
services intern at The American
Red Cross's chapter in Gainesville,
suggested students make monetary
donations so charities can effective-
ly use the money to meet the food
and medical needs of Haitians.
Steve Dick, development direc-
tor for The Salvation Army of Flor-
ida, agreed with Villasane.
"At this point, because of the
chaotic situation, they are still try-
ing to determine people's needs,"
Dick said. "The most quick and
efficient way is monetary dona-
tions."
Student Body President Jordan
Johnson said he wants students to
know Student Government will
support and assist any students
and student organizations want-
ing to help.
He said the tragedy in Haiti has
personally touched many students'
lives, and he encouraged them to
be there for one another and make
SEE HAITI, PAGE 8
Police issue arrest warrant for Gators linebacker
Doe failed to complete service hours cense and driving without a valid license.His first charge came
By KATHERINE BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
A warrant has been issued for the arrest
of former Gators linebacker Dustin Doe
after he failed to complete court-ordered
community service hours.
The warrant was issued Jan. 5, four
days after Doe helped push the Gators tovictory in the Sugar Bowl.
According to court documents, Doe was
found guilty of driving with a suspended
license last August.
Doe was sentenced to 29 hours of com-
munity service and six months of unsuper-
vised probation.
According to Alligator archives, Doe
pled guilty to driving with a suspended li-with a sentence of a year
of unsupervised proba-
tion, a $300 fine and 16
hours of work detail.
The second charge re-
sulted in six months of
Doe unsupervised probation,
another $300 fine and an-
other eight hours of work detail.Doe, who has played for the Gators for
three seasons, was temporarily suspended
from playing with the Gators in July and
from participating in the first game of the
2009 season, according to Alligator ar-
chives.
Doe paid all of his fines but failed to
complete his service hours in the time al-
lotted, according to court documents.
The Associated Press contributed to this
article.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersToday
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 9
CLASSIFIEDS 13 Partly
CROSSWORD 16
SPORTS 18cloudy
69/44
visit www.alligator.org* Tennessee
coach Pat Summitt
brings her team
to Gainesville to
take on the Gators
tonight. The Volun-
teers are looking to
redeem last years
rare loss to UF on
the road.
See Story, Page 18.
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 14,2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Museum Nights
Thursday, 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Ham Museum of Art
Participate in art-making ac-
tivities and a scavenger hunt in
the galleries. Admission is free.
For more information, visit www.
ham.ufl.edu.
Got an event?
Andwant topost it inthis space?
Send an e-mail to efuggetta@alliga- * ---
tor.org with "What's Happening"
in the subject line. Please include
a one- to two-sentence synopsis of
the event. Make sure all submis-
sions are formatted properly.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
. . or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
Best Jewelry and Loan
523 NW 3rd Ave Pawn Brokers371-4367 -371-CEMS
A _ 1-E A-D.
Advertise in the country's
largest college newspaper.
With a daily circulation of 35,000
and a daily readership of 52,000,
reach the Gainesville college
community.
FEEL THE BENEFITS.
-Contact us at [352] 373.4482. -
allitglora the independent florida
Notoficill
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 82 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Flonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta @alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner, jmisner@alligator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tilb, ctillo@alligator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ashley Hemmy, Amanda Milligan,
Emily Morrow, Paul Runnestrand
Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Shaun O'Connor
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Natasha Dykes, Brittany Fayne,
Stephanie Howick, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSIN ESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Flonda Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions IncHEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
.insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIA TES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShield
of Florida3733-775
Form Number: 18533-599SU 3669 S.W. 2nd Avenue
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
Floridians to get tax holiday for first time in 2 years
* TAX BREAK COULD COST
THE STATE ALMOST $44M.
By CINDY TAVERAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two years ago, Gov. Charlie
Crist and state legislators nixed the
back-to-school tax-free holiday be-
cause state revenues were low.
But now, as state revenues areprojected to rise, they are trying to
reenact the 11-day tax break.
According to the latest execu-
tive summary of the Office of Eco-
nomic & Demographic Research,
Florida's revenue is predicted to
be about 6.6 percent more than it
was last year.
But reviving the tax break could
cost the state nearly $44 million.
Fandre Miron, an executive
manager of the Softlines clothing
line for Target on Archer Road,said she looks forward to the tax
holiday.
"I think it's a
great idea, espe-
cially for parents
who have more
than one kid,"
she said.
But not every
Crist store gets to en-
joy the advantag-
es of the back-to-school tax break.
The general manager of TheFlorida Book Store, Nandy Fergu-
son, said college bookstores don't
benefit as much as stores that cater
to high schools, middle schools or
elementary schools.
"It's always a week or two too
late for our students to take advan-
tage of it," she said.
During a press conference Jan.
4, the governor and state legisla-
tures said that they want to restore
the tax break because it will gener-
ate economic growth in the future.However, UF economics pro-
fessor Mark Rush doesn't agree.
Although he hasn't seen the
study yet, he said he thinks only
some of the state revenue loss will
be recouped in the future.
He also thinks the governor
and legislatures could have ulte-
rior motives for restoring the tax
break.
"It's popular with the voters,
which makes it popular with the
politicians," he said.
Butler Plaza NewberryS uare
335-1232 332-3937
UPDATE
3E orgamzaunwnl lue Hgness utnutur total wUt irei - Pam Carpentera monetary donation to their overall DNi total! . Alachua County Supervisor of Elections
A.g= '"g""mp"d"" phC a C. Iwww.VoteAlachua.com
.__-._._ ._._._-._- _(352) 374-5252
|Your VIP Pass G eil
Bring in this coupon to redeem your pass & HRegister to win a free personal training gift card. Health &. Fitness*'
Newberry Road 377-4955 e Tioga 692-2180 * GHF For Women 374-4634
[SRA \I First time local Uests. 18 years and older. Expires February 28. 2010
You can pay full prive and go broke, or you can use Alligator coupons and save money! $$L_ -----------------------_.-
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 14,2010
Federal funds will help make homes energy efficient
By MATT HARRINGER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Low-income homeowners in Gainesville
maybe eligible for federal grant money to help
make their homes more energy efficient.
Gainesville Regional Utilities will use
$528,500 in federal energy-efficiency grants to
more than double the number of low-incomehomeowners who can participate in the com-
pany's Low-income Energy Efficiency Pro-
gram, according to a news release.
With additional funding from GRU, LEEP
is expected to use $800,000 to help 276 hom-
eowners this year.
"It empowers our customers to walk them
through an energy-efficiency program," said
Vanessa Aragon, a GRU residential efficiencyprogram coordinator. But the program isn't just a service to the
Last year, GRU helped 114 customers community, Aragon said. LEEP also helps
make their homes more energy GRU by reducing the company's energy de-
Local efficient by replacing air con- mands.
NewS ditioning and heating systems, To be eligible for the program, custom-
adding insulation and replac- ers must own and live in the home and meet
ing water heaters. income qualifications based on current U.S.
The program provides an average of $3,000 Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
in improvements to each home. ment's low-income guidelines.
ON CAMPUS
Professor discusses criminal-identification technology
By MINCH MINCHIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Scientists will never have spi-
dey senses.
Simon Cole, a professor of
Criminology, Law and Society at
the University of California, Ir-
vine, said new technologies, such
as DNA analysis, offer false hope
that crimes can be stopped before
they happen.
Cole spoke about criminal
identification technologies to an
audience of about 100 at Pugh
Hall Wednesday night.
"People now want to predict
crime with a 'crime gene,"' he
said.
However, he warned the au-
dience that using technology to
catch criminals before they com-
mit a crime is something that only
happens in fiction.
He said movies such as Tom
Cruise's futuristic thriller "Minor-
ity Report," in which police watch
crimes occur before they happen,
help to promote the idea that
crime prevention is possible.
This idea has been around for
nearly as long as crime has been
around, he said.
In the last 10 years, he said,
people have turned to DNA anal-
ysis to find characteristics thatwould indicate whether certain
people are more prone to commit
crimes than others.However, he advised the peo-
ple in the audience not to get their
hopes up about the discovery of acrime gene or any technology that
would identify future criminals.
"It's never worked in the past,"
inamas rIeVIK/ migazor
Simon Cole speaks to an audience at Pugh Hall on Wednesday night about the history of DNA identifica-
tion, fingerprinting and other criminal identification technologies.he said.
At different times in the last
120 years, scientists believed that
eugenics analysis, racial charac-
teristics and fingerprinting would
also help to catch criminals be-
fore they acted, he said. None of
these methods worked to prevent
crime, and many attempts led to
gross civil rights violations, Cole
said.
"I hope I've conveyed a healthy
skepticism," Cole said, adding
that technology is not infallible.
Oscar Molina, a sophomore
psychology and criminology ma-
jor, said he was impressed with
the lecture.
"What I learned was that the
field of criminal identification is
evolving," Molina said. "We had
fingerprints at one time. Now we
have DNA. What will we have in
the future?"
The Center for the Humanities
and the Public Sphere sponsored
the lecture. It was the first speech
of the Caleb and Michele Grimes
Conference on Liberal Arts and
Public Affairs.
Bonnie Effros, director of the
Center of the Humanities and the
Public Sphere at UF, said four
more lectures about criminal iden-
tification will be given in coming
months.
IN HONOR OF
THE MAN
AND HIS DREAM
The Alligator will not be publishing on
Monday, January 18th due to the
Martin L. King, Jr. holiday.
ADVERTISING DEADLINES
FOR NEXT WEEK ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
The DEADLINE for:
Tuesday, Jan 19 is
TODAY, 4pm
Wednesday Jan 20 is
Friday, Jan. 15, 4pm
The deadlines apply
to both Display and
Classified Advertising
alligator
Display Classifieds
376-4482 373-3463
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 5
LOCAL
Robberies inspire crackdown
By DANIELA ABRATT
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Gainesville Police Department is revamp-
ing its security measures in the wake of two home
invasion robberies.
GPD is set to release a full report, including
plans and statistics, next week.
"We have two overarching goals: Reduce
crime and improve customer service," said GPD
Capt. Ed Book.
The new initiatives came in response to several
factors, including increased crime levels last year,
Police Chief Tony Jones' installation and recent
arrests within the police department.
The reorganization began Jan. 4, the same day
Stacey Brown, 20, of Gainesville, was shot and
killed in a home invasion robbery.
Just a few weeks earlier on Dec. 22, Meng Mu
Shin, a 36-year-old UF doctoral student, was shot
twice in a similar robbery.
Due to a high correlation between drug use
and sales and home invasion robberies, Book said
GPD is reaching out to apartment managers in or-
der to identify potential drug dealers.
Last fall, GPD placed an additional 30 officerson the street. Now, officials are debating how
many of those should return to their previous ad-
ministrative positions.
"We have two overarching goals:
reduce crime and improve customer
service."
Ed Book
GPD Captain
GPD is using information and recommenda-
tions from the National Organization of Black
Law Enforcement Executives alongside its own
internal committees to create these proposals.
The Alachua County Sheriff's Office said it
is not making any significant changes to its task
force.
"We haven't had a recent surge in crime like
the city of Gainesville has had," Sheriff Sadie
Darnell said. "I'm very satisfied with our level of
work."
University Police Lt. Robert Wagner said
changes will have no effect on UF's policies.
"The numbers are what they are," Book said.
"We need to be an effective, ethical organization,
and we need to be accountable."Gainesville residents
to root for Arbor Day
By ROXANNE FRASER
Alligator Contributing Writer
On Thanksgiving, people unite
to give thanks.
On New Year's, people unite to
set resolutions.
But on Arbor Day, it's a little
different.
"We plant a tree," said city ar-
borist Meg Niederhofer.
Today at 11:45 a.m., another
tree will be planted to celebrate
Arbor Day at the Kirby-Smith
Center, 620 E University Ave.
The 13-foot live oak is the last
of 52 trees to be planted in honor
of Gainesville's 26 years as the Ar-
bor Day Foundation's Tree City
USA.Niederhofer said the city of
Gainesville plants about 1,000
trees a year, two for each one it
removes.
Attendees can count on taking
part in the planting.
Tradition-
Around ally, everyoneGainesville picks up a gold-
en shovel and
helps add soil to the final tree.
Anita Spring, chairwoman of
the City Beautification Board, said
the tradition unites the commu-
nity.
"If everyone picks up a golden
shovel and everybody puts a shov-
elful of dirt around the tree, it sort
of feels like their tree," she said.
Hey Gators!! Looking for a job?
We are looking for a few good Gators.sounds like a match!
Summer intern positions, post graduation job placements, and
other exciting opportunities are available to qualified applicants.
What is the job? Our clients are UF grads who want to
help new members of the Gator Nation. They are looking for
sharp Gators who have the initiative and motivation to make
it big in the business world. Our clients range from agronomic
industry giants to small, privately held medical research facili-
ties.the list is long. The November 9th Group, LLC is creating a
pool of qualified, Gator Nation candidates to submit to its clients
in need of summer interns and new graduates to fill positions for
their expanding business activities.
How does the application process work? Bring
two paper copies of your resume to our local agent on campus.
One copy will be reviewed, critiqued, and returned to you with
suggestions for improvement. The other copy will be kept on
file for 6 months. Your resume will be reviewed and ranked by
successful business leaders within The November 9th Group's
network of professional contacts. As positions are announced,
your resume is forwarded to the interested party as a candidate
who has "passed muster" from the review committee. This
doesn't guarantee you a job, it simply gets your paper in front of
decision-makers. There is no fee for this service.
The November 9th Group is accepting resumes now!
Bring your resume to the local Nov 9th Group associate, David
Ozawa, 21 West Fraternity Road, (Sigma Nu Fraternity House),
Gainesville, FL 32603. Only personally delivered copies are ac-
cepted, and you must be a UF student or
graduate. Good luck and GO GATORS!
Rip Kirby, UF '74
CFO, The November 9th Group, LLC
Helping New Ideas Make Money!
The November 9th Group, LC
630 Fairway Ave NE -Ft Walton Beach -FL -32547 -Phone: 850.862.7134
Check it out ataltHgE toDOr V.S alligatorSports.orgor subscribe onTune in for the latest Gators sports iTunes.news and analysis from our beat
writers and columnists. all g tor*
T H E
C A NCE R
P R F J E C T
Finally! C4A rer to- w_;Ap p a
side effects you want.
Blueberries and red
beans are powerful
remedies against
cancer. Research
shows that fruits,
vegetables, and other low-
fat vegetarian foods may
help prevent cancer and
improve survival rates. A
plant-based diet can also
lower cholesterol.
For a free nutrition booklet with
cancer fighting recipes,
call toll-free 1-866-906-WELL or
visit www.CancerProject.org
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 14,2010
Keep the change
Crist's tax holiday
too little, too late
7Fe Editorial Board would like to respectfully tell Charlie
Crist he can keep his tax-free holiday.
Just like we can see through his spray tan to the pasty
white guy underneath, we noticed he chose an election year -
the year he happens to be vying for a U.S. Senate seat -to be-
stow this generous gift upon his adoring constituency.
OK, we admit that those 11 days of saving 7 percent feel nice
and can really help out parents shopping for school supplies for
their kids.
Someone spending $500 on new clothes, shoes, etc., for a few
children could save about $50. But the point is, the holiday nev-
er should have been taken away, punishing Florida residents
for state budget cuts over which they have no control.
We know, we know: Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
But this gift horse has creepy, chemically whitened teeth, and
we don't want him to think our votes can be bought for 7 cents
on the dollar.
And while we can't promise we won't buy anything that
week next fall, you won't see us maxing out our credit cards at
Banana Republic while Crist rides his greasy slide to the U.S.
Senate.
From the sports deskIt's the beginning of the
semester, which means
spending an inordinate
amount of time consulting
ISIS, deciphering syllabi and
griping about Rec Sports' in-
tramural department.
There has to be a mind on
this campus brilliant enough
to make the proper changes
to the repetitive captains'
meetings and brutal signup
system.
The meetings are a bit
of a necessary evil, but they
frequently run as long as 45
minutes and contain the same
information for every sport.
If you decide to be a captain
for three sports that semester,
you're committing over two
hours to browsing the Web on
your BlackBerry while tuning
out the difference between a
default and a forfeit.
Rec Sports' biggest crime
against the intramural world
came Tuesday night, when
they scheduled the basketball
captain's meeting on the same
night as the Kentucky game in
the O'Connell Center. Just the
biggest basketball game of the
year, that's all.
When we called, hours in
advance, to explain that our
entire team was going to be at
the game and unable to attend
that same meeting we've beento 100 times, the Rec Sports
guy explained that the game
was starting at 9, and the
meeting at 7, leaving plenty of
time to get there.
Obviously, he's never been
to a Kentucky game.
Despite our best attempts
at logic, it was made clear
-no meeting, no signup.
Thanks, guys.
After figuring out how to
get a teammate to the meet-
ing, we thought of a hypo-
thetical signup strategy.
For registration the next
day, everyone who shows up
by 7:30 a.m. at Southwest gets
a number, and the start of the
line is pulled out of a hat to
ensure no one camps out for
a better spot.
Now tell us, what would
be the difference with that and
opening registration online at
7:30 a.m. instead? Besides the
freezing cold weather, lost
hours of sleep and a few un-
comfortable RTS bus rides, of
course.
Don't get us wrong, we're
grateful to be able to play in-
tramurals every semester, but
we wish we hadn't spent a
fourth of our college experi-
ence in the Reitz Union's Rion
Ballroom listening to the same
speech about proper athletic
wear.
0l the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Aye, or send them to P0 Box 14257,
GainesvilIle, FL 32604-22570Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458O n ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigato r.org/opinions
The~ Wvorij
' r yRan E 90(0
Jersey Shore': The new Roman Empire?
uch has been made of the fall of the RomanEmpire in the media over the last few years,
especially as our own American empire has
come under deservedly intense scrutiny.
Television watchers who have witnessed the revela-
tions on MTV's "Jersey Shore" with a keen eye toward
history will clearly see that the fall of the Roman Empire
was due to an acute shortage of hair gel.
Tanned and toned -thanks to the miracles of mod-
ern science -the self-professed "guidos and guidettes"
depicted in "Jersey Shore" are leading us all into a brave
new world constructed atop the rubble of old Rome.
According to venerated Roman custom, those giving
false witness shall be subjected to capital punishment.
These latter-day Roman thinkers seem to have a tenu-
ous grip on the finer points of Western common law,
but the spirit of the ancient Romans and the eternal val-
ue of truth are reinforced with every sloppy drunken
haymaker.
Italians proud of their unique representation of cul-
tural heritage, our Jersey Shore denizens were made for
the digital age -they are like crack cocaine for cable TV
and the Internet.
Blown-out hair gelled with half a bottle of industri-
al-grade coagulants and skin shining like a new penny,
these Roman gladiators do battle against their natural
physical state instead of a foreign enemy. Like any com-
pelling accident, we are powerless to stop them from
attracting our attention.
Harkening back into ancient history and murky pan-
Mediterranean lore, the braying and feisty Snooki brings
immediately to mind the grand mythos surrounding
Helen of Troy. Snooki has the face that launched a thou-sand fists. Her eminently punch-
able mug may be the source of
inspiration for centuries to come,
provided we still cherish chunky,
orange-colored girls who know
their way around a big pan of ziti.
Tommy Maple The Roman Empire built greatletters@alligator org aqueducts that remain a viable
part of European life to this day,
pioneering the construction of the great cities of the
world and providing clean water and all it entails for
the creation of modern societies -but that pales in com-
parison to the long-lasting cultural import of the blow-
out.
DJ Pauly D, whose own spectacular hair far outshines
his middling talent as a disc jockey and/or discernible
value as a human being, recently filmed a tutorial for
the New York Daily News Web site on the authentic
composition of a guido-approved blowout hairdo. Take
note, young and impressionable readers -the Internet
can show you how to be a better person in as little as 25
minutes, provided you lack a soul and love the feeling
of hairspray coating your lungs.
While Romans of lore virtually taught the Western
world how to think, those at the apex of the new Roman
Empire prefer the deep thoughts of Ed Hardy. A phi-
losopher fit for our times, Hardy reminds us all that the
human heart is as fragile as our standing on this mortal
coil. Tune in tonight and witness the rise of the new Ro-
man Empire, and wonder along with me to the eternal
question of our age -does Ed Hardy make a toga?
Tommy Maple is an international communications
graduate student. His column appears on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Wednesday's question:
Is the Rec Sports intramural Should Google break its contract
system inefficeint? with China?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org92% YES
8% NO
48 TOTAL VOTES
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 7
Torture never justified in war
here are a good number of people whobelieve in the hypothetical situation
that torture is justified in the ticking
time bomb scenario. That is, a nuclear or bio-
logical weapon is about to detonate and kill
thousands, maybe millions of people.
This is presented as a no-brainer -sacri-
fice one to save thousands. What's not as ob-
vious to the casual observer is that this is little
more than a fairytale used to justify the aban-
donment of American principles and morals.
Let's look at what would be needed to make
this scenario plausible. First, we have to capture
a terrorist with all the pertinent information.
Second, the capture has to happen in that nar-
row window of opportunity before the attack
occurs. Third, we need to know about the plot
and know this terrorist, this person, has the in-
formation we need. Fourth, we need to know
enough about the plot to anticipate and identify
those responsible, but for some strange reason,
we are missing several key details that we can
only obtain by torturing this person.
For those who still think this scenario is a
possibility or even probability, let us look to
our own experience with terrorism. If we had
caught one of the Sept. 11 hijackers just prior to
the attacks, should we have tortured him to get
him to give up information? If you support the
ticking time bomb scenario, you would. I might
not believe in torture, but there is a very power-
ful part of me that still wants those men to suf-
fer as much as possible and for us to do what
ever we can to prevent that attack.
The only problem is we did catch one of the
hijackers- Zacarias Moussaoui. The FBI fieldNick Miner supervisor in Minne-
Speaking Out apolis went as far in his
warning as to say that
he was "trying to keep
someone from taking a plane and crashing into
the World Trade Center." Moussaoui was re-
leased because there wasn't sufficient evidence.
This is the ticking time bomb scenario. We
knew al-Qaida was planning something and we
arrested a terrorist with the pertinent informa-
tion. Yet we didn't know it. Hindsight is 20/20,
and in the covert underworld of black ops and
terrorism, nothing is known for certain. Our in-
telligence agencies are not omniscient.
We can't operate from the position that we
can kill, torture and imprison the world's ter-
rorists. Torture is designed to win battles, not
wars. Think of the past great powers that relied
heavily on torture to wage war: The Nazis, the
Soviets, the Japanese, the French in Algeria,
America in Vietnam. How did those wars go?
The blowback effects of torture were
summed up perfectly by journalist Mark Dan-
ner. In November 2003, he asked a young Iraqi
from Falluja about the rising resistance to the
U.S. presence. The Iraqi said: "It is a shame for
the foreigners to put a bag over their heads, to
make a man lie on the ground.This is a great
shame for the whole tribe. It is the duty of that
man, and of that tribe, to get revenge on this
soldier. Their duty is to attack them, to wash
the shame. The shame is a stain, a dirty thing
-they have to wash it. No sleep -we cannot
sleep until we have revenge. They have to kill
soldiers."
Nick Miner is a political science graduate
student.RC 9 S
pi{ C.
-~A
THE GAINESVILLE EXPO
CURTIS M. PHILLIPS CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
Sunday, Ja uary 17th, 2010
Doors at 12 noon
Hosted by:
JAYs Bridal & Special OccasionsGENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF any one GNC Product
Cannot be combined. One Coupon per customer.
3914 SW Archer Rd
onlIy ailable at Bule Pl 4 1t
Gerard donated in his
mother's name.
His gift provided shelter for
the Tyler family after a fire.
Support the Red Cross
and save a life, starting
with your own.
Call 1-800-RED CROSS
or visit redcross.org
American
wwn'.gainesvillweddingexpo.-m + Red Cross
r--- --- ---- --- --- ------ --
This paper used to sway in the wind.
Please recycle it.
L. ---- -------------.YOU NEVER VISIT.
1124 W University Ave
YOU NEVER CALL.
505-0224
YOU NEVER FAX.
50S-0223
WHAT, I'M UP WITH
THE CHICKENS!
Sun-Wed 6am-10pm
Thurs-Sat 6amn-3am
lse~st TAKEOUT OR DELIVERY?
COME GET, OR VISIT
to% AW CALL OR FAX YOUR TAKEOUT
Now Open in Midtown!
1124 W University Ave
O VER 31Difdfe rent Sandwiches
to 09 ~ Chos Fro!
4 TVsFREE WI-FI Come Watch& Internet the Gator
Lounge Games
8, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 14,2010
Local organizations ask students to donate money for relief efforts
HAITI, from page 1
donations.
"Every little bit counts," John-
son said. "This certainly is a major
tragedy."
Aleks Bacewicz, president of
the Global Haiti Initiative at UF,
believes it is important to raise
awareness of Haitian issues, espe-
cially now that the current crisis is
brought to the forefront.
Jose St. Louis, a UF sophomore
who has family living in Haiti, was
immediately affected by the earth-
quake.Because communications sys-
tems are down, there is no way of
ensuring their safety.
"With Port-au-Prince being the
most populous city and the death
toll estimated in the hundreds of
thousands, it's inevitable that my
family would know some of the
people who have been affected,"
St. Louis said. "This has really
made me sit back and be thankful
for what I've got because I real-
ize how many small things fell in
place in order for me to be here
right now."
Students from the College of"This has reall
sit back and
for what I've g
I realize how
things fell in pl
for me to be
now
Medicine who par
ect Haiti, a medic
that takes place evcollecting donations on their Weby made me site, projecthaiti.sites.medinfo.ufl.
)e thankful edu.
ot because Trip leader Daniel Lombardo
said the organization will soonnany small start collecting bottled water, med-
ace in order icine and canned goods.
here right "We're going to be facing prob-
,, ably the biggest health crisis we've
Jose St Louis seen there for years," he said.
JopoSt. Angela Pierre, public relationsF phomore executive for Club Creole, a Hai-
tian cultural club, said there will be
ticipate in Proj- a drop box in the club's office on
al mission trip the third floor of the Reitz Union
ery spring, are where students can donate cannedgoods and medicine.
Club Creole began tabling on
Turlington Plaza Wednesday to
raise awareness of the tragedy and
collect donations to aid in the relief
efforts.
Haiti has recently suffered many
other natural disasters, including
Hurricane Hannah and Tropical
Storm Ike, both in Septemember
2008. It is the poorest country in
the Western Hemisphere.
"Haiti is accustomed to having
a few bad times," Pierre said. "We
will rise. Maybe not tomorrow, or
this year, but we will rise."
Simple
Choices
AMERICAN
0 CANCER
"SOCIETY'
Providing answers.
Saving lives.
1 -800-ACS-2345
C Cut out tobacco
H Hold the fat
Opt for high-fiber
fruits, vegetables
and grains
Intake alcohol:
only in moderation
Call your doctor
for regular check.
ups
E Exercise every day
Safeguard your
skin from the sunI UEZ7.ii
~'4'fl 4JL -u
~ _ St I, ~pI
Your portfo io
is on the rise.
No matter how bad the market gets, we're always investing in you. Because we're only
as good as our next generation of innovators, GE invests $1 billion annually in our people
and leadership development. Add to that our great benefits and tuition reimbursement,
and you can see how much we'll value your personal development and contributions. So
invest yourself in one of our opportunities in engineering, finance, manufacturing,
marketing and sales, human resources or information technology -you'll build a
personal brand that will see great returns in any economy.
imagination at work ge.com/careers
theAvenue thursday, january 14, 2010
Gainesville, get groovy!
I.
ILi0
Famed dance company Groovaloo spins into the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts this weekend for a
jaw-dropping performance. The show starts at 7:30 Friday night. Tickets can be purchased at the Phillips
Center Box Office or any Ticketmaster location. page 11THIS WEEK:
PG 11: Groovaloo comes to
town, fashion special on the chic
chapeau
PG 12: Critically acclaimed film
'The Messenger' opens at The
Hipp and American Aquarium
plays at Backstage Lounge
alligator.org/the-avenue
REGULA RS:
SEX: How to be the 'other' wom-
an, all-new sexToon, page 14.
FASHION: Dress to impress at
the career showcase, page 14
COMING UP:
Next week, all your penis ques-
tions, answered! Plus, which
bands to look out for in 2010.
One day you're in, the next day
you're out. Season 7 of "Project
Runway" kicks off tonight at 10
on Lifetime.
Plus, Bauer's Back! Don't miss
the two-night, four-hour season
premiere of "24" on Sunday,
Jan. 17 at 9 p.m. on Fox.
Matt Kurz One sings, plays all for show at The Atlantic
By JON SILMAN
avenue writer
Matt Kurz is a busy man. He's the lead sing-
er of the Matt Kurz One. And also the bassist,
guitarist and keyboardist. Kurz sings scratchy,
intense punk funk songs with a fiery slant remi-
niscent of The Who and James Brown.
He'll be playing at The Atlantic on Saturday at
10 p.m. Tickets are $6.
Wouldn't it just be easier to be in a band
and not have to do everything?
Bands can be a real drag. I was in a couple
bands that did really well, but right at the pay-
off period they disbanded for what I found to
be really, really dumb reasons-considering the
amount of work we had put in to getto that point.
I've always been interested in being a one-man
band, and since I turned 17 I've been in nine or
10 incarnations of what I am today.
How did you get started?
I lived in Richmond, Va., for a year, and that
year was pretty sad and amazing at the same
time. I didn't know anyone or have any friends,
so I pretty much just locked myself in the attic
of the house I was living in, and that's where Itaught myself to play the bass with my foot and
stuff like that.
Didyou have an epiphanymomentwhenyou
figured out you could tape drumsticks to the
head of your guitar and play the keyboard?
Pretty much everything I figured out how to
do was complete, stupid coincidence. First, I
started bashing the headstock of the guitar on
a keyboard set to drum noises -- that's how I
played the cymbal. I figured out I could bash a
high hat instead, but I started chipping my guitar,
so I taped a drumstick to it. Eight months later it
occurred to me, 'Hey dummy, you can play notes
instead of cymbal noises (on the keyboard)!"
What about playing the bass with your
foot?
I was playing guitar one day, and I laid the
bass down precariously on the floor in front of
me. I happened to look down, and the bass was
just where it is when I play it now (at shows). I
was like, "No way," and I just started hitting my
foot on it and it worked.
And the sock, necessary or not?
You just don't want blisters and calluses on
the underside of your big toe, and it also keeps
my foot warm. There are so many good reasons
for the sock.Is there a reason you don't use effects ped-
als or pre-recorded tracks when you play live?
To me that kinda feels like cheating. If I fell
back on those things I might not have ever
achieved my goal of being a full one-man band
that I set for myself when I was 14. Also, I'm one
of those people that if I touch small electronics,
they explode and freak out.
What do you say to people who automati-
cally assume you're doing some kind of gim-
mick?
That kinda stuff drives me. If there weren't as
many naysayers I'd probably be a lot less active. I
love that it's a fight. I love turningthe crowd.
Is this your life's work? Is there a legacy you
want to leave behind?
Life's work is not a bad way to describe what
I'm doing. I'm barely getting by on this thing, but
it's worth it to me. When I'm eating Ramen noo-
dles and worrying about my dishwashing job at
home, the kinda solace I give myself is that, like,
14-year-old Matt Kurz would be stoked about
what I'm up to right now. The idea was never to
make a million dollars or sell out stadiums. The
idea was, 'I'm going to be able to do that one
day.' And I am able to do that, so as far as that's
concerned, I am satiated.
10, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2010
0Groovaloo freestyles, defies gravity in shows
american
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and
Stacks. The only way to
describe the Stack is that is
outrageously delicious! Its
uniquely different presentation-
three 6 inch flour tortillas
stacked high with fresh grilled
ingredients and just the right
accent of cheese- is strangely
inviting to one's palate. Come
out & try our 1/3 lb Burgers,
steak seasoned Panchos, &
Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the Home Grown
and Homemade Black Bean
Hummus! Now serving draft and
Red Stripe beers! We deliver!
Open late to serve your late
night cravings! Sun-Wed:11am-
3am. Thurs-Sat: 11am-4am.
34th St Plaza (Sweetbay) @
2124 SW 34th St 672-6111
www.idoobies.com
barbecue
David's BBQ
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, Eat-
in, Takeout, Drive-thru, Cater-
ing, or Tailgaiting. Everyone
loves David's BBQ because,
unlike ordinary BBQ places,
David's cooks over a real wood
fire! Eat where the locals eat!
Voted #1 BBQ in Gainesville!
Approved caterer for UF's
Emerson Alumni Hall. Mon-Sat
7am -9pm. Sundays open at
8am. Drive Thru until 9:30pm
7 days! 352-373-2002. Have
David's BBQ delivered by Ga-
torfood.com. FREE WIFl. 5121
NW 39th Ave
www.davidsBBQ.com
cracker
cuisine
The Yearling
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog legs,
and alligator, as well as USDA
Prime beef, seafood, grits, greens
& hush puppies. Open Thursday
& Friday 5pm-1Opm, Saturday
12pm-Opm & Sunday 12pm-
8:30pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999
www.theyearlingrestaurant.com
cuban
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301frozen treat,5
D'Lites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
d'licious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly without
the diet taste. We also feature a
whole array of cookies, chips, and
various grocery treats that appeal
to Atkins@, Weight Watchers@,
and other dieters. Our every day
daily specials make shopping
at D'Ltes a special value!
Come weigh your options at
the Marketplace Plaza at NW
16th Blvd. and 43rd St. (next to
the Hollywood Video) or at the
Shoppes of Williston at S.W. 34th
Street and Williston Rd. (next to
Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!
Korma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts,
loose leaf teas, and beer, with
lots of vegan options. Now open
24 hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
blocks east of campus at 1025 W.
University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve frozen
yogurt as a healthy dessert
alternative. Our yogurt has 0%
fat and contains live and active
cultures. Choose any combination
of 8 different flavors and over 30
toppings. Everything for just 45
cents an ounce. 3841 SW Archer
Rd (next to Bento Red) Open
from noon to midnight daily!
Yogoberry
OPEN LATE-ACROSS FROM
THE UNIVERSITY IN TARGET
COPY! Come build your healthy
treat at Yogaberry! Our yogurt
is 100% fat free and the only
yogurt that is made with real
organic milk. Choose from an
array of fresh fruit toppings cut
daily, candies and fun cereal.
New flavors for you to try daily,Hand always free samples! In
addition, we have the finest
organic, free-trade coffee.
Our coffee bar features lattes,
cappuccino's, espresso, cuban
coffee's, yoga mocha's and
much more!home5tyle
cooking
Let's Eat Diner
The best kept secret
inGainesville, Let's Eat Diner is
a small diner just off the beaten
path on 39 Ave at NW 22 Dr.
Open Mon-Sat 7am till 8pm
serving breakfast, lunch, and
supper and Sunday 11am till
2pm with a lunch buffet. We
serve home style cookin'. "Just
like Momma used to fix." 352-
378-0738 www.letseatdiner.com
Oh yeah, we also do catering!
Manuel's Vinto e
Room
This family owned restaurant
is perfect for dinner any day of
the week. Come in and check
out one of the best wine lists in
town. Ask questions and learn
while you wait for the chef to
put out nothing but goodness
from the kitchen using fresh,
simple, and local ingredients.
Try the Early Dinner Sunday,
Tuesday-Thursday 5-7pm. $3
wines/$10 bottles. $10 Menu.
Ask about our Monday Wine
Dinners and private parties for
lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
St. (352)375-7372
rndion and
vegetarian
Green Mongo
The best Indian food in
Gainesville. Serving Gainesville
since 1991. The best Samosas
in Florida. Offering many vegan
dishes. We are specialized in
catering any group size. Delivery
available-free delivery on any
purchase over $25! Open 7 days
Mon-Sat 11:30am-9pm, Sunday
1pm-8pm. Call 352-505-6200.
7625 W Newberry Rd
*jopone~se
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a hip,
trendy atmosphere. Two great
locations with outside eating.
Open every day for carry-out
or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. Ioction at 224-5123.ke we5st
5tyfe
Cabana Cove
Keg West Grille
Now offering a new bistro
inspired menu.
Open for lunch and dinner.
Full martini and mojito bar.
Voted nicest outdoor dining.
COUPON -DATE NIGHT- COUPON
Choose 1 appetizer, 2 entrees, a
bottle of wine, and share a slice
of Key Lime Pie.
All for only $39.99 (expires
12/31/09)
2410 NW 43rd StreetEGainesville
352-377-3278
Please visit us online at
www.cabanacove.net for
additional savings and coupons.
chinee
Green Plontains
The best MoFongo, churrasco,
& chofan in town. $5 To-Go
Dinners. Mon-Sat from 4pm.
Don't miss out $4.95 dinner +
soda on Thursday, student night
from 4pm-1Opm. Visit us at
5150 SW 34th Street at the newIPublix Shopping Center 7 days
a week. We cater. Check us out
on Gatorfood.com
352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.com
0 C au
orgomic
THE JONES
Gainesville's own independently
owned community restaurant
dedicated to bringing sustain-
able, local, and organic food
to the table. Oh, and it's really
yummy. Herbivores, carnivores,
& omnivores welcome! NOW
SERVING DINNER EVERY
NIGHT! New hours: open every
day 8am-1Opm. Check out our
facebook page for specials and
Seventh 401 NE 23rd Avenue.
352.373.6777
Mildred's
Big Citq Food
Eat Gainesville's Best Food at
Mildred's. We support LOCAL
and SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh
Dishes Made From Scratch!
OPEN SUNDAYS!
CONVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371-1711
MildredsBigCityFood.com.
New Deal Cof%
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burgers! This 12oz.
Goliath is Naturally Aged and
Fresh Ground. MONSTROUS
desserts. HUGE Martini's. $5
glasses of wine and 20 wines
under $20! Mon-Thurs. 11am-
10pm
Fri & Sat. 11am-11pm
371-4418
newdealcafegainesville.com
Located next door to Mildred's.
Keepin' it fresh -Keepin' it real!
m edierrnean
Ti Amol
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine
agrees, "[the chef] adds visual
flair to every dish to make it as
good-looking as it is flavorful."
NEW Happy Hour Specials!
Every day from 4pm-7pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices & terrific
service.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.com
12 SE 2nd Ave. 378-6307
Boco Fiesta
Best Margaritas in Town!
Fresh-squeezed + all natural!
Tasty tacos, burritos, nachos!
Cheap beer, full bar, open late!
232 SE 1st St Downtown
336-TACO!
Pizzo
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta, & desserts. All you
can eat buffet available!
Outdoor dining. Visit www.
newyorkpizzaplus.com for
coupons. We Deliver!
490 NE 23rd Ave.
376-3444locala5
organicvegetarian
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade, meals,
sandwiches, soups, home-baked
desserts. Brunch Weekends.
Specials: Cupcake Mon.,
Southern Cooking Tues., Greek
Wed 6pm, Ethiopian Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 10am-8pm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
vietnamease
Saigon Legend
Delicious traditional VietnameseCuisine with popular Asian
favorites. Pho-Banh Xeo, Banh
Tom Ha-Woi. Enjoy great food
at great prices. Family owned
restaurant. Next to Holiday
Inn. Vietnamese subs-pork,
chicken, & tofu. Dine-in or take
out. Catering available. Mon-Sat
10:30am-9:30pm, Sun 11:30am-
9pm
374-0934
1 228 WUniv Ave
UBy MICHELLE PROFITS
avenue writer
Gainesville, it's time to groove. Groovaloo, a
28-member dance company known for throwing
caution and choreography to the wind, is perform-
ing tomorrow night at the Phillips Center for the
Performing Arts.
The company head-spun its way into America's
hearts after jaw-dropping performances on NBC's
"Superstars of Dance," as well as on the live finale
of this season of "So You Think You Can Dance."
But when you catch a performance by the
Groovaloos, expect the unexpected. Traditional
choreography is considered a foreign concept,
and the dancers aren't afraid to test the laws of
gravity.
Based out of Los Angeles and founded in 1999,
the Groovaloos have created an artistry that sets
powerful beats to the personal stories of the per-
formers. The shows are themed around trust and
courage, as the performances are directly based
on the struggles and triumphs the dancers have
experienced.
"The best way to describe our show is visually
stunning," said Bradley "Shooz" Rapier, the found-
er of the Groovaloos. "We break the stereotype of
what people think hip-hop is."
Rapier's own entrance into the hip-hop world
was unexpected. Growing up in Canada, he was
the only African-American in his school and was
never really introduced to the concept of formu-
laic dancing. Rapier finally discovered a passion
and skill for movement in 11th grade at his high
school dance when he was invited to join a street
dance group.
Originally on a career path to becoming a doc-
tor, Rapier decided to move to Los Angeles and
find dancers who shared the same fire for move-
ment. After holding 'weekly jams' at his house and
bonding with fellow dancers, the Groovaloos were
born.
"I formed the Groovaloos so I could be sur-
rounded by dance at all times," Rapier said. "Iwanted to create not only a dance community but
also a dance family."
In 1999, the Groovaloos found success after
winning first place at the American Street Dance
Championship and have since found national
fame.
The group is now touring nationally in order
to share its street dance culture. The group's
performances use voice-overs to share the per-
sonal experiences of the dancers and integrates
words with a unique form of movement. When the
Groovaloos perform, you hear what you see.
"It's a true story of our group and how we jour-
ney individually," Rapier said. "The spoken word
of our show explains what you're seeing. It might
K-
00ri@ 9be funny, touching or traumatic, but you see our
experiences lived out on stage."
In every movement or action, the Groovaloos
use a mantra to help explain their inspiration to
the audience: "Life isn't always choreographed.
sometimes you have to freestyle."
"We use this as a metaphor for life," Rapier
said. "You don't always know what is ahead of you,
but you have to keep going and find a purpose.
That's what we try and share with the audience."
The Groovaloos will spin into the Phillips Cen-
ter Friday at 7:30 p.m. Tickets can be purchased
at the Phillips Center Box Office or any Ticketmas-
ter location. Student tickets can be purchased for
$10.50.
Hats off!
Did you know about 10
percent of total body heat
is lost through your head?
That's why, for this particu-
larly cold winter, hats are a
necessity. But instead of
that ragged old beanie your
grandma knitted for you, go
for something more fashion
forward.
Left, senior Meredith Worley
models four of the hundreds
of styles of hats that will
keep your head warm and
your outfit stylish.
Top off your ensemble with
a chic chapeau as an acces-
soryor simply a solution for
an oh-so-bad hair day.
You can find these hats
everywhere in stores like
Goodwill, Urban Threads or
Macy's.THURSDAY, JANUARY 14A, 2010*4ALLIGATOR, 11
Phillips Center for the Performing Arts
Members of the Groovaloo dance company bust a move on stage during their national tour The group earned its fame
through NBC's "Superstars of Dance" and is known for their off-the-wall, freestyle choreography and high energy
12, ALLIGATOR + THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2010
5eXTOOl
Alligator Statf
Winter ale tingles taste buds
By RICHARD 0. STEHLI
avenue writer
Like many micro breweries, Sierra Nevada releases
four seasonal beers every year. Its offeringfor the win-
ter is Celebration Ale, a perfect pairing with the chilly
weather.
As far as winter beers go, you might be surprised to
learn that Celebration Ale is an India Pale Ale, a style
associated with hotweather. Sierra Nevada sticks with
its standard Cascade hops, which give the beer its dis-
tinctive fresh, citrusy aroma and bitter taste. Beneaththe blast of hoppy bitterness, however, the beer has
a rich, mellow undercurrent, enhanced by the subtle
spiciness of hops that really hits home for your cold-
weather cravings.
The strong taste of pale ales can force you to take
your beer one sip at a time, so sip slowly. Less is more
in the world of pale ales, and one Sierra Nevada will
satisfy your hunger in ways that a whole case of bland,
tasteless light lager never will.
Celebration Ale is available in grocery stores and
bottle shops in Gainesville, but hurry! Once a seasonal
sells out, it won't be back until next year.Chris Brown deserves
a second chance
By MICHELLE PROFITS
avenue writer
We're all familiar with the clas-
sic celebrity catastrophe: Celeb is
clean-cut. Celeb makes fatal mis-
take. Celeb apologizes. But what
comes after that is a bit hazy. As
the adoringfans, we either hold our
grudges until the celeb morphs into
a has-been, or we forgive and for-
get. I'm here today to make a case
for a current crossroads the public
has arrived at: Either forgive Chris
Brown or condemn him to Pop Cul-
ture Hell.
As a female with strong femi-
nist inclinations, I am not condon-
ing what he did or forgetting the
mistakes he made. I'm only offer-
ing reasons to give him a second
chance.
Let's first look at his music.
Not only was he just 16 when he
became the first male solo artist
to release a single ("Run It") that
shot straight to the top of the Bill-
board chart, but Brown was never
one to sing about topics such as
sex or drugs, like some of his con-
temporaries. Rather, his music has
always been.well, pretty clean.
One of his major hits "Forever" is
about -gasp- dancing! And not even
the booty-dropping, all-up-on-you,
let's-make-this-as-dirty-as-possible
kind. The lyrics speak for them-
selves: "Feel the melody and the
rhythm of the music around you."As far as I'm concerned, that could
be a line straight out of a song per-
formed by Big Bird.
And now, he is imploring us to try
and find space in our hearts for him
once more. In fact, he's groveling.
No, really. His latest single is called
"Crawl," and it's basically one giant
apology put to a catchy beat and
performed with soaring vocals. His
opening lyrics:"Everybody sees it's
you, but I'm the one who lost the
view." That says to me that he is
acknowledging his mistakes. He's
saying that he will crawl right up to
whoever needs him to and begfor a
second chance. I am by no means
validating what he did and strongly
believe that domestic violence is
inexcusable. However, as a profes-
sional, Brown's career continues to
thrive. He currently occupies num-
bers 35, 78 and 173 on the iTunes
Top 100 with "I Can Transform Ya,"
"Crawl," and "Forever," respective-
ly. Clearly, I'm not the only one out
there still listening to his music.
So here we are at this cross-
roads again. To keep listening or to
turn that radio dial off. I've shared
my reasoning behind my choice,
but now the decision is yours.
Editor's note: The Alligator does
not support domestic violence. If
you or a loved one is a victim of do-
mestic violence, contact Alachua
County Victim Services and Rape
Crisis Center at 866-252-5439.
Leave the Gaga clothes at home for Career Showcase
By ASCHELLE MORGAN
avenue contributing writer
Sloth off the sweatpants and
break out the lint roller: Ladies
and Gentlemen, the Career Show-
case has arrived. Although I'd love
to tell you your replete resume and
perfected Gator chomp will have
any employer banging down yourdoor, the reality is you have about
six seconds to impress. To help you
out, here's how to make a rockstar
first impression:
For the ladies.
DO leave the statement outfits
to Lady Gaga. I'm sure you look fab
in your platform pumps, but now is
the time to get back to the basics.
Think a professional black, navy
or gray suit and closed-toe shoes.Although a crisp button-down is al-
ways a safe go-to, spice it up with a
colored silk blouse. If you are con-
tacting a work placeFashion with a more casual
%m m vibe, replace the suit
jacket with a cardi-
gan and top it off with a cinched
skinny belt.
DON'T overdo the jewelry, make-
up and hair styling. Less is morein the professional world. Stud tuxedo, so go gray or navy. Pair it
earrings, neutral tones and sleek
pulled back hair are the perfect
complement to any professional
outfit. After all, you want them to
focus on your skills, not wonder if
you're wearing a Bumpit.
For the gents.
DO take a hint from "Entou-
rage's" Ari Gold and opt for a well-
fitted suit. Black can look like awith a pressed button-down and a
coordinating small print tie.
DON'T ruin your suave suited
look with athletic socks. Opt for
darker colors that complementyour
suit rather than distract from it.
The career showcase is Tuesday
and Wednesday in the O'Connell
Center. For more information, visit
crc.ufl.edu.
Secret screwing is a necessary evil in the
By JARED MISNER and AMELIA HARNISH
avenue writers
She says.
As a girl who has found herself in the posi-
tion of the cheater, the cheated on and the no-
torious "other girl," I have an educated opinion
on adulterous activities.
Cue the Pat Benatar.
Yes, being cheated on blows. From what I
haven't blocked out, I remember it as one of the
most painful things I've ever experienced. But,
as they say, what goes around comes around -- I
ended up getting retribution by cheating on him
three different times.
Although cheating back probably wasn't the
most humane way to handle a breakup, it got
the job done. The result was realizing that as
much as we thought we wanted to be together,we just weren't right for each other, which led
to outside "interests" amid attempting to keep
us alive.
I'm sure there are some of you thinking, "I
would never cheat." But trust me, unless you're
all-knowing and all-seeing or you're one of those
weirdos who are sober all the time, chances are
that one day you'll be bored enough to do some-
thing cruel yet delicious, like getting humped in
a hammock at that party your boyfriend was too
tired to attend.
Cheating is one of those things that happens
to almost everyone in some capacity. Some of
us are lucky enough to meet and marry our
soul mates early on, escaping the world of dat-
ing and singledom unscathed. But most of us,
me included, have a harder road ahead, one
full of bad decisions and broken hearts for all
involved.
In the dating game, cheating, like war, issometimes a necessary evil.
He says.
Carrie Underwood could probably kick my
ass. Thankfully, I don'tthink she'll ever be forced
to carve her name in my leather seats.
But I can't promise I haven't slow danced
with someone else's bleached-blond tramp be-
fore we got frisky.
Thankfully, I've never been on the receiving
end of Ms. Underwood's, nor any other base-
ball-bat-wielding spouse's temper, when he or
she found out I was "the other girl."
Mainly because no one except a certain
bleached-blond tramp and I knew about how we
got frisky. But I'm really not sorry.
And all of you who have the chance to score
with someone as hot as I did should feel proud
rather than guilty. Sure, you might have just
thrown any hopes of monogamy out the window
with a teeth-gnawing tear of a condom wrapperdating game
and a liquor-laced evening, but Pat Benatar said
it right: "Love is a battlefield."
A dirty, bedsheet-sticking kind of war where
friends spend more time taking the knives out
of their backs than worrying about the rules of
war.
It's not every day you get seduced by a pair
of icy blue eyes forcingyou into bed with the hot-
test thing you've seen this decade.
And you wanted to decline the ever-so-gra-
cious invite to one sinful evening all because of
a few monogamous mechanics?
When our world of love and sex is a constant
game of finders keepers, relationships often be-
come more centered around finding than keep-
ing. Bedrooms become a a battle where lovers
are in a constant search for the antidote to mo-
nogamy. And that's just the way it is.
So, the next time you cheat, I can only hope
it's with me.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
$419 all inclusive 4/4
$509 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
24hr Fitness Center * 2 Pools
Now Feline Friendly352-271-
3131*GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-1
**CUT ME OUT AND SAVE BIG-
0
Cirossingi
The coupon is good for a $1200 value
Sign for a 2/2,3/3 or 4/4 for fall 2010
Furnished. All inclusive. Student suites.
$0 Signing Fees, 42" TV or New Sofas
352.373.9009 lexingtoncrossinguf.com
*CUT ME OUT AND SAVE BIG**
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$250/MO
Fully Furnished Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, Campus Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2*3/3*4/4
Rates from $386*Close to UF
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $775/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432
1-20-09-50-1
Female wanted for 4/4 condo. Furn room
w/ private bath Clean, bus rte pool workout
room. Inc utilities cable internet wash/dry
$435/mth for spr sem $300 sec dep Jeff 904-
612-3944 or weeks63@comcast.net 1-20-
09-20-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
Beautiful 3/3, close to schooldir. on bus!
Brand new appl, paint, bedding, remdld
bthrms, Frnt bldng, upstrs.
bdduf86@comcast.net
1-25-10-14-1
A Windsor Park fully furnished upscale
3bd/3bth apt. ONLY $399 NO SECURITY
DEPOSIT+ 1 MONTH FREE! includes cable,
internet, utilities, and amenities. Dont miss
out! call 786-312-7004 for more information
1-15-10-8-1
University Commons -Available Immediately
$299 per month -flexible lease terms
Fastest and best bus service to UF
Lots of amenities
Call Jay 704-677-2018 1-20-10-10-1
Rmmate wanted NOW to share very nice
3BR/3BA condo. Very close to UF & Santa
Fe. Fully furnished. Prv't BR/BA. Pool &
porch. No pets please. $550/month ALL
UTILITIES INC!! Call Talia (305)304-1703.
1-21-10-10-1
1 month of free rent!
1 bedroom sublease in a 3/3 townhome in the
woodlands apt.complex off SW62nd. blvd.
$600 per month, utilities are included.
Two male room mates who are clean and
easy to live with. call 904-305-3036 if inter-
ested! 1-15-7-1Kensington South Townhouse 2bed/2.5bath.
Furnished Downstairs. $450/month per
room including internet and alarm system.
954-598-3986. Available immediately or for
Summer/Fall 2010. 1-27-14-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4/4 indiv leases. $395/mo ind cable, inet &
util. Unfurn optional. Avail fall, or June + July.
dyeung888@embarqmail.com 239-250-6149
1-29-10-15-1
For Rent
unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 372-6881 or
mobile 213-3901. 4-21-09-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
$99 MOVES YOU IN!
1 brs from $539
2brs from $599
3brs from $750
Wtr incl.*Pet Friendly*Spacious
1 mile from UF*Shands*Downtown
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
Limited Availability-Downtown Apartments
Studios-$599*One Bedrooms*$699
Two Bedrooms-$859*Three Bedrooms-$1299
Move in NOW or Fall 2010
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
4-21-09-71-2
1 & 2's * AFFORDABLE RATES!
1 BR/1 BA $469 * 2BR/1 BA $569
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Adopted pets live free!! 2 Pools!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now or Fall 2010.
2 & 3 Bedroom Townhomes.
Private Bathroom s-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
A SPECIAL PLACE TO CALL HOME
1 BR from $585
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $755
Tanning*Fitness*Tennis*Pool*Playground
Washer/Dryer*Fireplaces*Pools
Call us for a tour! 376-2507
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-21, 2, 3's! madisonpointe.org
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
4-21-71-2
*POLOS
Three Bus Routes (9,34,35,36)!
1-5m to UF, Shand's, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$799 3/3-$979
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75 SW 75th Street Call 332-7401
71-24-21-
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
4-21-09-71-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
14, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 14,2010
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For RentF nfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
* SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Ind Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$465, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
4-21-09-71-2
BRAND NEW REDUCED RATES!
1's, 2's, 3's
Inclusive Pkgs Available
* Pet Friendly!
Immediate or Fall Move In
352-374-3866
4-21-09-71-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$419 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2*3/3*4/4
Rates from $386*Close to UF
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key s Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
5 Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
5 Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
RATES STARTING AT $449
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$600 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St.
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <50lbs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 1-29-
10-60-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 1-22-
10-52-2
Working at Shands orVA- nice 2/1 @ Summit
House across the street. $700/mo + $200
dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 1-29-47-2
WWW.BIKETOUF.COM
1 BR from $575
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $745
Tan ning*Fitness*Ten nis*Pool
Washer/Dryer*Pets Welcome!
Call us for a tour! 377-7401
4-21-09-71-2
* 2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE
7209 SW 45th Pl. $600/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 1-20-10-
28-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 1-29-09-35-2
Custom 2BR/1BA in pvt 4 Unit compIx. Tiled
fir in Liv rm, Carpet in BRs w/ceiling fans. All
new BA. New Kit w/stainless apple, W/D, Cent
H/A, i-net/cable avail. Mgr pays water, pest
control, lawn main, security lites. Near bus rte.
Sorry no pets $635/mo Call 727-423-9463
6AIso avail: Fully furn 2BR/1BA $735/mo.
1-19-09-23-2BLOCKS TO UF
Available August 2010. Now showing
multiple houses. 2BR/2BA, 3BR/2BA,
4BR/3BA, 5BR/3BA. www.dalyproperties.
com or call Carol 359-3341 2-26-10-43-2
Move-In Now & Walk to UF
2BR $300/br * 1 BR $599 * Studio $720
Dorm style $509 Roommate Matching Avail
www.ForRentNearUF.com * 352-376-6223
4-21-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 1-29-10-20-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 1-29-10-20-2
Luxury Student Condos Close To Campus
Includes internet and utilities
From $385 per month each.
Please call us for the details.
Bristol Park Realty (352) 367-2669
1-29-09-20-2
Luxury student condos close to calmus.
Includes interent & tuilities
From $385 per month each.
Please call us for the details.
Bristol park Realty 352-367-2669 1-29-10-
20-2
2BR/1 BA w/ small study near Shands. Large
screened room w/ W/D hook-ups. Available
now. $650/mo. Sec dep $650. Pets ok 3300
SW 23rd St. Apt #1. Call 352-371-3473 leave
message. 1-15-10-10-2-
Townhouse 2BR/1.5BA, WD hook-up. New
kitchen w/ private courtyard. $700/mo, Sec
dep $700. Pets ok. 4007 B SW 26th Terr.
Call 352-371-3473 leave message 1-15-
10-10-2
$400/mo Room to rent Rockwood
Villa Condo, pvt bath, on bus
route, wd, cent h/a, cble/intrnt
some utilities, non-smoking,
female only -904.874.6877 1-20-10-10-2$99 Move-IN Special
$500-$700 2 bed/1 bath
Walking distance to UF and downtown
(352)226-3535 or (352)505-9264 2-17-10-
30-2
Holiday Special/ Valentine's Day
NO MOVE-IN COSTS -Free Rent
(Don't Pay Anything til 12/14/10)
Please Hurry. Only A Few Units Avail!
(Se Habla Espanol)/ 352 240-9009
2-12-09-27-2
Rocky Point Apts 3100 sw 35th pl- 376-1619
Country Garden 2001 sw 16th st- 373-4500
Regency Oaks 3230 sw Archer rd 378-5766
Southwest Villas 3643 sw 20 ave 336-9000
Archer Woods 3020 sw Archer rd- 373-8727
2-12-09-27-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info, call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 1-20-
10-10-2
Cute & Clean! Vintage 1-BR with wood floors
& great front porch in quiet NW area. Walk to
Ward's, Publix & buslines, bike to downtown
& UF. Avail. NOW! $575/mo. 352-338-7670
or email shepley@cozygator.com 1-20-10-
10-2
Baxter Cottage
2 blks to UF campus, 1013 SW 4 Ave
2BR/1BA, Bright, clean, completely remod-
eled, Cent AC/Ht,wood firs, DW, W/D, NS,
NPets. $650+util. ATucker458@aol.com
1-29-10-16-2
LARGE 1BR HOUSE
Urban loft design -fully remodeled. Very
nice. Backyard, trees, downtown, big city
cracker. 316-6667. $670/mo. Available now
1-21-10-10-2Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
1BR home on a hill, 14' x 24' living room with
view, dining area seats 6, huge patio, private
entrance, carport, near UF, NW 8th Ave. All
utilities paid. $850. 352-395-6250 or 332-
1429 1-29-10-16-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile floor, W/D
in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate. 239-250-
6149, dyeung888@embarqmail.com
1-29-10-15-2
1/1. Completely Renovated
680 sq ft. Tile & Laminate floors. Unfurn/
Furn 5 min walk to Shands & UF. $550/mo.
!!Great Deal!! Call 786-390-2939
1-19-6-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
1-29-15-2
3 br/1 ba house, 1 mile from UF, remodeled
kitchen & bath, new paint, clean, includes
Dishwasher & washer/dryer, tile throughout,
large fenced yard & storage shed, pets OK,
$850 per mo. Call 275-6447. 1-29-14-2
$300/MO JUST 5 BLOCKS FROM UF
Rooms for rent. Individual leases. W/D, utils
incl. Call 352-226-4111 for more info. 1-15-
10-5-2
$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1.5 Bath
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands
on bus route. W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500
security, $550/month. 2640 SW 31st Place
Unit B. 562-2782 or 514-6869 if interested.
1-25-10-2
6 be , ,
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
MOVE IN NOW!
Sweet studio w/large porch, deck, on creek.
Safe area. On busline. Tiled, laundry priv.
$425/mo, 1/3 utils, lst/last/$400 sec. 352-
384-0111. 24/7 apt326@yahoo.com 1-15-
10-5-2
***Central Location 2Bd/2Ba Hawaiian Village
Sublet* New carpet in bedrooms, new tile,
across from pool and laundry. Near UF, good
bus line, walk to Publix. $390 for one room.
contact heb@ufl.edu. 1-15-10-5-2
**LIVE IN THE HEART OF DOWNTOWN**
Walk/bike to campus. 2BR/1BA, 2 porches,
backyard, central H/A, gas stove, free W/D
and microwave. $800/month. 6 month lease
with free Jan. move-in. Call 352-328-4662
1-15-5-2
One Block to UF:2/2.5 bath townhouse. W/D,
Dishwasher, Garbage Disposal, wood floors,
ceiling fans, GUARANTEED Parking call
Todd at 514-4915, VERY Nice townhouse
1-29-10-13-2
Available August 1st. Nice large 4BR/2BA
house. Big bedrooms, big living room. W/D
provided, game room $1425/mo. 2100 NW
8th Court. Call for diretions. Pets ok, fenced
yard. Other houses available 352-339-2342
1-29-10-5-2
Perfect 3BR for grad students or profession-
als. Close to SW Rec Center & Archer Rd
conveniences. hardwood floor, cent H/AC,
new appliances, nice yard. 2627 SW 31st
Terr. $750/mo until August. 215-7199 1-26-
10-10-2
JMB L** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1075
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111 4-21-
65-2
One bdr apt in Historic Waldo. Quiet & clean
(great for grad-student or couple). Next to
coffee house w/free wi-fi. $575. mo (1st last
& security) 15 minute run into Gvlle. PIs call
352 378-2141 & lv msg. 1-20-10-5-2
*1st Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1 bdr. from $459 2bdr. from $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/1 from $619 2/2 from $729
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!
Sunrise Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1bdr from $469
NO APP FEE. Near UF, Schands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Mov
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly N
Totally Renovated 1 bdr. fro
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremc
4-21-10-65-2
1, ,
U.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Pros
.m a .
.e a 0
aSft,es You In!!
o Wgt Limits
m $599* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Ashton Square Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 & 3 bdrs from $719
Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Summer Place Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1bdr from $469 No rent until Jan,
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Sundowne Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Studio from $439 1 bdr from $479
Walk to Butler Plaza and Regal Cinemas
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Gator Village Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1bdr from $489
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Walk to UF. Openings in Feb, May & Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
2-26-10-32-2
$300 ALL Inclusive, Utils, CableTV,
SecureWiFi, BR/Pvt. BA, W/D, Newly
Remodeled & Furnished Common Area. On
UF Bus Rte. January FREE. OPEN MINDED.
954-854-9445 1-28-10-10-2
o.com Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
* -400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
2-11-10-20-2
F subleases
DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE ADluerS Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $299/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 4-21-09-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail now
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 1-20-
10-42-4
Female roommate needed, 4/2.5 townhouse,
1-75 and Newberry, all included, gated, $400
baezwpa@bellsouth.net 954-557-4769
1-19-09-30-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
1-20-10-17-4
1 ROOMMATE NEEDED ASAP For 4bd/3ba
House. Shared With 3 UF Dance Students.
$440 + 1/4 Utils. House Fully Furnished.
Private Bath! Car Garage. W&D Inc. Call
Jessi 813 244 1919 Ready To Move In!
1-29-10-17-4
Roommate needed ASAP. Grad student
seeking female roommate.Share 3br/2ba
apt.1mi to UF. 500/mo + util. Cable, internet,
W/D. (505)934-8767 / leesh.hodson@gmail.
com 1-15-10-5-4
1-2 Roommates needed for 4br/4ba $375
Fully Furn Condo. ALL UTIL Inc., Pvt. bath
walk-in closet,w/d,pool.Short ride to UF on 2
bus routes.STUDENTS ONLY, non-smoking
954-593-3063 1-21-10-7-4
Room for Rent in Spacious 3br/2br House.
Close to UF/SanFe.420$/OBO all inclusive
Wireless/HighDefTV/FencedYard/ ETC.
Clean house with very considerate prof
roommates.Call/txt Taylor at 850-582-9923
1-15-10-4-4
Looking for one male to share 3BR/2BA
house close to campus. Common areas fur-
nished. W/D, new tile & carpet. $400/mo +
elec. 918 NW 10th Ave. Call 561-706-5378
1-20-10-5-4
$300 ALL Inclusive, Utils, CableTV,
SecureWiFi, BR/Pvt. BA, W/D, Newly
Remodeled & Furnished Common Area. OnCALL TODAY!!! UF Bus Rte. January FREE. OPEN MINDED.CALL" " "YH 954-854-9445 1-28-10-10-4
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT J state
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
1 Private Bdrm, Private Bath at Countryside
Apts. $330 a month through Summer C!
Great Deal! Great BusRoute! TV included!
2 male roommates. Willing to negotiate/ac-
cept offers. Call 352-328-4954 if interested.
1-14-10-5-3
$300 ALL Inclusive, Utils, CableTV,
SecureWiFi, BR/Pvt. BA, W/D, Newly
Remodeled & Furnished Common Area. On
UF Bus Rte. January FREE. OPEN MINDED.
954-854-9445 1-28-10-10-3
Very nice 2-bed Apt @Sun Bay, available
Mar 1-Dec 27, $655/mo (includes water)
+ $1000 check (drops your rent to $555/
mo). Minutes from UF/Shands, pet-friend-
ly, Great deal! Call 352-378-2996 for more.
1-15-10-2-3Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-71-
5AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Won't Last
3/2 -Great Community
Owner Financing
$650.oo/mo
352.378.4411 1-15-10-8-5
Only 3 miles from the Ocean
3 and 2 beds avail/low down/low monthly
Call today! 352.378.4411 1-15-10-8-5
2 & 3 bdr's
>From $599.00/month
Owner Financing
Low down
352.378.4411 1-15-10-8-5
Move In Ready
3/2 Adorable
>From $99.00/mo
Westside/owner finance
352.378.4411 1-15-10-8-5
OWNER FINANCING
3 & 2 bedrooms avail
Great Locations
Call 352.378.4411
today! 1-15-10-8-5
Up to $8K tax credit
For 1st time home buyers
3 & 2 bdrs avail
WE FINANCE
Call today! 352.378.4411 1-15-10-8-5
NEW HOMES -3.2 MILES NORTH OF UF
US Dept of Energy, professionally energy
tested, est elec bill $80. 3 different plans,
starting at $208,900. Schackow Realty, de-
veloper 352-514-5060 or rlschack@aol.com
1-21-10-10-5
Apartment for Sale!
2 Bed/ 2 Bath furnished and upgraded
Located: CampusEdge Condos
Walking distance from Campus and Shands
Call: 1-813-810-8879 1-20-10-5-5
Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-60
16, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 14,2010
FFurnishings Motorcycles, Mopeds Autos Wanted Help Wanted
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
*Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
OCERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECHO
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
1-29-10-14-7
6F For Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
PARKING 60 SECONDS TO UF
Next to McDonalds NW 13th St.
Call for semester rates: 352-538-2454.
1-15-10-8-10
Motorcycles, MopedS
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
Discount Motorcycle Gear
www.turn2co.com. Up to 75% off original
MSRP. 904-294-8344 Turn 2 Gear 1-29-
10-26-11
W1lAut
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
*Running or not!@
*NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
1-29-09-75-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
94 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $1499 cash
96 Kia Sephia $999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1499
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
95 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900 SOLD
352-338-1999 4-21-71-1297 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
STUDENTS GUARANTEED FINANCING!
Do you have a valid drivers license?
Do you have a part time job?
Ride today for $750 down!
Call Angie @ 352-672-5048 1-19-10-12
97 BMW 3281 CONVERTIBLE MANUAL.M3
WHEELS. BRAND NEW TOP & INTERIOR.
EXCELLENT CONDITION. EVERYTHING
WORKS.$7000. 352-494-2374 1-20-10-12
Wanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
" Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
" ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 1-14-10-71-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 1-14-
10-71-13
Have transportation
and want to help?
We need volunteers who are available to
help with trapping projects in mobile home
communities all over Alachua County.
Opportunities are available to help trap for
Operation Catnip Sunday Spay Days and
during the week for surgery at Operation
PetSnip. Operation Catnip will supply you
with all the information and equipment you
need! Email us [mailto:operationcatnip@
nmhp.net] or call to get involved! 352-380-
0940
OTHER OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE TOO!
1-15-8-13Volunteers Needed -Horses Helping People
is seeking volunteers for therapy and horse-
back riding program. Please email
awalnes@gmail.com or view our webpage at
www.horseshelpingpeople.org. 1-15-5-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-71-14PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
Hair models wanted for long hair in motion
studies. Hip-length or longer only. No experi-
ence necessary. $70 to $120 and hour. Call
352 792-1824 modelslh@yahoo.com
1-29-10-42-14
Copyrighted Material r
Syndicated Content rodr
Available from Commercial News Providers
S S
I
-pJI
I
mu
U
p
II
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 17
J Help Wanted Help Wanted f Help Wanted Services Health Services
HowlGotAnA
Have a 3.6 GPA & want to earn some extra
cash? We are hiring notetakers & office staff
for spring '10. Go to www.HowlGotanA.com
1-15-10-11-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
SPRING 2010
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
1-15-10-9-14
UCB
Looking for energized individuals to work part
time as an office assistant mainly for packing
online orders.
High paced environment so attention to
detail is key. Hourly pay $8.50/hr. Very
nice job environment and 10 min from
UF! Preferred bilingual English/Spanish,
but not required. Please send resumes to
universitycollegebooks@gmail.com and
make sure your contact information is in-
cluded.
Thanks 2-2-10-20-14
SAT Coordinator
Immediate full time/part time opening for
a person with SAT tutoring background
to help develop a new program at Gleim
Publications. Great opportunity and experi-
ence for a "go getter". Please send your re-
sume to hr@gleim.com or apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com 1-20-10-10-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk
elem, mid school students. 1-4 afternoons
per wk. $10/hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed
wk study req for emp. Volunteers welcome.
Contact Sally 352-384-1155, st23@cox.net
OST WANT
S 9I ISummer Jobs
S$2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
Linux Administrator
Full time career position with a success-
ful 30 year employer located in Gainesville.
Must have strong Linux/Unix background
and should be conversant with the following:
kernel compiling, network configuration, ip-
tables/ipchains, Sendmail, Procmail, MySQL
and Apache. Please apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com. 2-3-10-20-14
Bookkeeper-Office Mgr -PT -for law firm. 15
hrs/wk. Must know Quickbooks & be highly
organized. Please email resumes to:
robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com. 1-15-10-
8-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Afternoons,
evenings & weekends. Fax resume to 373-
2230 1-20-10-10-14
Full-Time position available in specialty run-
ning store. Passionate workers preferred
with a love for running and helping people.
Please email resume to
mike@runningandwalkingstore.com 1-14-
10-7-14
LPNs & RTs NEEDED IMMEDIATELY
to work for a home health agency. Flexible
hours, great pay. Full-time & part-time avail-
able. Call 352-284-2336 or email
hcpservices@bellsouth.net 1-21-10-14
National marketing firm looking for aggres-
sive t-shirt sales reps for the campus and
Greek community. Multiple positions avail-
able. Excellent part-time opportunity with
guaranteed base to start. Email rick@south-
landgraphics.com. 1-14-10-5-14
National marketing firm looking for
aggressive t-shirt sales reps for the campus
and Greek community. Multiple positions
available. Excellent part-time opportunity
with guaranteed base to start.
Email rick@southlandgraphics.com. 1-14-
10-5-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable, expe-
rience a plus. Call Carrillo & Carrillo, PA @
352-371-4000. 1-22-10-10-14
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Full or part time. Some weekends,holidays.
Experience preferred. Apply in person
at Jonesville Animal Hospital 14145 W.
Newberry Rd, Newberry. 1-25-10-10-14
GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS
FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY
PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT
JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-6300
2-8-10-20-14ATTENTIONN SMOKERS!@@
--Do you want to quit smoking?00
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking
cessation study. You may be compensated.
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic 328-6603 or
email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com 1-22-
10-14
The Honey Baked Ham Co & Cafe is now hir-
ing for sandwich prep & production. Approx
20 hrs $7.50/hr starting pay. Apply in per-
son 618 NW 60th St (Behind McDonalds on
Newberry Rd.) Call 331-1253 1-19-10-5-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Entertainment
Hiring
352/336/0402 1-15-10-4-14
Veterinary Asst Exper. Preferred. F/T hours.
Must be avail. to work 7:30a-6:00p Mon.,
Tues., Thurs., & Fri., and 8:15a-12:15p Sat.
Fax or e-mail resume to 352-373-7211 or
timberviewpetclinic@yahoo.com 1-19-10-
5-14
Office Manager FT
Small Hi-tech Co
3 yr exp Word,
QuickBooks, Internet
admin@comscire.com 352-334-7299 1-26-
10-10-14
Bartenders and Wait Staff wanted at
Newberry's Backyard Bar-B-Q Restaurant.
Our friendly, high volume restaurant needs
capable, friendly, and smart employees to
deliver a great experience to our Guests.
Please apply in person. 25405 West
Newberry Rd. Newberry, FL 32669
(Across from City Hall)
1-29-10-12-14
Perry Roofing Inc is a multi-million dollar
company seeking a self-motivated, ener-
getic individual that is eager to help build
our Marketing Department from the ground
up. We've earned a reputation for excel-
lence by giving driven, motivated people the
opportunity to shine. 1-2 year of experience
in Marketing or Advertising is a plus. Submit
your resume to jocampo@perryroofing.com
1-21-5-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT for real estate office.
Approx 25 hrs/wk, afternoons and some Sat
mornings. Tasks include taking rent pay-
ments, answering phone, filing, writing let-
ters. Min 1-yr commitment expected. Starting
pay $7.50/hr. Good PT job for student.
Please send resume and cover ltr to rabell@
atlantic.net or fax to 378-2411. No phone
calls please. 4-21-10-64-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
E serviCeS
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS**
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
1-28-15-15
Elseo's Painting-Offering to pressure-wash &
paint your house for the low price of $1500
ind materials (1500 sqft house). If you want
your house to look good call 352-642-2737
or 352-792-4745. We make lawns pretty too
1-21-10-5-15
FHealth Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersSTD/Pregnancy Testing
Confidential, Affordable, Fast and Easy.
www.JustGetTested.com
5% Off with Discount Code UF2010 2-3-
10-20-16
F Personais
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards
Employment Visas & Naturalization
www.ruthlaw.com (352) 335-6748
2-2-40-18
Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
"Swan Song", Jan 25, 7.30 pm
an hour of dance/theater/music/poetry
5$ student tkts, (352)375-HIPP
http://thehipp.org/news/events.php 1-25-
10-8-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-21-09-71-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
OF -Rides
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23Ivey Hawkins
Black Male
(DOB 06/27/77); 510",
210 lbs, Black Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
3 Counts of Dealing In
Stolen Property,
Burglary of a
Conveyance and
Battery on a Person
65 Years or Older
CRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOP
Sports
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Gators prepare for Summitt, No. 4 UT
* THE VOLUNTEERS ARE 38-3 ALL-TIME
AGAINST THE GATORS.
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@aligator org
The rumblings of the thunderous locomotive you will
hear tonight belong to Tennessee and its women's basket-
ball program.
Coach Pat Summitt, the NCAA's all-time leader with
1,019, is the architect and conductor that has been driving
the program since 1974 and is rolling into Gainesville to
pit her No. 4 Volunteers (14-1, 2-0 Southeastern Confer-
ence) against the Gators (9-7, 2-1 SEC) at 7 tonight in the
O'Connell Center.
It may be just another SEC game, but even the Gators
can't ignore the heightened media attention that follows
Tennessee.
T"Because it's Tennessee, it motivates us a lot more,"
senior Sharielle Smith said. "It gets us basically in the
mindset of 'OK, this is Tennessee. We've gotta step up our
game.' Our intensity has to be there the entire game for us
to succeed."
Last season, UF pulled off a 66-57 upset over the Vol-
unteers in Gainesville, but Tennessee has dominated the
all-time series 38-3.
"They're super talented," UF coach Amanda Butler
said. "They've got the best coach in the history of ever.
Are they the standard by which we all measure ourselves?
Absolutely."
Coming off a sub-par year, where they exited the
NCAA tournament in the first round, the Volunteers have
a sophomore-dominated team, led by preseason All-SEC
First Teamers Angie Bjorklund -averaging 16.5 points
per game and draining 49 percent of her three-pointers -
and Shekinna Stricklen, who is second on the team with 14
points per game to go with her 6.6 rebounds per contest.
Sophomore Glory Johnson compliments them with 12.7
.4 points per game and 8.0 boards a game.
With a lineup that features every starter at least six
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff feet, Tennessee poses an immediate size problem for the
Tennessee women's basketball coach Pat Summitt watches the ac- smaller Gators, whose only such starter is center Azania
tion from the bench during the UF-Tennessee game in the O'Connell
Center on Feb. 8, 2009. SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 19
UF looks to improve performance on bars
Event was team's worst in opener
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
Struggles on the uneven bars cost the
Gators their season opener against Okla-
homa in Norman, but the team is not
dwelling on last week's results.
Despite a total score of 48.175 on the
bars -by far the team's lowest-scoring
event of the meet -Florida feels confi-
dent moving forward with the season.
The biggest issue the team had on the
bars, which was their first event of the
meet, was with handstands, an area theyhave been working on this week.
"We didn't hit any of our handstands
and had two falls," UF coach Rhonda
Faehn said. "If you're going up against
a top-10 team on the
road, you can't expect
to win like that."
Gy m The Gators strug-Gymnastics gled getting completely
vertical on handstands,
and that's one of the biggest things the
judges look for on the bars.
"It's not that hard, but you have to re-
ally be focused on it," Faehn said.Faehn said the team wasn't as aggres-
sive as they should've been in warm-ups.
That lack of aggressiveness may have
been the key factor in the team's rough
performance to open the season.
"We were just holding back a little bit,"
said senior Amanda Castillo, who scored
a team-high 9.8 on the bars. "But we're
very talented and have a lot of room to
grow.
With 13 of the team's 24 routines being
performed by newcomers, it's no surprise
UF has room to improve.
One of those newcomers, freshman Liz
Green, led off for the Gators on the bars,
SEE GYM, PAGE 19
POLL QUESTION
U Who's to blame for Lane Kiffin leaving
Tennessee for USC?Don't blame
Kiffin; blame
the rules
Lane Kiffin left Tennessee high
and dry.
He rumbled into town 14
months ago looking like the man
for the job of returning the Vols to
national prominence.
He was young and brash, a to-
tal change of pace from former UT
coach Phil Fulmer.
He put together an all-star staff
and hit the recruiting trail hard,
and most Southeastern Confer-
ence fans ex-
pected to see
Tennessee
back in the4> title race in
the coming
Mike McCall seasons.
McCallin' It Then, al-
Like I See It most out of
mmccall@alligator org nowhere,
he skipped
town for USC, leaving an angry
mob of students behind.
He bailed on all those players
he brought in and made promises
to, he bailed on the season ticket
holders and he bailed on the pro-
gram at a very vulnerable time.
Good for him.
Kiffin didn't do anything espe-
cially slimy, sleazy or scuzzy. He
did what plenty of other coaches
have done and will continue to do
in the future.
His dream job came open, he
wanted to take it, and he did.
Don't like it?
Change the rules.
Coaches are being paid outra-
geous sums of money to bring in
talented teenagers, who do the
majority of the work for no pay
and less glory than the coach ulti-
mately receives.
Then, the coach can up sticks
and hit the road without warning,
and the environment those play-
ers signed up for is gone.
Don't get me wrong. Coaches
are important, and a great one
will bring a lot of wins and mon-
SEE MCCALL, PAGE 19
SCOREBOARD
Men's basketball
No. 13 North Carolina
No. 19 Clemson64
83
No. 20 Pittsburgh 67
No. 15 Connecticut 57TEEING OFF WITH MIKE McCALL
U Texas QB Colt McCoy proposed to his girlfriend at midfield of the Longhorns'
stadium Monday night. First he throws it away when he shouldn't against Ne-
braska, now he takes an ill-advised knee. .An Iowa fan found a stray cat on his
drive home from the Orange Bowl and named her Tebow "because she's a crier."
Maybe a trend of naming amorous stray dogs 'Tiger' will emerge soon.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 19
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
MCCALL, from page 18
ey to his program, but something has to
change.
Maybe a portion of a coach's buyout
clause could go to the players he leaves
behind.
Or force coaches to make an announce-
ment that they're open to taking another
job at least one calendar year before they
sign with another program. Any coach
who breaks this rule gets hit with a multi-
million-dollar fine.
It's a tough situation to fix, but it's not
fair to the players.
In this case though, I think the move
is good for the Tennessee program in the
long run.
In his FanHouse column on Tuesday
night, Clay Travis -who wrote a book
about the Vols' 2008 season -detailed
how Kiffin had ruffled some players'
feathers by abandoning Tennessee's tra-
ditions.
Citing senior center Josh McNeil, Tra-
vis wrote about how Kiffin frequently
showed the team highlights of USC play-
ers rather than Vols legends, didn't want
to take part in the custom of reciting Gen-
eral Neyland's maxims before games,
brought in the Trojans' chants and at one
point said, "Well, whatever Tennessee's
been doing isn't working anymore, so
we're coming up with something new.
Get used to it."
After a lifetime of living in the South, I
feel it's safe to say Tennesseans wouldn't
take too kindly to a fast-talking city-slicker
from California doing that sort of thing.
The UT program is a proud one, which
makes Kiffin's jump to a bigger pond all
the more maddening, but the Vols de-
serve and need a coach who will embrace
them and their traditions.
In the short term, of course, this is ter-
rible for Tennessee. A hire has to be made
fast to avoid a signing day disaster, and
there aren't a ton of good candidates out
there. Depending on who's hired, this sets
the program back a few years.
Kiffin robbed the cupboard of bigtime
assistant Ed Orgeron and his father, de-
fensive mastermind Monte Kiffin, leaving
the Vols in shambles and giving USC a
quick rebound after Pete Carroll's depar-
ture.
There's not much of a downside for
the Trojans, unless Alligator photogra-
pher Harrison Diamond's prediction that
Monte will "die of dysentery on the wag-
on ride to California" comes true.Vols' height causes matchup issues for Gators
WHOOPS, from page 18
Stewart.
Unable to match the Volunteers' size,
Florida will have to play its best for 40
minutes, relying on keeping the ball and
getting Tennessee out of sync offensively
in an effort to score transition points.
The Gators come in averaging more
steals per game (9.9) than their oppo-
nents and will have to play tough de-
fense to slow a team that averages 79.6points.
Turnovers have been a hindrance for
the team all season. UF
averages 19.4 per game
-nearly six more than
Tennessee-andhad 16
Women's in the first half against
Bask aI Georgia on Sunday.laSfleLaI "That can't be an is-
sue this game because
the majority of the time when we turn
the ball over, that's extra points for them
-it's like we're spotting them points,"Smith said. "With Tennessee, you can't
afford to have those."
For a team that outscores its oppo-
nents by an average of 22 points, the Vol-
unteers won't need any extra help from
the Gators to gain a big lead.
Otherwise, UF will be notch No. 1,020
in Summitt's belt.
"For us as a team that's trying to get
to the top, there's only one way to get
there," Butler said. "You've got to go
through people like that, you can't go
around them."
Florida needs to work on handstands for better scores
GYM, from page 18
scoring a 9.675 to try to set the tone for the
team, but admitted she was nervous going
into her first collegiate meet. That's a feel-
ing junior Alicia Goodwin said the team
needs to overcome.
"Don't be timid, just go aggressive,"
Goodwin said. "We're not looking back;
we're just looking forward and focusing a
lot on handstands and little details."
Although the team struggled in its first
event, Faehn said she was proud of how
her team rebounded and tried to dig itself
out of the early hole and to regain momen-
tum as the meet progressed.
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF senior Amanda Castillo scored a team-high 9.8 on the uneven bars against
Oklahoma. The Gators are working to improve their bar routines."The season is long, and it's a
matter of making sure that each
competition we're growing and
getting more confident."
Rhonda Faehn
UF gymnastics coach
Faehn is confident the team's early is-
sues will get worked out as the season
continues and said her team will get to
where it needs to be through more num-
bers in practice and more repetitions in a
competitive setting.
The Gators have been honing their
handstands, as well as their dismounts,
in preparation for the next meet Friday
against Arkansas, the team's home open-
er.
The most important thing, according to
Faehn, is to use the Oklahoma meet as a
stepping stone and to focus on correcting
all the minor details they made mistakes
on.
"The season is long, and it's a matter of
making sure that each competition we're
growing and getting more confident,"
Faehn said. "It just takes a little while for
them to get comfortable, and confident
and cohesive as a group."( ) r I in I 'N f I f 0 ( 4 11)
20, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 14,2010
1* I ~ ~tt
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Aailablefrom Commercial News Providers
Roommate-Individual Leases
-24 Hour Clubhouse
-Pet Friendly
-Best Amenities
STARTING AT
$520
Per Bedroom
Per MonthVNW
