the independent florida
the e
Avenue w
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 131 We Inform. You Decide.111
THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010
Shot student makes bail
He is recovering at Shands
By MATT HARRINGER
and MINCH MINCHIN
Alligator Writers
Kofi Adu-Brempong is still re-
covering in the hospital, but he's
no longer under Alachua County
Sheriff's Office custody.
The UF graduate student's
sister-in-law, Cynthia Agyeg-
mang, said the family posted his
$10,000 bail through bondsman
Rodney Long, an Alachua Coun-
ty commissioner, in order to pre-
vent Adu-Brempong from being
moved to jail.
Before the bail was posted,
Agyegmang said she was notallowed to see or speak to her
brother-in-law and said she had
no idea his feet were shackled.
Adu-Brempong was shot by a
University Police Department of-
Longficer on March 2
after a standoff
with police in
his Corry Vil-
lage apartment,
according to po-
lice reports.
He was
charged with
aggravated assault and resisting
arrest, according to reports.
The Alachua County Sheriff's
Office had been paying for treat-ment and for two ASO officers
posted outside Adu-Brempong's
room since he was checked into
the hospital under a pseudonym,
said Alachua County Jail spokes-
man Eugene Morris.
The family didn't post bail
sooner because Adu-Brempong
was in the hospital receiving
treatment from wounds caused
by the police, Agyegmang said.
They paid it on Tuesday because
they were worried Adu-Brem-
pong would be transferred to the
Alachua County Jail.
According to Keith Yearwood,
the graduate student who took
over Adu-Brempong's geography
class, Adu-Brempong's tongue is
SEE BAIL, PAGE 5Pride Awareness
Month kicks off
By LATIESHA RIVIERA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Actor Wilson Cruz will be at the Arrendondo Caf6 in the
Reitz Union tonight at 7 to kick off Pride Awareness Month.
Cruz, who is known for his recent role in "He's Just Not
That into You," is an advocate for the lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgendered and queer community. The event is co-spon-
sored by Accent.
"He's an excellent advocate and star for the community,"
Ricky Carter, co-marketing director for the program, said.
UF's Pride Student Union will celebrate self-
On expression and acceptance at its 10th annual
Campus Pride Awareness Month in April.
More than 25 events are scheduled, including
an amateur drag show and a queer ball.
Carter hopes people will learn about their community and
ultimately stop stereotyping it. He said people don't realize a
choice of words may offend close friends or family members
struggling with their sexual orientation.
About $25,000 was spent on the month's events. The pro-
gram's events are free and open to the public.
Alligator Contributing Writer Daniella Dorcelus contributed
to this report.
ON CAMPUS
UF cancels concert
By VERONICA DANIEL
Alligator Contributing Writer
An unwritten law has moved
the UF administration to cancel an
indie-rock concert because it was
scheduled during exam week.
Reitz Union Board Entertainment
president Kristen Huff released a
statement on Facebook to explain
the cancellation to the more than 700
people who confirmed they would
be attending.
"In this case, the band did con-
firm, and we had no reason to think
there would be a problem on our
end because there never has been
before," Huff wrote. "We are deeply
saddened to make this announce-
ment and cancel a show we've al-
ready announced."
RUB has been in negotiations
with Band of Horses since Decem-
ber.
"It was really heartbreaking forus," said Bailey Parke, a RUB En-
tertainment Bands Committee co-
director. "We had something we
really cared about taken away from
us.
"It was really heartbreak-
ing for us."
Bailey Parke
RUB Entertainment Bands Commit-
tee co-director
After hearing the administration
wanted to cancel the concert, Huff
and RUB graduate adviser, Sarah
Welch, appealed the decision to the
Division of Student Affairs, but the
two made no progress.
RUB is working to find another
band to perform on either April 22
or 23 by using the leftover budget
from the canceled concert but hasn't
submitted any official offers yet.
Band of Horses was going to be paid
$11,000 for performing.
* UF wide receiver
Carl Moore was
not at practice for
the second-straight
day because he is
taking care of "per-
sonal business," ac-
cording to offensive
coordinator Steve
Addazio.
See Story, Page 18.Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersSaw Much Fun
Noelle Arena, a UF forestry junior, and Todd Lanier, a UF forestry senior, compete in the
Jack and Jill crosscut at the Southern Forestry Conclave in southern Arkansas on Saturday
afternoon.
T0day
FORECAST
OPINIONS
the AVENUE
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS\ /r
Sunny
84/502
6
8
13
15
18
visit www.alligator.orgIARecyaW\1r_
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010
News Today
LOCAL
Student group hosts job
fair for about 30 women
Barbara Fair started her first
job at 16, and she continued
working for more than 40 years
before getting fired in 2009.
"I've always had a steady
full-time job," said Fair, a
Gainesville resident. "To say
getting laid off was a shock
would be an understatement."
More than 30 other women
joined Fair and attended the
Women's Career Expo at the
Santa Fe Center for Innovation
and Economic Development on
Wednesday.
UF's Students in Free Enter-
prise club hosted the event to
help women re-enter the work
force by inviting local employ-
ers and program coordinators to
attend.
Fair said having to start over
again to find a job has been
harder than she expected.
"I still have a few more years
before I can even think about
retirement," Fair said. "I'm not
even sure what employers are
looking for anymore."
Nancy Griffin, the coordina-
tor of Focus on the Future, an
organization that helps home-
makers get jobs, said many
women are intimidated to re-
enter the work force or to look
for another job.
Expos like this can help
women adjust to the evolving
job market, according to Grif-
fin.
"We're not focused on teach-
ing completely new skills, but
updating and utilizing the skills
they might already have," Grif-
fin said.
-PAIGE LACYCopyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
I" 0ugff agml gNATIONAL
The military's "Don't ask, don't tell" policy-prohibiting openly gay soldiers from * suppno,
serving in uniform-may soon be changed. Would YOU SUPPORT OR OPPOSE Oppose
100% having an openly gay person serve inany of the following roles?
90%
80%
70%
60%60 % %
50% 44% 40% 39%
40% 32% 29%
30%
20%
10%
1\ 7
Source: The 60 Minutes/Vanity Fair Poll (May 2010 issue)
Max Weissler / Alligator Staffa the Endependent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 131 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner,jmisner@alligator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, ctillo@alligator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmccall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Holly Kane, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
Andrew Pantazi, Paul Runnestrand,
Colin Simmons, Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@a//igator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions IncThe Alligator has sales intern positions available for
the Summer semester.You will receive classroom
training,firsthand sales experience, and an
opportunity to improve your communication skills.
This resume builder offers a flexible schedule with
a minimum of 10 hours per week.
h i d.a", , fl od
THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
Tell us with an essay, photo or video and you could win a
gift certificate to Sports Marketing, Gainesville's answer to
all your sports and diploma needs.
1st place -$400 gift certificate
2nd place -$300 gift certificate
3rd place -$200 gift certificate
Deadline for entries: Noon, Thursday, April 1, 2010.
Finalists will be selected by a panel of Alligator employees and voted on by Alligator readers.
Online polls will be open from midnight Monday, April 5 to 11:59 p.m. Thursday, April 8.
Submit entries to contest@alligator.org
Visit www.alligator.org/app/gradtab for official rules.
p99 SW 34th St.
in the Publix Westgate Shopping Center
www.sportsmarketingintl.com
Pa-ici f I u -i I | o i in Sp '. 0 '0 b |||---(. b 2 pm \ y Ulil Mit 1101 C e
so| nito n p| 20lu 5 | n t omItnconeat1hlligur.oredrop themn o u on C'Mo [105, UniversltyAve. Al\ isbtissions wilt he aototlica\ly en Tee in the cotses. Finolio will
he:chon by a pniolAlrgatr jacy. iates will bo dsplaycdolohle wsltirpublic volotoin mdntdight Apid5 to 1]59 pnt. April S. TFene
nobtttorpn with thc r0004 \otvo will he onninoCed go w11wers. Willnrlcs will he notiftie lor to APT1l I ' Winnoe killw oe nnotnced inihe Aprit I'
G id1abttpec a I Section. Posit ItiC1) 1requirIed toco I Iect, w innigs. 0I cidireetIors oop, ealoyees & titeir fit n ilI IncTinbesofI(ie A] it toeI.or ati hI I zs
neo nte(li e nolc t el0101Cib le t o :01eegntea. YOUd (1nrotneiedto be pre~ent to Win. Gland pri/e cash vtlt: $ 400,Peioeo, are On-tianofereable. Giatnn
inid alcnljx not includled. P l'oson; he elimiedtby Apil3-0, 2010. Nopo~n oe~i c etsancc~y toentee. ay subinittm n8 oto 011resC IIICCTIft~o IIheSe
doon l li
0 he independnt fhn'tdaalligatorFla. HINI cases steady
0 OTHER SOUTH ERN STATES deaths in Florida and seven in Alachua
REPORT A SPIKE. County since April 2009.
There have been 1,012 HINI-related
hospitalizations in Georgia and 72 flu-
By MELINDA CARSTENSEN related deaths, according to the Geor-
Alligator Contributing Writer gia Department of Community Health.
While Florida counties stopped
After several southeastern states tracking the number of individual cas-
reported an HINI outbreak this week, es around September, health officials
health officials in Florida and through- have not seen any unusual spikes in the
out the country are refreshing vaccina- number of statewide cases, said Susan
tion efforts in hopes of preventing a Smith, press secretary for
third wave of the virus. Local the Florida Department
Georgia, Alabama and South Caro- News of Health.
lina all reported a surge of HINI cases "We're seeing exactly
this week, a trend that is baffling health what we're expecting to see," Smith
officials because spring usually marks said. "I can't speculate on why that's
the end of the flu season. The number happening in Georgia."
of cases reported in Florida has re- Like the rest of Florida, Alachua
mained steady. County's flu rate has remained steady,
"If anything, this influenza virus an achievement the Alachua County
has been unpredictable," said Paul My- Health Department credits to its vacci-
ers, assistant director of the Alachua nation efforts. So far, more than 45,000
County Health Department. have been vaccinated in Alachua
There have been 215 HINI-related County.
VIC
d
1%Tree
Established in 1968
Giod Opp01 SP"
MMd 20 -Aprd
$1- DOGS *
$4 C Located at
Il Chips &Tl 3420SWArcher Rd.
I Butler Plaza
I lindg (between Target CopyIbgf 'I a r
no IIbso et~
6 352-3 79-8733
-fol~ings extril f I inlt 1I pe usooe
II i II I Il i
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
I I I I I I I I I
4, ALLIGATOR 0 THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010
Obam- (ICa% vdo topyhd MatIri off L,% ( ()at%
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Author talks about travels
She received a plaque
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
When UF alumna Fran-
ces Mayes told her family
she was moving to Tuscany,
they thought she had com-
pletely lost it.
When she returned to her
home in the U.S., she found
the inspiration to write a
bestseller.
Speaking to a crowd
of about 275 in Pugh Hall
Wednesday night, Mayes,
author of "Under the Tuscan
Sun," discussed her travels
to Italy and answered ques-tions submitted by the audi-
ence.
"Under the Tuscan Sun"
is a memoir describing
Mayes' restoration of a Tus-
can villa.
During her presentation,
she read an
Alumni excerptfrom
Alumni her new
book, "Ev-
ery Day in Tuscany: Seasons
of an Italian Life," which
was released in March.
"If you find your place,
you're very lucky," Mayes
said. "I found my place."
After the presentation,she was awarded a plaque
recognizing her as a distin-
guished alumna. Beaming
with pride, she noted how
she never thought she could
win such an honor.
She also signed copies of
her books
"Wouldn't my professors
be surprised?" she joked.
Mayes gave advice to
current students, encourag-
ing aspiring writers to read
heavily and write without
censoring themselves.
According to officials
from the UF College of
Liberal Arts and Sciences,
Mayes was not paid for her
appearance.Author and UF alumna Frances Mayes reads an excerpt from one of her memoirs
of living in Tuscany, Italy, in Pugh Hall Wednesday night.
2.15-4.15yoe-.
Carnatic (South Indian Cfassica0 fREE ADMISSION
Music T'rio Trom Meffourne, TL and
Or ando,T'L,
4y15ym -4:30 ym: Presented by:
BIRE9LIc The Center for the study of Hindu Traditions
4:30-6550 yin
SP9C1AtiCiY ainesviffa jam Session
group -Mi of carnaric and
'findustani sryes.(CiTra)
and
SPICMACAY
(S OCIETY fOR *9PROMTION Of INDIAN
CLASSICAL MUSIC AND CULTURE AMONGST YOUTO)
at the University Of ftoridn
P rie Awareness [Month Presents:
Wifson Cruz
Come hear from Actor and LGBT Activist
Wilson Cruz
on Thursday April 1st
Doors open at 7 pm in the Arredondo Cafe in the Reitz Union
located on the fourth floor
He has starred in "My So Called Life," "Noah's Arc," and
the Broadway cast of RENT
sa UAMr a ACCENT A
More Events at: UFPAM.org and visit our Pride Awareness Month FacebookHEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
' rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
-insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShield
of FloridaFr Number: Lil3-,991U 373-0775
Farm Number: 18533-599SU 3669 S.W. 2nd Avenue
THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
UF physics professors
break energy record
%,, n 1.1i .%,mVa %,"""""'""""a1t oH1
The Compact Muon Solenoid detector collects data about collisions in the Large Hadron Collider, which
collides particles at high speeds. About 40 UF professors and students worked on the project.0 THEY WORKED TOGETHER
IN SWITZERLAND.
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new, unexplored area of sci-
ence just opened up, and UF plans
to reap the benefits.
About 40 UF professors and stu-
dents worked in Switzerland on the
Large Hadron Collider, the world's
largest particle accelerator, as part
of an international collaboration,
said Guenakh Mitselmakher, leader
of the UF research team and a UF
physics professor.
On Tuesday morning, the collid-
er broke a small-scale energy record
and finally collided particles.
The particles collide in a detec-
tor that collects data about the colli-
sion and sends it to the researchers
involved.The collider works by taking par-
ticles, the building blocks of atoms,
and smashing them together inside a
vacuum at enormously fast speeds.
Future experiments with the col-
lider will recreate the phenomenon
of the Big Bang on a miniature scale,
Mitselmakher said.
Mitselmakher and Darin Acosta,
deputy physics coordinator for the
Compact Muon Solenoid team and
a UF physics professor, said it took
17 years to build the detector and
$10 billion to build the collider.
UF will use the collider to find
answers to problems that have chal-
lenged scientists for decades, such as
an explanation for dark, or invisible,
matter that makes up about 20 per-
cent of the universe, Mitselmakher
said.
"Now we have confidence that
the experiments will actually pro-
duce results," he said. "What results,
we don't know yet."
Adu-Brempong is being fed through a feeding tube attached to his neck
BAIL, from page 1
stitched to the roof of his mouth and a bul-
let is lodged in the second vertebra in his
neck.
Adu-Brempong is also being fed
through a feeding tube attached through
his neck, Yearwood said.
To prevent bed sores, attending nurses
rotate him from side to side every two
hours, he said.Morris said Adu-Brempong would not
have been transferred to the jail until his
doctors permitted him to leave the hospi-
tal.
If Adu-Brempong had been transferred
to the jail, they would have been able to
take care of his medical needs at its infir-
mary, which is staffed with a doctor all
day, Morris said.
Adu-Brempong was shot by Keith
Smith, an officer on the UPD Critical In-cident Response Team, after the police "I'm not a doctor, but I don't see any
entered Adu-Brempong's apartment and evidence of that," Agyegmang said after
found him with a knife and a rod, accord- seeing him.
ing to police reports.
Police had been alerted
Special that Adu-Brempong may have
Report needed mental or emotional
help.
But Agyegmang said she had no knowl-
edge of her brother-in-law having mental
or emotional problems.Agyegmang said Adu-Brempong's
lawyer, Larry Turner, told the family this
week it may be receiving good news, but
she does not know if it is in relation to the
current investigation of the shooting by
the Florida Department of Law Enforce-
ment.
ci g sr neA -/,t el ~UN uIVCEITY7fFLORIDA
wo" 6 VW.gatordining.comn
{ s ~ ew
First thil purchasers wil also receive;
full-size basketball with Gator logo
(pick-up at Gator Dininj
business office after 4/12/11
AN Z.ESUDN WILL WIN A GATEWAY NETB300111
Purchase TODAY at www.gatorl.ufl.edu
FullSweepstae ues a WINVOLVEDEVLVING COM NO PURCHS ENECESR TO ETER CRWIN Sweepstae es s115959 peT1 O10
-Eri id esteNetbook "Seepsales r/ h Marketn Agency PDBo 11390, Fr Lauddale, Fl 33339-1390 postrarl dby 41 200 and
-39G dsBsdo h ubra!eiil entis"Vidwere proo'nflad ARAMARK Eduaional Serr ce Lc 1101 Marke Street Pilaelpha PA
19107 ("6poni~" All triddemearks ame the property of 1halrrespectnod owners
EVENTSSTArmRT L 2D M
START AT 10 A.M.
The first 200 fans receive free Gator
drawstring backpacks courtesy of Pepsi!T6kk1 IAnormation
$8 -Adults
$5 -Children/Seniors
$1 -UF Students with ID
EVENTS START AT 9 A.M.
Visit GATOaZONE.COM or call 800-34-GATOR for tickets!6 u --he i
negataaa PIPu pe psi C0=7== -School Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 1 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.com
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010
Editorial
Haterade
Westboro Baptist Church
not welcome in Gainesville
F r a city that prides itself in being environmentally friend-
ly, Gainesville is about to get a heap of garbage dumped
on it -hate-spewing, bigoted, "Christ-loving" garbage.
It's been announced that the Westboro Baptist Church, a ho-
mophobic cult of inbred hillbillies from Kansas, will be coming
to our hedonistic hellhole of a city to "save us" April 18.
These are the same people who picket outside the funerals
of slain American soldiers with signs that say "Thank God for
Dead Soldiers" and "God Hates Cripple Soldiers."
How bad are these people? They were repulsive enough to
make Fox News' liberal-bashing leprechaun Sean Hannity call
Shirley Phelps-Roper, whose father, Fred, founded the church,
"sick" and a "twisted human being." These sacks of biblical
excrement make our furniture-dealing, hate-mongering token
crazies at the Dove World Outreach Center look like the Os-
monds on Vicodin.
We don't care if you believe in God, L. Ron, the Flying Spa-
ghetti Monster, that very handsome black guy in the Old Spice
commercials riding the horse backward or nobody at all -
these people need to be stopped. This isn't about whether you
go to bed at night with a man, woman or goat; this is about
preventing our city from being infected with a group of people
who should've been cut down by the scythe of natural selection
a long time ago.
Whatever it takes short of ending up in handcuffs to stand
up to these people, do it. If it means making signs of your own,
color away. If it means calling upon Moses, Brigham Young or
Morgan Freeman for divine intervention, pray away. If it means
shedding all your garments, jumping into piles and creating
massive coitus carnivals so repulsive that it drives them back
west, thrust away.
Just don't try to appeal to their hearts; there's nobody home.
Getting Specific
The fourth film in the"Pirates of the Carib-
bean" franchise cer-
tainly caused a cheer from
half of us and a groan from
the other half, but it's very
likely that we will all see it.
But, since the announce-
ment that it will be released
sometime in the spring of
2011, we haven't heard
much about "Pirates of the
Caribbean: On Stranger
Tides."
Recently, casting calls for
the film have been released
with an interesting stipula-
tion: Women with breast
implants need not apply.
Now before we start
praising Disney for using"real women" in their films
and teaching girls that you
don't need to alter your
body to be beautiful, let's
take a look at the call sheet.
It reads, "Beautiful Fe-
male Fit Models. Must be5'7-5'8, Size 4 or 6 -NO
BIGGER OR SMALLER.
Age 18-25. Must have a lean
dancerbody. MUST have
real breasts. Do not submit
if you have implants."
Oh, we see now. Women
in this film can't have im-
plants because those aren't
natural. But they have to fit
a very specific height within
two inches and will be mea-
sured by their dress size,
which is an ever-changing
nightmare for most women.
And in case we were
wondering if Disney was
trying to get women with-
out surgical alterations to
be more true to the time
period, we made ourselves
think again. Women in the
time of Jack Sparrow were
usually more sought after if
they were busty lasses with
big hips and chests, not so
much "lean dancerbod[iesj."
Thanks again, Disney.
0 the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University Ae, or send them to P0 Box 14257,
Gainesvi rle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/opinions
-AT 7t-kE7 TQECFL 'JQ) C Oy PCTIT .
tvlAK YOU~ GOVS
BQ.OUQAT \0/UQ
AQAMe-
~~-
Column
Columnist starts
Google and China continue their convoluted Mexi-
can standoff across the South China Sea and our
country slogs through divisive political struggles
and rampant joblessness, I decided to do something proac-
tive and start a cult.
China isn't fighting Google for the right to keep its popu-
lace in the dark; it is fighting to reverse our shared cosmic
destiny and somehow knock our planet off the unstoppable
death spiral Google has concocted for all of mankind. If you
can open your mind to this possibility (and you don't mind
recreational farming or wearing purple capes while danc-
ing to flute music), you may want to think about joining my
cult.
History is written by the winners. If my calculations are
correct, your children's children's literate friends will one
day read about the brave handful of committed compatriots
who rose up and joined forces in the face of oppressive logic
and the crushing weight of tyrannical level-headedness.
Emperor Qin Shi Huang, the man who united China 200
years before Baby Jesus lazed around the manger, saw how
the world would end in a vision of the apocalypse that makes
up the core belief system of my cult. His ancient prophecy
guided China to begin preparing against Google and the
harbinger of doom that Google would unleash on the world:
Sarah Palin.
Qin Shi Huang knew his Great Wall of China would only
keep Google at bay for a finite amount of time, so he built
China into the final barrier against the information giant.
The emperor understood the fact that time itself was actually
speeding up as humanity began powering communications
revolutions which not only made life seemingly move faster
but also made the earth spin faster.
We see the consequences of our planet spinning out of
control as the state of balance innate to nature triggers earth-
quakes at certain specific longitudes to slow the extra spin ofanti-Google cult
the earth. Qin Shi Huang's closed-off
country is humanity's only answer
to the catastrophic damage Google
plans to unleash upon the world in
2012 with Sarah Palin's inevitable
presidential campaign.
Tommy Maple Google has orchestrated the entire
letters@alligator org political career of Sarah Palin, know-
ing full well that she is purpose-built
to stoke the most passionate response possible in carbon-
based life forms. If her infectious folksyisms and diamond-
hard homespun moral certainty somehow get through to the
subconscious mind of billions of Chinese citizens, the global
Google searches of her leading up to the election in 2012 will
send the earth spinning out of control.
This will all hit the mainstream press when the real burial
tomb of Emperor Qin Shi Huang is finally unearthed in early
2012, but by then it will be much too late.
As the planet convulses and skips from one apocalyptic
moment to the next a la the recent pseudo-documentary
"2012," it will be patently obvious why the famous terracotta
warriors buried by Qin Shi Huang have faced Alaska for mil-
lennia.
Forget what you think you know about the flow of time
and the idea that history is anything but the uncoiling of fate,
because you clearly have not mastered deterministic quan-
tum mechanics or somehow injected enough crushed peyote
buttons intravenously into your ocular sockets to be a cult
leader.
But I digress. All you need to know are the basics of our
impending date with destiny and to remember to quit your
job and join my cult today while it is still in the planning
stages.
Tommy Maple is an international communications graduate
student. His columns appears on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Wednesday's question:
Will you protest Westboro Baptist Should the city have banned
Church's presence in Gainesville? ladies night drink specials?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org30% YES
70% NO
137 TOTAL VOTESro zoto
THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Ladies night a win-win situation
Who is complaining about ladies night?
Ladies night is and will always be a win-
win-win situation. Ladies get to enjoy free
drinks, whether they're attractive enough to
get guys to open their wallet or not. Men get
to enjoy having more women in attendance to
talk to, and they don't have to feel obligated to
buy drinks for them. Businesses get increased
sales and tips as women come for their free
watered-down wells and guys pour in to talk
to them.
I can only see two types of people who
would have a problem with any of this. One
group is the feminists who think guys are
preying on wasted chicks all night. The other
is the boys so frightened by the opposite sex
that they don't see the opportunity it presents,
only that girls get free stuff and they don't. To
them: sack up and shut up.
To the feminists: Yes, we men are going
to attempt to use this to our advantage. My
only word of advice to the women is to not get
completely hammered. That way you choose
a decent candidate for your late night esca-
pades and, more importantly, so you aren't
completely worthless to us in the sack. Oh,
and tell your less attractive friends not to try
tugging you away when you find a more en-
tertaining ride home.
Scott Ramirez
Engineering Senior
Ladies night is discriminatory
Recently, the city of Gainesville's Office of
Equal Opportunity has brought to light many
local establishments that are in violation of
the city's discrimination ordinance. These
businesses frequently sponsor promotional
activities designed to specifically attract fe-
males, giving preference to one gender overthe other.
These activities violate the discrimination
ordinance by granting women free or cheap
alcoholic drinks and admission, while con-
tinuing to charge men. In Wednesday's paper,
Dana Rogers made good points in favor of this
issue, speaking about the vulnerability placed
on women after binge drinking in an allotted
time frame.
If that doesn't bother you, imagine your
professor granting extra credit to women only.
Does that seem fair? When a group is blatantly
discriminated against, everyone suffers. One
important thing to keep in mind with this is-
sue: The discrimination ordinance only pro-
tects citizens from drink specials aimed at a
certain population -everyone should be on
a level playing field.
Kerri Boyd
7HHP
Letter about columnist was off base
In response to Ryan Weiss' letter to the
editor yesterday, I would say that a student-
run newspaper is the perfect place for a col-
umn like CJ Pruner's. I thought his column
was great, and it gave me a good laugh before
class. I don't think anyone expects you to take
these columns too seriously -have you ever
read Tommy Maple's columns?
And next time you suggest calling Pruner
a "cynical moron" instead of a journalism ju-
nior, why don't you try reading some of his
actual articles? I would start with his four-part
piece about Mormon missionaries, which is
featured on the Church of Latter Day Saints'
Mormon Times Web site. So why don't you
just relax and stop taking these things so seri-
ously?
Burton Hohman
Alligator readerGuest column
Protectors should move on
A midst all the discussion about
health care reform, infamous
Bush-bashing organization An-
swer (Act Now to Stop War & End Rac-
ism) held its annual war protest recently
in Washington, D.C., to mark the sev-
enth anniversary of the United States'
congress-approved invasion of Iraq.
The protest garnered about 2,500
people downtown according to police.
As in previous years, the gathering was
basically comprised of well-educated,
well-informed pacifists -hippies -
stomping around Washington yelling
"Indict Bush!"
The protest itself was headlined by a
speechby former presidential candidate
Ralph Nader, followed by a very ironic,
violent trampling of a Dick Cheney
dummy outside of the Halliburton of-
fices. Finally, someone figured out no
one cared about anything they were do-
ing, and everyone went home.
So now as I sit here curled up with
a bowl of Ramen watching my hero
Glenn Beck on Fox News and I offer
you my brief commentary on an incred-
ibly successful and thought-provoking
protest. I'm going to offer you a shock-
ing piece of information.
George Walker Bush is no longer the
president of the United States. Wow!
Here's a memo to Answer and to
pacifists in general: When attacking the
federal government for their presence
in a foreign country, at least attack theMaft PowerS administration
carrying out theSpea king Out war.
I know, I
know, politics are complicated, and of-
ten times liberals can't handle juggling
more than one issue at a time, but unless
I'm mistaken, didn't President Obama
just send some 30,000 more troops to
Afghanistan? Did the Bush adminis-
tration's initial military action in 2003
write President Obama a blank check
to do anything he wants with no con-
sequence?
Most, if not all, of the anger dis-
played in downtown Washington was
directed at ex-President Bush, with few
or no attacks on Obama, the command-
er in chief of the military who carries
out wars both in Iraq and Afghanistan.
If I had a dollar for every time
Obama has brought up "the previous
administration" in a speech, I'd prob-
ably have enough money to open a new
Reitz Union restaurant.
Agree with me or not, at the very
least, credit me for actually knowing
what I was talking about in regards to
the Answer protest. I understand it's
easy to be ignorant. After all, it sure is
easier to digest an oversimplified rant
about a four-day conservative political
gathering on MSNBC than actually at-
tend or even read about the event.
Matt Powers is a sophomore engineering
student.
WE 9IVER
1. d.btbe
SUN-WED 11Am-3AM 672-6111
THURS, FRI & SAT FREE WIF
IIAM-4AM NEXT TO SWEETBAY
WWW.JDOOBIES.COM 34TH ST. PLAZA
Gerard donated in his His gift provided shelter for
mother's name. the Tyler family after a fire.
Support the Red Cross and change a life, American
starting with your own. T Red Cross
Call 1-800-RED CROSS or visit redcross.org.
Live Long & Prosper.
Drive Sober.
theAvenue thursday, april 1, 2010
nuts for namaste
UF students pose in a downward dog yoga position during a RecSports class. Inside, what other classes you
can take to bring your fitness to a new level. Plus, what to expect from the iPad, an all-new sexToon, prank
protocol, why we have Bieber Fever and more. Check out alligator.org/the-avenue for details on a geogra-
phy of alcohol class and a review of "Hot Tub Time Machine."
page 9If you missed it.
By JARED MISNER
avenue writer
For those of you left crying in
your exam-induced state of self-
hatred and last-minute study-
ing, here's what you might have
missed in the entertainment
realm.
First, and not that it's a big sur-
prise, our very own bon-bon
shaking Latin queen has finally
joined the ranks of "Gayken"
and Lance Bass.
Sorry ladies, but Ricky Martin
won't be singing "She Bangs"
anytime soon after he finally ad-
mitted he's gay.
And get ready for another shame-
fully addictive, take-the-book-
jacket-off -so-no-one-knows-
what-you're-actually-reading
Stephanie Meyer addition.
Just 25 days before the theat-
rical version of "Eclipse" is re-
leased on June 30, Meyer will
release the novella "The Short
Second Life of Bree Tanner,"
a spin-off from one of Meyer's
"Eclipse" characters.
And in less shame-inducing,
drunken news, all three main ac-
tors from "The Hangover" an-
nounced this week they'll be
back for a sequel.
No word as of yet if Mike Tyson
will join them.
nui
Ratemyprofessors.com rates good teachers, good looks
By ALLISON BANKO
avenue writer
The end of the semester is just on the tip
of the horizon. It's so close you can almost
taste your celebration drinks. But, hold up!
There's some major housekeeping that needs
to be done, and that my friends, is registration.
Whether registering for summer or fall courses,
ISIS has been bombarded with many trying to
sort out their lives-at least for a semester. Al-
though tailoring your schedule to what you may
think is an acceptable time to get out of bed,
other factors obviously have to be taken into
account-like the professor. Boosting help with
your research for a Cinderella-fit of a schedule
is the ever so reliable Rate My Professors Web
site.
Providing students from more than 6,500
schools an excess of 10,000,000 student rat-
ings of more than a million professors, mtvU's
Ratemyprofessors.com has proven itself to be
the perfect staple of insider information. Profes-
sors are rated on clarity, helpfulness, easiness,
overall quality and hotness -represented by a
fiery red chili pepper."Rate My Professors does what students
have done throughout time. But now they have
a larger scale of opportunity to tap into a bigger
pool of wisdom and opinions to formulate their
decisions on," said Carlo DiMarco, vice presi-
dent of University Relations for mtvU.
The site recently released its "top 25" lists
for 2009-2010 to give light to the highest ranked
universities, junior colleges and professors. Top-
ping the list of the "Top 25 Universities with the
Highest Rated Professors" was Southeastern
Louisiana University, John Jay College of Crimi-
nal Justice and Brigham Young University.
However, the Sunshine State did much bet-
ter in the rankings of the "Top 25 Junior Colleges
with Highest Rated Professors" with Florida Com-
munity College at Jacksonville and Tallahassee
Community College rounding out the top three.
Getting more of an eye-candy rating were
those professors that made it onto the "Top 25
Hottest Professors" list. Juann Watson, profes-
sor psychology at Kingsborough Community
College, proved to be the steamiest.
"Believe it or not, a lot of professors check
their ratings. When the professors found out
that they made one of the lists they were thrilledand excited. It gives them a bit of a semi-celebri-
ty status," DiMarco said.
UF has three separate sections on the Rate
My Professors site including one for the Levin
College of Law as well as the College of Veteri-
nary Medicine. Gators have chimed in on more
than 3,300 of the UF's professors.
"Believe it or not, a lot of professors
check their ratings. When the
professors found out that they made
one of the lists they were thrilled and
excited. It gives them a bit of a Tzmi-
elzkbritg tu."
CARLO DIMARCO
vice president of University Relations for mtvU
UF assistant professor in the political sci-
ence department, Marcus Hendershot, has 32
ratings on ratemyprofessors.com and has yet to
check them.
"I don't look at it, but family members give
me a hard time about it every once in a while,"
Hendershot said. "The service is not a represen-tative sample in any shape or form, but I guess
it allows students to blow off steam after grades
post. I would much rather have students post
rants on a Web site than have them engage in
harmful activity (for example, either to a faculty
member or to themselves)."
However, some professors aren't too thrilled
with their online ratings, and Rate My Professors
gave them a chance to sound off on some of
their harsh reviews. Professors Strike Back, an
online video series, showcases videos of pro-
fessors directly responding to comments made
about them on ratemyprofessors.com.
"We thought the one piece that may have
been missing was the professor's side. This was
a cool way to put a fun prospective on it," Di-
Marco said.
In the series, professors directly address
student feedback in "Professor Rebuttals." Pro-
fessor Andrew Tomasello, of Baruch College,
responds to a rating he received suggesting he
was "mean not cool" by dropping some friendly
F-bombs in response.
So, be sure to be careful with your ratings
when you rate your professor at ratemyprofes-
sors.com.
THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010 +ALLIGATOR, 9
On-campus gym offers
classes for everyone
By LANCE FULLER
avenue writer
Standing on a squishy purple bubble
about 3 feet around, you raise one foot
in the air and twist your torso while
keeping your balance. By the instruc-
tor's command, you flip over the half-
shaped ball and start doing push-ups
with the bubble side on the floor and
the hard plastic side facing up. The
unique half-ball/half-platform wobbles
while you push up and down engaging
your core and pushing your abs to the
limit.
This challenging course is known as
BOSU Pilates and is one of the many
group fitness classes offered through
UF's Department of Recreational
Sports.
From BOSU Pilates and Ashtanga
Yoga to Speed Training and Total Body,
Rec Sports offers more than 30 dif-
ferent one-hour group fitness classes
about 100 times a week at the Student
Recreation and Fitness Center and the
Southwest Recreation Center. All of the
classes are free with a valid Gator 1 I.D.
card.
"A lot of times, people get stuck in
a workout rut where they're doing the
same thing all the time and hitting a fit-
ness plateau," said Meaghan O'Dwyer,
graduate assistant for group fitness
for UF's Department of Recreational
Sports. "Going to group fitness classes
really mixes up their schedules and al-
lows them to try different things."
With a variety of disciplines, students
will more than likely find an activity that
they enjoy doing, O'Dwyer said.
I-kobol
Around
the"I liked the fact that it was already
scheduled, and it was in a group set-
ting. I didn't necessarily go to work
on my glutes, but I heard that the abs
part of the class was tough. When I got
there, I was the only guy so I thought,
'This is awesome.'"UF economics junior
Russell Mercer said.
UF junior Brett Rogers, 21, started
taking speed and conditioning classes
over the summer. Rogers, who lettered
in track and field in high school, wanted
to get back into sprinting and found
out about the class through a friend al-
ready taking it. Rogers enjoyed the fact
that the classes focused on increasing
speed, he said.
Caley Baird, a senior education ma-
jor, takes BOSU Pilates and a stadiums
class that focuses on running up and
down stadium stairs at Ben Hill Griffin
Stadium.
Baird prefers group fitness classes
compared with going to the gym by
herself because they add variety and
prevent boredom and monotony in her
workouts, she said.
"(BOSU Pilates) relaxes me and at
the same time it really makes me fo-
cus on the muscles I'm supposed to be
working," she said. "It gets you in touch
with your body whereas you can just fly
through cardio routines."
Whether a student is trying to get in
shape or is an athlete, the plethora of
classes provides students with classes
that will reflect his or her fitness level.
For more information about the UF
Rec Sports and a schedule of its group
fitness classes, go to recsports.ufl.edu.
World I Canadian Whiskey
I Bourbon
TequilaRum
IPeruWill iPad be iHit or iFlop?
By NATALIE CERABINO
avenue contributing writer
Apple is hoping cell phones, laptops, digital
cameras, iPods, PDAs and Kindles just won't be
enough.
The computer hardware and software super-
giant is set to release its version of a personal
reader Saturday. Steve Jobs, CEO, said the iPad
will be much more than just a reader, filling the
void between a computer and a smart phone.
But does the void need filling?
"It's a giant iPhone, just without the phone
part," said Jared Mannen, a graduate student
in the UF College of Pharmacy. "Sure, it could be
useful in class, but compared to an actual laptop,
not at all."
The iPad will be a
half an inch thick and
weigh only 1.5 pounds,
which is thinner and
lighter than any other
reader or netbook on
the market. The dis-
play is 9.7 inches with
advanced In-Plane
Switching technology,
making it the highest
quality of a device in
this category, Jobs said
at the unveiling of the
device in January.Courtsey of Ap
The iPad, Apple's newest prod
day, but speculation surround
"It is so much more
intimate than a laptop, and so much more capa-
ble than a smart phone," Jobs said in January.
But there is much speculation in the technolo-
gy world that it will be a flop. Among a sea of jokes
about the other meanings of the tablet's name,
there are many harsh online reviews outlining its
shortcomings.
Brennon Slattery, of PCWorld.com, called the
overall reaction to the device "underwhelming."
Slattery said the major issues with the iPad
IGin
Brennivin
L.ambic Slivovitz
Cake Ale Ouzo
ISchnapps lArak
Brandy iWineC h a m p a g n e 
I a nIBanana Beer
IAmarula
Masatowere that it lacked a camera and it cannot mul-
titask or run Flash, which is software commonly
used in online Web sites and advertising.
Judy Robinson, UF professor of Internet com-
munication classes, said these perceived short-
comings were just that: perceived.
"When Mac got rid of floppy disks people were
enraged," Robinson said.
She foresees the iPad having many applica-
tions on campus in and out of class for students.
Robinson maintains that the iPad is the next
step up in mobile learning and the beginning of a
technological evolution.
"Often Apple leads the way and impacts life in
ways we had not thought," Robinson said.
Andrew Ford, a UFjournalism student, doesn't
share Robinson's senti-
ments.
"It appears to be
geared towards consum-
ers, not producers," Ford
said. He already gets The
New York Times on his
iPhone and doesn't see
how the iPad would be an
improvement.
Despite tepid initial re-
views, the campus book-
store hopes to be selling
pie Inc. the iPad as close to the
uct, hits stores Satur- release date as Apple's
s how necessary it is stock will allow, said David
Looney, the manager in
charge of Apple products at the UF Bookstore.
He doesn't know how many iPads would be in
the first shipment to the bookstore.
The iPad, in addition to the entire Apple prod-
uct line, excluding the iPhone, should be avail-
able with educational pricing, Looney said.
Other authorized Apple resellers in the area
are AT&T stores, Best Buy and RadioShack. How-
ever, only Apple stores will have iPads on Satur-
day.
iVodka
Sake
I Soju
C
Online at alligator org/the-avenue, Richard 0 Stehli reports on the class
Geography of Alcohol, GE03803, taught by Dr Nigel Smith The class is a
scholarly investigation into the world of alcohol and is offered in the fall
Erica Ervin / Alligator StaffIBaijiu
iSnake Wine
Gin &Tonic
10, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010
american
Cafe Gardens
For over a third of a century,
the Original World Famous
Cafe Gardens has been serving
Gators with delicious food and
a large selection of beers and
wines. Located just across from
campus near the Florida Book
Store, this quaint landmark es-
tablishment with award winning
courtyard dining is perfect for
any date or gathering. For live
music schedule, call 376-2233.
Hours: Mon-Wed 11am-10pm,
Thurs-Sat 11am-1am,
Sun Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave. Join us on
Thursday late nights for "Mid-
night in the Garden" with Food
& Drink specials and DJ.
cafegardens.net
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and
Stacks. The only way to
describe the Stack is that it
is outrageously delicious! Its
uniquely different presenta-
tion -three 6 inch flour tortillas
stacked high with fresh grilled
ingredients and just the right
accent of cheese -is strangely
inviting to ones palate. Come
out and try our 1/3 lb Burgers,
steak seasoned Panchos &
Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the The Home Grown
and Homemade Black Bean
Hummus! Now serving draft and
red Stripe beers! We deliver!
Open late to serve your late
night cravings!
Sun-Wed:11nam-3am. Thurs -
Sat: 11am-4am. 34th St. Plaza
(Sweetbay)@ 2124 SW 34th St.
672-6111
www.jdoobies.com
The SwamP
Restouronf
The Swamp Restaurant has
been the gathering place for ga-
tors of all ages for the past 15
years. It's your first stop in town
& your last chance to see Gator
memorabilia for as far back as
1994. Our food and staff are
award winning. Always make
the Swamp your only stop for
lunch, dinner and drinks on our
famous front lawn. The Swamp
Restaurant-Where Gators
gather. Open 11:00am-2:00am.
Daily food and drink specials
and happy hour from 4-8pm.
www.swamprestaurant.com
1642 W. University Avenue
(352) 37-SWAMPDavid's BBQ
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, Eat-in,
Takeout, Drive thru, Catering, or
Tailgating. Everyone loves
David's BBQ because, unlike
ordinary BBQ places, David's
cooks over a real wood fire! Eat
where the locals eat! Voted #1
BBQ in Gainesville! Approved
caterer for UF's Emerson Alumni
Hall. Mon-Sat 7 am-9 pm.
Sundays open at 8 am. Drive
Thru until 9:30 pm 7 days! 352-
373-2002. Have David's BBQ
delivered by Gatorfood.com.
FREE WIFI. 5121 NW 39th Ave
www.davidsBBQ.com
breakfast
unch5
43rd Street Deli and
Bieakfost House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to
for over 25 years -we probably
served your parents. Biggest
4 egg omelette, French toast,
and daily specials. Not full yet?
Have lunch with us & enjoy a
large selection of sandwiches,
the best Reuben, gyros, and
soup all at a reasonable price.
Vegetarian? Not a problem. We
have a selection that is sure to
fulfill your needs. We now offer
free WiFi! Open All day Every
day 7am-3pm. 4401 NW 25th
Place 373-2927. 3483 Williston
Rd 373-5656. Conveniently
located off 1-75
The Yeardin9
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog legs,
and alligator, as well as USDA
Prime beef, seafood, grits, greens
& hush puppies. Open Thursday
& Friday 5pm-1 Opm, Saturday
12pm-1Opm & Sunday 12pm-
830pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999
www.theyearlingrestaurant.com
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301D'Lites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
delicious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly without
the diet taste. We also feature a
whole array of cookies, chips, and
various grocery treats that appeal
to Atkins@, Weight Watchers@,
and other dieters. Our every day
daily specials make shopping
at D'Lites a special value!
Come weigh your options at
the Marketplace Plaza at NW
16th Blvd. and 43rd St. (next to
the Hollywood Video) or at the
Shoppes of Williston at S.W. 34th
Street and Williston Rd. (next to
Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!
Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts,
loose leaf teas, and beer, with
lots of vegan options. Now open
24 hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
blocks east of campus at 1025 W.
University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve frozen
yogurt as a healthy dessert
alternative. Our yogurt has 0%
fat and contains live and active
cultures. Choose any combination
of 8 different flavors and over 30
toppings. Everything for just 45
cents an ounce. 3841 SW Archer
Rd (next to Bento Red) Open
from noon to midnight daily!
itcion
Manuel's Vintage
Room
This family owned restaurant is
perfect for dinner any day of the
week. Come in and check out
one of the best wine lists in town.
Ask questions and learn while
you wait for the chef to put out
nothing but goodness from the
kitchen using fresh, simple, and
local ingredients. Try the Early
Dinner Sunday, Tuesday-Thurs-
day 5-7pm. $3 wines/$1 0 bottles.
$10 Menu. Ask about our Monday
Wine Dinners and private parties
for lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
St. (352)375-7372
vegetarian
Green Mongo
The best Indian food in Gaines-
ville. Serving Gainesville since
1991. The best Samosas in
Florida. Offering many vegan
dishes. We are specialized in
catering any group size. Delivery
available-free delivery on anyvegetarian
purchase over $25! Open 7 days
Mon-Sat 11:30am-9pm, Sunday
1 pm-8pm. Call 352-505-6200.
7625 W Newberry Rd
jamnacan
Caribbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
& oxtail. Opened Mon-Thurs
11 am-7:30pm, Fri & Sat 11am-
11:45pm, Sun 11am-7:30pm
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
352-374-8111
Ljapane,5e
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a hip,
trendy atmosphere. Two great
locations with outside eating.
Open every day for carry-out
or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.
ty
Cabana Cove Kegi
West Grill
Open for lunch and dinner.
Full martini and mojito bar.
Voted nicest outdoor dining.
Try one of our 1/2 gourmet
salads for under $5.
COUPON -DATE NIGHT -
COUPON
Save $5 off your next visit of
$25 or more.
Online ordering & delivery
available.
Call ahead seating.
2410 NW 43rd Street
Gainesville
352-377-3278
Please visit us online at www.
cabanacove.net for additional
savings and coupons.
Green Plantains
The best MoFongo, churrasco,
& chofan in town. $5 To-Go
Dinners. Mon-Sat from 4pm.
Don't miss out $4.95 dinner +
soda on Thursday, student night
from 4pm-1Opm. Visit us at
5150 SW 34th Street at the new
Publix Shopping Center 7 days
a week. We cater. Check us out
on Gatorfood.com
352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.comorga ic
THE JONES
Gainesville's own independently
owned community restaurant
dedicated to bringing sustain-
able, local, and organic food
to the table. Oh, and it's really
yummy. Herbivores, carnivores,
& omnivores welcome! NOW
SERVING DINNER EVERY
NIGHT! New hours: open every
day 8am-1Opm. Check out our
facebook page for specials and
events. 401 NE 23rd Avenue.
352.373.6777
New Deol Cofe
BURGERS! BURGERS!
BURGERS!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burger! This 12oz burger
is Naturally Aged and Fresh
Ground. CHEAP Wines $5/
Glass and 20 bottles under $20.
OPEN LATE servering HUGE
Martini's and cakes to DIE for!
Mon-Thurs. 11am-1Opm. Fri &
Sat. 11am-11pm
371-4418
newdealcafegainesville.com
Real Food Made By Real
Chefs.You Should Feel Guilty
If You Haven't Eaten Here Yet!
mexican
Boca Fiesta
Best Margaritas in Town!
Fresh-squeezed + all natural!
Tasty tacos, burritos, nachos!
Cheap beer, full bar, open late!
Now serving brunch!
232 SE 1st St Downtown
336-TACO!
fn33-TAhborhood
Foroh's on the
Avenue
Farah's on the Avenue
now celebrating 30 years
in Gainesville! Located on
University Avenue, between
Modern Age and Bank of
America, just minutes from UF.
Farah's is newly remodeled and
offers a cozy, fun atmosphere
with a fireplace, the area's
largest indoor atrium and an
open air patio. Farah's also
boasts a full bar and seven new
flat screen TVs airing a variety
of sports programming. The
extensive menu features award-
winning wings and burgers as
well as vegetarian and vegan
fare. Perfect for private events
or casual dining. Now offering
smoke till you choke" hookah
specials on Friday and Saturday
and drink specials all week
long, including $1.50 Pabst, $5
pitchers, $2 wells.
Hours: MO & TU 11am-10pm,
WE & TH 11am-12am,
FR & SAT 11am-2am.
1120 W. University Ave. 378-5179.New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta & desserts. All you can
eat buffet available! Outdoor
dining. Visit www.newyorkpiz-
zaplus.com for coupons. We
Deliver! 490 NE 23rd Ave.
377-2542
egetor on
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade, meals,
sandwiches, soups, home-baked
desserts. Brunch Weekends.
Specials: Cupcake Mon.,
Southern Cooking Tues., Greek
Wed 6pm, Ethiopian Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 1Oam-8pm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
etnome~se
Saigon Legend
Delicious traditional Vietnamese
cuisine with popular Asian
favorites. Pho-Banh Xeo, Banh
Tom Ha-Noi. Enjoy great food
at great prices. Family owned
restaurant. Next to Holiday Inn.
Vietnamese subs-pork,chicken, &
tofu. Dine-in or take out. Catering
available. Mon-Sat 10:30am-
9:30pm, Sun 11:30am-9pm,
374-0934,1228 W. Univ Ave
Q@ pdd@ oKISex&Facebook
It's not official until.
By AMELIA HARNISH
and MICHAEL PERRONE
avenue writers
Michael 12:39 p.m.
In just six short years, Facebook has be-
come a staple in the life of nearly every col-
lege student. Aside from providing us with a
24/7 look into the lives of our close friends
and acquaintances, Facebook has carved out
a far more poignant niche as the modern-day
Cupid. It's hard to imagine what dating in col-
lege was like before Facebook. For our par-
ents, or even our older siblings, courtship was
a far different process.
Today, Facebook serves as an intermediary
tool that our predecessors were not fortunate
enough to have: a bridge between your first
meeting, first date and first hook up. Instead
of toiling away in agony thinking, "I wonder
what she's doing" or "Am I ever going to hear
from her again?" we can send a simple friend
request and continue the pursuit.
But the use of Facebook as a dating me-
dium is not without rules. In general, a friend
request isn't weird if you've already had a
substantial conversation or meaningful inter-
action with the person. Request a girl you've
never met, and you'll be locked in the stalker
zone. Stage 5 clinger anyone?
The decision to chat is trickier. We have
all played that chess match of seeing who
will crack first and open up dialogue with the
other. Any conversation should come with the
ultimate goal of setting up a meeting or date.
The longer you talk online without sealing the
deal, the less likely it is that it will ever hap-
pen.
The content on your profile also influences
the other person's interest in you. Things like
a meager number of friends and lame photo
albums can leave voyeurs confused and dis-
interested.
Dating is all about playing the game and
being savvy enough to maneuver through
the little tests along the way. As social media
continues to evolve into an even bigger part
of our lives, Facebook flirting becomes a nec-
essary skill.Amelia 12:47 p.m.
When a perusal of someone's profile is the
new first date, and it's not official until it's "Fa-
cebook official," Facebook can be both good
and evil.
I go through cycles with Facebook -some-
times, well, most of the time, I'm perfectly
happy sharing every detail of my life and re-
lentlessly stalking the potential suitors in my
virtual circle. Other times, I'm overwhelmed
and obsessive.
I have to admit that I'm absolutely giddy
when I get a friend request from someone
adorable I met the night before, and I'm al-
ways flattered when I get a late-night chat
from a former flame. Like text messaging, Fa-
cebook is a modern must-have for connecting
and reconnecting with lovers.
It's also changed monogamy and what be-
ing "in a relationship" is like.
My battle really started when I got dumped
and found changing my relationship status
harder than actually hearing the words, "It's
over." Then began the ritual of checking his
profile every hour and updating my status
with subtle, biting shout-outs that only he
would understand.
In reality, everyone knew who those quips
were for because everyone was notified of our
breakup via Newsfeed and that stupid little
broken heart icon.
But it's more than who you're with that
you share when you're FBO: pictures, a wall-
to-wall and constant status updates provide
a window into the inner workings of your lives
as a couple. I can't tell if this is good or bad,
but it certainly represents a shift in our cul-
ture's perception of privacy.
When Mark Zuckerberg proclaimed the
death of privacy at the Crunchie Awards in
January, the blogosphere went nuts. But it's
hard to argue with him when you consider Fa-
cebook has more than 100 million users in
the U.S. alone, and nearly all of us are sharing
intimate details, includingwho we're with and
what we do together, without thinking twice
about it.at least, until the bubble bursts and
we're haunted by our ghosts of relationships
past.
Erica Ervin / Alligator Staff
ex6Toov
I
I-4'
IVeL,/00 H iT
.FTol BUT
AND -yT N)RD
L41,
(7t6k, vt iAVju~og c
Idadeg @U%
aq@( q &Rg2fta
0 &&(Mdotgo
lmm fte @,
M46fflnD N N ,--) u 7THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010*ALLIGATOR, 11
Protocol for
pranking
every fool
By ALEX ORLANDO
avenue writer
-Messy pranks:
1. The Sprayer
This one's a little old, but it usually turns
out well. Take the sprayer nozzle on your
kitchen sink and tie a rubber band around the
handle. When your victim turns on the sink to
wash the dishes or their hands, they'll get an
unexpected face full of sink water. This one's
just water, so it won't be too hard to clean up.
2. Hold This
This one takes a little skill, some balance
and a persuasive streak. Fill a bowl of Tupper-
ware container with water (or another liquid,
depending on how mean you are). Standing
on a chair or step ladder, putthe lip of the con-
tainer to the ceiling of your apartment. Grab a
broom and press the handle to the bottom of
the container, holding itto the ceiling. Careful-
ly climb down from the chair while holding the
container to the ceiling with the broom and
call one of your unsuspecting roommates. Tell
them to hold the container to the ceiling, just
like you're doing. Now, walk away and take
the chair with you. Your friend or roommate
won't be able to get the container down with
out the chair. Inevitably, they will give up and
the container will fall on them, soaking them
with the water.
3. Fountain Soda
Take a needle and thread and string about
four Mentos together, leaving a few inches of
string at one end. Tie a knot at the other end
to secure the Mentos. Put them through the
top of a two-liter bottle of soda, holding the
untied end of the string. Screw the cap on the
bottle to hold the string of Mentos, suspend-
ing them above the liquid in the bottle. When
your roommate unscrews the bottle's cap,
the Mentos will drop into the soda, shooting a
fountain of soda through the kitchen.
-Classics
1. Drive-thru
Go to your least favorite fast food joint's
drive-thru. Order a meal. Drive away.
2. Blow-out
Tape a balloon to the right rear tire of
your roommate's car. When they back out, it
should pop, providing a few minutes of enter-
tainment as he or she tries to figure out which
tire blew out.
3. Coinage
Apply super glue to one side of a quarter
or other coin, stick the coin to a busy sidewalk
and sit and watch while people try to pry it off
the ground.
-Bathroom Humor
1. Bathroom Barrier
Place plastic wrap under your roommate's
toilet seat. You can figure out the rest.
2. Water works
Lift the lid off your roommate's toilet tank.
Find the pipe that refills the tank afterflushing
and reroute it to point out of the tank, toward
the front of the toilet. Tape itto that side of the
tank. When your roommate goes to flush, the
toilet will return the favor, soakingthem.
These pranks work most of the time, but
it's not our fault if they don't. Use careful judg-
ment and remember other people are reading
this, too.
L-,
12, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010
Catch Bieber fever
By MICHELLE PROFITS
avenue writer
I have a confession to make.
It's not one that I'm ashamed of,
and it's not an April Fools' joke.
I love Justin Bieber.
I'll give everyone a moment
to get the eye rolls, groans and
scoffs out of your system. Good?
OK, now let me explain.
As a 22-year-old, job-search-
ing, graduate-impending, self-
proclaimed adult, I've been un-
der the impression for quite a
while that my years of obsessing
over teenage pop stars were long
gone.
But then I heard "One More
Time" on the radio. Then "Baby."
I saw the 3-year-old girl crying
over how much she loved him
on YouTube, and I felt her pain.
I began religiously following his
tweets. I was sick with Bieber
fever. I became obsessed with
his catchy beats and bubblegumlyrics. I found myself willing to
overlook the fact that his music
videos play like footage from my
bat mitzvah.
If you're still rolling your
eyes, consider this: I'm not the
only one backing Bieber. Usher
signed him to a recording con-
tract, Ludacris raps on "Baby"
(his first Top 10 singe) and his
new duet with Sean Kingston,
"Eeenie Meenie," is racing up
the charts. His newest album,
is sitting prettily in the No. 1
spot on iTunes' top albums. This
weekend from the Kids' Choice
Awards, Katy Perry tweeted a
photo of her kissing him on the
cheek. Clearly, I'm not alone in
my fervor.
I know there are others of
you out there, ashamed to ad-
mit your unparalleled adoration.
Turn that iPod volume higher, roll
your car windows down and let
the world know that you're ready
to be one less lonely girl.les Denim diaries: It's back!file-
By ASHLEY MCCREDIE
avenue writer
The jorts we made fun of and the denim jackets that we
thought died with the '90s are back, and they're better than
ever. Dolce & Gabbana's entire spring ready-to-wear collec-
tion donned models in different hues of denim from head
to toe. Express is advertising its "denim leggings," and Gap
has brought back the denim button-up. So, dig up those old
shorts from Abercrombie & Fitch, and don't be scared to
rock your parents' old jean jackets.
-Denim tips:
1. Pair denim items with browns, khaki, cream lace and
floral prints.
2. Don't remake the Justin and Britney fashion era, but -
do try wearing denim on top and bottom with some buffers,-
in between. Go for a light pink top, simple pattern or light
brown belt to break up the colors.
3. Keep the deep, dark denim outfits for night and style
with light washes duringthe day.
4. Frayed denim shorts are always a no-no, but the right
tailored ones can work.
5. Because denim has been around for centuries, some
of the best pieces can be found at local thrift shops. Left to right UF seniors Laura R
University of Florida Performing Arts
S11q I I I
SATURDAY, APRIL 3, 7:30 P.M.
Squitieri Studio Theatre
Sponsored by UHIL HOUSE GRILtL
,. hwstr, Archer
Hear the passion and intensity of Australian acoustic
rock duo The Kin, considered one of New York City's
most talented bands. Good Day New York has described
brothers Thorry and Isaac Koren a.k.a The Kin as
"the most promising independent rock band in New York."
Call the Phillips Center Box Office at 352-392-ARTS (2787) for more
information. $10 student tickets are available (while supplies last).
Visit the Phillips Center Box Office or University Box Office at the
Reitz Union with valid student ID. Each student may purchase one
student ticket per performance, for himself or herself only.
University of Florda Performing Arts is supported in part by
University of Florda Student Government.
Events, dates, times and programs are subject to change.Law schools are reporting a record number
of applicants. How will you get in?
Find out free from a panel of experts-
admissions officers, alumni, and students.
Agenda: l Panel discussion Audience Q&A Session l Panelist Meet & Greet
Schools Attending: University of Florida Levin College of Law
Mercer University School of Law
Florida State University College of Law
Florida International University College of Law
And More!
Thursday, April 8th
7:00-9:00 p.m.
UF Law School: Pre-register for details
1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com/learnaboutlawI(A P LA NTEST PREP AND
ADMISSIONS7~
4 i i
ogozinski and Lonni Kushner
rock denim rompers, stylish denim overalls, shorts and jeans
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
1 MONTH FREE!
Immediate availability
All Inclusive Student Living from $399
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-1
-1. .Crnssnlj
Sign and Get an iPad!
*Rates as low as $379
Fully Loaded 42" TV, 19.95 to sign
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, University Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
Summer Rates 2010
Summer Free 2011
On 15 month lease
352-376-6720
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-1
Experience Why We
Define the Good Life
2/2*4/4*All Inclusive
Filling Fast for Fall!
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST Townhouse near UF,
Shands, shopping; easy access. 2BR/2.5BA;
greatfor student/family. Only $750/mo; short-
term lease available. Renovated & ready! Ed
305-972-6432 4-7-10-95-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net& utils. 239-250-6149 4-2-10-65-1
2, 3 & 4'S READY NOW!
Individual & Fully Furnished @ $329
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-10-30-1MOVE IN TODAY!
2/2*3/3*4/4
Experience the Good Life
Text "Enclave" to 47464
4-21-09-71-1
REDUCED 1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $300/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished +
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 4-7-10-41-1
2 Blocks to UF $290/mo
Furnished bedroom in 4BD condo.
Rent includes utils, cable TV & internet.
378-4626 / 262-4290 4-21-10-31-1
$339- Fully Furnished fairly new condo
4Br/4Ba spacious bedrooms & living area,
w/d in unit, great kitchen, great bus rts12
& 35 ten min to UF & shopping Discounted
rent Avail. Start fall. 941-232-1960
4-13-1-2-1
$339 rm/mo all utils incl. 4BR/2BA Condo
at University Commons furnished W/D/TV/
Cable/Parking. Immediatley avl. summer/fall
Great Place Great Price 239.253.8701 or
email at: tom@moorelandscape.com 8-16-
10-36-1
4-4 condo will rent monthy, quarterly or
yearly. $500/month/room includes: washer-
dryer, dishwasher, private bathroom/bed-
room, walk-in closet, utilities, cable, wireless
internet, pool, gym, volleyball and basketball
courts. Living, dining and kitchen have wood-
en floors, bedrooms have nice clean carpets.
Bus services every 5-10 minutes. 352-213-
7059 5-20-10-30-1
1BR/1BA. $850 per month (everything in-
cluded). Covered parking behind unit. Less
than one block from campus. Call for more
details, 724-974-9591. 4-8-16-1
Roomate needed for 2010-2011 School year
Clean, furnished condo on RTS #8 busline
and close to UF. All utilities, cable & internet
included, $500/month
Contact: Maurice (mwmascoe@yahoo.com)
4-13-10-15-1
1/1 Apartment with large living room avail-
able for summerA, B, or C. 2 blocks from UF
campus, behind midtown. 1710 NW 2nd ave.
Call 305-794-6381 or e-mail
basnuevo@gmail.com 4-2-10-5-1
4/4 Oxford Terrace Apt
$500/month, avail for fall term
all inc! W/D, cable, wireless
close! right behind sorority row!
call 561-306-3852 4-1-10-5-1
INDIVIDUAL BIR W/FULL BATH & WALK-IN
CLOSET in 4BR Countryside. Util, DSL, en-
hanced cable, W/D, 52" TV. Year lease from
8/10. $400/mo 352-281-4588 4-1-10-10-1
3/3 Townhouse 2 min from UF/Shands/Vet
Washer/Dryer, Dishwasher, Pool, a few steps
from Bus 13 stop. Furnished or Unfurnished
at same price! Call 727-386-6426 4-6-5-1
4BR/4BA furn. Coutryside Apt. $400/BR in-
cludes wi-fi internet, cable, and pro rated wa-
ter/electric. Gated 2nd floor and overlooking
pool. Contact Chris at 941-726-2204 or rag-
inriv@ufl.edu w/ any questions. 4-6-10-5-1
3BE/3BA clean and quiet condo for rent. All
utilities included. $400/room or $1000/apt. 1
mile from UF. 2 bus routes available. Must
see!! Call Dory 954-816-1468. 4-6-10-5-1
Rockwood Villas Fully Furn. 2/2 with den.
Remodeled. Screen porch, laundry, all ap-
pliances.Great Bus lines,volleyball,(2)pools
and tennis. $800 month. Security $500 one
year lease minimum. 352-494-6110 4-9-
10-7-1ROOM FOR RENT Lg master suite in new
home, 15 min to VA, Shands & UF. NS, pro-
fessional only. Util, cable TV, garage & wire-
less internet incl.Kitchen & laundry access.
$525/mo. 352-219-3410 4-9-10-7-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901 4-21-
10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
Now Available Downtown!
Luxury 1, 2, and 3 Bedrooms
Alarm*Walk-in Closet*Pets OK
Stay Out Late & Walk Home!
Call today-don't wait! 338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
AFFORDABLE RATES! QUIET COMMUNITY!
www.frederickgardens.com
1 BR/1 BA $469 * 2BR/1 BA $569
Great Move-In Fee Specials!!!
Adopted pets live freely 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 Iv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOWor FALL 2010.
2/2 from $999 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$709 2/2-$809 3/2-$909
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-71-2
*More Play, Less Work@
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
BRING IN THIS AD FOR $0 MOVE IN FEES!
2/2s: From $799; 3/3s: From $959
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
Great School Districts!
HUGE 1 Bed- $595!
2 Bed- $729*4 Bed- $949
Tennis*Pool*Basketball
Call TODAY*332-7401
4-21-71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1,s from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$549
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
SORORITY ROW 2BR
2BR/2.5BA for $1199
W/D & utils included. We <3 pets!
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $635. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees *We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $505 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$369
INCLUDES UTILITIES
1 month FREE, Move In TODAY!
24hr Amenities & Valet Trash!
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SUN KEY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!)
Student Discount
From $599/mo; Up to 3 Months Free!
Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Special runs until 4-15-2010
352.376.6720 or 352-376-7041
Check out our unbelieveable
bandwidth: 30x10 IPV6
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
14, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO UF -AVAIL NOW & FALL!
*1BR $460- $495
* 2BR $485- $600
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1,2,3 BR's -YOUR NEW HOME!
Unique LOFT floor plan only $595!
1/1 from $625 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning* Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis * 1 mile to UF
377-7401 * www.boardwalkapt.com
4-21-09-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
3 Affordable & Luxury 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br *2BR $420/br 1 BIR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 4-2-10-65-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-21-65-2
* One Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1 bedroom from *$457 2 bedroom from *$558
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 bedroom 1 bath from *$549
2 bedroom 2 bath from *$641
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Additional $200 off next month
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 *$549
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
5-11-10-64-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 2 bd/ 1 ba
Hardwood floors, must see
$900/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Large 5 Bedrm House**
1 full & 3-1/2 baths
Plant Atriums, Unique floorplan, W/D
Plenty of Parking, 8 blocks N of UF
$2,500/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Great Parking! Walk to UF! 4BD/4.5 BA
Located near SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St.
Call today to view @ 352.373.7578
Union Properties www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
NEWLY REMODELED 1BRs
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-21 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
6-29-64-2
705 NW 10th Avenue <9Blks from UF
3BR/1 BA, 8rooms + 400 sq.ft.porch, Central
A/C, W/D, $1,250 + util. Avail. Aug. 275-
1259, ATucker458@aol.com 4-2-10-37-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 4-2-
10-53-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 4-5-10-
35-2
Baxter Cottage 2 blks to UF campus, 1013
SW 4 Ave 2BR/1 BA, Bright, clean, complete-
ly remodeled, 500 sq ft, Cent AC/Ht,wood
firs, DW, W/D, NS, NPets. $450+util. Lease
runs thru 7/1/10 ATucker458@aol.com 4-2-
10-33-2
2BR/2.5BA townhouse condo, 1 mi from
UF on bus route. Inc W/D, community club-
house, pool & fitness center. Wired for inter-
net & security sys. $878/mo. Avail 5/1 or 8/1.
Call/text 332-8841 lindalu@gatorhomes.com
4-5-10-30-2
OResort Lifestyle*
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
ALL INCLUSIVE PRICING!
2's: From $546/person; 3's: From $451/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-42-2
2BR HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area. Wood floors, new kitchen
vinyl, Cent H/AC, DW, fenced yard, wood
deck, parking, $1080/mo. Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 4-21-
10-40-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority
Row/Norman Hall area. W/D, ice maker, ce-
ramic tile. Cent H/AC, DW, parking, fenced
yard. $1545/mo. Pets extra? Avail Aug 16. 1
yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 4-21-10-40-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area, remodeled baths, new:
stove, DW, disposal & AC, W/D, wd firs. cent
H/AC, parking. $2400/mo Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg
4-21-10-40-2
Houses Available for Fall!
2631 NW 1st Ave -$1845
402 NW 36th -$1425
315 NW 17th St. -$875
4 NW 25th St -$1499
717 NW 34th St -$1320
FREE UF Parking!
352.371.7777
4-21-71-2
$199 Move-In Special
$500-$700 2BR/1BA
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or 352-505-9264 4-16-10-
30-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $650/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220. (leave
a voicemail) 4-21-32-2Available now. HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo. All
4BR/2BA $1100/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183
4-5-10-20-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 4-2-10-100-2
$600, 2BR, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet school
& campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furn; Parking; 352 376
0080;352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-27-2
Walk to campus, 1022 SW 4th Ave. -3/3-
1200 mo & 4/4-1600 mo 3/2 house- 1015 NE
5th PI, fenced yd-$995 mo 4/4 house- 2010
SW 11th Terr-$1250 mo Near law college,
2732 SW 3rd PI-3/2 house-$1250 mo All in-
clude cent A/C, W/D hkups
Edbaurmanagement.com
4121 NW 37th PL- 352-375-7104 4-21-10-
27-2
Homes Avail for Fall! Pets welcome!
4/2 3321 and 3236 NW 30 PL $1200/mon
3/2 3320 NW 30th PL $975/mon
4/2 5402 NW 25th PL $1200
Call April 352-514-1441 for more info! 4-1-
10-13-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**Near GHFC vaulted
ceilings, all appliances, W/D, garage, small
pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1300 333-9874
4-6-10-15-2
*3401 NW 7th Place* 3/2 liv,din,fam rms.All
appliances W/D close to campus, large yd.
small pets ok avail Aug.1 $1325 333-9874
4-6-10-15-2
For a Limited Time Only! 1BR/1BA seperate
dining rm, Ig living rm, walk in closet, cent
H/AC, full kitchen, full bath. H20 & sewer
incl. Free pest control. Close to Oaks Mall,
Archer Rd & UF. $395/mo. 2 & 3 BDs avail
in several locations, dif floor plans. 215-7780
6-17-10-38-20* Very Nice 1BR 0*
Full bath, living room, dining room, full kitch-
en, in-law suite, w/ W/D, cable, all utils incl.
$750/mo near Haile. (352) 367-0372
4-13-10-20-2
*1 BR Home On A Hill*
13"x23" living room w/view, kitchen seats 6,
huge patio, no pets, near NW 14th Ave
& UF, utilities paid, quiet person $850
(352) 395-6250 or 332-1429 4-2-10-13-2
Walk to UF. Openings in April -Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
4-21-10-26-2
Available Immediately! Small 1/1
Efficiency apt. W/D avail, new paint & carpet.
10 min walk to UF. Perfect for international/
graduate students! $500/mo + utils. 284-0979
4-21-10-26-2
**4/2 3962 W University Ave.**close to cam-
pus, all appliances, W/D, hot tub, fire place,
screened porch, avail. Aug,1 $1400, 333-
9874 4-6-10-15-2
10houses.com
3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$1000 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
5-11-10-26-2
**4/3 18 NW36th St.** Close to campusall
appliances,W/D, cent, heat/air Avail. Aug.1
$1375 333-9874 4-7-10-15-2
**4/2919 NW 10thAve.**Closetocampus,all
appliances,W/D,Cent.heat&air.Avi.Aug.1
$1400 333-9874 4-7-10-15-2
FREAKSS! DOWNTOWN 414 SE 2nd St
2BR/1 BA DUPLEX apt w/loft, central heat,
window air, off-street parking, $620/mo,
SALSO: Studio/garage apt. $420/mo.
Call 352-373-6551 4-2-12-2
0
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
For Rent For Rent For Rent u ss Rommtesunfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
***BELLAPROPERTIESNET***
Luxury apartments 2/2 &3/2
next to sorority row.
See pic & info on web page 335-5424
4-1-10-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
Walk to Campus
1/1 Townhomes from $579
2/1.5 bath townhomes from $699
Check out our unbelieveable bandwidth:
30x10 IPV6
352-376-6720 352-376-7041
Ask about our specials!
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-25-2
FREE MONTHS RENT 1BDs
1114 SW 7th Ave $650/mo
Spacious loft style, parking onsite.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-24-2
That's what She Said!
"I LOVE Hidden Lake because.
Cable & internet are Included,
roommate matching is available,
furniture & utility packages are available,
I'm just 1.5 miles to UF & midtown,
there's FREE tanning & a 24-hr gym,
a designer pool AND pets are welcome!"
Come see for yourself!
call 374-3866 for a tour or text
HIDDENLAKE to 47464 OR.
Next time you're on facebook,
creep on over to Hidden Lake's page
to see floor plans, pics & more!
4-21-10-25-27 Blks UF , 4BR/3BA, 2 masters, POOL HOT
TUB, 2500 sq ft, 2 porches, 5 car parking,
responsible students, professionals only, Will
leave plasma TV on wall, $2375/mo -nego-
tiable. Starting May, Jordan 352-222-0211
4-2-10-10-2
3bed/2bath Creeks Edge condo -just off NW
13th St. W/D, pool & clubhouse. Close to UF
and on bus route. Available August. Seeking
roommates $395/mo/ea. 727-463-0560
6-29-10-35-2
* 2BR/1 BA TOWNHOUSE 0
7209 SW 45th Pl. $600/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 4-5-10-
10-2
ONE BLOCK TO CAMPUS
ONE MONTH RENT FREE
1122 SW 2nd Ave 3/1.5 $1575
1123 SW 1st Ave 3/1 $1500 includes utilities.
1118 SW 2nd Ave 3/1 $1200
1 & 2 BRs also available. No dogs.
Call Kinetic Properties at 337-9600 4-12-
15-2
AVAIL 8/1. Clean 4BR/2BA house(no
master BA, baths accessable to all BRs)
garage, fenced yd, pets ok, FP, DW, W/D
provided, wooded pvt big yard. $1400/mo,
cent H/AC. 2606 NW 34th St. 352-339-2342
4-2-10-40-2
ARLINGTON SQUARE (2b/2ba) -$799/Mo,
Luxury Downtown APT, access to main RTS,
NO short-term. Avail 4/21/10, Call Sean,
239-410-1603 5-13-22-2
Copyrighted Material 
*
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
6
I
I
d
IN.'SUN BAY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!)
Student Discount
From $599/mo; Up to 3 Months Free!
Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Special runs until 4-15-2010
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-25-2
***HOUSE 4BR/2BA***
Available 8/1. Lovely, remodeled. W/D. Bike
to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. $1200/
mo. 373-1558, 246-8645, or 256-8370 4-9-
10-10-2
House,4BR,3BA,LR,FR,recently renovated.
2 Masters w/pvt bth. fenced in back yard.
garage. Off 34th. tander@bellsouth.net 954-
340-2732 5-13-10-20-2
2/1 duplex $570 per month with this ad with
year lease. Recently renovated inside and
out. Fenced backyard. 3214 NW 20 th St.
Call Geoff 351 2231-0519 4-1-10-4-2
Looking for an apartment ASAP? Cheapest
apartments in town can be found right here!
Please call (352) 262-9920. 2/2's available
for as low as $500/month, ready for immedi-
ate move-in. 4-9-10-10-2
Available August: Cute & Clean Vintage
4bd/2.5ba behind Applebee's. Bike to UF!
Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds. Huge
rooms! 907 NW 11th Ave. $1650/mo. Others
available! www.cozygator.com 352-338-7670
4-2-10-5-2
2 bedroom/ 2.5 bathroom condo in Brighton
Park approx. 1192 sq ft unfirnished 4415
SW 34th St. #302 contact Zachary 786-473-
8557 4-2-10-5-2
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2
BR vintage apts. near UF & downtown. All
have wood floors, fans, & blinds. Pets pos-
sible. Rent from $575-$950/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com, 352-338-7670
4-5-10-5-2
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean 2 & 3
BR homes near UF. Some wood floors, all
with CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds, & lawn up-
keep. Rent @ $790-$1275/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com, 352-338-7670
4-6-1 0-5-2
2 Br Houses near 13th St. Walmart:
Beautiful vintage charmer 2ba $950
available now. Available May:
Pet Heaven, fenced yard 1ba $675
Call owner/agent 352-328-7474. 4-21-10-
16-2
TOP QUALITY -GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to cam-
pus -on N & E sides. Year lease, beginning
summer or fall. K & M Properties. 372-1509
4-21-10-15-2
JACKSON SQUARE CONDO -Annual
rental beginning 8/1/10. Immaculate, new,
2BR/2BA, 1 blk from UF. W/D in unit, un-
dercover parking. Call owner for details 561-
912-0190. $750/mo/room. 4-21-10-15-2
Housestaff, 4/3, close to Shands, UF, VA.
$1975 mthly. By appt only. 352-301-2403
4-7-5-2
AVAILABLE NOW. 641 NW 34th St. Lovely
4BR/2BA house. 2288 sq ft. Step-down LR,
dining/family rm. Central Heat & A/C, W/D,
private big backyard. $1100. Call 770-822-
9657 or 404-245-1300 4-14-10-10-2DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Sublease master b/d at Windsor Park 450.00
per month includes utilities+ internet. 3 bus
routes. No reasonable offer refused May
thru August. Call Karen at 561-329-1019 or
Karen.Finley@SunTrust.com 4-1-10-5-3
2Bd/1 Bt house, huge rooms, balcony. Directly
across from stadium and campus. Seconds
away from class and bars Price negotiable.
Available May 3rd through July 31st. Call
954-8042830 or 813-6108671 4-2-10-5-3
Sublease for summer! Master bedroom w/
private bath and walk-in closet. Large home
on 34th street. Wooded area w/ vegetable
garden and large yard. $425/mo. Call 561-
818-0103. 4-5-10-5-3
$290/mo Summer Sublease
34th & Archer. Butler Plaza
2 bus routes to campus
Furnished. 3 Bed, 3 Bath
Option to renew. 561-635-7554
4-5-10-5-3
Live with a friend! 2 rooms avail. for sub-
lease May -August at Campus Lodge. 4 bus
routes to UF, next to Publix, fully furnished,
great pool! $399/month all inclusive. Co-ed
is okay. Call 786-556-1590 or 305-335-3944.
4-5-5-3
Sublet: Walking Distance to Class!
Right Behind Sorority Row!
Master Bedroom in House/Ample Parking!
Needed May-Mid August / $475 monthly
352-275-2461 4-16-13-3
Summer sublease 1BR/1BA at the Estates
Furnished + W/D. $882/month (negotiable).
Rent includes utilities, internet, cable +
covered parking. Gym, billiard/poker room,
basket/volleyball courts. Call 7865540378
4-9-8-3
1/1 fully furnished, utilities included in
Lexington Crossing for $429 per month,
May-August. Female preferred.
Lmk0805@ufl.edu or 954-551-1953. 4-2-
3-3
SUMMER 1 BLOCK FROM MIDTOWN/
CAMPUS 18th & 2nd! 2/1 HOUSE w/ porch-
es & fenced yd-pets ok! $700 OBO! Furn/
Unfurn 754-366-9991 4-6-5-3
Summer sublease $350/mo. 4br/2ba in
Gateway at Glades. Includes All utilities, fur-
nished, pool, gym, W/D, internet. Near butler
plaza, convenient bus routes. call 904-894-
8010 4-2-2-3
1br in 6br/3bath behind chipolte, 4 block from
midtown sublease May -Aug. separate en-
trance. 2 parking spaces. porch. separate
entrance to room. large closet. 50 yards
from pool. stocked kitchen. washer/dryer.
furnished or unfurnished. 5612488307 4-6-
10-4-3
ftoommaes
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES
IN FURN 4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF.
$290/mo incl elec, cable tv, internet, pool,
laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626
4-21-09-71-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
4-2-10-48-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$325/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220
(leave a voicemail.) 4-21-32-4.
$400/mo Room for Rent plus elec, Rockwood
Villas TH, pvt bath, on bus route, w/d, free
internet, non-smoking, female only. Avail
Immed & Fall. 1st Mth Free w lyr lease.
ktellmann@ufl.edu/904-874-6877. 7-13-
10-45-4
Seeking roommates for 3 bed/ 2 ba quiet
condo at Creeks Edge. New flooring, recent
remodel,upstairs unit, washer/dryer, on bus-
line to campus, partial furnished. Available
Aug 1st. $395/mo. 727-463-0560 5-11-10-
28-4
Grad student looking for roommates for 4
bed/4 bath condo at University Terrace.
$400/room/month, incl. cable, internet, util.
On 2 bus routes, fully furnished. Tidiness
preferred. Call 352.575.0731. 4-12-10-15-
Roommate wanted: College house; 4/3: Lg
rooms, Lg yard, FP & Lg pool, Walk/bike to
UF or 4.5 mi. to SFC. Nice/safe neighbor-
hood! Join the good life! $375/mo +1/4 Util:
Call Justin @ 813-748-6042 4-12-10-15-4
1 Room avail in Large 1800SF home. Mins to
UF/Santa Fe, steps to a bus. Ideal for grad/
young professional. Only $300/mon + 1/3
utilities! Avail Aug. 6th. 352-514-1441 4-15-
10-14-4
1 room in 3/2, 10 blocks north of university
on nw 22nd st. rent + util&cable&internet is
$500 total/month. large 12'x12' room w 7'x2'
closet, corner window. summer or year avail-
able immediately. Jason @ (352) 577-8235
4-9-10-9-4
1 OF 3/3 BED/BA AVAILABLE NOW!
ALL amenities included for $450/mo!
Awesome roommates! Clean & safe place!
Near mall & major busline. Call Steve at 352-
278-6645 4-6-10-5-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
16, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010
Real Estate Coters Motorcycles, Mopeds Autos Help Wanted
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Campus Edge / Somerest VillageWalk to
Shands/VA/class 2units, 2bd/2ba vault-
ed ceilings 2nd/3rd floor w/d in unit,best
locations parking. $8,000 tax credit.
$164,900/$132,900. Move in Ready 954-
439-2301 stedel@bellsouth.net 4-21-10-
41-5
Motivated. For sale by Owner. Must sell
beautiful 3bd/2b 1777 sf home in Cottages
of Country Way, Newberry, FL. Close to
schools. No HOA. Large lot.Asking $184,900.
(530) 613-6488 4-21-10-28-5
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie -373-5929 4-21-18-10
WEtorCycIes, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***www.B~uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
ELECTRIC SCOOTER
No insurance/registration needed
Inexpensive to own & operate
Assembled/free delivery/guaranty
American Electric Bike Co
www.greenscootersoncampus.com
4-16-10-25-11
2007 KAWASAKI NINJA 500
Garage-kept, never dropped. All mainte-
nance done. Very, very clean. 720 miles.
$3500. Call anytime 352-214-5191 4-13-
10-20-11HONDA CBR 1000 -1991
Super sport. Excellent condition. 1 owner.
Spent over $8000 -documented.
SACRIFICE for $2500. Very pretty bike.
Call 352-389-0465 or 352-207-8815 4-7-
10-10-11SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
S FIPutos al Wanted 
Furnishings
J CyFor SaleLOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948. 4-9-10-72-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 4-9-
10-72-13
JUMBLEThis newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
5-27-09-124-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699
94 Chevy 1500 $999
92 Chrysler Cirrus $999
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
93 Ford F150 $1999
98 Ford Explorer $1999
96 Mits Galant $1999
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Nissan Stanza $1499
98 Pontiac Transport $1499
97 Plymouth Voyager $1999
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2999
99 Olds Alero $2999
99 Pontiac Grand Am $2999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
99 Chrysler Sebring $2500
01 Dodge Neon $2500
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Mustang, 40k, $5500 CASH
03 Chevy Venture, 143k, $6900 CASH
05 Jeep Liberty, 105k, $6999 CASH
05 Saturn Ion, 123k, $7999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
06 Ford Taurus, 40k, $8900 CASH
05 VW Jetta, 111k, $8999 CASH
05 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
05 Chevy Trailblazer, 135k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Ranger, 158k, $7999 CASH
06 Chrysler PT Criuser, 46k $9999 CASH
07 Chevy Cobalt, 24k $10,999 CASH
02 Volvo S60, 97k $8999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12U.
Copyrighted Material
~Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
-a
.a* % '-A
THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 17
J Help Wanted Help Wanted f Help Wanted Services Health Services
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
Summer Jobs
*0$2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have a fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
HIRING STYLIST AND NAIL TECHS!!!
LOCATION: THE SALON 0" EXPERIENCE;
ON NW 6TH ST GAINESVILLE, FL 32609.
50% COMMISSION OR RENTAL IF
DESIRED. CONTACT SALON MANAGER
MRS. CAROYLN 0 AT 352-284-1320 OR
352-672-6339. 4-1-23-14
LEASING AGENT FT
Friendly, energetic person. Experience
preferred. Hourly & bonus. Great benefits.
Must be avail. weekends. Apply in person.
Spyglass or Hunters Crossing Apts. DFWP
4-21-10-29-14
MOST WANTEDBuild your own online business from your
laptop. Fifty year old company. Contact John,
352-219-0871, or John@JCantlon.com
4-12-10-20-14
Start securing your career today!
Join UF ARMY ROTC!
Register for MSL 1001 and 1001L
Call 392-1395 today to learn about
jobs available as an Army officer!
8-5-10-50-14
Salon"O"
Seeking F/T Stylist, Barber and Nail techs
W/ some clientell. Rental or commission 50%
Call 352-672-6339 4-1-10-10-14
Leasing Agent PT Must be fluent with face-
book, excel & familiarw/ UF & SF campuses.
Very Friendly & Smiles Often
Fax Resume to 338-7468 4-9-10-14-14
Opus Cafe -Coffee Bar
We are searching for fun and active
students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at
a fast paced coffee bar near campus.
Starting pay is $8.00/hour + tips.
To apply, go to our website,
www.opus-cafe.com, click on the
employment tab, and follow the directions.
4-2-10-6-14
Soccer Field Help. Experienced Field Liner
needed for local soccer complex. Requires
flexible schedule to accomodate weather
and field needs. Paid per field lined. Paint
and equipment supplied by club. References
required. Contact
president@gainesvillesoccer.org. 4-2-10-
6-14
The Princeton Review is seeking teachers
for our test prep courses.
Starting pay is $15-45/hourly.
Office located 1 block east of campus
Send resume to VanessaR@Review.com
4-1-5-14
CARETAKER -GREAT OPPORTUNITY for
psych, special ed or applied behavior majors
to obtain state of the art intervention skills
& knowledge working with severly autistic
young man in home & community based set-
ting. Must be motivated, reliable and make a
one yearcommitment. Hours TBA, competive
wage. Fax resume to BH @352-375-4268
4-2-10-5-14
FRONT DEST DENTAL
Must be experienced in dental terminology,
scheduling & billing. 1 lam-8pm, M-T. Fax
resume 352-375-4268 4-2-10-5-14
Ever think about joining the Army?
Ever considered being an officer?
If you have 2-3 years left at UF you
may have an opportunity through
Army ROTC Call 392-ARMY!
5-27-10-32-14
Salesperson, $15-$20/Hr. Attorney based
Debt Settlement. No experience required.
Good communication skills. Evenings shifts.
Apply in person 4-6pm. 3501 SW 2nd Ave,
Suite 2300, 2nd floor Creekside Mall 4-2-
10-5-14FT NANNY NEEDED ASAP
3 kids age 1-5;$12/hr; 40-45 hrs/wk
must be exp/prof/ref/ commit lyr+
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com 4-1-10-
4-14
NANNY to start Apr 26 to 2011
M-TH 1:45 -5/5:30; W at 12:30;
ages 7 & 10; $10.50/hr for 15hrs/wk;
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com
4-1-10-3-14
PM NANNY to start May 3
2-6pm; 15-20hrs/wk; 3 kids;
prev exp w/ toddler+ commit 1yr;
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resumepix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com
4-1-10-3-14
AM NANNY to start May 3
7am to noon/M-F/20+hrs/wk
infant exp req./ commit 1 yr
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com
4-1-10-3-14
NANNY FOR 2 starts Apr 26 to 2011
T/TH 2:30-6:30 AND Wed 8-6
ages 3 & 6, 18+hrs @ $10.50/hr;
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com
4-1-10-3-14
STAY IN GAINESVILLE
CAREER POSITIONS
(with benefits)
MARKETING/SALES REPS
ADMIN ASST
TECH SUPPORT
ACCOUNTING EDITOR
RESEARCH ASST
SOFTWARE TESTER
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
(PT also available)
Apply online at http://www.gleim.com
4-21-10-17-14
EXPERIENCED Kennel Technician needed
at Micanopy Animal Hospital. Afternoon and
weekend hours. Please fax resume to 352-
466-4267 or email to
micanopyvet@bellsouth.net 4-5-10-5-14
PT work home and office. Lawn work exp.
preferred. Students only. non-smoking. Call
Sebastian (352)591-3000. 4-5-10-4-14
Sitter- athletic 6 y/o girl, $10 hr, start mid
June, Wed pm & some w/e, 6-8hr avg/wk,
need car, reply bookersch@bellsouth.net
4-6-10-5-14IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruction;
15 minutes from UF. Charlie at 373-5929.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-
15
Local Immigration Attorney -Marriage
Green Cards/Fiance Visas/Naturalization
Matters -$295.00 Attorney Fees Plus Costs
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
6-1-45-15
Salon "0" Specials
Facial -$25.00, Bring a friend and get 50%
off, 'free' prom dress event, and so much
more. Call 352-672-6339 TODAY to set up
your appointment
4-2-10-10-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding. Owner
housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 6-3-10-
30-15
KEN GARVIN APPLIANCE SERVICE
10YEARS EXPERIENCE 8AM-8PM 7 DAYS
500 INFORMATION CONSULTANTS: Work LOW RATES ALL BRANDS STUDENT
from your location or Laptop. Part time. Help SPECIAL $40 SERVICE CALL PLUS
Us Build A Nationwide Database. Anita 770- PARTS WWW.KENGARVIN.COM 338-1708
873-1331 4-6-10-5-14 4-21-20-15
p Car Health Services
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
SUMMER 2010 HIV ANTIBODY TESTINGApply online at www.SmokinNotes.com Alachua County Health Dept Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
Swim, Gymnastics, Dance & Cheer
Instructors, Summer Camp Counselors &
Maintenance Staff. Submit applications to
Sun Country Sports Center (download at
www.suncountrysports.com) 4-9-10-7-14
CLERICAL/TECHNICIAN POSITION
FT/PT
Please apply in person
Institute of Veterinary Spec
3603 NW 98th St. Suite A 4-7-5-14
RECEPTION POSITION
FT
Please apply in person
Institute or Veterinary Spec
3603 NW 98th St Suite A 4-7-5-14
HYPNOTIST -MENTALIST
Seeks intern w/excellent computer, internet
& interpersonal skills. Phone Richard 9am-
12 noon. 352-528-0813 4-7-10-5-14All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE Y
Lose 8-15 pounds i
Only $119
Gain muscle while y
Groups forming now
4-21-71-16
Grieving the loss of someo
National Students of AMF
Join our Facebook group:
"Gator Students of AMF"
TalkAboutLoss.orgA Woman's Answer
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716 8-24-74-16
ee Study Improvement & ee
e Test Anxiety w. Hypnosis e
Call Maureen (352) 870-1527
4-19-10-15-16
*QUIT SMOKING*
****** WITH HYPNOSIS ******
Call Maureen (352) 870-1527
4-19-10-15-16
MF Personal s
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
FEvent Notices
FREE SPAYS FOR STRAYS!
Operation Catnip will provide free spay/
neuter, vaccines, & treatment for fleas, ear
mites, & worms to unowned, stray or feral
cats from mobile home parks in Alachua
County. Volunteers are needed to help with
trapping & transportation of cats. To volun-
teer or request spay/neuter for homeless
cats call (352)380-0940. 4-21-18-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
Wl Rides
OU!
n 4 weeks nm
ou lose fat
.339-2199
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thuri1 &4:30 /Fril1 &4:30
ne? Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-43-16 4-21-71-23Franklin Lee
Barber III
White Male
(DOB 12/09/81); 511",
164 lbs, Black Hair,
Blue Eyes
Wanted for:
Grand Theft
ALACNUA C OUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOP
Sports
THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Moore misses second-straight practice
* OFFENSIVE COORDINATOR STEVE
ADDAZIO ATTRIBUTED MOORE'S AB-
SENCE TO "PERSONAL BUSINESS."
By BOBBY CALLOVI
Alligator Staff Writer
bcallovi@alligator org
For the second-straight practice, wide receiv-
er Carl Moore was not on the field.
Unlike Monday when nobody seemed to
know why, Florida offensive coordinator Steve
Addazio had an answer Wednesday.
"He's just working on some personal busi-
ness right now," Addazio said.
Unfortunately, he did not know much more.
When asked if he would be back this spring,
Addazio repeated that sentiment.
Then, when asked if it was related to the
back injury that kept Moore off the field the en-
tire 2009 season, Addazio again answered that
it's just "personal business."
The redshirt senior was the leading candi-
date heading into the spring to win the starting
Y receiver job next season.
Moore came to UF as a five-star junior col-
lege recruit, according to Rivals.com, but has
failed to live up to the hype. In his first season at
Florida, he caught only 14 passes for 184 yards
and one touchdown.
WILSON MISSING: Offensive lineman James Wil-
son was also not at practice Wednesday.
Addazio said Wilson was dinged up but
wouldn't specify what the injury was, saying
only he would be fine.
The redshirt junior, also a five-star recruit,
was competing with Maurice Hurt for the only
open offensive line spot at guard.
Wilson started four games early last season
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 207~ A
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF wide receiver Carl Moore spins out of a tackle during the Gators' spring prac-
tice on March 22. Moore did not attend practice Monday or Wednesday.
Offensive explosion makes softball watch-worthy
It's fair to say that college softball isoften thought of as college baseball's
little sister.
I can only imagine fans of the sport
10 years ago must have said, "When she
grows up, she's going to be hot."
Not that I would say or have ever heard
any of my friends say such a thing.
The point being: College softball is a
relatively young sport going through
changes that have made it more attractive
to the outside world.
Softball became an NCAA Champion-
ship sport in 1982, 35 years after base-
ball, and has largely been thought of as a
pitchers' game.
But since 2000, teams have increasedH
Kyle Maistri
Kyle Points
kmaistri@alligator orgtheir scoring from
3.56 runs per game
to 3.98, their ERA
from 2.53 to 3.16 and
their home runs per
game from .314 (a
record high at the
time) to .570.
The spike in scor-
ing has made softball
more watchable for the average fan and
perhaps most importantly, softball has
been able to incorporate one of America's
true loves into the game -home runs.
Florida has flaunted these "develop-
ments" as much as any other team in the
nation.The Gators lead the country in home
runs per game (2.07) and rank third in
runs scored (7.67), thanks in large part
to senior Francesca Enea, whose 14 home
runs this season have raised her career
total to 55, putting her just five away
from the Southeastern Conference career
record, held by former Alabama slugger
Kelly Kretschman.
UF coach Tim Walton said that there
are a variety of factors that have led to
the change in the complexion on the
sport, among them stronger and better
conditioned athletes, an increased level
of training for hitters that was only pre-
SEE KYLE, PAGE 20
FORMER GATORS
* Olympic gold medal-winning bob-
sledder and former UF decathlete
Steve Mesler will speak at a College
of Health and Human Performance
seminar today at 10 in Florida Gym.UF needs
eXtras to
top UCF
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Writer
On a team filled with expe-
rienced players, it was a pair of
freshmen who stepped up when
the Gators needed it most.
Brittany Schutte came through
with the game-tying single in the
seventh and the game-winning
home run in the ninth as the No.
6 Gators (24-4, 6-2 Southeastern
Conference) earned a 4-3 extra-
inning victory over UCF (22-13,
7-1 Conference USA).
Freshman pitcher Ensley
Gammel got the win, throwing
four scoreless innings in relief of
Stephanie Brombacher.
"She really pitched well,"
coach Tim Walton said. "She
saved the game for us and really
made big pitches in big spots."
Florida left 13
runners on base but
did just enough to
survive its trip to
Softball Orlando.
"It does get a
little frustrating
when we can't hit situationally,
but you can't let it affect the rest
of the game," Schutte said. "I feel
like we were able to get past that
when we needed to and in the
most important situations put the
ball in play."
Brombacher got the start and
threw first pitch strikes to 16 con-
secutive batters after getting be-
hind the game's first two, which
helped her mow through the first
four innings.
However, her shutout came to
an end shortly after that streak,
as a trio of singles gave UCF a 1-0
lead in the fifth.
Senior Corrie Brooks knotted
the score up at one in the sixth
when she hit her third home run
in her last eight at-bats. Brooks'
shot was the first extra-base hit
of the game after the Gators scat-
tered eight singles through the
first five innings.
SEE SOFTBALL, PAGE 20
alligatorSports Podeast
m Adam Berry and Mike McCall are joined by
UF track and field coach Mike Holloway and
Gators swimming and diving coach Gregg
Troy to discuss their national champion-
ships. Download it on iTunes.TEEING OFF WITH MIKE McGALL
U Deadspin's A.J. Daulerio's attempt at an April Fool's joke fell short Wednesday
night. He posted what he claimed was a police report of his DUI arrest from the
previous night, but the plot was quickly foiled by astute readers. The incident
report was entertaining though, with Daulerio using "I do not speak Spanish so I
can only go up to the number 10" when asked to count backward from 100.
THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Zaiser's attitude pays off in classroom and gym
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
Senior Rebekah Zaiser describes
herself as a perfectionist -both
on the gymnastics floor and in the
classroom -and it shows.
It's a characteristic she said she
got from her mom, a physician
who homeschooled Zaiser and her
two brothers and pushed them to
do their best.
As a result, Zaiser strives for
perfection in everything she does.
On March 5, in UF's tri-meet
against North Carolina and Ball
State, Zaiser nailed her beam rou-
tine, earning a career-best 9.95. It
was a routine she said was a long
time coming, and it meant a lot to
her to finally perform to her poten-
tial.
In school, Zaiser has taken the
term student-athlete to heart, ac-
cumulating a 3.97 GPA in her four
years at Florida and is one of two
UF athletes nominated for the H.
Boyd McWhorter Scholar-Athlete
Post-Graduate Scholarship, which
is presented to the Southeastern
Conference's top male and female
scholar-athletes.
"It would mean a lot to win
that scholarship," said Zaiser, who
will start medical school in the
fall. "I've worked very hard with
school, and athletics, too. I put a lot
of heart and soul into everything I
do at UF."
Just where she will attend medi-
cal school hasn't been determined.
She applied to about a dozen
different schools, was granted in-terviews with eight or nine of them
and has been accepted to five, in-
cluding UF, Ohio State, Virginia,
Thomas Jefferson in Philadelphia
and Case Western Reserve in
Cleveland.
"I can't make a commitment
yet, but it's probably down to Vir-
ginia, Case or Ohio State," said
Zaiser, who would like to remain
in the Northeast to be close to her
family in Mars, Pa.
While those are options she's
satisfied with, Zaiser is still wait-
ing to hear back from two schools
that waitlisted her: Pennsylvania
and Pittsburgh, where she did re-
search with a medical resident last
summer on the incidence of un-
diagnosed HIV in the Pittsburgh
area.
During her
research stint,
Zaiser helpedGymnastics out at an inner-
city hospital
and gave free HIV tests, interacted
with patients and helped answer
their questions.
Because of that experience,
Zaiser hopes to study either ortho-
pedics, where she can work with
athletes motivated to rehabilitate
from injury, or emergency medical
care, like her mom does, though
she is leaving her options open.
"I like the adrenaline rush of the
emergency room -it's kind of like
athletics," Zaiser said. "You have
to be prepared for anything and
everyone in the room is looking up
to you and relying on you."
But Zaiser, who will find out-- -q p
Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator Staff
With a 3.97 GPA, UF gymnast Rebekah Zaiser is one of two Gators nominated for the McWhorter Schol-
ar-Athlete Post-Graduate Scholarship, given to the SEC's top male and female scholar-athletes.
about the McWhorter scholarship
April 6, still has time to decide on
her destination and specialty.
In the meantime, she wants to
remain focused on No. 4 Florida'sgoal of an NCAA title.
When asked if she had to choose
between her No. 1 school choice
and a national title, she said she'd
take the NCAA title."As far as med schools go, I'm
happy with the acceptances I have,
but I can't imagine what it would
be like to win a national title here,"
Zaiser said.
%Jdf 41*0 tforF Ul~' t).111
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News' Providers# , f ) (I % ? V ) ( ) r I )
20, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010
Gators try out defensive end Okine on offense
FOOTBALL, from page 18
before losing the job to Hurt, who
was later pulled to make room for
Xavier Nixon at tackle and to move
Carl Johnson to guard.
OKINE AT TIGHT END: Addazio has
publicly stated his desire for the I-
form to be part of the Gators' offense
since last spring, and while it wasn't
used much in 2009, Florida is expect-ed to run it more with John Brantley
at quarterback.
Abig part of using it will be the de-
velopment of young
tight ends -redshirt
freshmen Desmond
Parks and Jordan
Football Reed and freshman
Gerald Christian.
However, Addazio has two play-
ers in mind to add to the list: offen-
sive tackle Matt Patchan and defen-sive end Earl Okine.
Patchan is recovering from a torn
ACL, but Okine worked on route-
running after practice. Even though
Okine was getting his hands ready
to play tight end, Addazio doesn't
expect many designed pass plays if
Okine is on the field on offense.
"We won't be majoring in throw-
ing him the ball, what you want to
watch is him take the end and go
'Bam,"' Addazio said.
Gammel holds Knights scoreless in four relief innings
SOFTBALL, from page 18 1_
But the Knights, fueled by a record-breaking crowd
of 1,091, started the bottom of the sixth with a single,
double, and two-RBI triple from freshman Marissa Me-
nendez, giving them a 3-1 advantage.
After Gammel came in to close out the sixth, the
Gators started the seventh with three consecutive hits of
their own, including an RBI double from senior Franc-
esca Enea that cut the deficit to one.
Junior Megan Bush followed with a pop out, and then
Schutte tied the game with a single to left.
"(I) didn't really feel any pressure," Schutte said. "I
was just taking it one pitch at a time. I just focused on
my pitch and hit it when I got the chance."
Both teams got a runner to third with less than two
out in the eighth but were unable to capitalize, leaving
the door open for Schutte to hit the game-winning home
run in the ninth.
"She got one in her wheelhouse and really drove it,"
coach Tim Walton said. "I don't think she's a freshman
anymore. She gets a lot of playing time, and she's really
done a good job with it."
UCF refused to go quietly, as junior Abby McClain
drew a walk to lead off the bottom of the ninth and then
moved to third two batters later on an error by replace-
ment first baseman Samantha Holle.
But Gammel was able to control the damage, striking
out the final two batters to end the threat and the game.
"The last couple at-bats I was just going right at the
batters and trying not to get overwhelmed and worked
up," Gammel said. "I just wanted to go pitch by pitch,
and then when the third out was made I was just think-
ing, 'Thank goodness we won.' We just like to make it
exciting I guess."
t5utler Plaza -% ext to 31c_%llister's q)eli
SAL Gd JWl9( This Week ONLY B EWE
20-50% Entire Store523 NW 3rdwww.lingeriecompany.co pawn
C A N C E R
P ROJ E C T
Finally!
A prescription with side effects j
jou want.
Blueberries and red beans are
powerful remedies against cancer.
Research shows that fruits, vegetables,
and other low-fat vegetarian foods may
help prevent cancer and improve survival
rates. A plant-based diet can also help lower
cholesterol.Ana Goni-Lessan/ Alligator Staff
UF's Brittany Schutte played two positions and deliv-
ered the game-winning homer against UCF.
--
20 V
For a free nutrition booklet with cancer fighting
recipes, call toll-free 1-866-906-WELL or visit
www.CancerProject.orgKYLE, from page 18
viously available to pitchers and a move to taller
more athletic players.
"The kid was born to hit," Walton said of Enea,
who stands at 5-foot-8. "She's just an amazing,
amazing hitter."
Obviously, she's not the only one launching balls
out of Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium, as five other
players have logged more than five bombs so far
this season.
One of those players is junior Kelsey Bruder,
who hit 16 round-trippers a year ago and is cur-
rently tied for third on the team with seven.
"There aren't very many pitchers who are ab-
solutely lights-out dominating as there were pre-
viously," she said. "ERAs are up across the board
everywhere."
Enea echoed that sentiment:
"The first couple years (of my career), it just al-
ways used to be pitcher dominated and you'd be
lucky just to get a 2-for-3 day off a good pitcher," she
said. "Now, there really isn't one dominant pitcher
except for (Washington's) Danielle Lawrie."
Lawrie is the reigning Women's College World
Series Most Outstanding Player, as she led the Hus-
kies to a finals win over the Gators last season.
But even she got tagged for a combined 10
earned runs in two semifinal games against Georgia
in Oklahoma.
In fact, teams averaged four runs per game at the
2009 WCWS, right in line with the season's aver-
ages even though most of the best pitchers in the
country were there.
While pitchers across the nation, including UF's
ace Stephanie Brombacher (2.21 ERA), may not be
so happy about the newfound prominence of the
long ball and offense in general, those three- and
four-run leads aren't so safe anymore, making the
games a little more compelling to watch.
Softball now has all the excitement of baseball
neatly packaged into a seven-inning game that
takes half as long and moves twice as quick.
Older brother might have to find a way to dress
her in turtle necks and sweatpants because the hot
younger sister might start stealing some attention
away during those long summer months.
