0the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 110 We Inform. You Decide.-b RcytN
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010
First day of SG election draws 5,289 voters
Voting will continue today from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
As the Unite Party and the Student Al-
liance party continued to campaign, 5,289
students cast their votes Tuesday on the
first day of Student Government elections.
Supervisor of Elections Ariana Alfonso
said about 300 more people voted than
on the first day last spring, probably be-
cause of the ballot questions concerning
the Reitz Union fee and the constitutional
amendment.
"This one has a more important refer-
endum, so that's why I think there was a
higher turnout on the first day," she said.Ben Cavataro, Student Alliance party
candidate for Student Body president,
said representatives of the party spoke
with many different students as they made
their way to the polls.
"A very large number have expressed
interest in the election," Cavataro said.
"I've never seen the Student Body so fired
up and ready to vote in an election."
Cavataro said he expects an even better
turnout of voters today.
Unite Party spokesman Ben Meyers said
the Unite Party hopes even more people
will vote today because the party wants
students to have an influence on their col-
leges and how the university's SG budgetis used.
Meyers said a good number of students
stopped to talk with Unite Party volun-
teers and expressed interest in the party's
platform.
"We were very pleased
with that," Meyers said.
"We're very pleased to
see so much involve-
ment.''
Crystal Dur-
ham, a pre-pharma-Cavataro cy sophomore, voted
for the first time during this election.
She said the prospect of an additional fee to
cover the expansion of the Reitz Union wasOne of the issues that drew her to the polls.
"I think it's important for everyone to
get involved with the decisions that get
made," Durham said. "It's our money they
use, so we should have a say."
Although there was a high turnout
at the polls, Alfonso said there have
been concerns about students double-
voting, and there was a report of sto-
len stickers from the Florida Gym.
She said that if students violate the rules
of the election, they will be held account-
able.
"Enough people double-voting could
definitely compromise the integrity of an
election, and that's why we take it so seri-
ously," Alfonso said.
SG elections continue today from 8 a.m.
to 8 p.m.
Ballot question
deals with labor
* THE REFERENDUM DEALS
WITH GATORS GEAR MADE
IN SWEATSHOPS.
By MATT HARRINGER
Alligator Staff Writer
This election season, students
have been sweating about execu-
tives, Senate seats and the Reitz
Union fee, but there's another
important question on the ballot:
Should UF support sweatshop la-
bor?
The UF Apparel Referendum
asks students if they support join-
ing the Workers Rights Consor-
tium to ensure licensed UF cloth-
ing is not made in sweatshops.
The Workers Rights Consor-
tium is composed of United Stu-
dents Against Sweatshops, a na-
tional network of student groups,
as well as university representa-
tives and labor unions.
The consortium, which in-
cludes 185 other universities
such as Harvard, Louisiana State
University, and the University of
Miami, works to detect and cor-
rect labor violations in factorieswhere merchandise is manufac-
tured.
Emily Flynn, president of UF
Amnesty International, said UF
is already a member of the Fair
Labor Association, which also
serves to detect violations of la-
bor rules.
Flynn said the Fair Labor As-
sociation has representatives
from corporations on its executive
board, meaning the corporations
are responsible for monitoring
themselves.
Student If the refer-Government endum passes,
UF could join
the Workers Rights Consortium
rather than acting as a member
of the Fair Labor Association, ac-
cording to Flynn.
Both the Workers Rights Con-
sortium and the Fair Labor Asso-
ciation charge universities up to
one percent of all apparel profits,
up to $50,000, according to a UF
Amnesty International press re-
lease.
Amnesty International col-
lected 500 signatures to place the
SEE BALLOT, PAGE 8
* UF point guard
Erving Walker tied
for a team high
with 19 points to
help lead Florida
over No. 19 Ten-
nessee, 75-62,
and break UT's
six-game winning
streak in the series.
See Story, Page 22.Man dies after his car crashes into stairs at a Gainesville apartment complex
A 63-year-old man died after his car
crossed Southwest Archer Road and ran into
the stairs at Regency Oaks Apartments, 3230
SW Archer Road, early Tuesday morning.
Deleon Brooks was driving a Nissan
pickup truck when his car drove over the
median into westbound traffic and contin-
ued over the front lawn of the development,
hitting a parked Jeep, a rock and a tree along
the way, according to Gainesville Police De-
partment Cpl. Tscharna Senn.Brooks continued until he smashed into
the stairs, causing unspecified damage to
the stairs, Senn said.
Brooks was then taken to Shands at UF
but died during treatment, she said, adding
that the crash's cause is being investigated.
Leon Bradwell, leasing manager at Re-
gency Oaks, said repairs to the damaged
stairs were fixed Tuesday.
-KATHERINE BEIN70day
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
16
19
22
visit www.alligator.orgBlue Man,
Fighter of the
Green Man
The Unite Party
"Unite Man"
busts a move
to Michael
Jackson's "Beat
It" on Tuesday
outside Turlington
Hall as voting
takes place on
the second floor
of the hall. Also
seen on the plaza
was Unite Man's
archenemy, the
Student Alliance's
green mascot.
Members of
both campaigns
passed out fliers
and talked to
students about
voting throughout
the day. Voting
and campaigning
will continue
today.
Rain
65/33
2, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Purim Party at Skyy Night
Club
Saturday, 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.
10 SW Second St.
Celebrate the Jewish holi-
day of Purim with music by DJ
Carlos Torres, performances by
Boss Lady and the Company
and a surprise opening band, a
costume contest and free admis-
sion all night.
Megillah reading starts at
9 p.m., and the entertainment
starts at 10 p.m. Sponsored by
Jewish Awareness Month and
UF Hillel.
In an Ivy League of Her Own:
An Evening with Lillian
Lincoln Lambert
Today, 6 p.m.
Emerson Alumni Hall
Sponsored by UF Black
History Month 2010 and
SistersSpace.com.
Meet Harvard University's
first black, female MBA. The
event is free and open to the
public.
Campus Kitchens Benefit
Concert
Thursday, 9 p.m.
Market Street Pub
Cover is $6. Bands are: Boss
Lady and The Company, Musa
Farmand and Daniel App, and
Jesse Lash.
R E TIRE MENT
FloridaWealthAdvisors.com
Legalize it. Don't criticize it!
Pd. Pol. Adv. approved by Richard Selwach
Richard
Seelwac .
www clahfra ornmFORECAST
TODAY
RAIN
65/33
-
cc0c
M-THURSDAY
ii
SUNNY
55/28
=a)
=0
C-)
-oa)U-Cu
C-,
-o
=
C,,FRIDAY
1/
SUNNY
61/38
L.
L.
O
a)
E
E
0cSATURDAY
RAIN
60/34a the Emdependent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 110 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University ofFlonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)SUNDAY
SUNNY
66/37
CORRECTIONS
An article in Monday's Alli-
gator incorrectly reported that
enrollment would be cut an-
nually by 5.6 percent. No such
plan was implemented.
A headline in Tuesday's Al-
ligator said the Student Alli-
ance party filed an injunction
against the Renew Your Reitz
campaign. The injunction was
filed by Jonathan Ossip.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
...........:
E MPO i R OOR
BUSINESS.
largest college ne spaper.
Contact t [352 376 4482. auigi orMana
Manag
Assist
Assis
alligatorEditor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
ging Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
ing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
tant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner,jmisner@a//igator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, cti//o@a//igator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
tant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
rSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligatororg
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@a//igator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Corey McCall, Amanda Milligan,
Emily Morrow, Andrew Pantazi,
Paul Runnestrand, Co"n Simmons,
Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Gary Miller, gmi//er@a//igator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Shaun O'Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, e//ight@a//igator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
Complaint filed
against candidate
Phi in the Face
Morgan Sanders, a member of the engineering sorority Phi Sigma Rho, was pied in the face
during a fundraiser for Relay for Life on the Reitz Union North Lawn on Tuesday afternoon.
The fundraiser will be held again March 4. Relay for Life, a national event that raises money
for cancer research and honors those who have died from cancer, will be held March 26 and
27 at the O'Connell Center.* CAVATARO IS SAID TO
HAVE PASSED OUT FLIERS IN
APARTMENT COMPLEXES.
By ELIZABETH BEHRIMAN
Alligator Writer
The Student Government Elec-
tion Commission issued an order
Tuesday that urged members of the
Student Alliance party to stop hand-
ing out fliers and knocking on doors
in apartment complexes.
The fliers said, "The Unite Party
wants you to pay for their pet project
of an unnecessary expansion of the
Reitz Union. The Student Alliance
will not charge the students, and
instead will apply for state grants
to renovate the Reitz Union costing
students nothing."
Apartment complexes represent
non-solicitation zones, where SG
party members cannot campaign.
Unite Party President James Ty-
ger filed the complaint against the
members of the Student Alliance
party Tuesday morning.
He said a witness saw Ben Cava-
taro, the Student Alliance candidate
for Student Body president, knock-
ing on doors in the Gateway of
Gainesville apartment complex.
Tyger said the witness also found
fliers on the windshields of cars in
the complex."The rules are there for a reason,
and we need to abide by them," Ty-
ger said.
Andrew Brown, Election Com-
mission chairman, said knocking on
doors in non-solicitation zones rep-
resents an election code violation.
Brown said he reviewed the
complaint filed against the Student
Alliance party and found enough
evidence to issue the order.
"It was enough for me to know
that something was going on and
ask them to stop," Brown said.
Cavataro denies being in the
apartment complex Monday night
and said he has screenshots of his
Facebook page that show he was
home Monday.
He said he
Student was either chat-Government ting with friends
on Facebook or
asleep at the time he is accused of
campaigning in the complex.
"I think it's more than a little ri-
diculous, and obviously we're going
to have the evidence to back me up,"
Cavataro said.
He said the Student Alliance
party will continue campaigning
on campus tomorrow until the polls
lose.
"The Student Alliance is focus-
ing on the issues important to the
Student Body instead of obscure
election code complaints," Cavataro
said.
4, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010
Speaker discusses Arab music
ByALLYSON FOX
Alligator Contributing Writer
Hicham Chami is mourning.
"Arabic music in its purist tradi-
tional form is dying," Chami said.
"Preserving it is a matter of histori-
cal significance."
Chami is the founder of the Ara-
besque Music Ensemble, a group of
professional musicians from around
the world who play traditional Ara-
bic music.
He spoke to about 15 people
Tuesday night in Larsen Hall to dis-
cuss the decline and preservation of
traditional Arabic music. The music
comes from oral tradition, he said.
He plays the qanun, a traditional
string instrument. Chami spent 10
years with his music professor and
never got a single sheet of music.
It was up to the student to pick
up on the music or not, Chami said.
"Over time, a lot gets lost," Cha-
mi said. "The oral tradition is enrich-
ing but also detrimental."
At world music festivals, only
about 4 percent of performances fea-
ture traditional Arabic music, Cha-
mi said, because in Arabic countries
there is not enough money being
spent on preserving cultural tradi-
tions, he said.
Globalization is also a factor con-
tributing to the decline of Arabic Hic
music. Fusion with other types of abmusic leads to the loss of the tradi-
tional Arabic feel. The music "gets the
swallowed when you put it with anc
something else," Chami said. co
The solution is recording and
documenting Arabic music and ed- spr
ucating people about it. Chami said
COMMUNITY OUTREACHIii
ham Chami, founder of The Arabesque Music Ensemble, speaks
out Arabic music and culture in Larsen Hall Tuesday evening.
music also needs to be published chestra this spring, with the first
d translated so people in other rehearsal Monday, March 15, said
ntries can learn about it, he said. Christopher Witulski, a Ph.D. Fel-
"Just performing the music low in the center for African Studies
eads the word," Chami said. musicology department.
UF plans to start an Arabic or- Chami was paid $300 to speak.
UF students help local high schoolers understand finance
By JULIA MCCLURE
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Mayanna Hemenway heard that
two UF students were visiting to teach her
high school financial planning class, she
said she pictured herself staring blankly,
her mind numbed by material she didn't
care about.
She thought wrong.
"It could definitely be useful later, es-
pecially if I do something with finance,"
she said.
Hemenway is just one high school
student who has learned about financial
literacy from Moneythink.org, a student
organization started at the University ofChicago. The newest chapter of the orga-
nization, American Investment Fellows,
began at UF this year with its first 10-week
curriculum for economics students at Bu-
chholz and Eastside high schools.
"Our goal is to make it interesting for
them," said Nirav Patel, the chapter's
president. "We feel like they get more
practical, hands-on experience than what
the books tell them."
Patel and fellow teacher and vice presi-
dent of the chapter John Colby visit Buch-
holz High School for an hour on Tuesdays
and Thursdays and Eastside High School
for three hours on Thursdays. The curricu-
lum focuses on teaching goal-setting, sav-
ing and budgeting, debt and credit, eco-"We feel like they get more prac-
tical, hands-on experience than
what the books tell them."
Nirav Patel
American Investment Fellows Gainesville
chapter president
nomics, investing, entrepreneurship and
current events.
Michele Brothers, teacher and director
of the Academy of Finance at Buchholz,
said she has seen other college students
come into her classroom before, but it
wasn't like this.
"I thought this was a gift from above,"
she said.Patel started American Investment Fel-
lows at UF because he thought his teach-
ing offered Gainesville high school stu-
dents something different from what they
would get in the traditional high school
classroom.
"As college students, we can relate
to high school students more than some
teachers," Patel said.
Frances Vandiver, director of UF's P.K.
Yonge Developmental Research School,
said the program's curriculum provides
the students a way to see their future in a
different light.
"Engaging activities make all the differ-
ence in the world, " Vandiver said.
Renew Your Reitz campaign ads appear on library computers
Committee chair defends legality of ad
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
and CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writers
Student Government candidates
are still campaigning and so is the
Reitz Union.
In addition to posters and fliers,
the Renew Your Reitz campaign has
spread to the Internet home pages
of computers in Smathers Libraries,
which has partnered with the Re-
new Your Reitz campaign.The Renew Your Reitz campaign
encourages students to vote for a
student fee funding the renovation
and expansion of the Reitz Union.
Ryan Moseley, the Renew Your
Reitz committee chair, said represen-
tatives have tried different means of
campaigning for the expansion and
renovation of the Reitz, including
table-top display ads.
He said setting up the home pag-
es on the computers in the libraries
was a way to get the message of the
campaign to more students."We're really not trying to be up
in everybody's face," Moseley said.
Students can view the Web site
when they log on to the computers,
or they can navigate away to another
page, Moseley said.
Reitz "You have the option
Union to learn about something
and read about some-
thing that's important on campus,
but on the same token, it's a more
passive kind of format," he said
He said the Renew Your Reitz
campaign is not an entity of an SGparty, so it is not subject to the same
rules and regulations as a normal SG
campaign.
Moseley said it is not illegal for
the Renew Your Reitz representa-
tives to campaign and encourage
students to vote in favor of the Reitz
Union fee on the SG ballot.
"We're just really trying to get
the message out there in any format
we can," Moseley said.
Adam Watts, a Ph.D. candidate
in the School of Natural Resources
and Environment, said he noticed
renewyourreitz.com was the Inter-
net home page on the computer heused in the Marston Science Library
Tuesday afternoon. He tried to alter
the home page on his computer but
was blocked from making changes.
Watts, who voted Tuesday in
Student Government elections and
is active in Graduate Assistants
United, said students shouldn't pay
for a building that will not be com-
pleted by the time they graduate.
"I really question why any stu-
dent should have to pay for the uni-
versity to renovate one of the build-
ings," Watts said, adding buildings
with labs and classrooms should be
renovated before the Reitz Union.-Semper Fi hosts
pull-up challenge
U THE SEMPER Fl SOCIETY'S EVENT PROMOTED
ROTC AND THE MARINE CORPS.
By MEG WAGNER
Alligator Contributing Writer
A crowd of students cheered on fellow Gator Matthew
Lake as he did more than two dozen pull-ups Tuesday
afternoon.
Lake, a political science sophomore and a member of
UF's Navy ROTC, did 28 pull-ups as part of an event or-
ganized by the Semper Fi Society.
The Semper Fi Society, a group for those interested in
the Marine Corps and ROTC, organized the event on Tur-
lington Plaza from 11 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. to give passers-by
the opportunity to test their upper-body strength by do-
ing pull-ups.
About 60 students turned out to take the challenge.
People who took the pull-up challenge, regardless of
success rate, were rewarded with a United States Marine
Corps T-shirt.
"If they give 100 percent effort, they get a free T-shirt,"
said Lt. Dennis Keller, organizer of the event and ROTC
staff member.
Members of the society also gave out information about
the Marine Corps and advice on how to stay healthy,
Keller said.
Keller said the goal of the event was to raise aware-
ness about and interest in the Marine Corps and physical
health in general.
"We just want to show what physical fitness and being
fit is all about," he said.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
SPOTLIGHT ON THE SWAMP
Gators hope to grant wish
By KRISTEN BURKE
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students can help make a wish
come true.
Gators for Wish Kids, a new cam-
pus organization, is raising money to
help grant wishes to children with life-
threatening illnesses through the Make-
A-Wish Foundation this semester. The
group will hold its first meeting at 8
p.m. Thursday in the Reitz Union Am-
phitheater.
Evan Georgiou, the organization's
president, was inspired to start the club
because of his father's involvement with
Make-a-Wish in other states.
"I originally looked to join a Make-A-
Wish club, but there wasn't one at UF,"
Georgiou said.
Georgiou has a big goal for the first
year: to grant one wish. According to
the Make-A-Wish Web site, the aver-
age wish is $7,362, but the cost can vary
greatly depending on the child chosen.The money raised by the club will be
donated to the Make-A-Wish Founda-
tion of Central and Northern Florida, he
said.
"I originally looked to join a
Make-A-Wish club, but there
wasn't one at UF."
Evan Georgiou
president of Gators for Wish Kids
For Lindsay Watkins, a UF sopho-
more and vice president of Gators for
Wish Kids, one wish would be more
than good enough for the first year.
The club will work to raise money by
holding various fundraising activities
throughout the school year.
Georgiou said he has not planned any
specific events but hopes to have some
ideas in progress after the first meeting.
Gators for Wish Kids is now taking
applications for prospective members.Forum to address art funds
By ASHLEY HEMMY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Local artists and organizations will
attend an annual art forum today to
discuss low art-program funding and
their still-decreasing budgets.
The Gainesville/Alachua County
Cultural Affairs Board is holding its
second annual Arts Forum today at
the Thomas Center for the Arts at 5:30
p.m.
Art programs receive very little
county and state funding, and Alachua
County organizations are preparing for
more budget cuts this summer, said
Margie Roland, staff specialist of the
Division of Cultural Affairs of the De-
partment of Parks, Recreation and Cul-
tural Affairs.
The Gainesville Association for Cre-ative Arts offers programs to thousands
of elementary and secondary school
students.
The organization offers scholarships
to students in low-income families, said
executive director William Eyerly.
Eyerly added the state only funds 5
percent of the association's budget.
He will discuss
Around funding for an artsGainesville bus that will drive
students who do not
have transportation to after-school pro-
grams at today's forum.
"Transportation is the biggest factor
for stress," Eyerly said. "Even if kids
win scholarships, their parents can't
get them to class."
Eyerly plans to raise about $20,000
for the bus through donations collected
at performances the association hosts.
Copyrighted Material'01,, .I%
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
____________________Up M WIMP~'*~, *
6, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010
Mean Marsupial
School right to take stand
against crude TV show
he University of California, San Diego has graced the
pages and airwaves of national media outlets quite
bit the past week. The school was in the news last week
when members of its Greek community sent out a Facebook in-
vitation to a "Compton Cookout."
The invitation asked attendees to dress ghetto in honor of
Black History Month. According to NBC.com, the invitation
read: "For those of you who are unfamiliar with ghetto chicks
-Ghetto chicks usually have gold teeth, start fights and drama,
and wear cheap clothes."
But the drama doesn't end there. The Associated Press re-
ported the administration stopped funding the school's 33 stu-
dent media outlets after a student-run TV channel, The Koala,
aired a segment making fun of black students' reactions.
Likewise, the organization's site says: "If history has shown
us anything, you need more black people at your party to have
enough black-on-black violence to actually justify the name
'Compton.' Shame on you. SHAME."
An administrator said the school canceled the show and will
reinstate funding when it "can be sure that such hateful content
can never be aired again on [their] student funded TV station,"
according to the AP article.
Now, we're all for freedom of speech, but the school was
right to step in and take a stance. It asked the remaining media
outlets to be patient until it can create a new policy. This isn't
the first time The Koala has gotten into trouble either -the AP
article reported in 2005 it aired a video of people having sex.
Although the fraternity men who planned the party were in
the wrong, The Koala was even more wrong to poke fun at stu-
dents' feelings about a serious issue. Its good to see the school
stand up for its students. If the Koala has a problem, it should
become independent.
Booty Booty Booty
W 're all used toAmerican Apparel's
advertising style.
Commercials seldom have
much clothing in them, and a
trip to the company's Web site
offers nipple sightings galore.
Even their child models often
pose in an arguably provoca-
tive manner.
But we pardon their ques-
tionable advertising because
the clothing is produced in
the U.S. by employees who
earn fair wages and benefits.
(It also helps that their pain-
fully trendy neon T-shirts are
our faves.)
But their latest cam-
paign, a "best bottom con-
test," has us wondering
where the promotion crosses
the line into exploitation.
For the contest, women (and
a few men) sent in photos
of their barely-covered der-
rieres, and visitors to the site
rated them on a scale of 1 to 5.
Almost 1,400 women submit-ted close-ups of their g-string-
or hot-short-clad butts, and
most of the photos show the
back of topless torsos.
The lucky winners will be-
come the new "faces of Amer-
ican Apparel underwear and
intimates" (and we're sure
they're using the term "faces"
loosely).
But we suspect the contest
is less about recruitment and
more about luring people to
the site with the promise of
free images that are racier than
a Sports Illustrated swimsuit
cover.
This certainly isn't the
worst of American Apparel's
behavior -it pales in com-
parison to the constant sexist
advertising, its CEO's blatant
misogyny and the company's
refusal to support unioniza-
tion. But the butt campaign
is making us start to wonder
whether American Appar-
el's bad points outweigh the
good.
0 the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must includethe
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
netters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Aye, or send them to P0 Box 14257,
Gainesvi rle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator. org/opinions
Ne-
-Z
V- 
-
I 0N T C6
No UNITE,
NO STet te g
ALUAtNCZ,.
Votes are representative of agreement
he topic for today is voting. Or, more precisely, notvoting.
Voting holds a lot of implications. It is, at its ba-
sic core, an agreement to a set of terms. When people -
politicians, school board members, university trustees,
friends -grovels for votes, they are simply asking you to
agree with them. Matthew Christ
When Barack Obama beat John McCain in the last letters@a ligator org
presidential election, he won because a certain number of
people agreed with him more than they agreed with Mc-
Cain.
Some would like to complicate the simple process of
voting by equating a vote as something more than a sim-
ple agreement. This is bogus.
A vote is nothing more than an agreement between
the voter and the ideas of the person who's asking for the
vote.
As much as this country is associated with democracy,
not a lot of people living in it actually vote.
For instance, out of 49,679 people eligible to vote in the
UF Student Government elections last fall, only 10,469 ac-
tually voted. This was considered a record turnout, which
has the same level of irony as William Hung calling him-
self a singer.
All it takes to vote is a Gator 1 Card, and polling places
are located all over campus. In addition, the tidal mass of
green and blue fliers that have been annoyingly shoved at
you for the past two weeks all have specific polling infor-
mation listed for each college.
Despite all this, a lot of you won't vote.
Which is a pity. Because even if you don't vote, the
people who are elected still get to screw around with $14.4
million of your money.
So you didn't vote last semester or the semester before?Too bad, because the people who
were voted in, namely the Unite
Party, have both the power and the
will to increase your student fees
to pay for a $45 million renovation
and expansion to the Reitz Union
you'll never see. They also continue
to rip you off by spending $88,000 of
students' money on perks like free
BlackBerrys for themselves.
Again, your vote is a sign of your agreement.
Do you agree with the Student Alliance that class sizes
should be posted online, and that Gator 1 partnerships off
campus should be expanded? Do you agree with them
that SG-funded RecSports should implement an online
signup system to cut down on long lines, and that the SG
budget should be audited to ensure transparency? Do you
agree with them that open container ordinances should be
fought, and do you agree that SG perks should be cut from
the budget and the money saved should go back to the
students?
Most importantly, do you agree that $130 more per
year in fees is more than we can afford, and that SG needs
to look into every alternative before creating an expensive
new Reitz Union fee?
If you agree with the Student Alliance on these posi-
tions, then vote for them. If you don't agree with them,
then by all means vote for the Unite Party.
Either way, at least vote.
Full Disclosure: Matthew Christ is running with the
Student Alliance party to represent the college of journal-
ism and communications.
Matt Christ is a political science and journalism sophomore.
His columns appear every other Wednesday.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Tuesday's question: 39% YES
Do you think American Apparel's Will you vote in favor of the Reitz
promotion is exploitative? Union expansion? 61% TO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
Letters to the Editor
Campaign should focus on real issues
Why I am running for Student Senate:
I begin by mentioning a ballot initiative
that has gotten little attention. In addition
to the two initiatives concerning the Re-
itz Union, there is a ballot initiative, sup-
ported by the Student Alliance, calling on
UF to join the Worker Rights Consortium.
The Worker Rights Consortium is a labor
rights organization that provides univer-
sities with means to ensure their apparel,
such as T-shirts, are produced in fair,
sweatshop-free conditions. There is, to my
knowledge, no organized opposition to
this proposal and I believe it will pass, but
the message will be much stronger if stu-
dents come out in large numbers to vote
for it.
The Student Alliance opposes the Re-
itz Union fee, as does Graduate Assistants
United, of which I am a proud member.
When I asked Reitz Union director Eddie
Daniels on Thursday how much the pro-
posed expansion (the second question on
the ballot) would cost, he said he did not
know, but that it would cost at least $70
million. I hope the Reitz Union will figure
out key details and come back to us when
they know exactly what is being proposed
and how much it will cost. At that time,
they will also be in a better position to ap-peal for funding from other sources, such
as the Capital Improvement Trust Fund.
I have been distressed by the ugly char-
acter this campaign has taken, including
Frank Walch's hateful letter to the editor
Monday, which the Alligator should be
ashamed of for having published. I do not
know who produced the fliers comparing
the Student Alliance to the Nazi party, but
whoever did so should face serious conse-
quences.
It is time to bring this campaign back
to the real issues. Today is the last day to
vote, and polls are open from 8 a.m. to 8
p.m. Polling locations are on our fliers and
can also be found at this Web site: http://
www.sg.ufl.edu/elections/polling.pdf.
Alan Martin
Graduate Senate candidate,
Student Alliance party
Reitz Union doesn't need revamp
By now, many students have probably
seen the green signs that list the univer-
sity's reasons for wanting to expand the
Reitz Union. I can't be the only one who
is outraged by some of the so-called prob-
lems with the current building, particu-
larly the claim that there is "no place tostudy."
Suppose for a moment t
ally true. Can anyone count
study areas we already ha-
of my head, I can think of
the Hub and many of the
mention the future study ce
Hall (across the street from
In reality, there are plen
study in the Reitz Union,
spacious first-floor study
built recently along with t
Resource Center. It's loc
away from one of the signs
very existence. Does the u
we're too stupid to realize
tion?
SG endorsements were fa
I, like many students, am
Alligator's choice of endor
been here for a few years
seen the Alligator side wi
party far more times than
when I see that the Edito
chosen to make no endorse
the presidential candidates,WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
a major victory for the Unite Party.
sat this is actu- Moving on to the vice presidential en-
the number of dorsement, the Alligator's choice of Sagar
e? Off the top Sane is extremely surprising. Sane, who has
every library, no Student Government experience at UF
dorms. Not to whatsoever, is undoubtedly the least qual-
nter in Newell ified candidate from either party currently
the Hub). running for executive office. However,
ty of places to the Alligator vindicates itself by making
including the the experience argument when endors-
area that was ing Unite's Virlany Taboada for treasurer.
he new Career There is simply no better qualification for
ated footsteps treasurer than Senate budget chair, and
that denies its you guys hit the nail on the head.
university think Yet the most shocking development
this contradic- is clearly the Alligator's endorsement of
the Reitz Union referendum. It makes me
Jordon Kalilich wonder: What do you all know that I, and
3EG my fellow average students, don't? We
hear so much negative press about the fee,
but what made you all agree with Unite
that it was necessary? I'm curious to give
ir, bipartisan the referendum a second thought and ac-
shocked at the tually do research of my own to weigh the
sements. I've positives and the negatives.
now and I've All in all, kudos to the Alligator for be-
th the "indie" ing fair and bipartisan. The Alligator is
not. Therefore, definitely worthy of the moniker "inde-
rial Board has pendent."
ment between
I consider thatCasey Eckberg
Alligator reader
Guest column
Aptitude tests are an unreliable method of gauging worth
or the job I'm going to have next year, I had to take acomputer skills test this week. There were ten ques-
tions, each one testing a random aspect of using com-
puters.
Which is bigger: 100 TB or 100 GB? (100 TB)
How do you make button selections when there isn't a
mouse? (Alt + the underlined letter)
What is the path for Notepad? (It's not in "Program
Files," it's in system32\notepad.exe)
I figured out most of the questions, but I was still offend-
ed that it called itself an aptitude test.
"This isn't a test of my aptitude," I realized and thought
to myself.
There's a difference between achievement tests and ap-
titude tests.
Achievement tests are a measure of what you have done;
aptitude tests are a measure of what you could do. School
quizzes are based on achievement, for instance, while intel-
ligence tests measure aptitude.
So this computer test claimed to figure out what my
potential was for learning software.
Now, let's say I never had to press a button without a
mouse. Does that really mean that I'm less able to learn
than somebody else?
The immediate answer is "no."
Go home and practice navigating around your desktop
using just the keyboard.Will Penman
letters@alligatororgThen if you ever take this test,
you'll be sure to score higher than
most people who haven't read this
article.
There, I just improved your com-
puter intelligence.
As I started thinking, I came to a
depressing realization: In society's
eyes, the older you get, the more
achievement is aptitude.
If I haven't investigated computers enough by now to
have discovered the Alt trick, I'm probably never going to
learn those kind of things.
On an academic level, ask yourself if you have the abil-
ity to get better grades.
"If I didn't get wasted so much," you say. Nope, so-
ciety says, you're wrong. Getting wasted every night is
part of who you are. You haven't gotten good grades, so
you can't.
If you think I'm exaggerating by calling it "society"
that thinks this way, let's look at one of the high-profile
post-graduate programs on campus.
Teach for America markets itself as bringing equality
to America by giving underachieving students better edu-
cational resources.
Of anyone, they'd be most open to the idea that apti-tude doesn't equal achievement, right?
On the teaching side, they are.
On the hiring side, they only want people who have
"demonstrated ability." That means that by the time you
finish college, if you haven't been a leader, they don't
think you're able to.
It's teaching aptitude they want, and they measure
that by your achievement.
All the rhetoric about achievement gaps and not judg-
ing the underprivileged -well, it's a different story when
there are paychecks and program prestige on the line.
Better learn the skills of leading now, because if you
wait for Teach for America, it'll be too late to do anythin
about it.
The difference between students and civilians is that
we have potential. Civilians only do different versions of
what they've already done.
Is this true? Not really. Einsteins who flunked out win
prizes.
Computer whiz kids who grew up with Macs can't
find Notepad on my computer aptitude test.
Aptitude isn't achievement, but get ready.
When you're in your senior year looking for jobs it's
really hard to think otherwise.
Will Penman is an English senior. His columns appear
every other week.
OFFJiffy Lube
Signature Service8 Oil Change
No Coupon Needed! No expiration date to remember!
Just bring in a valid student ID to any Gainesville Jiffy Lube.
et over $100 in savings when you donate $3 to Go Red For Women
February 1 -March 14, 2010
s area locations.
For the Jiffy Lube nearest you please visit jiffylubesoutheast.com
See store for more details. Not valid with any other offer. Restrictions may apply. Jiffy Lu be, the Jiffy Lu be design
mark and Jiffy Lube Signature Service' are registered trademarks of Jiffy Lube International, Inc.02010 Jiffy Lube InternationaI, Inc. Al rights reserved.dCentral Florida-Aitio n & Drafting Picture framing
oflic Prining* EsCpy Center OfficeIUS Supplies -furniture
aC .0
Art & Office Supp lies. Valid on y
with coupon. Offer excludes % 6
furniture, drawing boards, sale \ ,\\e1%
items, and prepclred art pOC10012S. ,woo d a
See sto re for defa Is.
Offer expires 03-31-2010Giddy Up Gators 5k
Saturday, February 27th
9:30-11:30am
(Registration starts at 8:30am)
Albert Ray Masley Park
(Old Westside Park on 34th St)
Only $7 to Pre-Register,
$10 includes a shirt
(Day of race registration:
$12 or $15 for a shirt)
Pre-register until Feb. 24 at:
sota.phhp.ufl.edu
Help provide equine-assisted
therapy to Veterans
8, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010
AROUND GAINESVILLE
'Hairspray' star sings at local talent show
By VICTORIA ISRAELS
Alligator Contributing Writer
"Hairspray" movie star Nikki
Blonsky showed Gainesville she
really has talent Tuesday night.
Blonsky sang at Gainesville's
Really Got Talent Show at Buch-
holz High School, which raised
money for PALS, Partners in Ado-
lescent Lifestyle Support.
PALS conducts esteem-en-
hancing workshops to prevent
violence and provides free mental
health services to teenagers.
Twenty-six local middle and
high students danced, acted and
sung in front of an audience of
about 150 and five judges, one of
whom was Blonsky.
The panel of judges counted
for 50 percent of the vote, while
the audience cast ballots to take
up the other 50 percent.
"I am looking for self-satis-
faction in their performances,"
Blonsky said.
The winner won an opportu-
nity to meet Blonsky, backstage
passes to see Jesse McCartney in
Orlando and the opportunity to
meet with UF professors to dis-
cuss college performing arts ap-plications. The second- and third-
place winners won cash prizes
and a trophy.
Blonsky performed songs from
"Hairspray," including "Good
Morning Baltimore" and "You
Can't Stop the Beat" with dancers
from IndepenDance company.
Blonsky was 17 years old when
she filmed "Hairspray" and said
it was one of the best experiences
she has had.
"I am looking for self-
satisfaction in their perfor-
mances."
Nikki Blonsky
Hairspray star
"I would much rather kiss Tim
Tebow to be able to judge and
compare my kiss with Zac Efron,"
Blonsky joked in an interview
when asked how her kiss was
with co-star Zac Efron.
"I absolutely adore the PALS
program," Blonsky said. "I
wish they had been in my high
school."
The winners and amount of
money raised for PALS were not
available at press time.j
Nikki Blonsky; "Hairspray," helps the Buchholz High School dance crew rehearse Tuesday night.
2 teens injured in Colorado middle school shooting
Lexie Shipman, age 13, right, wipes a tear away as her mother and sister console them-
selves after the shooting at Deer Creek Middle School in Littleton, Colo. Tuesday.* ONE MALE AND ONE FEMALE
WERE SHOT.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
LITTLETON, Colo. -A teacher tackled
a man armed with a high-powered rifle just
after two teenage students were shot Tues-
day at a suburban Denver middle school
that's just miles from Columbine High
School, the site of one of the nation's deadli-
est school shootings, authorities said.
One male and one female were shot at
about 3:30 p.m. outside Deer Creek
Middle School in Littleton, Jefferson
County Sheriff's office spokeswoman Jacki
Kelley said. Both students were taken to a
nearby hospital and were expected to sur-
vive.
Student Steven Seagraves said he was
about 10 feet away when an adult ap-
proached students and asked them: "Do you
guys go to this school?"
When the students said they did, he shot
them, Seagraves said.
Seventh-grade math teacher David Ben-
ke, a 6-foot-5 inch former college basketball
player who oversees the school's track team,
tackled the suspect as he was trying to re-load his weapon.
"He was trying to rack another round. He
couldn't get another round in before I got to
him so I grabbed him," Benke said, recalling
that he didn't have time to fear for his life.
Benke's wife said her husband called her
after the shooting.
"He said there was a shooting and that
he had to tackle the gunman," Sandra Benke
said. She said her husband was upset that
he couldn't reach the shooter before two
rounds were fired. "He said 'It was one of
my students."'
Authorities haven't released the victims'
names, but say they both had surgery Tues-
day evening.
Bus driver Steve Potter said he was about
to pull away from the school with a full bus
when he heard a loud bang that sounded
like an M-80 firecracker. Students screamed
when they spotted the man with a rifle, Pot-
ter told KMGH-TV.
"He looked like he was just kind of look-
ing around for someone to shoot," he said.
Potter said he saw Benke grab the sus-
pect so he and another man jumped on the
gunman and helped hold him until police
arrived.
The suspect's name hasn't been released,
but authorities say he's 32.
Student Alliance is in support of the question, Unite Party remains neutral
BALLOT, from page 1
referendum on the ballot, and Flynn said
the anti-sweatshop campaign has earned
attention on campus.
"I've had students pull out their sweat-
shirt tags and ask, 'Where did this come
from? Who made this?"' Flynn said.
Flynn met with Patricia Telles-Irvin,
vice president for student affairs.
Flynn said Telles-Irvin is receptive tojoining the Workers Rights Consortium
and is preparing a report on the proposal.
Ben Cavataro, the Student Alliance par-
ty candidate for Student Body president,
said if elected, his party would work to
persuade the university administration to
join the Workers Rights Consortium.
Cavataro said joining the consortium
is common sense because it will cost the
same as being a member of the Fair Labor
Association and won't change the price of
apparel."I've had students pull out their
sweatshirt tags and ask, 'Where
did this come from? Who made
this?"'
Emily Flynn
president of UF Amnesty International
"It will give UF students the peace of
mind that Gator apparel is made sweat-
shop free," Cavataro said.The Unite Party is staying neutral on
the referendum to allow students to make
up their own minds, said Ben Meyers, the
Unite Party spokesman.
If the referendum passes, the Unite
Party would also support bringing the is-
sue to the attention of UF administration,
Meyers said.
"We revolve around student opinion,"
Meyers said. "Our job is to represent the
students."
jf)j
c
(A7A-~ 04-j
c
2, FUN AND FITNESS, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010
SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
Easy ways to add more fruits
and vegetables to your diet
January resolutions may be over, but it is never too late to work on your permanent healthy-eating
goals, one at a time. Most of us need to eat more fruits and vegetables to meet nutrition recommenda-
tions. Your first goal can be increasing the number of fruits and vegetables you consume daily
Strive to have five or more servings per day Two servings are equal to one cup, or a portion about
the size of your fist. You'll be well on your way to five servings if you serve a cup or more on each
plate. Or use fruit as snacks; each individual fruit is a serving.
Adding more fruits and vegetables to your daily intake will increase your energy Nutrients found
in fresh produce can help prevent heart disease and some cancers.
Here are some ways to make eating fruits and vegetables a habit for life:
A Visit one of the local farmers' markets to purchase fresh produce from local growers.
A Check out local "U-Pick" farms, where you can harvest your own fruit. Blueberry season is
coming in May Freezing fruits gives you a selection of locally-grown fruits even when they are no
longer in season.
A For a quick, healthy breakfast, grab a piece of fruit as you walk out of the house in the morn-
ing, or mix dry fruit with some whole-grain cereal to carry with you. Mix fruit into yogurt for a
pre-workout snack.
A Fill your dinner plate half-full of vegetables. Like fruits, vegetables add vitamins, fiber, color
and "phyto," or plant, chemicals to your diet.
A Make a smoothie with fresh or frozen fruits, and freeze the leftovers for a refreshing snack
cup.
March is National Nutrition Month (sponsored by the American Dietetic Association) and the
theme this year is "Nutrition from the Ground Up." Start your day with fruit and add additional fruits
and vegetables to your intake each day, for a more energetic and healthier you. Visit a registered dieti-
tian at the Student Health Care Center to help you set personalized nutrition goals.
Informationprovided by the Student Health Care CenterWhat will you bring back
from spring break?
Maybe a glowing tan or a cool new tat-
too?
If your spring break escapades include
sexual activity, you could bring back some-
thing without even knowing it: a sexually
transmitted infection (STI).
Chlamydia is just one STI out there.
The number of chlamydia infections re-
ported to the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention has been on the rise for the
past 20 years.
Why?
Because most people infected with chla-
mydia have no symptoms.
Men and women can get chlamydia from
a sexual partner after engaging in vagi-
nal, oral or anal sex, and then pass it on to
someone else without a clue.
If left untreated, chlamydia can lead to
pelvic inflammatory disease, chronic pelvic
pain and even fertility problems in women.
Men sometimes can be left sterile.
Obviously, chlamydia is not the only STI
out there. And spring break sex isn't the
only way to contract an STI.
Everyone who is sexually active is at risk
for acquiring and transmitting an STI.Susan Ryals, an advanced registered
nurse practitioner who works at the Uni-
versity of Florida's Student Health Care
Center, says the most common STIs she
sees in UF students are human papillo-
mavirus (HPV), chlamydia, gonorrhea and
genital herpes.
The SHCC offers testing for sexually
transmitted infection(STIs),along with
counseling and treat-
STI ment.
Awareness Fortunately, treat-
ment for chlamydia is
relatively simple.
Condoms used with every act of sexual
intercourse will reduce the risk of acquir-
ing an STI.
According to the CDC, the most cer-
tain way to avoid getting chlamydia or any
other STI is to not have sex, or to have sex
only with someone who is not infected and
has sex with no one but you.
Be smart. Be proactive. Don't just
Google it. Get tested.
Provided by University of Florida
Student Health Care Center
r -dk
It's time to ditch the cover up and hit the sand and surf, in
your bathing suit. Burn fat and tone your body with a blend
I -e
IFor You & A Friend Health & Fitness I
Newberry Road 377-4955 0 Tioga 692-2180 0 GHF For Women 374-4634I 1 0 's 31 I HS5R1\i For local guests. One pass per person 18 years and older. Expires February 25, 2010.b ----------------r --------
S Recycled BikesI
25% IZ Fn eI 35Z-37Z-490
GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS 905 W. Univ Ave A25%OFF an I one GC Product j
Cannot be combined. One Coupon per customer. 4$ F[ Ohan g j
3914 SW Archer Rd Bring this coupon for a at change for
.Iy -bI eo a pi r PI ' .&i.n only $5 labor and ube any time we're
L.
HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
' rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShield
of Florida
A, Indepedent Lnsf th 373-0775RD B C'-r-- _d81'.-hi''' .^-.-'6
Form Number: 18533-599SU3669 S.W. 2nd Avenue
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, FUN AND FITNESS, 3
SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
Health Q&A
Provided by Gatorfell
f l:ealth N;
Why should I be concerned about skin cancer?
Skin cancer is the most common type of can-
cer in the United States, which can affect anyone
regardless of skin color. About one million Ameri-
cans get it each year. Considering that we live in
Florida, always remember to use sunscreen so
that you are protected. The Student Health Care
Center also has regular mole screenings. To learn
more or to sign up for the next mole screening,
call Special Clinics at 392-1161 x4259. GatorWell
Health Promotion Services also distributes free
sunscreen (SPF 30)yogurt and some fruit as you head out the door.
How do I know I am eating the right portion
sizes?
Many may not know this! The secret to portion
sizes is in the palm of your hand. Usually, your fist
represents the serving sizes of cereal, vegetables
and a cup of milk or juice. Your open palm rep-
resents the amount of meat and snacks that you
should eat.
Are dietary supplements better than food?
All the necessary vitamins and minerals you
need are found in the foods you eat, if you obtain a
balanced diet. If you are concerned that you aren't
getting all the nutrients you need, a nutritionist at
the Student Health Care Center would be a great
resource for you.
What is the difference between sunblock and Where is a good place to find recipes?
sunscreen?
The main difference between the two is that
sunblock will give you more protection from the
sun as opposed to sunscreen. This occurs because
sunblock is a lotion that blocks out the sun's harm-
ful rays from your skin while sunscreen only blocks
out the redness producing rays from the sun. Keep
in mind that people with all skin types need sun-
screen.
intion
Why is breakfast so important?
A healthy breakfast is extremely important.
It refbels your body and gives you the necessary
energy in order to start the day, which ultimately
allows you to perform better at school or work.
Typically, a well balanced breakfast consists of a
variety of foods including fruits and vegetables,
grains, dairy, and protein. Try grabbing a cup ofRecipes are a great way to find healthy foods
that are quick and easy The GatorWell cookbook
is a great source for nutritional meals which can be
found at The Student Health Care Center or just
Google "Gator Grub Cookbook". Some of the reci-
pes include delicious meals like lazy lasagna, spin-
ach dip, and vegetarian chili. You can also search
for recipes online. Try entering "healthy recipes"
or "nutritious recipes" into a search engine.
What are some healthy snacks to eat "on the
go?"
It is hard to always find time to cook or even eat
a decent meal. Here are some healthy snacks you
can eat when you are in a rush, whether it is for
breakfast or a snack. Remember that snacks high
in fiber and protein will keep you feeling full for a
longer period of time.
Trail mix -Yogurt -Chopped Fruit -String Cheese
-Granola Bars -Peanut butter sandwiches -Nuts -
Whole grain cereals -Carrots -Bananas and ApplesWhat are the benefits of dark chocolate?
Dark chocolate has antioxidants that aren't
found in other types of chocolate. Studies have
shown that it can lower blood pressure. Remember,
moderation is the key since chocolate has a high
concentration of sugar, fat, and calories.
What are the effects of caffeine on the body?
Caffeine is a mild stimulant that can increase
feelings of energy, but the effects on health are less
clear. Caffeine's strongest effects are felt for about
an hour after consumption, and it lasts for about
4-6 hours in the body If consumed excessively, caf-
feine can lead to problems such as poor sleep, upset
stomach, headaches, and difficulty concentrating.
Remember, moderation is the key If you are look-
ing for more energy, try healthier ways like eating
fresh fruits and vegetables, drinking water, exercis-
ing regularly, and getting enough sleep.
How do I treat food poisoning?
In most cases, the best treatment for food poi-
soning is for you to get plenty of rest and fluids.
Drinking plenty of fluids will prevent dehydra-
tion. Keep in mind that food poisoning ranges from
a mild to a more severe form. If symptoms become
more severe, be sure to see a doctor immediately.
Can energy drinks really boost my energy?
Energy drinks can boost your energy, but only
temporarily. You may feel a boost of energy for
only a few hours and then crash. Try natural ways
to boost your energy by getting adequate sleep,
exercising, and staying hydrated with water.
fie
What are the health benefits of yoga?
Those who practice yoga perform various re-laxation techniques which can lower blood pres-
sure as well as heart and breathing rates. Students
who practice yoga tend to report lower levels of
stress, better sleep, and higher levels of energy.
Do you have any tips on how to make exercise
more fun?
There are various ways that you can have more
fun while exercising. Dancing is one way to spice
up your mundane exercise routine. Try bicycling,
basketball, or swimming. Attending one of the
many group fitness classes at either the Student
Recreation Center or Southwest Recreation Center
is also a good option. The best part is you will be
burning plenty of calories without actually notic-
ing it.
Are there any benefits to exercising in the morning?
Morning exercise can reduce stress levels and
boost energy as well as helping you set the pace
for the day Morning exercisers also tend to stick
to their exercise regime more. In addition, your
exercise is out the way before the rest of the day's
distractions. The major key to remember is that
no matter what time it is, (morning, afternoon, or
night), exercise has its benefits.
What are the benefits of group exercise?
Exercising in a group setting can give you
more motivation to exercise. It makes the experi-
ence more fun and less stressful. There are group
fitness classes at both the Student Recreation Cen-
ter (Racquet Club) and Southwest Recreation Cen-
ter. The Spring 2010 schedule for each location can
be found online.
Is it better to eat before or after exercise?
Eating before or after exercising are both great
strategies for performance, fitness, and health, but
the decision lies in how you eat since it depends
continued on next page
* 58th Annual
Presented 
byt
4, FUN AND FITNESS, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010
SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
on your duration and rigor of exercise. Remember
that eating is very important because it fuels your
muscles before you exercise or refuiels them after
you exercise.
Why is it important to have a good breathing pat-
tern during exercise?
The most important thing you need to keep
in mind when exercising is to breathe evenly and
regularly Since your muscles are working hard,
breathing serves as the main source of fuel for
them. Try not to hold your breath or breathe in
short bursts because your muscles won't get as
much fuel as they need.
Being a busy student sometimes makes it hard to
go outside the home to exercise. Are there any
fun and effective ways to exercise in the home?
You can try one of the newly developed ex-
ercise video games such as "Wii Fit" or "Dance
Dance Revolution". This involves exercising in a
fun way and you may not even realize that you are
exercising. You can use a workout video or pur-
chase inexpensive equipment such as a door-frame
pull-up bar, small weights, a yoga mat, or an inflat-
able exercise ball.
Sexual H ealth
Can I get tested for HIV without health insurance?
GatorWell Health Promotion Services offers
free confidential HIV testing by appointment only
44 The A1achuaCoun HealthDear-also administrates free, confidential HIV testing
on Wednesdays 9am-12pm.
I heard that I could get free condoms on campus.
Is that true?
Yes! You can find free condoms at any of the
GatorWell locations. GatorWell is located at the
Student Health Care Center on the 3rd floor (we
will be moving shortly to 3190 Radio Road just
past Lakeside). Other locations include Jennings
and the Springs Residential Complex. You can also
find free condoms at any of the GatorWell Health
Huts which is located in various locations around
campus several times per week.
What are some benefits of Gardasil, the HPV
vaccine?
Gardasil is a vaccine that prevents women from
getting cervical cancer and the four most common
HPV types; two cause genital warts and two are
the precursors to cervical cancer. The shot is taken
in three increments and is considered ideal if taken
before engaging in any type of sexual activity, but
you can still take it afterwards. However, the vac-
cine will not cure an existing infection.
What are some reasons why condoms break?
Condoms should not break if they are used
correctly. Condoms usually break if they aren't put
on properly, if the wrong kind of lubricant is used
with them, or if they are past the expiration date.
Sometimes storage can be an issue as well. There-
fore, always make sure to be cautious and check the
ment (334-7960, ext. 79621) and the Student
Health Care Center (392-1161) are great resources
to get tested. At the health department, there is a E ntal Health
sliding scale fee system, and there is an optional I
$20 fee for anonymous testing. The Student Health How many hours of sleep are enough?
Care Center has a $30 fee. A rapid test is available For most adults, seven to eight hours of sleep
with results in 30 minutes, but may require con- is sufficient for academic productivity. Remember,
firmatory testing. Planned Parenthood (377-088 1) that it is important to get enough sleep because ithelps you perform better the following day, reduce
stress, and boost your immune system. For more
information, visit the sleep section at HealthyGa-
tors.hhp.ufl.edu.
Can I get some tips on how to better manage
my time?
Time management is extremely important in
order to increase productivity and decrease stress
levels. Some effective ways of doing this includes:
being organized, using a day planner, prioritizing
your tasks, avoiding overload, practice effective
study techniques, and always have a goal or plan
in mind. Also you can always talk to one of our
time management specialists at GatorWell Health
Promotion Services.
I've been feeling really depressed lately. Where
can I go to talk to someone?
The Mental Health Services Department at the
Student Health Care Center and the UF Counsel-
ing Center at Peabody Hall are valuable resources.
Some of the services include individual and group
counseling as well as biofeedback. These services
can help you address personal problems in addition
to school related issues. These two great resources
are joining together to become the Counseling &
Wellness Center.
Can I get some tips on how to multitask effec-
tively?
Multitasking usually decreases productivity.
Typically, you get more work done if you focus on
one specific task at a time, which can also reduce
your stress level. Some tips to help you complete
your tasks effectively is to find your balance among
all your tasks, always prioritize and organize in
advance, and know when it is appropriate to focus
your attention on a particular task.I want to get more involved on campus, how can
I find out more about student organizations?
Being more involved on campus is a great way
to meet other students. If you are experiencing
feelings of loneliness and isolation, social interac-
tion from student organizations may lead to re-
duced stress levels and help you feel more a part of
campus life. There are over 900 student organiza-
tions here on campus including academic, cultural,
service and leadership, and much more. Therefore,
I am sure that there is an organization out there
for you. If not, you can always start one. For more
information, you should visit http://www.union.
ufl.edu/involvement to find an organization that
may interest you.
What are the benefits of meditation?
There are several types of meditation. For ex-
ample, some focus on clearing the mind of every-
thing, repeating a saying or "mantra", or focusing
on a particular object or location. Meditation is a
good way to reduce stress levels by leading to a
deeper level of relaxation. It can decrease your re-
spiratory rate, heart rate, and muscle tension.
Alcohol, Tobacco
& Other Drugs
Is it safer to smoke hookah than cigarettes?
It is a myth that smoking hookah or a water
pipe is safer than cigarettes. It is just as dangerous.
Actually, hookah smokers may inhale more tobacco
than cigarette smokers in one sitting due to the
massive volumes of smoke they inhale. A typical
hookah session lasts about 45 minutes, which is
much longer than a cigarette break. You get more
nicotine from hookah, which leads to increased
risk of addiction. Remember that hookah smoke
contains high concentrations of toxins that can
lead to health complications such as lung cancer
continued on next page
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, FUN AND FITNESS, 5
SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
and heart disease. In addition to health complica-
tions from the tobacco smoke in hookah, you can
increase your risk of infection by sharing the hoo-
kah mouthpiece with others. Infections can range
from the common cold to something more serious
such as herpes.
What do I do if I think my friend has alcohol poi-
soning?
Alcohol poisoning is a serious consequence of
consuming large amounts of alcohol in a short pe-
riod of time. It is extremely important to know the
signs and symptoms since it can happen to anyone.
A person's blood alcohol concentration (BAC) can
continue to rise even after passing out or sleeping.
It is important not to assume that the person will
be fine by going to sleep. Some of the signs and
symptoms of alcohol poisoning include:
-Mental confusion, stupor, coma, or the person
cannot be roused
-Vomiting
-Seizures
-Slow breathing (fewer than eight breaths per
minute)
-Irregular breathing (10 seconds or more be-
tween breaths)
-Hypothermia (low body temperature), bluish
skin color, paleness
-Call 911 if someone is showing these signs
and don't leave the person alone!
lat at niht-Y.
I get out of class late at night. What are some
tips to stay safe?
You should always try to be aware of your sur-
roundings. For example, you should avoid the use
of earphones. Walk briskly but confidently, and
always keep your car keys ready to avoid digging
through your bag to find them. Another alterna-
tive to walking is calling 392-SNAP for a ride any-
where on campus. Always remember to stay safe
by wearing something reflective so you are readily
seen by others. You can take a self-defense class incase you are faced with a dangerous situation. For
more information on how to stay safe on campus,
go to the Healthy Gators 2010 website.
I plan on traveling abroad for the break. What
safety precautions should I take?
If you are going to travel abroad, plan ahead.
You want to make sure you have the necessary
documentation and make sure you have the immu-
nizations needed for the place that you are visiting.
You can visit the UF travel clinic for more health
information on immunizations. Call 392-1161 ext.
4312 to set up an appointment.
Flu Prevention 1
I got the flu shot. Can I still catch the flu?
The flu shot cannot give you the flu. Instead, it
reduces your chances of getting the illness. Oth-
er ways to reduce your chances are to wash your
hands regularly, cover your cough, and as much
possible, avoid close contact with other individuals
who may be sick. Remember that it is important to
get vaccinated every year.
How do I know the difference between a cold and
the flu?
It can be hard to tell the difference between a
cold and the flu since both have similar symptoms,
but flu symptoms are worse than a cold. You usu-
ally have higher fevers with flu that can last 3-4
days, and the flu affects your whole body You may
feel extreme fatigue, achy muscles, dry cough and
sore throat.
I seem to get sick often. Can I improve my resis-
tance to colds & flu?
There are various ways to boost your immune
system. Believe it or not, getting a fill night's rest
can help your immunity In addition, maintain
healthy habits such as staying hydrated, managing
your stress, engaging in regular physical activity,
and eating a variety of nutritious foods like fruits
and vegetables.Don't Let the Sun Ruin Your Fun
Gainesville's cold and wet winter has
made basking in the sun a priority for many
UF students this spring break. Before you hit
the beach, learn how to protect yourself from
painful and harmful sunburn.
First and foremost, protect yourself from
the sun by using some common sense. The sun
is the most intense from 10am to 4pm, so if
you plan outside activities, plan them for the
early morning or late afternoon.
Choose a sunscreen with a Sun Protection
Factor (SPF) of 30 and higher. SPF only refers
to protection against UVB rays, so read the
sunscreen label to ensure that you are protected
against both UVA and UVB rays. Avobenzone,
zinc oxide and titanium are all ingredients that
provide protection against harmful UVA rays.
Apply the sunscreen at least 30 minutes prior
to sun exposure and reapply frequently If you
are particularly sensitive to the sun, wear sun-
protective clothing, a hat and sunglasses to
protect your eyes, which also can suffer cumu-
lative damage from the sun.
There are many prescription and over-the-
counter products which can make you more
susceptible to sunburn. Even ingredients in
certain sunscreens can cause photosensitivity
in some people. Avoid sunscreens that contain
benzophenones (dioxybenzone and oxyben-
zone), para-aminobenzoic acid (PABA), salicy-
lates and cinnamates.
Prescription and over-the-counter medi-
cations such as birth control (tablets, ring or
patch) antibiotics commonly prescribed for
acne or urinary tract infections, non-steroidal
pain relievers (NSAIDS) such as ibuprofen
(Advil@) or naproxen (Aleve@), cholesterol
lowering agents ("statins") and other medica-
tions may enhance sun sensitivity in certain
individuals.Use extra precautions if you are taking
any of these medications. Ask your health-
care provider or pharmacist when you are
prescribed medication if it will increase your
sensitivity to the sun.
If prevention fails and you become sun-
burned, it is important to treat the burn prop-
erly. The extent of the burn will not be appar-
ent until 12-24 hours after sun exposure. Keep
the skin cool and moist by applying cool com-
presses. Avoid tight clothing and apply mois-
turizer or aloe gel to hydrate the skin. Avoid
any topical products which contain numbing
agents (i.e. lidocaine, benzocaine, or dibucaine)
Skin because you could
P t become sensitized
action (i.e., allergic) to these
products.
Do NOT apply ointments or butter to a
burn as this will likely cause further damage
to the skin.
Drink plenty of fluids to prevent dehydra-
tion. Pain relievers such as acetaminophen
(Tylenol@), ibuprofen (Advil@), and naproxen
(Aleve) can help with the discomfort and fe-
ver that may accompany sunburn. Antilista-
mines such as cetirizine (Zyrtec), loratidine
(Claritin) or diphenhydramine (Benadryl)
can help with the itchiness that often accom-
panies sunburn.
Many of these medicines are available for
the University of Florida community at the
UF's Student Health Care Center pharmacy,
and often they cost significantly less than at
other retailers. If your skin is blistered, leave
the blisters intact. Seek medical attention if
you experience a fever higher than 1020 F,
chills, dizziness or nausea
Provided by the Universiy of Florida
Student Health Care Center
Gainesville Dojo
Boxing or Kickboxing EERYTHING FOR THE HOME.
Buy 1 month at 1h THE ALLIGATOR CLAWFED.
regular price and get
second month half off
378-3070 536 SW 2nd AveMust present coupon. a* .1t
i5-s- f JIll 2t!S,, 'I' Lit~j litj__
k:,Big Ron's Yoga College
TOTAL MIND AND BODY WORKOUT
An exciting, chaiengig, hardworking, effective yoga dass, Bikrm-styled Hatha Yoga is desired to
wok every muscle joint, ligament tendon, gland and organ in your body.
It improves yur digestive and nervous systems. It develops balance, strength flexbilty and
mental focus while detoxifying your body and promoting noimpact cardiovascular conditioning.
New and experienced yMw students gain a unlike sense of confidence Wile releving stress
with this total fitness program in a room heated to body temperature. Al levels welcome.
DAILY CLASSES FOR ALL FITNESS LEVELS
Monday -Friday: 8:30am and 6:30pm
(8:30pm classes on Mon. & Wed. only)
Saturday: 10:00am and 4:00pm
Sunday: 10:00am and 6:30pm
BEGINNER'S CLASS
Saturday: 12:00 noon
rn-DWoW 1O&An nhme VM 352.36.8434Seeking
Optimum Health?
TRY
ACUPUNCTURE
RI3SESc
Student
VL? Rates
352-371-2833
www.dragonrises.edu--
FREERIDESURF SHOP
WWW.FREERIDESURFSHORCOM
420 NW 13TH ST 373-SURF(7873)
6, FUN AND FITNESS, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010
SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
SMART Goals with RecSports
By Dana Brown and Jessica Gates
Most people have goals, but when
asked to state them they are often vague.
Beginning a workout routine is the first
step towards success, the next step is cre-
ating goals.
Use the S.M.A.R.T. acronym to help
you create effective goals.
A good goal should inspire you to go
someplace you want to go, and provide
some indication when you have arrived. A
good goal is a destination -not ajourney.
Remember to reward yourself once you
have achieved your goal or at milestones
along the way.
The Department of Recreational
Sports offers many different programs
and services to assist you in reaching your
fitness goals.
These programs and services include
the four areas of Florida Fitness: Group
Fitness, Strength & Conditioning, Per-
sonal Training and the Personal Training
& Assessment Center.
A great way to implement the SMART
goal system is to visit the Personal Train-
ing & Assessment Center for a FREE fit-
ness assessment. The results you receive
will provide you with a foundation for de-
signing your own workout program.
Take advantage of the many different
events around campus including the 2010
Midnight Fun Run co-hosted by Healthy
Gators 2010 and Rec Sports on the night
of April 21, 2010.
Set your SMART goals today to begin
training for the 2010 Midnight Fun Run!
To find out more information on how
to improve your fitness level visit recs-
ports.ufl.edu.Specific -Your goalsneed to be specific. For
example, if you want to
increase your running speed,
set a goal of running a 5k in a
specified amount of time. (See
the Spring 20 10 edition of RecS-
ports: The Magazine for tips on
how to successfully train for the
Midnight Fun Run 5k race.)
Measurable -Your
goals need to be mea-
surable, allowing you
to know when you have reached
them and also to provide a way
of measuring your progress.
Attainable -Make
sure that the goal you
set is within reach
at your current situation. If
you are training for your first
5k, you should allow a mini-
mum of six weeks to prepare.
Realistic -Your goals
need to be realistic for
the amount of time you
allow. For example, it is not re-
alistic to be able to bench press
2501b in one month of training if
you are currently lifting 901b.
Timely -Set a date to
achieve your goal with
steps along the way.1Copy'g hied ' 0
Smile.
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
A Biotest
From Nature for Life
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, FUN AND FITNESS, 7
SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
VISITGAIN VILLE
where nature and utre meet
Shopping
WALDO FARMERS AND FLEA
MARKET
FL US Hwy 301 (I mi. north of Waldo)
Waldo, FL
(352) 468-2255
www.waldofarmersandfleamarketOAKS MALL
6419 Newberry Rd.
1-75 Exit 387, Gainesville
(352) 331-4411
www.theoaksmall.com
THORNEBROOK VILLAGE
2441 NW 43crd St.
Gainesville, FL 32606
(352) 376-6062
http://www.thornebrookvillage.com
ALACHUA COUNTY HISTORICAL
TRUST: MATHESON MUSEUM, INC.
513 E UniversityAve.
Gainesville, FL
(352) 378-2280
www.mathesonmuseum.org
ARCHER RAILROAD MUSEUM
Corner of Magnolia and Main,
SR 24 at US 41/27
Archer, FL
(352) 495-1044
www.yuleerailroaddays.org
A WALK THROUGH TIME
Kanapaha Park, Tower Rd. and SW 4 1 st Pl.
1-75 Exit 387 west, Gainesville, FL
BUTTERFLY RAINFOREST
Hull Rd. and SW 34th St.
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL
1-75 Exit 384
(352) 846-2000
HISTORIC HAILE HOMESTEAD
AT KANAPAHA PLANTATION
Located 3 mi. west of 1-75 on Archer Rd. (SR 24)
(352) 336-9096
www.hailehomestead.orgCURTIS M. PHILLIPS CENTER FOR
THE PERFORMING ARTS
Hull Rd. and SW 34th St.
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL
Box Office: (352) 392-ARTS (2787)
www.performingarts.ufl.edu
GAINESVILLE COMMUNITY
PLAYHOUSE
4039 NW 16th Blvd.
Gainesville, FL 32605
Ticket Information: (352) 375-3755
or (352) 376-4949
www.gcplayhouse.org
Museums and Galleries
FLORIDA MUSEUM OF NATURAL MICANOPY HISTORICAL SOCIETY
HISTORY, POWELL HALL MUSEUM AND ARCHIVES
Hull Rd. and SW 34th St. Located on Cholokka Blvd. and Bay St.
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL Micanopy, FL
1-75 Exit 384 1-75 Exit 374, 10 mi. south of Gainesville
(352) 846-2000 on US 441
www.flmnh.ufl.edu (352) 466-3200
www.afn.org/-micanopy
HAWTHORNE MUSEUM
& CULTURAL CENTER
7225 SE 22 1 st St. (S Johnson St.)
Hawthorne, FL 32640
(352) 481-4491SAMUEL R HARN MUSEUM OF ART
Hull Rd. and SW 34th St.
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL
(352) 392-9826
www.harn.ufl.edu
Tour Favorites
MARJORIE KINNAN RAWLINGS
STATE HISTORIC SITE
Cross Creek, 21 mi. SE of Gainesville on Hwy 325
(352) 466-3672
www.floridastateparks.org/marjoriekinnanrawlings/
MORNINGSIDE NATURE CENTER
3540 E University Ave.
Gainesville, FL
(352) 334-2170
www.natureoperations.orgTheatre
HIGH SPRINGS COMMUNITY
THEATER
130 NE IstAve.
High Springs, FL
Ticket Information: (386) 454-1223
www.highspringscommunitytheater.com
ACROSSTOWN REPERTORY
THEATRE
619 S Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
Ticket Information: (352) 371-1234
http://acrosstown.org
UNIVERSITY GALLERY
Located at the intersection of SW
13th St. and SW 4th Ave. in Bldg. B of
the Fine Arts complex
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL
(352) 392-0201 ext. 228
Visit the website for additional
galleries operated by UF:
www.arts.ufl.edu/galleries/university/
university_home.html
THE THOMAS CENTER
302 NE 6th Ave.
Gainesville, FL
(352) 334-2197
RETIREMENT HOME FOR HORSES
Mill Creek Farm, CR235-A, Alachua, FL
(Travel west on Hwy 441 from 1-75 Exit 399.
Just past Santa Fe High School, turn right on CR 235-A.
Farm is 3 mi. north of school.)
(386) 462-1001
www.millcreekfarm.org
SANTA FE COLLEGE TEACHING ZOO
3000 NW 83rd St.
1-75 Exit 390, Gainesville, FL
(352) 395-5604
www.sfcollege.edu/zooOutdoor Adventure
ADVENTURE OUTPOST
815 NW Santa Fe Blvd. (US Hwy 44l1)
High Springs, FL 32643
(386) 454-0611
www.adventureoutpost.net
BIVENS ARM NATURE PARK
3650 S Main St.
Gainesville, FL
(352) 334-2231
www.natureoperations.org
DUDLEY FARM HISTORIC STATE PARK
18730 W Newberry Rd.
Newberry, FL 32669
Located 7 mi. west of 1-75
(Exit 387) on Newberry Rd., SR 26
(352)472-1142
www.floridastateparks.org/dudleyfarm/
default.asp
GAINESVILLE TO HAWTHORNE
RAIL TRAIL
3300 SE 15th St.
Gainesville, FL
(352) 466-3397
www.floridastateparks.org/gainesville_
hawthorne
KANAPAHA BOTANTICAL GARDENS
4700 SW 58th Dr.
Gainesville, FL
One mi. west of 1-75
(Exit 384) on Archer Rd. (SR 24)
(352) 372-4981
www.kanapaha.org
PAYNES PRAIRIE STATE PRESERVE
10 mi. south of Gainesville on US Hwy 44 I
(352) 466-3397
www.floridastateparks.org/paynesprairie
POE SPRINGS PARK
3.2 mi. west of High Springs on CR 340
High Springs, FL
(386) 454-1992
SANTA FE CANOE OUTPOST
US Hwy 441 at the Santa Fe River Bridge
High Springs, FL
(386) 454-2050
www.santaferiver.com
Del DArnce
www.ethnicdanceexpressions.com
384-9200
ALL WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTERS
ABORTIONS
* Abortion by Pill /ome'
(RU-486) Centr* Early & Late Tern It
Abortions
Morning After Pill
* Birth Control & Gyn Services
-Insurance & Credit Cards Accepted
www.abortiongainesville.com
1135 NW 23rd Ave Suite N
3 52 378-9191
1800 869 -0440
"Look Fit for Spring Break!"
Spring Dresses for -Easter -Spring Rush -Graduation
Now Open!Traditional Acuptuncture Center
Holistic Health Care
Yvonne Woodson, RN, AP
Acupuncture Physician
1216 NW 9th Avenue
Tel (352)335-1975 Fax (352)335-1077
ldE\U --LiveWell
-Vitamins-Minerals-Herbs
-Diet Products
-Sports Nutritional Supplements
-Health & Beauty Aids
25% OFF
Any One item $10.00 OFF
Purchase of
-OR- $50 or More
OFFER VALID AT THIS LOCATION ONLY
Corner of NW 39th Ave. & 13th St.
(352) 379-1830
One coupon per person. Not valid with any other offers
or specials. Coupon expires 3/31/10t
0
Fresh is whaf we know besi!
Mon -Fri 8-4pm -Saf 11:30 -3:30pm
384-9497 2 Weil Main Sfreef
i.jwww.VisitGainesville.com
174ee 3ele'.
(W7) I1.com
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
*3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
INCLUDES EVERYTHING
4/4's & 2/2s from $399 to $509
24hr Fitness*4 BUS LINES
DJ by the pool on weekends
GainesvillePlace.com*352-271-3131
4-21-71-1
0
FULLY LOADED @ $399
Individual w/free roommate matching
Cable, Internet and utilities
Pick New 42" TV or Sofa Set
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, University Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2 $665 * deluxe 2/2 $699
3/3 $639*4/4 $539 *All prices are all inclusive
*Close to UF* EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST Townhouse near UF,
Shands, shopping; easy access. 2BR/2.5BA;
great for student/family. Only $750/mo;
LEASE/BUY OPTION -OWNER FINANCED.
Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432 3-3-
09-75-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. 239-250-6149 2-26-10-35-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Unit. $450 ea. W/D.
Property has clubhouse, fitness and busi-
ness/computer ctr. Utilities incl. On bus
route. Windsor Park.
305-788-5681/Windsor5l5@gmail.com.
2-26-10-28-1
LUXURY 2STORY TOWNHS. 2B/2.5Ba
FULLY FURN. 2 min to UF, Great bus routes
& parking, Pool/gym, Free wifi, All utils incl.
Both rooms avail June 1st or later, Individual
Leases $540/$520 Martha 786 246-3049
3-5-29-1
4BR/4BA, large living, next to bus stop, fairly
new condo. $399/mo each room. Close to
shopping, school & library. Call 941-232-
1960 3-3-10-20-1
4/4 COUNTRYSIDE APTS. Spacious 4 bed-
room close to UF! Close to major shopping
areas and located on 3 bus routes that go to
center of UF. Every room has full bathroom
& large walk-in closets. Entire place is fur-
nished. High efficiency W/D. Rent is $400/
room/month. Utilities included! SD $200.
Available June or August. Call (305) 799-
7042 3-25-30-1
$370-4/4 University Terrace Condo available
starting summer/fall. ALL utilities included,
W/D in unit, on routes 12 and 35, ten minutes
to campus by bus! $250 deposit, individual
lease. Call Anu at 352.262.0628. 2-26-10-
13-1$370-4/4 Countryside condo for rent starting
immediately/summer/fall. ALL utilities includ-
ed, on bus routes 9 and 35, individual leases.
Call Anu at 352.262.0628. 2-26-10-13-1
IMMEDIATE/SUMMER AVAILABILITY
2,3 and 4 bedroom suites
STARTING @ 349
All inclusive, fully furnished
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-10-30-1
Hampton Oaks Apartments
Unfurnished TH $749
Furnished ind. $538
$500 Visa gift card with ad
124 SW 62nd st -(352) 333-8643
leasing@siverwingproperties.com
2-26-10-11-1
1BR/1BA. $850/mo everything included. 1
block from campus. Covered parking. Call for
details 724-974-9591. 2-25-10-10-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
2/2*3/3*4/4
Experience the Good Life
Text "Enclave" to 47464
4-21-09-71-1
ADORABLE VINTAGE HOMES 2BR/1BA.
Minutes from UF. Wood floors, stone tile, util-
ity room. Cats ok. $625, first, last, $200 sec.
352-256-0999 3-16-10-10-1
>2 FULLY FURNISHED BEDROOMS"
Each with private bath in 4/4 Oxford Terrace
II. Located 3 blocks from campus on sorority
row bus route. $575/month & parking avail-
able. Call (305) 747-1532. 3-16-10-10-1
1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $400/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished +
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 2-24-10-16-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901 4-21-
10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
THIS FALL LIVE DOWNTOWN!
Live where you play, love where you live
Studios*Ones*Twos*Threes
Big city living without the big city price
Limited availability! 352-338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
AFFORDABLE RATES! QUIET COMMUNITY!
www.frederickgardens.com
1 BR/1 BA $469 * 2BR/1 BA $569
Great Move-In Fee Specials!!!
Adopted pets live free!! 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOWor FALL 2010.
2/2 from $999 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 *Free Tanning *Fitness
Pool *W/D Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$699 2/2-$799 3/2-$899
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464
4-21-71-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 17
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rentunrnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
OTHE POLOSO
Already have your roommates?
ALL utilities Included
2's: From $479/person; 3's: From $399/person
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
HUGE FLOORPLANS!
1 Bed-$589*2Bed-$719
Tennis*Pool*Basketball
FREE Personal Trainer!
Great School Districts!*332-7401
4-21-71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
SORORITY ROW 2BR
2BR/2.5BA for $1199
W/D & utils included. We <3 pets!
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
9
9-0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Ind Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
That's what She Said!
"I LOVE Hidden Lake because.
Cable & internet are Included,
roommate matching is available,
furniture & utility packages are available,
I'm just 1.5 miles to UF & midtown,
there's FREE tanning & a 24-hr gym,
a designer pool AND pets are welcome!"
Come see for yourself!
call 374-3866 for a tour or text
HIDDENLAKE to 47464 OR.
Next time you're on facebook,
creep on over to Hidden Lake's page
to see floor plans, pics & more!
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $505 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$394 ALL INCLUSIVE
Upscale Student Living
TV IN YOUR APT!*Ask how
Bus line through the Complex!
GainesvillePlacecom*352-271 -3131
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
1BRI 1 Mo free 2BR 2 Mo free
if everyone is full time undergrad at UF.
3 Mo free if full time grad at UF.
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/l Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
S1 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$600 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 3-5-10-85-2
M allgt or1, 2, 3 BR's -WE'VE GOT IT ALL!
1/1 from $589 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis*1 mile to UF*Huge Laundry Facilities
377-7401 * www.biketouf.com
4-21-09-71-2
BLOCKS TO UF
Available August 2010. Now showing
multiple houses. 2BR/2BA, 3BR/2BA,
4BR/3BA, 5BR/3BA. www.dalyproperties.
com or call Carol 359-3341 2-26-10-43-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $540;
1BR $465. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $490;
2BR $590 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 2-26-10-35-2
One Block to UF:2/2.5 bath townhouse. W/D,
Dishwasher, Garbage Disposal, wood floors,
ceiling fans, GUARANTEED Parking call
Todd at 514-4915, VERY Nice townhouse
2-26-10-33-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Cal 376-1111
4-21-65-2
* One Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $499 2/1 $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/1 from $599 2/2 from $699
Additional $200 off next month
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 $599
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Walk to UF. Openings in Feb, May & Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
2-26-10-32-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
3-18-10-40-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
GOT ROACHES?
Buy Harris Famous Roach Tablets.
Guaranteed to kill. Available at: Zells
Hardware, 3727 West University 3-17-10-
35-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
Move in Special: No Security Deposit
2/2 Condo with washer/dryer, screened-
in porch, newer condo, near UF. Shands,
located off 34th & Archer Rd. 2 units
available $750/mo. Call 317-5060 215-5996
3-1-10-27-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Large 4BR/2BA
house, large kitchen & living area. W/D
provided, prvcy fenced, pets ok, full sized
hottub on back scrn porch, DW, carport,
$1600/mo. 3413 NW 8th Ave 352-339-2342
2-26-10-20-2Student L.vi116 Cuid0
Spirin6 2010
By advertising in the
Student Living Guide,
you will reach over
50,000 Fedders who
are looking for new
apartments, condos,
furniture, appliances,
household items and
more!
Cayour salesreptoday-Gerard donated n his His gift provided shelter for
Support the Red Cross and change a life, American
starting with your own. Red Cross
Call 1 -800-RED CROSS or visit redcrossorg.+
18, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010
For Rent For Rent For Rent W For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
AVAILABLE AUG 1. 3BR/1BA house.
Clean, quality. Nine blocks from campus,
W/D provided, cent H/AC fenced pvt shad-
ed backyard, hdwd firs, detached garage.
$1125/mo. 924 NW 9th Ave. 352-339-2342
2-26-10-20-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Clean modern
4BR/2BA (accessable from all BRs) house.
fenced backyard, pets ok, fireplace, W/D
provided, wooded pvt big yard. $1425/mo,
cent H/AC. 2606 NW 34th St. 352-339-2342
2-26-10-20-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 3-31-37-2
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 3 bd/ 2 ba
Completely Remodeled
W/D inc. Spiral Staircase
Walk to Class, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
*Walk to Class & Stadium*
2/1, W/D, Granite Countertops
Hardwood Floors & Fireplace
Huge Bedrooms,Covered parking
$1300/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Large 5 Bedrm House**
1 full & 3-1/2 baths
Plant Atriums, Unique floorplan, W/D
Plenty of Parking, 8 blocks N of UF
$2,500/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Walk to UF/Sorority Row 4bd/4.5ba
3 stories w/ 4 master suites. w/d incl.
Near corner of SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
2BD 1 BA WALK TO UF
Charming Quad near AGH
1005 SW 3rd Ave
Hardwood floors & parking
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
NEWLY REMODELED
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-21 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
3-31-36-2
$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1BA
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands.
W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500sec., $495/
month. 3120 SW 26th Way Unit A. 562-2782
or 514-6869 if interested. 3-16-25-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $700/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220.
2-26-18-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home. Shady lot.
From $300 -$450/mo incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887 3-2-20-2
1 BR apt. for rent off Tower Rd. $385/mo. We
accept Section 8. We will pay you $500 cash
back for 1 year lease on Section 8. 352-498-
3035 3-2-10-20-2
705 NW 10th Avenue <9Blks from UF
3BR/1 BA, 8rooms + 400 sq.ft.porch, Central
A/C, W/D, $1,250 + util. Avail. Aug. 275-
1259, ATucker458@aol.com 3-5-10-22-2
**MUST SEE -IN-LAW SUITE**
1BR full BA, living room, dining room, full
kitchen. w/cable & W/D. Inc all utils. Near
Haile. Quiet. $750/mo. Call 352-367-0372
3-5-1-21-2
10houses.com
3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$1000 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
3-5-10-20-2
WALK ONE BLOCK TO CAMPUS!
1, 2, 3, and 4 BR units available now and
for Fall 2010. Locations between SW 1st
ave, SW 5th ave & SW 12th St. Call Kinetic
Properties at 352-337-9600 (no dogs please)
3-19-10-25-2
4Br/3Ba Large Home w/ 2 car gar, 8 min from
UF, large fenced yard, dogs ok. Exquisite
oaks & landscaping, wood & tile floors, new
appliances. $1,600/mo. 352-466-0358. Avail
summer or Aug. 3120 NW 31st Blvd. 3-5-
10-20-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 3-5-
10-20-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 3-22-
10-25-2
Baxter Cottage 2 blks to UF campus, 1013
SW 4 Ave 2BR/1 BA, Bright, clean, complete-
ly remodeled, 500 sq ft, Cent AC/Ht,wood
firs, DW, W/D, NS, NPets. $500+util. Lease
runs thru 7/1/10 ATucker458@aol.com 3-5-
10-18-2
Lakefront House/5 Acres/Quiet
2BR/2BA/FI Rm w/pri ent/Lg Kit
LR w/Fire PI/Washer Dryer/2-car
Carport/Interlachen $1500./mo
813-473-3713 swellgirl@gmail.com 2-26-
10-13-2$650, 2 bdrms, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet
school & campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furnished; Parking; 352
376 0080; 352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
3-5-10-17-2
Beautiful 3/3, close to schooldir. on bus!
Brand new appl, paint, bedding, remdld
bthrms, Frnt bldng, upstrs. $1250/mo.
bdduf86@comcast.net
3-4-10-14-1
2BR/2.5BA townhouse condo, 1 mi from
UF on bus route. Inc W/D, community club-
house, pool & fitness center. Wired for inter-
net & security sys. $878/mo. Avail 5/1 or 8/1.
Call/text 332-8841 lindalu@gatorhomes.com
3-1-10-10-2
*THE POLOSO
You want it, We got it!"
#1 in Amenities
2/2's: From $799; 3/3's: From $979
Includes FREE Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-42-2
NW -Appletree, Contemporary Home.
3BR/2BA, 2 car garage, sunroom, cul-de-sac
st. 1700 sq ft. NICE $995/mo. Irene Larsson
Owner/Realtor 352-373-2605, 352-538-1218
3-1-10-10-2
NW -Home 3BR/2BA, 2 car carport, large
family room, fenced yard, extra storage,
W/D. $980/mo. Irene Larsson Mgmt Service
352-373-2605 3-1-10-10-2
Amazing 4/4 house Fall-walk to UF or Law
Sch.Univ.& NW 28 St-on bus line-Huge bed-
rms-new appl.& paint-c/air-pets ok/fenced
yd/ Ig home-$2195-can email pics-954-270-
4000 3-15-10-14-2
2BR HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area. Wood floors, new kitchen
vinyl, Cent H/AC, DW, fenced yard, wood
deck, parking, $1080/mo. Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 3-17-
10-15-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority
Row/Norman Hall area. W/D, ice maker, ce-
ramic tile. Cent H/AC, DW, parking, fenced
yard. $1545/mo. Pets extra? Avail Aug 16. 1
yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 3-17-10-15-2
-C
3-HUGE 4BR/2BA 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area, remodeled baths, new:
stove, DW, disposal & AC, W/D, wd firs. cent
H/AC, parking. $2400/mo Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg
3-17-10-15-2
One month free rent to qualified tenant with
year long lease- 2/1 $575.00 mo, across
from Santa Fe College w/d hkups & central
A/C. edbaurmanagement.com, 4121 NW
37th PL 352-375-7104 2-26-10-5-2
2 Bd,1.5 Ba,1200 sq ft townhouse in the
heart of the Historic Duckpond. Tile, french
doors,hardwood fls,DW.Amazing location,
blocks to downtown.379-4952 $895mo 508
NE 4th ave. avail now 3-5-10-10-2
Large 4BD/2BA home with D/W, W/D, Tile &
Wood flooring. 1 block from Newberry Rd &
Royal Park Plaza, 1 mile from UF. Available
now! $1500/mo + utils. 3806 SW 2nd Ave.
(407) 363- 7198 or cell (407) 234-1380
3-16-10-11-2
Houses Available for Fall!
2631 NW 1st Ave -$1845
402 NW 36th -$1425
315 NW 17th St. -$875
4 NW 25th St -$1499
717 NW 34th St -$1320
FREE UF Parking!
352.371.7777
4-21-71-2
DOWNTOWN 2BR/1BA DUPLEX apt w/loft,
spacious, central heat, window air, off-street
parking, convenient access to everything.
$630/mo, 1st, last, $600 dep. Call 352-373-
6551 3-2-5-2
2 Bedroom/2 Bath Apartment Across the
Street from Library West, 2 Blocks from
Midtown. Washer/Dryer included. $600/BR
111 NW 15th Terrace. Contact Michael:
305-297-7111 mhb1102@ufl.edu 2-26-10-
3-2
3 br/1ba house near corner sw 34 st & nw 8
av separate dining & living areas, new kitch-
en, carport, wd/hook up, storage shed, front
lawn and fenced back yard. Water included
in rent. $945/mo -call 258-4184 3-26-18-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. 4BR/2BA HOUSE.
Game room, washer/dryer provided, quiet
street, privacy fenced back yard, central
heat/air. 1339 NW 39th St. $1250/mo. 352-
339-2342. Pets ok. 2-26-10-3-2
4C.11IM11
01116
-o116
4C4C
01 1
01 11
-cCAwesome 1BR/1BA apt in the Duckpond
neighborhood. Close to UF, charming vin-
tage location, W/D on premises, pets ok.
Avail March 1st. $475/mo. Water & sewer
incl. Call Tom 871-4391 3-2-5-2
UIsubleases
DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Summer sublease:1 suite available in
3BR/3BA for 3 month lease(May-
July),Lexington Crossing.Female only.Fully
furnished with W/D.On bus routes
9,34,36.$450/month all inclusive.Contact
Ms.Shao at 352-870-0264 or ywshao@ufl.edu
2-26-1 0-7-3
1 BR in 4BR @ Courtyards 1231 sw 3rd aye,
1 block from uf! female only, furnished, build.
Aw/pool. $437/month all inclusive. Avail:May
1 st, lease ends: Aug. 10Oth call 239-910-5800
or e-mail bbb505@ufl.edu 2-24-5-3
356/Month!
Furnished room w/private bath available now
Aug. Located at Gatewa at Gainesville
next to 1-75 and Archer. 352-871-5952
2-24-10-5-3
[DMOT WANTED
Eugene Rollins
Black Male
(DOB 06/11/90); 511",
275 Ibs, Black Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
Felony Larceny
ALACNUA C OUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOP0 0
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
bleases Roommates Roommates RealEstate 1Compters
2B/1.5B Available for Immediate Sub-Let
2nd fl unit, Arbor Park, 309 SW 16th Ave.
Spacious living/dining area, full kitchen,
balcony, central A/C & heat. 2 pools, laun-
dry and ample parking, well maintained by
friendly management. Pet friendly. Nice com-
plex w/ students & families. Close to Shands,
campus & downtown, major bus route with
grocery across the street. $700/mo (elec-
tric extra) Available NOW thru July 2010.
Contact Sean at 407.353.5721 or
smmcdaniel@gmail.com 2-25-10-5-3
1 BR UTILITIES INCLUDED, $650,
DOWNTOWN Gainesville. Available May -
Aug. Includes electric, cable, internet, W/D,
free parking in downtown garage, balcony.
Located in condo above Starbucks next to
Hippodrome. 201 SE 2nd Ave. Call Jason at
352-214-0302 for details. 2-26 10-5-3
SUBLEASE: ASAP Gainesville Place apts.
Male rommmate wanted, 4 bed/ 4 bath, un-
furnished bedroom/furnished apt. Rent $479
a month and will give $500 in cash when
signing. call 352-229-6222 2-26-10-5-3
IVE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $260 + $50
utils charge/mo ind elec, cable tv, internet,
pool, laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-
4626 4-21-09-71-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
2-26-10-28-4
Female seeks roommate for 4/2.5 town-
house, cricket club, all included, no pets,
$400 954-557-4769 3-4-10-30-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
2-26-10-20-4
Graduating? Want an exciting career?
$ 100K+ Earning Potential First Year out of UF!
A UF alumnus is seeking UF grads to become
Art Auctioneers selling original Picasso's, Dali's and Rembrandt's.
No previous art knowledge required. We will train you!
E-mail resume or any questions to Vicbard@gmail.com
U
U
m --A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$350/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220.
2-26-18-4
Female seeks roommate for new 3/2 home
in clean, quiet SW neighborhood. $450 incl
all utils. No pets, no smoking. 352-641-6166.
Furnished, 1 acre fenced yard, W/D, DW,
central H/AC. Available immediately. 3-2-
5-4
Looking for roommate to share 2/2 at
Lakewood Villas. $525 per month with inter-
net/full digital cable/utilities included. On bus
route. 850-585-4405. 3-5-10-13-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Manufactured Homes. Won't Last
3/2 -Great Community
Owner Financing
$650.00/mo
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes
3 and 2 beds avail/low down/low monthly
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes 2 & 3 bdr's
From $599.00/month
Owner Financing
Low down
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes. Move In Ready
3/2 Adorable
From $99.00/mo
Westside/owner finance
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured homes.
OWNER FINANCING
3 & 2 bedrooms avail
Great Locations
Call 352.378.4411 today! 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes. Up to $8K tax credit
For 1st time home buyers
3 & 2 bdrs avail
WE FINANCE
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
OPEN HOUSE EVERY SATURDAY
MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITIES
GREAT HOMES, GREAT PRICES
WE FINANCE, LOW DOWN,
LOW MONTHLY 904-400-0421,SUSAN
2-26-10-20-5
Manufactured Home Communities-
Jacksonville Use your tax refund
Get a 42" TV with purchase
Limited offer, call for details
904-400-0421 Susan 2-26-10-20-5
4BR/4BA fairly new condo for sale. Ideal for
students or family. Within 2 miles of every-
thing: school, shopping, library. Quick sale.
$139,000. University Terrace on 34th St. Call
941-232-1960 3-3-10-20-5Campus Edge / Somerest VillageWalk to
Shands/VA/class 2units, 2bd/2ba vault-
ed ceilings 2nd/3rd floor w/d in unit,best
locations parking. $8,000 tax credit.
$164,900/$132,900. Move in Ready 954-
439-2301 stedel@bellsouth.net 4-21-10-
41-5
Large 4BD/3BA home 1 block from Newberry
Rd & Royal Park Plaza, 1 mile from UF.
Ind separate in-law apartment, wood &
tile floors. 3806 SW 2nd Ave $249,000
Call (407) 363-7198 or cell (407) 234-1380
3-16-10-11-5
F Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
MOVING MUST SELL- CHEAP! Full Sealy
Posturepedic & twin orthopedic beds, desk,
coffee table, kitchen table & chairs, 2 La-Z-
Boy chairs, 2 end tables, 2 card tables, small
bookshelf. David 375-3744 before Feb 27th
2-26-10-7-6CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
CERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECHO
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
2-26-10-34-7
OF Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
MFFo r Sale
***PARKING***
Private Secure Guaranteed 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
WFtorcyCIes, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***Www.,BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gvilles #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
Gator Mobile Scooter Repair
Stop waiting weeks before getting your
scooter back. Call Gator Mobile Scooter
Repair and ride today.Specializing in On-site
scooter repair and diagnostics. Guaranteed
lowest prices in all of Gainesville. Free oil
change/inspection with this AD.Call Tony at
(305)989-0824 or (305)563-4359. 3-1-14-11
20, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010
E rycles, Mopeds Autos Help Wanted Help Wanted Help Wanted
MOTOR SCOOTER
w/silver tm. 150cc, 4-stroke, air-cooled. Will
do 50 mph, 1100 miles. $1200. Call 337-
1784 3-2-5-11
S F IAutos
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
*Running or not!@
*NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
2-26-09-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Chevy Camero $999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
96 Chevy Blazer $1999 cash
97 Plymouth Voyager $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699 cash
94 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Kia Sephia $999
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1999
97 Olds Delta 88 $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
98 Ford Explorer $1900
97 Mits Diamonte $1999
98 Ford Contour $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
94 Nissan Altima $1999
98 Pontiac Transport $1999
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Chevy Malibu $1999
95 Chrysler LHS $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
02 Kia Rio $3900
03 Buick Century $4900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k, $8999CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k, $6999 CASH
2000 Ford Mustang, 111k, $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-122005 Ford Escape, 95k, $6999 CASH
2000 GMC Sierra, 166k, $5999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k, $5999 CASH
2007 Isuzu Trooper 290 Truck, 46k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Dodge Stratus, 78k, $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
WFWanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948. 2-25-10-72-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 2-25-
10-72-13
OPERATION CATNIP
Many needs and opportunities can be found
at www.nmhp.net. Feral cat capture, spay-
ing, volunteering, office work earn Disney
Tix, etc. Email: operationcatnip@nmhp.net
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
LATE NIGHT DRIVERS
$15-$17/hr 10pm -4am.
Apply @ gatordominos.com 4-21-10-60-14
BARTENDER OPENINGS
Earn $150-250/day. No experience required.
Will train. Call now 352-678-5246 2-26-10-
20-14
No jobs available, but we buy LPs, CDs &
DVDs. (And we sell them, too!)
Hear Again Music and Movies
201 SE 2nd Ave. (Suite 105), 32601
352-373-1800
2-26-19-14
Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have a fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
OSOATTENTION SMOKERS!@@
SODo you want to quit smoking?00
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking
cessation study. You may be compensated.
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic 328-6603 or
email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com 3-15-
20-14SERVERS
Exp in full service. Apply in person between 2
& 5 NAPOLATANO'S 606 NW 75th St. 2-1-
10-4-14
PT Hibachi Chef & Server Wanted Asian fast
paced full service restaurant looking for ex-
pprofessional Hibachi Chefs & strong ser-
vers. Strict business oriented environment.
Responsible, disciplined team players only!
Fax resume to 352-337-0036. 2-24-10-
10-14
City of Gainesville/GRU is
seeking a student with event
planning exp. for a paid internship
opportunity. If interested, apply
today at www.cityofgainesville.jobs
2-26-10-10-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Evenings &
weekends. Fax resume to 373-2230 3-1-
10-10-14
Now hiring -Waitstaff & Host(esse)s with ex-
prience. No calls. Apply: LaFiesta 7038 NW
10th Pl. (behind Red Lobster) or 9513 NW
39th Ave between 2 & 4pm in person. 3-2-
10-10-14
Looking for great experience to excell in your
career? Exactech, Inc is a medical device
company in Gainesville, FL. We are looking
for a part-time intern to start immediately, on
our human resources team. Job responsibi-
lites would include screening resumes, as-
sisting with new employee orientation, greet-
ing candidates for interviews and providing
with Exactech information, sourcing candi-
dates, posting jobs, and evaluating recruiting
trends and research. Please submit cover
letter and resume to human.resources@
exac.com 2-25-10-7-14
JuMB 6LEMarketing Assistant, P/T.
Assists with marketing and PR
for O'Connell Center. If
interested send e-mail
to musson@ufl.edu 2-25-7-14
OFFICE MANAGER FT
Small hi-tech co. 3 yr exp Word, QuickBooks,
Internet. admin@comscire.com 352-334-
7299 3-4-10-10-14
Attention Smokers! Smokers are needed
to participate in a smoking cessation study.
You will be compensated for your participa-
tion. If interested, call the UF Smoking Lab
and Clinic at 352-273-2151 or email us at
ufsmokelab@gmail.com. 3-4-10-14
Help needed in growing construction office.
Job duties include estimating, project man-
agement. Come get practical experience
while in school. Prefer BCM students. Call
352-538-5506 2-26-10-5-14
LIKE WORKING WITH KIDS?
Need driver to drive Buchholz h.s. student
from school @ 2:40pm to home in NW
Gaines. section. Call Renee 258-5388.
2-26-10-5-14
PART TIME MEDICAL ASSISTANT
Mon 1pm-5pm, Tues & Fri 8am-5pm
Experience Preferred -Send Resume to
TRC, 6400 Newberry Rd, Ste 301
Gainesville, FL 32605 3-2-10-7-14
PEACH VALLEY CAFE
HOW HIRING
Experienced line cooks & prep personnel
Apply in person, Mon thru Thurs from 2-4pm
352-376-1834. 3275 SW 34th St. 2-26-
10-5-14
.aim a 0
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providersa , % II .
a
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 21
J Help Wanted Help Wanted 7 services Services Personals
CLERICAL/TECHNICIAN POSITION
FT/PT
Please apply in person
Institute of Veterinary Sepc.
3603 NW 98th St. Suite A 2-26-5-14
Need Part-time for physical therapy, as-
sisted living and transportation for elderly
woman post-stroke. 3 yrs experience, matu-
rity and desire to help required. Mostly work
with primary caregiver, but independently
when primary unavailable. $12-$15/hr.
Email lewjufa@gmail.com 3-1-10-5-14
PT Office Assistant
Flexible hours. Must know Quicken
Property management office
Tower Rd/ Archer Rd area. 378-4626
3-1-10-5-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable.
Writing skills a must, accounting skills a plus.
Call Carrillo & Carrillo @ 352-371-4000.
3-29-10-20-14
BRIDAL CONSULTANT/STYLIST
Solutions Bridal
PT + Commission
Fax resume to:
352-374-7293
3-1-5-14HIRING STYLIST AND NAIL TECHS!!!
LOCATION: THE SALON 0" EXPERIENCE;
ON NW 6TH ST GAINESVILLE, FL 32609.
50% COMMISSION OR RENTAL IF
DESIRED. CONTACT SALON MANAGER
MRS. CAROYLN 0 AT 352-284-1320 OR
352-672-6339. 4-1-23-14
GOOD ON THE PHONE?
Telemarketer needed to schedule appts for
very busy business professional. GREAT
PAY! BONUSES! Call Matt 352-317-4013
3-2-10-5-14
WLF ervCes
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-
15
Local Immigration Attorney -Marriage
Green Cards/Fiance Visas/Naturalization
Matters -$295.00 Attorney Fees Plus Costs
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
6-1-45-15Horseback Trail Rides
with gentle horses, eco-tours,
mule-drawn hay rides, bonfire parties
safe and fun. 352-682-4192
3-5-5-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 3-16-
10-15
FHealth Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
Grieving the loss of someone?
National Students of AMF
Join our Facebook group:
"Gator Students of AMF"
TalkAboutLoss.org 4-21-43-16
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
C.-.c
0)
0-cc
W
"Ecc EC-)
=n C)
"a)ccHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
WJCOnnetions
Male professional, 70 years old, tall, from Sri
Lanka seeking white female, fair hair, 60-80
years old. Animals okay.
Write to MFP P.O. Box 1823, Gainesville, FI
32656 3-26-19-19
Event NtiCes
Book reading and signing by Fred Malphurs,
retired CEO, of the North Florida/South
Georgia Veterans Health System. Fred's
internet radio show, Adventures in
Healthcare will also be discussed.
His books: MY Life in the VA, Meanie
Mouse verus the Orlando Operators and
Mexia. At the Thomas Center,
March 10, 5:30 to 8:30 pm
3-5-10-8-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1 -09-85-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
o il Rides
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
*e$25 ROUND TRIP TO ORLANDOOS
Leave Gville 9am Sat -Return Gville Sat
11pm. Comforable 15-passenger van. UCF/
Disney areas. Contact Richard after 7:30pm
@352-231-2807 2-26-10-3-23The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
u the independent floridaa igator and
announces the openings for the positions
Editor,
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
AND
Managing Editor/Online,
Paid positions. Unpaid member of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the reception desk
at the entrance of the first floor of The Alligator Building at 1105 W.
University Ave., each weekday between 1-4 pm from now until Monday
March 15th. Please do not call. Further written information is available
at the time an application is picked up. Please allow up to 15 minutes at
that time to read information you will need for the application process.
The application must be returned to the same desk by 4 pm, Tuesday
March 16th. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews and
selections by the Board of Directors will be held at The Alligator offices
in a meeting open to the public beginning at 2 pm, Friday, March 26th.
Applicants must be present at that meeting to be considered. Applicants
must be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will
be given to those who have experience at The Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer@ 1 0- 19'E r.org
Sports WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
UF ends losing streak to UT
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
The Gators shook two
monkeys off their backs Tues-
day night.
Florida snapped its six-
game losing streak against
Tennessee and notched a
much-needed win against a
quality Southeastern Confer-
ence opponent late in the sea-
son, something it hasn't been
able to do in recent years, tak-
ing down the No. 19 Volun-
teers (20-7, 8-5 SEC) 75-62 in
the O'Connell Center.
With the victory, the"That was a big r6sum6
win for us, and we're
just moving another
step closer to where we
want to get to. We can't
ask for a bigger win
right now."
Erving Walker
UF sophomore point guard
Gators (20-8, 9-4 SEC) in-
creased their odds of making
the NCAA Tournament for
the first time since winning
back-to-back national cham-
pionships in 2006 and 2007.
"That was a big r6sum6win for us, and we're just
moving another step closer
to where we want to get to,"
said sophomore point guard
Erving Walker, who tied for
a team high with 19 points.
"We can't ask for a bigger
win right now."
The last two seasons, the
Gators struggled to beat po-
tential NCAA Tournament
teams late in the season, re-
sulting in consecutive late-
season meltdowns and NIT
appearances.
"It's a new team," said ju-
nior forward Chandler Par-
sons, who scored 19 points
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 24
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF guard Erving Walker shoots a three-pointer during the second half of the
Gators' 75-62 win against TennesseeGators win in wet weather
By TONI-ANN MILLER
Alligator Writer
Florida was up against more than
just La Salle on Tuesday.
The Gators (2-0) fought through the
cold, rain and sleet in Philadelphia to
beat the Explorers 15-5 on Temple's
field.
Leaving the sun and warm tempera-
tures of Florida for the 35-degree weath-
er in Pennsylvania, Amanda O'Leary's
squad had to pay keen attention to the
little things to get the victory.
"When you play in this type ofweather, the key is making good passes
and concentrating on your fundamen-
tals," O'Leary said. "Despite the inclem-
ent weather, they did a great job of ad-
justing."
Midfielders Brittany
Dashiell and Caroline
Chesterman led the
Gators in scoring with
Lacrosse four and three goals, re-
spectively.
Midfielder Kitty Cullen and attack-
ers Caroline Cochran and Ashley Bruns
added two each. Bruns also led the team
SEE LACROSSE, PAGE 24
Florida continues to overachieve with victory over Tennessee
he Florida men's basketball Gainesville, but this year's team and most watched this season that has done hard on the defensive end eve
team did wonders for its has really overachieved. nights it's more with less than Florida. time out, whether or not the sho
NCAA Tournament hopes Donovan has been handcuffed just Erv- From where I sit, there are have fallen.
by beating Tennessee on Tuesday, into using just an eight-man ro- ing Walk- two reasons the Gators have been No one exemplifies this
as the Gators are trying to avoid tation by a brutal lack of depth, N er, Kenny able to post a 9-4 conference re- titude more than Boynton, w
their third NIT appearance in as and two of those players, Erik Kyle Maistri Boynton, cord with a roster that includes has shot 37 percent from the fie
many years. Murphy and Ray Shipman, have C hPaonid 1 e r only two true guards and one in his first collegiate season b
And the Gators should be combined to play just 21.6 min- ky r@ ato org P a r s on s, true center. established himself early on as
proud. utes ner game. Alex Tvus The biggest reason is Donovan lock-down defender.
It sounds weird to say because
Billy Donovan has established
UF as one of the Southeastern
Conference's premier basket-
ball programs, and the Tourna-
ment certainly hasn't been for-
eign territory in his 14 years inIt wouldn't be far off to say the
Gators have won 20 games this
season using little more than six
players, a nearly impossible feat.
Add to that the fact that senior
Dan Werner is in the midst of by
far his worst season as a Gator,and Vernon
Macklin against the world -or
at least the SEC.
Of those five guys, there's not
one sure-fire NBA player in the
bunch.
I can't think of a team I'vefinally getting a post-'04s team to
commit to defense every night.
There have been many games
this season in which the team's
collective shooting touch has
abandoned the Gators -to put
it lightly -but they've competedry
ts
it-
ho
ld
ut
a
UF was third in the SEC in
scoring defense coming into the
game against the Vols, letting up
64.3 points per game.
The other reason for Florida's
success is the dramatically im-
proved play of Parsons.
BRACKETOLOGY
0 ESPN's Joe Lunardi had the Gators
back in the NCAA Tournament as an
No. 11 seed in his most recent field
of 65 predictions, which came out
before UF's win over Tennessee.UF GYMNASTICS
0 Freshmen Ashan6e Dickerson was named
SEC Gymnast of the Week while Marissa
King earned SEC Freshman Gymnast of the
Week honors for the first time in her colle-
giate career Tuesday.TEEING OFF WITH BOBBY CALLOVI
U Curlers have complained about the noise in the arena, and one female on
Denmark's team was brought to tears. The 2014 Olympic Committee should
consider investing in those nifty quiet signs used in golf. .It's rumored that the
Jets are trying to acquire CB Nnamdi Asomugha to play opposite of Pro Bowler
Derrelle Revis. If that happens, opponents should invest in a good running game.
Copyrighted MatiealWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 23
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIJR [rnE
LEVIN COLLEGE OF LRW M
PRESENTS: Febru9 ILMIM oomgmou no'Do
ary 27, 2010Out'f Et'
Jr 1 1:1 r
CONFERENCE at the Levin
H __P College of Law featuring- presentations and panels
. concerning the Internet,
-.intellectual property law and
music. Attorneys and musicians
share their perspectives.
Keynote speaker: Grooveshark.
SHOWCASE at Common Grounds featuring Hoyt and the Hotheads, Boss Lady
and the Company, Stevie D and the No Shows, and Dinger Does It.
AESTHETIC A 011.3 U IRSTYf
visit
rfS ENNIHEISER GinesvlleBands.com -musiclawconlaw ufledu/
ti register
nfnrmai n
Seven-year-old Phoenix Fox was born happy, healthy and
strong. During a routine check-up, doctors found a heart
murmur. Three months later, Phoenix was diagnosed with
Pompe disease, a rare type of muscular dystrophy.
Today, although there is treatment, Phoenix must rely on a
ventilator to live and is hoping for a cure.
Phoenix Fox Trot is a charity event to raise money for
additional research to find a cure for Pompe disease. All of the
proceeds will go to the Phoenix Fox Research Fellowship.
one-mile fun walkolive music* dance performances
loeal vendors eChinese Raffle 0 face painting
and more!
Pompe disease is currently the subject of
Harrison Ford's new movie "Extraordinary Measures."13th Annual'
1
April 10, 2010 at 8 a.m.
Behind North Florida
Regional Medical Center
Benefiting the student-run Equal
Access Clinic of Gainesville which
provides free healthcare to
underprivileged populations.
For more info:
Call Stephanie Mazariegos at
(813) 484-8031 or go to
ufpremed.org/easc
Eq cesCliniV %
24, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010
Bruns leads UF with six goals in two games
LACROSSE, frompage 22
with four assists, while Cochran
dished out two.
So far, Bruns owns the season
lead for goals (six) and assists
(eight).
O'Leary said her players did
a good job of maintaining pos-
session of the ball throughout
the game, and they improved on
some of her concerns entering the
match.
"There was much more com-
munication," she said. "After the
Jacksonville game, we focused on
making sure that we were going
to play a better team defense, and
they were able to improve in that
part of their game. It was good to
see."
She said the team reacted well
to playing in an unfamiliar place
on an unfamiliar field and even
had to deal with another unusual
field component -the turf.
The field at Temple was com-
pletely Astro Turf, and O'Leary
said the Gators had only played
on Field Turf and the grass surface
at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
Even with the adjustments it
needed to make, UF remained in
control of the game.
The Gators played the role of
the attackers in the match, taking
23 shots on goal to the Explorers'
10.
UF also challenged La Salle for
the 19 available ground balls but
picked up only eight.
Dashiell scored the first goal
less than a minute into the game,
KYLE, from page 224.
Matt Tripp/ Alligator Staff
UF midfielder Brittany Dashiell led the Gators with four goals in their
15-5 win over La Salle on Tuesday at Temple in Philadelphia.
giving UF the early lead.
The squad quickly landed two
more in the net, and it held the
Explorers scoreless until 21:50 left
in the first half.
UF closed out the half scoring
three unanswered goals, and at
the break it led 8-3.
The second half proved to be
more of the same for the Gators
who continued their streak of
three unanswered goals with an-
other five to start the final period.
The junior forward has easily been the Gators
most -and arguably only -consistent player after
logging two years of constant ups and downs.
He is averaging career highs in points (11.7), re-
bounds (seven), assists (2.4), field-goal percentage
(50.2), free-throw percentage (66.1), three-point per-
centage (36.5), buzzer-beaters (two), guys who wish
they were him (5,472) and girls who wish they wereO'Leary said because her team
has seven scoring threats, it was
hard to shut down any one or two
of those players, which placed the
Gators in position to score as of-
ten as they did.
"That's what our goal is on the
offensive end," she said. "To have
every single one of those seven
players that are on the field as
threats. When we can accomplish
that, like we did today, great
things will happen."
with him (4,591).
With Parsons' natural talent, he should be a
3,000-3,000 guy at best.
It was only fitting that he would lead the charge
with a 19-point, eight-rebound performance as UF
pulled away from Tennessee in the second half.
It's safe to say no one expected the Gators to be
playing for their 10th SEC win with three games left
on the schedule. They have overachieved in every
sense of the word.
And I mean that as a compliment.
Admissionis'Free!
Wed. Feb. -24th, 5 p.
vs Ploida State
*First 250 fans at the match
receive FREE Men's Tennis
t-shirts!
*First 100 fans receive
FREE pizza from Domino s
*Enter to Win an envelope
full of great gift cards at
the match!
llo paUF COLL EGE OF DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION AND PLANNING T NS N ANYTHrN !U HISTORIC PRESERVATION PROGRAM Musical Instruments # Tools
We buy gold & cash checksYOU HAVEA FUTURE BEST JEWELRY & LOAN
WITH TE PAST 523 NW 3rd Aver(352) 371-4367WITH THE PAST pw rkr
fo Doctoral Program, Historic Preservation
2 Master of Historic Preservation
April 17, 2010
2 Interdisciplinary HP Certificate am 8 am to 3pm
at the Martin Luther King Center
o Center for World Heritage Help cleanResearch and Stewardship up trash
o Nantucket Field School and litter,
plant trees,
and paint
over graffiti.
Tor se call 354371-9444
.kacb@gmail.com
16 Ided! Free giveaways!
Presente y Keep Alachua County BeautifulGators use 23-6 run to
pull away late in game
HOOPS, from page 22
and grabbed eight rebounds. "It doesn't really matter
what happened the last two years, the last six games. To-
night was the only game that mattered."
It seemed as if UF's shooting woes from beyond the arc
would continue Tuesday night, as it hit just 1 of 9 before
halftime, but Walker and Parsons nailed four huge threes
that turned a tight game into a blowout.
Walker hit three shots from beyond the arc in less than
two minutes, followed by a three-pointer by Chandler
Parsons that pushed the Gators' lead to 20 to cap off a
23-6 run by UF.
"That's what he's done for us all year. He steps up
when the game's on the line," Parsons said of Walker.
"He's an impact player who really stepped up and made
some shots for us today."
With its outside shot not falling in the first half, UF got
into the lane and scored 26 of its 37 points in the paint be-
fore intermission, attacking the Vols' big men and getting
Wayne Chism and Brian Williams into foul trouble.
Chism, who dominated the Gators
in the teams' first matchup, only played
15 minutes and fouled out with 4:02 re-
maining, allowing UF to have its ways down low.Basketball "That was huge," Parsons said. "We
definitely wanted to get the ball inside.
We felt like we had an advantage in there."
Coming off a career-high 22 points against Ole Miss
on Saturday, junior center Vernon Macklin avoided the
letdown UF coach Billy Donovan feared, scoring 13 points
and grabbing 10 rebounds.
Junior power forward Alex Tyus added eight points
and eight boards, and the Gators frontcourt redeemed it-
self for its poor showing against the Volunteers in their
61-60 loss in Knoxville, Tenn., on Jan. 31.
Florida got off to a hot start, jumping out to an 11-4
lead and ending the first half on a 7-0 run to tie the game
at 37.
The Gators kept it close despite a huge disparity in the
teams' outside shooting. The Volunteers hit six threes be-
fore halftime while UF hit just one of its nine attempts -a
bank shot from the top of the key by Kenny Boynton.
"We can win games without even shooting well," Par-
sons said. "And you saw tonight, when we put it all to-
gether -when we played defense and shoot the ball well
-what we can do to teams."
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 25
Freshmen have another chance to impress against UCF
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Staff Writer
achiang@alligator org
The Gators' freshmen are most comfort-
able in the spotlight and on the field.
If their name is not one of the nine listed
on UF coach Kevin O'Sullivan's lineup card,
then the newcomers start to feel a little anx-
ious and uncomfortable.
Freshman pitcher Brian Johnson didn't
know what to do when he was yanked out
of Saturday's game against USF in the sixth
inning.
"I don't think he's ever been taken out of
I1Ia game," O'Sullivan said. "He didn't know
how to react when I asked for the ball."
If their play in the opening series was any
indication, these first-year players shouldn't
have a problem staying on the field.
No. 5 Florida (3-0) will call upon another
freshman, Hudson Randall, to be its starting
pitcher in tonight's matchup against UCF
(3-0) at 6:30 in McKethan Stadium.
However, Randall would not be the first
member of UF's No. 1 recruiting class to
shine.
Freshmen Austin Maddox and Kamm
Washington hit home runs in their first
games as Gators. Mike Zunino alreadyknows what it feels like to hit a walk-off
single, and Johnson finished his first start
without letting up an earned run.
"That's why we recruit them," O'Sullivan
said. "Good players make coaches look
good -it's as simple as that. There's no real
magic formula."
Through the first weekend, the freshmen
are making their coach look very good.
Maddox hit a home run in each of his first
two games and had two more stolen from
him by USF center fielder Ryan Lockwood.
Those plays kept Maddox from labeling his
first series a complete success.
"It was exciting to put on the uniform for
the first time," Maddox said. "I thought I
swung the bat pretty good, but I just didn't
have good luck this weekend."
Pitchers have already started to throw
differently to him, as he did not see a fast-
ball after his first at-bat of the series on Fri-
day, when he hit a home run to right field.
He shouldn't have a problem making the
necessary adjustments at the plate because
the freshmen have shown they are capableof adapting on the fly.
"We changed up the lineup a little bit,
and the next thing you know, you're ask-
ing freshmen who have never sat before to
get loose in the seventh inning," O'Sullivan
said.
Washington, who was put in that situa-
tion Sunday, admitted to having some trou-
ble coming off the bench late in the game.
"When you are pinch-hitting, it's a little
bit tougher because you sit in the dugout
and it's just mentally harder to come in to
the game," Washington said.
But that wasn't a problem for Zunino,
who sat out the final game of the series un-
til he was called upon to come in late and
eventually hit the walk-off single to beat the
Bulls.
None of these accomplishments sur-
prised O'Sullivan, though.
"They are certainly capable," he said.
"You never quite know if they are going to
deliver when the lights go on and when it
really matters, but they did nothing differ-
ent than what they've been doing."
4 ~ --
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF freshman Austin Maddox hit two home runs in the Gators' opening series against
USF He will look to continue that success against UCF tonight at 6:30 in Gainesville.r-
designated hitter
.2141 HR
3 RBhs
catcher
.200
2 RBIsUF'S FRESHMEN
Austin Maddox
Highlight: He hit a
home run in each of
his first two games
and could have had
two more if not for
USF center fielder
Ryan Lockwood,
who robbed him
twice with spectacu-
lar catches.
Mike Zunino
Highlight: He
struggled for most
of the series but
ended the weekend
with a walk-off
single Sunday to
clinch the sweep.
O'Sullivan praised
his defense and han-
dling of the pitchers.r ri
outfielder
.571
1 HR
1 RBIKamm Washington
Highlight: De-
spite not starting
on opening night,
Washington hit a
homer in his first
game on Saturday
and finished the
series with Florida's
highest batting aver-
age (.571).
Brian Johnson
Highlight: Johnson
showed no sign of
jitters in his first
collegiate start. He
pitched a shutout
pitcher by throwing an
5.2 IP efficient 65 pitches
0.00 ERA -and only 14 balls3Sk -in 5.2 innings of0 Walks work.
LAPES'NIGHT
Free Welts& Drafto
Star's at 6:00 Pm
374-4984 1702 W. UnWarstty Ave.Want a bigger
piece of the
pie?
26, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010
Lendl sisters
lead Gators to
first-place finish
By KELSIE HOECHERL
Alligator Writer
It was a sister act for the Florida women's golf team Tues-
day in its final round at the Central District Invitational.
Sophomore Marika Lendl and sister, freshman Isabelle,
finished the tournament in a tie for first place, both with a
three-round score of 212, four-under par in the Gators' first
place finish with a total of 857 (290-281-286, -7)
Isabelle, however, claimed the tournament title after she
beat her older sister in a scorecard playoff. The winner was
determined from the golfer's score on the last nine holes.
"It was so fun to watch them [the Lendl sisters] all day,"
UF coach Jan Dowling said. "It was an incredible scene. I
don't think it has been done before where two sisters tie for
first in a college event. .they were both so composed down
the stretch, they deserve it.
"They've worked hard and it was really great to see them
handle some pressure."
The duo battled to the end, making even the scorecard
playoff intense. Marika went into her final nine with a lower
score than her sister, shooting one-under.
Isabelle struggled on the back nine after
back-to-back bogeys but redeemed herself
with three birdies and an eagle to cap off
the round. Isabelle wound up topping her
sister by shooting a three-under final nine.
As a squad, UF finished seven strokes
under par and 29 strokes ahead of the sec-
Isabelle Lendl ond-place finisher, TCU.
"This week was truly a team effort,"
Dowling said. "Everyone played well, we had everyone in
the top 20, which is a testament to our team depth. That is
what a team requires to be successful down the stretch. We
are obviously very excited about this win, it was a great win
and it is going to motivate us to continue working hard for
the later parts of the spring season."
All around, Florida had strong performances from its
golfers.
Freshman Mia Piccio scored a personal best with two
career-low rounds and the highest finish of her career, a tie
for fourth. Piccio finished three rounds carding 217 (72-73-
72, +1).
Sophomore Evan Jensen also notched a new personal
best, finishing 54 holes with a total score of 218 (71-72-75,
+2). Jensen beat her previous best of 221, which she shot at
the 2008 Northrop Grumman Regional Challenge. Jensen
finished in a tie for seventh.
Junior Jessica Yadloczky rounded out the Gators' lineup,
finishing in 18th. She had her lowest score Tuesday and to-
taled 223 (76-74-73, +7) in three rounds.UF sweeps FSU, extends streak
The Gators were a perfect 9-0
By JAIME MANHEIMER
Alligator Writer
The No. 9 UF women's ten-
nis team defeated No. 15 FSU on
Tuesday, improving its record to
8-2 and furthering two impres-
sive streaks.
With the win, Florida in-
creased its all-time series lead
in the rivalry to 50-1, and it was
the Gators' 84th-straight regular-
season win at home, a school re-
cord.
UF swept the six singles and
three doubles matches, a posi-tive way to gear up for one of its
toughest challenges of the season
this weekend.
Florida will host No. 6 Duke,
the defending national champi-
on, on Sunday.
"I feel like were playing good
tennis, and we have to make
sure we don't make it too much
of a big deal," UF coach Roland
Thornqvist said. "It's one match
of many, and we need to continue
the trend of getting better, and
it's a great opportunity for us.
"And if we do all the things
we need to do and come in pre-
Steven H. Keys/ Alligator Staff
Lauren Embree hits a backhand during her and Anastasia Revzina's
doubles match against FSU on Tuesday. The pair won 8-6.pared," he added, "I think we can
be very good."
Freshman Lauren Embree and
senior Anastasia Revzina orches-
trated the most emotional win
against the Seminoles, winning
four-straight games to come back
from a 6-4 deficit and defeat Amy
Sargeant and Francesca Segarelli
of FSU on Court 2.
"Frankly, I thought we played
well in one doubles match (No. 3
pair Allie Will and Marrit Boon-
stra), but we played terrible in
the other two," Thornqvist said.
"The thing we preach the most
is to play together, and I didn't
think we did that until the last
two games of the set."
"I feel like we're playing
good tennis, and we have
to make sure we don't
make it too much of a big
deal."
Roland Thornqvist
UF women's tennis coach
Revzina added that nerves
played a role in her doubles
pair's slow start, but she was able
to turn things around before the
'Noles took a commanding lead
in the match.
"Anastasia did a good job re-
covering though -she looked
terrible in the first set," Thorn-
qvist said. "I could tell she had
no feel, but then she started to
get better mentally and landed a
couple of nice forehands."
Embree (No. 22) had the best
overall outing of the day and
cruised to victory (6-2, 6-1) in her
singles match against Lauren Mc-
Creless.
"[Embreel played excellent
tennis," Thornqvist said. "She
did a great job staying balanced
in her singles match and really
played fabulous tennis through-
out the day."
The UF men's tennis team will
also get a shot at its rival, as the
Gators will host Florida State to-
day at 5 p.m.
Florida draws inspiration, toughness from local 8-year-old
0 THE GATORS WILL FACE VANDERBILT TONIGHT
IN NASHVILLE.
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@alligator org
Before the Gators take the floor at Memorial Gym tonight
at 7 to take on Vanderbilt, they'll be reminded by an 8-year-
old about toughness.
Catriona "Cat" Chennell was diagnosed when she was 4
with primary pulmonary hypertension -a deficiency of the
heart and lungs where her heart wasn't receiving enough
oxygen. She spent 345 days at Shands Medical Center wait-
ing for a heart and lung transplant.
On Sunday, she attended her first-ever Gators sporting
event: the women's basketball game against UGA.
With Cat in mind in every team huddle, her plea for a
win didn't fall on deaf ears as the Gators held on to beat No.
20 Georgia 64-57."It was a lot of fun," Cat said. "It was really a dream come
true for me."
The Gators (14-13, 7-7 Southeastern Conference) will
look to answer Cat's call again when they face off against
the Commodores in Nashville.
Jence Rhoads led VU (19-8, 8-6 SEC) with 14 points in a
66-58 win at the O'Connell Center on Feb. 4.
"They whooped our butt on our home
court," UF guard Jordan Jones said. "We
got revenge on UGA, and now it's time to
get it for Vandy, too."
Women's The Commodores don't necessar-
Basketball ily boast size, like Tennessee and Georgia
have, but they rely on tenacity and their
ability to shoot the ball.
"They're not very big, so it'll be a battle of the less-than-
six-foot kids on Wednesday," UF coach Amanda Butler
said.
Vanderbilt ranks 15th in the country in field goal per-
centage (48.5) and leads the SEC from three-point range in
league play.Last time out against VU, the Gators were effective scor-
ing in the paint (32 points), but never got their outside shots
going -a 23-percent clip from beyond the arc. If UF hopes
to keep any glimmer of a tournament bid alive, a win in
Nashville is crucial.
"We have a team with five seniors on it, so are they aware
that there are implications for every win and loss? Absolute-
ly," Butler said. "It's not something we as a coaching staff
have to talk about that much."
While Butler may not be stressing the chances of mak-
ing the tournament with her team, it's clear she thought the
team needed a spark. It was Butler who introduced Cat to
the team.
The two parties have become so close in the past few
days, Cat and her father, Justin, made the trip to the airport
to see the team off to play Vanderbilt tonight.
"I don't know if we win against UGA if we don't have
Cat there for our inspiration," Jones said. "She's our new
little good luck charm, so we're going to keep in close con-
tact."
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, ADVERTISEMENT, 27
Adv ertisement
Constitution Amendments for the 2010 Spring Ballot
Fellow members of the Gator Nation:
As you may know, Student Government elections are upon us. While you may or may not vote in these elections, it is important that you know that this election is a bit different than most. Every 10
years, our student body Constitution demands that a Commission convene to draft revisions to our constitution, and this process has occurred over the last 14 months. The results of the
Commission's work will be on the ballot during this election and you will have the opportunity to accept or reject the changes. I write to you today, as the Chairman of this Commission, to encourage
you to vote in favor of these changes.
The 20 members of the Commission are proposing many important changes to our Constitution. The process was not a political process, but one designed to ensure that this important document
holds our elected leaders accountable, that this document is updated and current, and that our student body has access to our student courts and student leaders. Our changes lower the threshold
for impeachment for Student Senators that have been accused of official misconduct. We lowered the threshold to submit constitutional initiatives to the Student Supreme Court. In light of Florida
Board of Governors Resolution 08-23, we ensured the continued viability and presence of the former office of Honor Court Chancellor by creating a presidentially appointed position.
The 20 members of this Commission span the entire spectrum of our Gator Nation community. From Majority and Minority party senators, the Interim Dean of Students, the current Senate President
Pro-Tem, the current Chief Justice of the Student Body Supreme Court, the Director of Student Activities and Involvement, to many involved undergraduate, graduate, and law students. The result is
a comprehensive and united effort to help ensure that our student government, like our student body, remains unrivaled in reputation, both today and into the future. I would encourage you to review
the proposed changes and email me directly to discuss any questions you may have. We hope you will take the time to vote to pass this new Constitution.
Sincerely,
David M. Kerner
Chairman, 2009-2010 Constitution Revision Commission
3LAW
dkerner@ufl.edu
On Behalf of the Full Commission: Taylor Tribou, Ben Cavataro, Thomas Cockriel, Matt Michel, Jay Miller, Naadira Renfroe, Dan Siegel, Jacqueline Acosta, Victoria Ajayi, Kirby Bissel, Brooke Eisen-
smith, Audrey Goldman, Kara Olesky, Frank Pierce, Whitney Smith, Josh Winegar, Dr. Paige Crandall (Interim Dean of Students), Dr. Nancy Chrystal-Green (Director of Student Activities and In-
volvement), Mr. Chris Loschiavo (Director of Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution).
Language as it will appear on the ballot:
Should the Student Body Constitution be amended to: change the time for appointment of Summer Replacement Senators from May 1 to
the last meeting of spring term; remove verbiage that purports to allow the Student Senate to contract on behalf of the student body;
permit the Student Senate to amend election laws within four weeks, rather than five weeks, of an election; comply with Florida Board of
Governors Resolution 08-23 by preserving the role of the Honor Code Chancellor, now referred to "Honor Code Executive Director," and
allowing this executive director to be appointed by the Student Body President; amend Article IlIl to read "Funding Fee Increase Restric-
tions", instead of "Budget Restrictions"; ensure that terms of executive department heads expire concurrently with the terms of the elect-
ed executive officials; remove any reference to the "Student Honor Court" and "Student Honor Court Bar Association;" direct the submis-
sion of proposals by initiative to the Chief Justice of the Student Body; amend the proposal initiative process to provide that a petition
carrying the signatures of 5% of the student body shall be placed on the ballot; authorize the Elections Commission to determine if initia-
tive ballot titles and summaries are accurate and lawful and amend ballot titles and summary if they determine that they are not accurate,
subject to appeal to the Student Body Supreme Court; require 2/3 of the trial body of the Student Senate for conviction of impeachment,
instead of 3/4; make grammatical and other minor corrections and replacements.
Summary of changes proposed in the amendment:
1-1: Article 11: Changes various wording in the article. For example, this proposal removes the words "by law", and replaces this phrase with "provide by Student Body law". Further, where the article used list every judicial office, it now simply states
"Student Government offices of the Judicial Branch". Where the article used to use the word "de jure", it now reads "automatic". Moves the non-discrimination clause to Article 1. There are no major substantive changes in this proposal.
1-2: Article 1: The non-discrimination clause is added here. Further, the basic rights under section 2 are now listed in a bullet point form, instead of reading as one full paragraph. The Honor Code is within this article.
1-3: Amends the preamble to read:
We, the Student Body of the University of Florida, in order to:
-Represent and defend the rights and interests of students to the university, the community, and government;
-Provide a forum for the expressions of student views and interests;
-Promote the academic freedom and responsibility and high standards of education;
-Provide services and organize events for the benefit of students; and
-Help promote understanding and recognition of the responsibilities of students to the university, the community, and humanity,
Do hereby establish this Constitution.
2-1: Article Ill: Amends section 1 to read "All legislative powers of the Student Body shall be vested in a student senate.", instead of reading "All legislative powers of the Student Body shall be vested in the student senate."
2-2: Article III: Capitalizes "Student Senate" (where it used to read "student senate"). Further, it changes the deadline to appoint summer senators from May 1, to the last meeting of spring term.
2-3: Article Ill: Amends section 5 to mandate that the Student Senate President and the Student Senate President Pro Tempore shall be elected by the members of the senate according to their rules and procedures.
2-4: Article Ill: Amends section 6 by removing subsection (i), which purported to give the student senate the right to contract on behalf of the student body.
2-5: Article Ill: Amends section 7, subsection (i) to read "change the election laws during the four weeks before the scheduled election to be effective for that election.", instead office weeks.
2-6: Article Ill: Amends section 7 by adding the office of "Executive Director of the Honor Code Administration" to the list of officers allowed to address the student senate.
2-7: Article Ill: Amends section 9 title to read "Funding Fee Increase Restrictions" instead of reading "Budget Restrictions".
2-8: Article Ill: Amends section 7 by removing subsection (h), which purports to give the student senate the authority to regulate a student honor court bar association.
3-2: Article IV: Amends section 4 to allow the student body president to appoint a "Student Honor Code Executive Director" to the cabinet. Further, it mandates that the terms of the heads of executive departments shall expire concurrently with the
expiration of the regular terms of the elected executive officials. Finally, it changes the term "University Cashier' to read "University Controller".
4-1: Article IV: Eliminates section 4 (student honor court) and other references to it. It clarifies that the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court shall appoint law students to serve as temporary justices where an Associate or the Chief Justice is subject
to recusal.
5-1: Article V: Amends section 6 to require that the student senate to validate the general and run-off elections "in the next regularly scheduled senate meeting", instead of reading "no later than 10 school days after the last day of the final election
an election cycle" Further, it amends section 7 to read that campus wide officers elected in the spring general election in races requiring a majority vote shall assume office "on the last regularly scheduled class day", instead of reading "at 8:00 PM
on May 1st". Further, it amends section 8 to require a member of student government to hold a 2.5 GPA instead of a 2.0 GPA. Finally, it amends section 8 to read "Center for Student Activities and Involvement" instead of "Office of Student Activi-
ties".
6-1: Articles VII and VIII: Amends these articles to reverse the composition of the Impeachment Body and Trial Body and apply the same voting threshold of 2/3 for each body. The prior burden for the trial was 3/4. Amends the article to demand
that 5% of the electorate sign any initiative before it will be placed on the ballot and directs that any initiative be directed to the Chief Justice of the Student Supreme Court. It further allows the Elections Commission to review the ballot title and sum-
mary of any initiative to ensure it complies with the law, and allows them to amend it if they find it does not comply with the law, subject to Supreme Court jurisdiction. Further, it amends the constitution to demand that a Constitution Revision Com-
mission convene in 2019. Finally, regarding the CRC, it demands that the Director if CSAI be a member of the 2019 CRC instead of the Dean of Student.
Please contact David Kerner, Student Body Supreme Court Chief Justice and Chairman of the Constitutional Revision Committeewith any questions at chiefjustice@sg.ufl.edu.
A copy of the changes can be found at www.sg.ufl.edu. Elections will be held February 23-24. Please visit www.sg.ufl.edulelections for polling locations and a list of candidates.
28, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2010
* -
* -
* -
* -
* -
* -
J~ I I
( (111111 \ 1hw l
,( J
WkICqlm I ) )k~IIlo~ 01
I 511 hliyi li ItI w1 ~
S I i 1 1 c
'i of i i
kdll/f j (j flI Im~t0 1 (; )i
I odi lq im J44 I Iw 
)-~l4 P4
\ MI$;
NE] ~iyo3010wJ.
(IO iilo \ I E~I
!~1fJ. )(S0fI
) ~ 1 1 1 1/ -0~U 0 x ItOFFICIAL BALLOT
UF STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTION 020 -*
TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23 & 24, 2010 -U
INSTRUCTIONS:
To vote, complete the arrow A Ed to the night of your choice with a HEAVY
BOLD LINE like this AE-4.
IMPORTANT: USE A #2 PENCIL OR THE MARKING PEN PROVIDED. DO NOT USE RED INK!
NOTE: IF YOU MAKE A MISTAKE RETURN YOUR BALLOT TO THE
ELECTION OFFICIAL AND OBTAIN ANOTHER.
PRESIDENTNICE PRESIDENT
(Vote for UP TO (1) One)
BEN CAVATARO
and 4
SAGAR SANE
STUDEN T ALLIANCE
ASHTON CHARLES
and 4
MARCUS DIXON
TREASURER
(Vote for UP TO (1) One)
RAFAEL YANIZ 
STUDENT ALLUANCE
VIRLANY TABOADA 4
UNIT E PARTY
CHANCELLOR
(Vote for UP TO (1) One)
SENATE
GRADUATE STUDENTS
(Vote for UP TO (8) Eight)
TYLER HISHAM ANTAR 41
sTUDE N TA ALIANC E
TOVAH GOLDFARB 
STUDENT ALLIANCE
BRIAN KIRCHRERG 
STUDENT AILWACE
ALAN CHRISTOPHER MARTIN 11
STUDENT ALLVACE
MATT MARTZ 40
STUDENT ALLIANCE
ANU PANDEY 4
STUDENT ALLIANCE
JOANNA SANDFORD
STUDENT ALLIANCE
ZACK SMITH
STUDENTALLANCE
ANDREW S. GUGLIELMO
UNI TE PAR TY
JONATHAN LENNER 4-
UNITE PARTY
IVAN MARTINEZ 11
UNIT EPA TY
MATTMICHEL 4-
UNIT EPAR TY
TOMMY ROBEY 
UNIT EPAR T Y
DAN "THE FIREMAN" SIEGEL 4
UNIT PARTY
KUNAL SINGH 4-
UNLENPAR y
LEXI WYNNE 4
UNIT E PAR TYCONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT
Should the Student Body ConsitumIn be
amended to change He time for appoiment
of Summer Replacement Senators from May 1
to thelast meeting of sprng term remove
verbiage that purports to allow the student
Senate to contract on behalf of the student
body. permit the Student Senate to amend
elections 'within fouroweeks atherlan five
weeks, of an election, comply nith Floda
BoardofGoveors Resolution08-23by
preserving the role of the Honor Code
Chancellor, now referred to asHonor Code
ExecuieDrector andallowingthisexecuive
director to be appoilred by the Student Body
President, amend Article 111 to read 'Funding
Fee Increase Restnctions. instead of Budget
Restrictions , ensure that terms of executive
department headsexpireconcurrentlywiththe
terms of the elected executive officials; remove
any reference to the 'Student Honor Court' and
"Student Honor Court Bar AssocIaffon:' direct
the submission of proposals by Intlative to the
Chief Justice of the Student Body .amend the
proposal in~tlatSe process to provide that 
petion carrying the signatures of 5% of the
student body shall be placed on the ballot:
authorize the Elecions Commission to
determine if initiative ballot btles and
summarnes ate accurate and lawful and amend
ballottiles and summary they determnethat
they are not accurate, subject to appeal to the
Student Body Supreme Court. require 213 of
the 0al body of the Student Senate for
convicEo of imlpeachment, instead of 3
make grammatical and other minor corrections
aod replacements.
YES -
NO 4-
REFERENDUM QUESTIONS
A Rez Union fee has been proposed to repair
and expand the facility. T his fee would better
student services. and increase space for
s0uents and organizaaons Both USP and FSU
have implemented fees: $20 per semester plus
t 50 per credit hour at USF. and a fee of $20
per semester plus $2 per credit hour at FSU Al
UF the current proposed fee is S20 per
semester plus S3 per credit hour
Thrio11 allow for students at he state's
flagship Universty to have access to the same
level oI qualiy i student resources as those
offered at Florida s other slate universities and
its peer universities around the country A
recenrtruversity survey shows the Reitz Union
is in need of more than 040 million in deferred
maintenance and repairs. The Reitz Union was
built more than 40 years ago for the 19,000
students then enrolled UF now has neafy
50,000 students and more than 900 student
organization, allin need of space. resources
and Support.
Shall a new student fee be created to fund
repairs of the J. Wayne Retz Union?
YES -
NO 4-
Shall a Reitz Union Fee if implemented, be
used to pay for additional expansions to the
J. Wayne Renz Uion? If a fee is implemented
voting YE S Indicates the wish to fund an
expansion of the Uon Voing NO indicates
the wish to only fund necessary repairs
YES-
NO 4-
Should the Universny of Florda join the
Workers Rights Consornum to help ensure that
licensed merchandiRse wth the University of
F onda and Gaor logos is not made in
vsweashops?
YES -I
NO 1 I
1TYY OF i11
1111 U
....
ININ
MM
MM
