We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 104 ISSUE 71 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  UF coach Billy 
Donovan said the 
Gators have strug-
gled to focus and 
work as a team the 
last two games. UF 
will try to overcome 
those issues as it 
plays American  on 
Sunday. 
See Story, Page 18.MARTINSVILLE, Ind. — Police say an 
Indiana man was arrested after mistak-
enly sending text messages to a prosecutor about drugs he was trying to sell.
The Herald-Times of Bloomington re-
ports that the 26-year-old Martinsville man sent messages last month to deputy prose-cutor Courtney Swank on her department-issued cell phone.
One of the man’s texts read “Roxy twen-ties fifteen.” 
Another read “Hey buddy just wonder -
in if you needed any fortys.”
Police tell the newspaper the wording 
refers to oxycodone and other prescription drugs.
The man is charged with dealing in a 
controlled substance, possession of a con-trolled substance and public intoxication.
—THE ASSOCIATED PRESSPolice say Indiana man wrongly texted drug offer to prosecutor
Sunny
78/57FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD 13
SPORTS 18
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Mackenzie, 8, reads a letter Thursday night at City Hall to city commissioners asking why homeless people are 
being turned away from being fed.n THE GIRL’S SHIRT READ “FEED ALL WHO ARE HUNGRY,” WRITTEN IN CRAYOLA MARKER.
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Contributing Writer
Eight-year-old Mackenzie Case hugged her mom’s arm, 
steadied her nerves and told the Gainesville Commission 
that she thought they weren’t being very nice.
She was the first to speak at Thursday night’s  commis-
sion meeting and said that the commission should repeal 
the 130-meal limit the city placed on Gainesville soup kitchens.
“Others who don’t have money should be able to eat, 
too,” she said in an interview. “It’s not fair that people get 
turned away every day.”
Mackenzie wore a white T-shirt that 
said, “Feed all who are hungry,” written in Crayola marker.
Mackenzie’s mother, Victoria Mena, said her daughter 
was signed up to speak about the meal limit at the Oct. 21 commission meeting, but they had to leave because they 
had another obligation. Mena said her daughter left cry-
ing.
Her mom said that it was Mackenzie’s decision to join a 
coalition to end the meal limit and to speak at Thursday’s 
meeting.
“The fact that this is her idea is mind-blowing to me 
still,” she said. “The fact that she has such compassion for 
people so early — it’s just inspiring.”City hears child’s plea to end meal limit
LOCAL 
By MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
Executives at North Florida Regional 
Medical Center approved a $58 million 
expansion plan this week. 
The hospital will expand its Heart and 
Vascular Center and develop a neonatal intensive care unit inside a four-story pa-tient tower that will be built in front of the main hospital building.
This new expansion plan will bring the 
total cost of recent improvements to the hospital to $120 million over five years. The current phase of construction, which will be completed by September 2011, in-volves expanding the ICU floor and con-structing a 562-space parking garage. 
Once the $58 million expansion is 
completed, there will be 445 beds avail-able for patients at the hospital. The facil-ity currently holds 325 beds.“This will give us more beds, more 
state-of-the-art equipment, and better 
cardiovascular and neuroscience servic-
es,” said medical director Scott Medley.
The level-II neonatal ICU will service 
ill or premature infants. Infants who need 
extensive neonatal care, such as ventila-
tors, will be sent to the level-III neonatal 
unit at Shands. The expansion plans in-
clude 20 additional postpartum beds.
“Our number of deliveries increases 
every year, and we expect the number to continue to rise,” Medley said.
Officials plan to complete the future 
construction by September 2013.Hospital to add 120 beds
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Staff Writer
An official proposal for block tuition 
has emerged from the hands of UF’s ad-ministration.
UF Provost Joe Glover has submitted 
a proposal to the Board of Trustees that aims to set a flat tuition rate for full-time students at the cost of 15 credit hours, in-stead of the current pay-per-credit-hour system.
The Board of Trustees is set to vote on 
the issue at its Dec. 9 and Dec.10 meet-ings. If approved then, the Board of Gov-ernors would have to approve the pro-posal next semester before the policy is implemented in the fall of 2011.
According to the meeting materi-als, UF charged blocked tuition until 1974, when the State University System switched to charging tuition on a per-credit-hour basis.
To cope with the likely increase in 
enrollment, the administrators say in-
creased revenues would be invested in providing additional seats in courses and hiring more faculty and advisers.
Had the university 
been under block tu-ition this semester, the 
increased revenues would have totaled about $4.6 million, which is enough money to hire about 40 junior tenure-track faculty. UF reveals tuition plan
Glover
AroundGainesville
“This will give us more beds, more 
state-of-the-art equipment...”
Scott Medley
medical directorNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 104 ISSUE 71 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Emily Fuggetta, 
  efuggetta@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Stefania Ferro, sferro@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Matt Harringer, 
  mharringer@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Anthony Chiang, 
  achiang@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Tyler Jett, tjett@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Jared Misner, jmisner@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Emily Fuggetta, Paul Runnestrand,   
  Stefania Ferro, Jared Misner
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editors Lane Nieset, lnieset@alligator.org, 
  C.J. Pruner, cpruner@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Alison Schwartz
  aschwartz@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Kyle Maistri, Corey McCall, 
  Mike McCall, Amanda Milligan, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Nicole Deck, 
  Safid Deen, Desiree Farnum, 
  Olivia Feldman, Greg Fink, 
  Josh Isom, Emily Morrow, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Briana Seymour,   
  Matthew Watts, Hannah Winston
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
 Display Advertising Clerk Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker,
 Sales Representatives Joshua Andersen, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Niko Pifferetti, Jocelyne Sanchez,   
  Alexander Silva, Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Habitat for Humanity’s Annual 
Gingerbread House Building CompetitionToday, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.North Lawn/Reitz ColonnadeBring your friends, neighbors and roommates. We will have gingerbread house building competitions throughout the day. Winners will receive free shirts and prizes. Bring in this holiday season with candy and fun. E-mail Kris1022@ufl.edu with any questions. Visit www.ufhabitat.org for more information about UF Habitat for Humanity.
Gainesville Roller Rebels 
Calendar Signing Party
Today, 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Sweet Dreams Ice Cream
3437 W. University Ave.The 2011 Gainesville Roller Rebels Roller Derby Calendar 
showcases GRR league mem-
bers in pinup-style photogra-
phy by Claire Lindberg-Bakr. At this event, you can hang out with roller girls, chow 
down on some great home-
made ice cream from Sweet 
Dreams and get your holi-day shopping done, all at the same time. (Note: Please bring 
cash to purchase calendars: 
$15 each including tax.) For 
more information, visit www.gainesvillerollerrebels.com.
African Student Union Meeting
Today, 6:30 p.m.CSE Room E222Our last general body meeting of the semester will be Friday at 6:30 p.m. in CSE Room E222. Come out and learn about we have planned for next semes -
ter.Scott Pilgrim must defeat his 
new girlfriend’s seven evil 
exes in order to win her heart. With eye-popping visuals and a ‘Certified Fresh’  rating on RottenTomatoes.com, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World is fast, funny and inventive.
“Dancin’ Gators: Where Amazing 
Happens!” Monday, 8 p.m.Phillips Center for the Performing Arts Come see a fantastic show fea-turing a variety of exciting dance styles including: jazz, tap, belly dancing, lyrical, Indian, pointe, swing, African, hip-hop, Irish, 
modern, Capoeira and more. 
Admission is free. Please bring a canned good or toiletry item to benefit St. Francis House.
CORRECTION
In a story in Thursday’s paper, 
the name of Robert Allison’s col-league was misspelled. His name 
is Bert Flanegan.
CLARIFICATION
A caption for a photograph of 
a car crash in Thursday’s paper 
should have been attributed to Jas-mine Earls.T ango Class and Social with 
Live MusicToday , 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. Tanglewood Housing Common RoomJoin us for a tango class and social. We will host The Just Desserts, a band from Austin, Texas. Live music starts at 9 p.m. after a tango class for 
beginners. No partners, pre-
vious experience or special shoes are necessary . 
T urkey on the T able: T urkish 
Accession into the EUSaturday, 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.Anderson Hall 216Please join the Center for 
European Studies for a spir -
ited debate on the challenges, 
identities, opportunities and consequences of Turkey join-ing the European Union. Refreshments will be pro-vided.
Ultimate Hanukkah
Saturday , 8:30 to 10:30 p.m. Chabad Jewish Student Center This event will have a live band, latke and sufganiyot eating contests, ice surprise, Menorah lightings, a sushi bar, dreidels, gelt Pot luck, raffles and much more. It is 
for students only and the sug-
gested donation is $5. 
RUB Presents: Scott Pilgrim vs. 
the WorldSunday to Wednesday , 8 p.m. and 10:30 pmReitz Union Auditorium
SUNNY
66/36SUNNY
71/51SUNNY
66/33SUNNY
59/29SUNNY
58/27TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010 n ALLIGATOR, 3
n THERE WAS AN 
11-FOOT MENORAH.
By SHANEECE DIXON
Alligator Contributing Writer
On the second night of Ha-
nukkah, about 50 people gath-
ered — many bundled in coats and fitted with boots — to sing, dance and eat in celebration of 
the Jewish holiday.
They were taking part in the 
Downtown Chanukah Fam-
ily Festival on the Bo Diddley Community Plaza on Thurs-day evening. 
The tallest menorah in Ala-
chua County stood on stage in front of children playing with 
balloon animals, long lines of 
people eager for latkes and doughnuts, and a clown.
On top of the 11-foot-tall 
wooden menorah, garnished with orange and blue paint, three glass lamps were spaced apart like candles. As more songs and instruments played, 
people held small candles in 
their cold hands as they cel-ebrated another night of Ha-nukkah. 
Also part of the lively fes-
tivities were the Tantz Klezmer band, who played contempo-rary Jewish music as people danced and munched on snow 
cones, hot potato latkes and 
sufganiyot, which are fried ko-sher jelly doughnuts that peo-ple eat during Hanukkah. 
“It reminds me of my cel-
ebration in Israel,” said Zohar Levites, who recently moved to Gainesville with his wife and two children. “We get to eat real doughnuts here.”
Several city and county 
commissioners stopped by to 
give happy holiday greetings 
to those enjoying the festivi-ties, including Susan Baird, an Alachua County commis-sioner, who thanked everyone for their “contributions to the community.”
The Lubavitch-Chabad 
Jewish Student and Commu-
nity Center and its UF student 
group took part in a charitable effort in the midst of  celebrat-ing the holidays.  
Every year, the group takes 
part in a project to celebrate Hanukkah and help those less fortunate in the community . 
This year was no exception. 
The group introduced the Me-norah of Joy project, which will benefit hospitalized children in Gainesville. UF students and faculty have donated toys to place in the giant menorah. Participants were also encour -
aged to donate money that will be used to purchase more toys.
“We not only commemorate 
the miracle of Hanukkah, but we also want to apply the les-son for today’s day and age,” said Rabbi Berl Goldman, di-rector of the Lubavitch Jewish Center.
The toy menorah will stay 
at the Bo Diddley Commu-
nity Plaza for the remainder 
of  Hanukkah, which ends on Wednesday.
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Rabbi Berl Goldman gives a speech at the Downtown Cha-
nukah Family Festival on Thursday night.
Residents gather for Hanukkah fest
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ANNISTON, Ala. — Librarians in 
Anniston, Ala., said they knew someone 
was stealing thousands of dollars worth of books, and now they believe they know who did it: A jobless woman who 
likes to read.
Anniston police say 42-year-old Regi-
na M. Smith was arrested Wednesday on 
a felony theft charge after officials at the 
local library reported that a woman was seen steal-ing two books.
Police said they deter -
mined Smith had taken 222 books valued at $5,432 over the past couple of years — mainly crime novels, mysteries and vampire stories.
Investigator Kyle Price said Smith has 
a library card but sneaked books out and 
kept them rather than borrowing them 
legally, he said.
Court records didn’t show whether 
Smith had an attorney. Her bond was set at $10,000.Ala. woman 
steals 222 
library books
NewsNational4, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010
n ITS GOAL IS TO BRING 1,200 JOBS 
TO GAINESVILLE BY 2015.
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Council for Economic Outreach started 
its fundraising program, Momentum 2015, on 
Wednesday to raise money for the council to create and keep jobs in the city.
“The goal is jobs,” said Tom Mallini, gen-
eral chairman of the fundraising campaign.
He said $2.2 million has been raised, with 
a goal of $3.3 million. The fundraiser will con-tinue until about the end of January.
The money will go toward the Council for 
Economic Outreach’s goal of creating 1,200 jobs in the next five years.
The plan is called Innovation Gainesville, 
which was created to be a hub of innovation and collaboration between the educational, business and governmental community.
Win Phillips, co-chairman of the fundraiser 
and UF vice president of research, said Inno-vation Gainesville will connect Gainesville citizens to new opportunities.
“Basically, it will just knit the community 
with the new businesses and the opportuni-ties,” he said.The fundraiser started two days after UF 
announced its plan for an Innovation Square, which is also based on the principles of part-nership and innovation. 
The Innovation Square will be built on 40 
acres of land around Southwest Second Av-enue and will have 1 million square feet of 
retail, residential and restaurant space.
Mallini said this project will 
help by creating new jobs with 
higher wages.
“When people can earn more money , they 
are more prosperous,” he said.
Phillips said that programs to benefit in-novation also boost the image of Gainesville and UF.
“As the University of Florida becomes 
more prominent in the country, this commu-nity should also become more prominent,” he said.
Mallini said despite the recession, some in-
vestors are giving more money than they had in previous years.
He said that out of about 50 prospective do-
nors, 42 donated money.
“Initially I thought [the recession] was go-
ing to affect it, but I was wrong,” he said. “It’s interesting, when people believe in a good cause, they’ll support it.” Group starts fundraising program aimed at job creation
NATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ANCHORAGE, Alaska — Talk 
about a close shave. An SUV crashed into an Anchorage barber shop, nar -
rowly missing shop owner Heng Song and his two customers.
But Song wasn’t about to let the 
horrifying moment get in the way of a good haircut.
He was momentarily stunned, 
yes, when the vehicle burst through a door and window Wednesday afternoon as he was clipping a cus-tomer’s hair.
“Half a haircut and kaboom!” is 
how the 53-year-old native of South Korea described it Thursday , after the shop had been cleared of debris and the gaping hole was boarded with plywood.
The drama was caught by a se-
curity camera, and footage shows the SUV land fully inside the shop, 
where Song stood behind a man in 
the barber’s chair and another cus-tomer sat waiting on a sofa in the corner. 
No one was seriously hurt, al-
though the driver got a bruised knee in the collision with the building. In the security footage, the waiting cus-tomer walks over to the vehicle to check on the driver and calls police.
Song laughed Thursday as the 
footage showed him soon return to the chair and continue the haircut, while in the background bystanders 
began to gather. 
There’s no way he would let 
a loyal customer go home with a 
botched job, Song said.
Leaving a customer with half a 
haircut, he said, would be “some-thing too ugly.”
Anchorage barber keeps clipping after SUV crashes into shopNewsLocalFRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010 n ALLIGATOR, 5
LOCAL 
By MARISSA PIETRO 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Veterans and citizens will gather at the Vet-
erans Memorial at Kanapaha Park on Sunday 
to remember the attack on Pearl Harbor. 
This is the sixth year that the Gen. James 
A.Van Fleet of Chapter 267 of the Korean War Veterans Association has held the event to re-member the soldiers who died at the attack on Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941. It will take place 
from  3 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. on Sunday . 
“We took over the event six years ago 
because I had a father in World War I and a 
brother in World War II, and as long as I’m a commander, I’m going to have the Pearl Har -
bor remembrance because I don’t want to ever have anybody forget that it happened,” said retired Army Capt. Dick Davis, commander of the Korean War Veterans Association here.Alachua County has 20,000 veterans, Davis 
said. Last year, about 80 people attended.
“This is a big day for us; we want to get a 
crowd here and we want to continue doing it for years to come,” Davis said. “Every year we 
really do have outstanding speakers.”
This year, Jim Lynch, who served as the 
director of the Veterans Service Office in Ala-
chua County for 33 years, will be the emcee of the event, and Capt. Brad Robinson of the UF Navy ROTC will be the guest speaker.
Among the planned events are a drill team 
exhibition by the Billy Mitchell Drill Team of UF and a showcasing of military music.Local Korean War vets to host Pearl Harbor memorial
n THE CAST CONSISTS OF FIVE CHARACTERS.
By LIBERTY BOSTWICK
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Florida Players will present an unconventional play, 
“True Genius,” starting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Squitieri Stu-dio Theater at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. 
Brian Lugo, the director, first read the play in 2007. He 
thought the story by David Holstein was fascinating because it doesn’t follow the format of contemporary theater.
He said it’s fun and different because the main character, 
Scooter, finds himself in a struggle to make a decision on how to handle the strange love he has fallen into. 
Scooter is an interesting character because he was in a com-
fortable world until he gets thrown for a loop because of the girl he falls in love with, he said. Scooter is a relatable character, 
but he takes sarcasm to a new high. 
The comedy has a small cast with only five characters. Lugo 
was already drawn to the story but the small cast is what con-
vinced him to direct the production. “True Genius” is Lugo’s first directing experience, and he 
wanted to start small, he said. 
Lugo said it’s not the kind of theater that spills its guts on 
stage by being melodramatic. 
“It’s very connected to today,” he said.
As director, Lugo’s biggest obstacle has been holding back 
from setting up the show how he sees it rather than how the 
writer intended it to be performed.
Lugo worked closely with the show’s scenic director, Helen 
Ammon, to bring his vision to the stage. Ammon said that it 
took about a month of analyzing the script for her to come up with her final interpretation. 
The set changes minimally throughout the 
show  and focuses more on quick scene changes 
to keep up the pace, she said. 
Ammon’s vision includes the juxtaposition of reds and or -
anges that represent the struggles of the heart with stark whites that represented clarity of thought and purpose, she said. 
She said she saw struggle between the heart and mind as 
the main conflict, so she reflected that in her set design. 
This is the first budgeted set design project Ammon has di-
rected. She said this experience has made her realize how im-portant it is to think about space for actors to move.  
Corey Snow, who plays Scooter, is a sophomore aerospace 
engineering major. 
He said Florida Players opened up the opportunity for him 
to be in a show at UF without being a theater major. 
Snow said Scooter’s character is written so that audience 
members will be able to connect to his struggles. The character is dealing with a psychological disorder, but the overall theme of someone trying to go further in life is what will stick with people, he said.
Wyland Oyama, acting coach for the show, has had  coach-
ing positions before, but said he has learned from his experi-ence with “True Genius” that it takes an extraordinary focus and commitment to run a production. 
When directing, he sees the big picture and how much coor -
dination it takes to bring everything together, he said.
The characters are written as underdogs who the audience 
wants to root for, he said.  The biggest struggle for Oyama has been to get actors comfortable in their characters’ skin, he said. 
“I’ve seen the actors in this show bring these characters to 
life, and I’m most excited to see the audience walk away with the intriguing story of Scooter,” he said.Theater group to play underdogs in intimate production“I don’t want to ever have anybody 
forget that it happened.”
Dick Davis
Retired Army Capt.
OnCampu sThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Emily Fuggetta 
EDITORPaul RunnestrandStefania FerroMANAGING EDITORSJared MisnerOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Should Lady Gaga win a Grammy?Thursday’s question: Should states have more power than the federal government?
82 TOTAL VOTES50% YES50% NOGrammys need Gaga; Gaga needs Grammys
It’s been a tragic week for the United States, and all 
of us should be mourning the events that have oc-curred. 
Surely the WikiLeaks controversy played an impor -
tant part in this week of tragedy and, of course, losing the bid to host the FIFA World Cup in 2022 was unnec-essary. 
But the devastating event that should have everyone 
in a crazed uproar is the snubbing of Lady Gaga at the Grammys this year. Troublesome indeed. 
Now, I know some of you just groaned out loud, but 
stay with me. 
Sure, Gaga was given a few nominations here and 
there — six to be exact — but nevertheless snubbed in two categories that she surely would have won. 
Apparently a mistake was made, and the epic song 
“Bad Romance” was excluded from  the nomination for song of the year as her album “The Fame Monster” was denied record of the year.
There really shouldn’t be an argument about this; it’s 
simple. 
“Bad Romance” was this year’s biggest song. In fact, 
it became No. 1  in 19 different countries, it spent 29 weeks on the Billboard Hot 100 and sold more than 4 million digital copies. 
To add to its soon-to-be-legendary status, it set the 
record for most weekly plays in the 17-year history of Billboard’s pop songs.
 And ladies and gentlemen, let’s not forget to men-
tion the blockbuster music video that pushed Gaga to 
become the first artist to reach a billion views on You-
Tube. 
Don’t lie — you know every word, every “rah rah” in the song from beginning to end,  
and so does your mom and all 
your friends. 
Our Lady Gaga rightfully 
deserved those nominations. 
She produced the infamous 
“Bad Romance,” as well as pen-ning those catchy words that have spun millions of Facebook 
statuses, tattoos, hand gestures and melancholic break-
ups. 
Perhaps you don’t quite agree with me — after all, 
she did manage to get get nominated for the most-cov-
eted album of the year award, which she’s bound to re-ceive. 
But Lady Gaga’s “Bad Romance” is more than just a 
personal anthem.
It was a song everyone in the entire world could rec-
ognize just from listening to the first 10 seconds of the 
tune. 
I’ve personally boycotted the song for various rea-
sons, which include the continuous looped radio in the 
office in which I work.
But surely the nomination committee for the Gram-
mys doesn’t have the same ill feelings toward that song.
When the music industry is one of the only success-
ful industries during this economic crisis, we should all 
take our Grammy nominations a tad bit more seriously. 
Long live Gaga.
Hassan Casanova is a third-year family, youth and com-
munity science student at Santa Fe College. His column appears every Friday.This is a curious week, Gators. There’s not really a name 
for it either. It’s the post-Thanksgiving week where most of 
us grumble like Eeyore all the way to Gainesville, yet it’s not 
time for winter break. It’s the teaser week in between. It’s the 
week where professors plague our schedules with one final exam before the final exam. It’s the week where we switch our thermostats from air conditioning to heat in the span of an evening. It’s often called “Hell week.” So, for those of you wallowing in self-pity with your 98-page papers, your dou-ble-hand count of exams left and just general longing for the solace of winter break, never fear. The Department of Darts and Laurels is here to present you with your First-Of-Its-Kind-
Thankscember edition of…
Darts & Laurels
And for those of you cruising along just waiting to present 
your final project so you can peace out until Santa comes, just 
follow along. This is for you all, too. 
And when we talk about the holidays, St. Nick often steals 
the show from that whole Jesus guy, whose birthday we’re supposed to be celebrating ever since the Christians of old time moved his summer birthday to winter.
And don’t mess with the Christians this time of the year, 
especially. Everyone seems to be filled with more Christ love than usual. 
Especially agitated after the Smithsonian Institution Na-
tional Portrait Gallery displayed a four-minute video fea-turing the Messiah on a crucifix with ants crawling over his body, certain Christians and Christian Republican lawmakers labeled the video by internationally renowned artist and AIDS victim David Wojnarowicz as an “obvious attempt to offend Christians.”
Of course, these comments are dwarfed by Rep. Jack Kings-
ton’s comments, saying the Smithsoni an’s budget should be 
looked at because it’s “squandering” its money on images that include men in chains. 
For not realizing art is not just images you agree with and 
falsely labeling an artistic video as an attempt to offend Chris-tians, we’re throwing a Can-We-Toss-Out-The-Mona-Lisa-Too DART at Reps. Eric Cantor and Jack Kingston. 
But some good news did come out of Washington on 
Wednesday. 
Pointing to the Deepwater Horizon disaster in April, the 
Obama administration pledged to halt offshore drilling along the Atlantic coast and much of the Gulf of Mexico. 
While we couldn’t be more glad, we question why this de-
icison took so long. So, as we get ready to drape a Shiny-As-Oil LAUREL over the Obama administration, let’s step back and make sure we now invest heavily in renewable energy sources. You have to work for these Laurels. We don’t just give them out like candy. 
And there are certain people who are not getting any can-
dy. In fact, we hope they get coal for Christmas. 
To the naysayers and those who oppose the repeal of “don’t 
ask, don’t tell,” specifically John McCain, we’re disgusted with 
you. 
The time has come, following the Pentagon’s study that 
shows no harm would be done to the military if gay men and 
women could be open about their sexuality, to stop debating 
your bigotry. To continue debate is to inherently say hetero-
sexuals should be valued over gay people and heterosexual 
soldiers are of greater human worth. What we should be doing is investigating the bigotry inherent in these few soldiers and telling them they have no right to serve. We’re disgusted with you. And we’re dissapointed in your leadership. We’re throw-ing John McCain a We-Can’t-Even-Look-At-You DART.
Try to make it to winter break, Gators. You’re almost 
there.
Hassan Casanova
letters@alligator.orgFRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Three-year journey coming to an end
Dec. 16, students will see nearly three years 
of cumulative effort come to a vote when the 
Faculty Senate meets. Provost Joe Glover has stated the proposal to make the Wednesday before Thanksgiving a holiday will be consid-
ered at this meeting. 
Whether or not it passes, the proposal of-
fers an example of what students need to do to 
impact university policy.
Policy is not changed because a student 
senator drafts a resolution, a party adds a plat-form point to its flier, or a rebel creates a Fa-cebook event calling for a rally. Sure, all these can be catalysts for beginning discussion, but 
— as the Thanksgiving holiday proposal dem-
onstrates — research, meetings and a little bit of luck is needed.
Nearly three years ago, several students 
spent early 2008 gauging student opinion on making the Wednesday before Thanksgiving a holiday . Needless to say , the idea was quite popular and even appeared on a UF party platform. Throughout the summer months, 
the minority party in Student Government 
conducted research to see how other univer -
sities handled holidays like Veterans Day and 
Thanksgiving, created surveys, read univer -
sity and state policy on school start dates and 
learned about the process for modifying the academic calendar. In fall 2008, the majority and minority party 
worked together to put a question on the bal-lot about the Wednesday holiday – as you can imagine, it passed overwhelmingly . 
Work didn’t stop when the election season 
ended. These dedicated students met with various associate provosts, the chairman of 
Faculty Senate and key individuals in Faculty 
Senate. Eventually, the policy passed the Aca-demic Policy Council and was discussed in the Curriculum Committee.
In  May 2009, the policy was referred by the 
provost to a Calendar Task Force. As one set of student leaders graduated, another group stepped up to attend committee meetings and remind university officials about the policy’s 
importance. 
In May 2010, the Calendar Task Force de-
livered its recommendation in favor of the 
Wednesday holiday. If you look at the report, five of the 12 data sources used were the very same research conducted in 2008.
Here we are, almost three years later, pre-
paring for a vote on a project started in early 
2008. This entire issue illustrates that com-
mitment is needed to create the potential for change. I challenge today’s student leaders to put aside partisan disputes, look past the 
next election, forgo silly resolutions and get 
to work on issues students care about. The journey is long and winding, but it can impact future Gators.
As for myself, I will be at the Dec. 16 Fac-
ulty Senate meeting to see if the Wednesday Thanksgiving holiday is proposed and voted on. The outcome is far from certain, but see-ing a project I worked on coming to fruition is worth the effort.
Frank Bracco
UF alumnus
n n n
Online buyback story lacked fact
Bigwords.com: buy books for low prices, 
sell them for a mint? After reading Alexander Klausner’s article on Monday I had to see for myself. So, I went to the site, and looked into a few books.
On the buying end of things, yes there were 
some incredible prices. I typed in the ISBN numbers of a few books, and then clicked the compare prices button. 
The books that came up at first looked 
promising, but then I started to read the fine print. The books being listed at the lowest prices were not the books I had entered. They were old editions, international editions, old 
international editions or severely damaged 
copies.
That’s fine if you can use the old edition, or if you don’t want to sell the books after using them. When I finally arrived at copies of the correct edition in acceptable condition the price difference between the site and local merchants was negligible. When you factor in shipping, the cost was basically the same. No fireworks here.
In terms of buyback, some companies rep-
resented by Bigwords.com did offer seemingly 
high prices. The only disappointment was the 
best prices were for store credit only. Most of the non-store credit prices were along the lines of the better local textbook merchants. These companies, just like local stores, can refuse books based on condition. It would be terrible to receive an e-mail saying that the price of-fered for your books had been halved because of condition issues. And then, one would have 
to decide whether to pay to ship the materials 
back, or accept the lower amount. Hassle.
It seems Klausner should have done a little 
more research. Local merchants have the stu-dents’ best interests in mind, it’s how they feed their families. They offer books and buyback 
all year, and there is no mystery or fine print. 
So, support your local economy. Come in and get a book today , no waiting, or get that cash for your used books without the wait.
Christopher Feagans 
Alligator reader
Julian Assange, the editor of WikiLeaks, has irrevocably 
changed the course of international affairs for the rest of our lifetimes, if not for generations to come — and 
not for the better.  Recently, The New York Times, along with four other international news outlets,published de-
tails of leaked U.S. government documents obtained by 
the WikiLeaks website from U.S. Army Pfc. Bradley Man-ning — currently under court-martial — in a highly pub-licized issue of transparency in government.  Among the nearly 260,000 released documents are several thousand classified and secret U.S. diplomatic cables with messages written with surprising proximity to international power and inside information.  The Obama Admin-istration and State Department 
opposed the release of these documents in the name of 
national security.  Despite the claims of WikiLeaks sup-
porters, the United States government is completely justi-fied in this position.
While greater transparency would be beneficial for the 
health of our democracy, this objective must be accom-plished through traditional investigative journalism — not through an extreme, illegal, unsanctioned release of classified documents.  There are very good reasons why some of these diplomatic communications were classified.  Revealing their contents for everyday Americans – and, more significantly, everybody in the world with a com-
puter and an Internet connection – is far from the national 
interest.  The release of such documents will endanger our precious relationships with our allies, inhibit our efforts in the war on terrorism, and further alienate our enemies.
 Rajiv Tarigopula is a student at Harvard University. Read 
the rest of this column at UWire.com
Wikileaks exercises transparency for transparency’s sakeUWire
Rajiv Tarigopula
UWire THE ONESIE, CALLED THE 
“FOREVER LAZY,” IS SOLD OUT OF A BASEMENT.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
BROOKFIELD, Wis. — Two 
Wisconsin couch potatoes hope 
to wedge their way onto the 
Snuggie’s sofa with the creation 
of an adult onesie.
Tyler Galganski and Dave 
Hibler are selling fleece, footless 
onesies with hoods called the 
“Forever Lazy” out of Hibler’s parents’ basement.
The 26-year-old Galganski 
and 25-year-old Hibler have re-leased a long-form commercial that echoes the Snuggie ads
The commercial includes foot-
age of cheering fans wearing the item as an alternative to a blan-
ket.
Anne Flynn, who works for 
the company that produces the 
Snuggie, said there’s room on 
their couch, but the company is 
still five or 10 steps ahead of com-petitors.
Hibler and Galganski say they 
have sold more than 10,000 of 
the pajamas in about a year and 
a half. 
The Snuggie maker says it has 
sold more than 20 million over 
the last two years.8, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010
LOCAL
By MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
A giant chicken outside Library West is 
urging passing students to sign a PETA peti-
tion. 
The organization’s college chapter, Peta2, 
has been on campus since Wednesday en-
couraging students to petition for additional 
vegan and vegetarian options at Gator Din-ing locations on Mondays. 
In early November, Gator Dining Servic-
es began having “Meatless Mondays” and offering more vegan and vegetarian meals to promote healthy eating at Broward and Gator Corner dining halls. 
But organizations such as Peta2 would 
like to see the dining halls go completely meatless on Mondays only . 
“The school has the blessing of students 
to expand vegan options on campus and re-
move meat from dining halls on Mondays,” 
said Ryan Huling, assistant manager of col-lege campaigns for Peta2.
The petition has about 1,200 
signatures, which will be deliv-
ered to Gator Dining Services 
officials at a meeting on Dec. 
10. By then, supporters hope to have at least 3,000 signatures. 
Huling said meatless meal options are 
important to many students.
“Students support meatless Mondays 
because they recognize that vegetarian and 
meatless options are better for keeping off 
the Freshman 15 and helping animals,” Hul-ing said. PETA chicken pushes for 
more meatless options THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
CELEBRATION, Fla. — Celebra-
tion, Disney’s master-planned, pic-
ture-perfect central Florida commu-
nity, has never reported a homicide 
in its 14-year existence — until this week.
Residents of the town five miles 
south of Walt Disney World woke up Tuesday to the sight of yellow crime-scene tape wrapped around a condo near the Christmas-decorated down-town, where Bing Crosby croons from 
speakers hidden in the foliage. 
A 58-year-old neighbor who lived 
alone with his Chihuahua had been 
slain over the long Thanksgiving 
weekend, Osceola County sheriff’s 
deputies said.
The community’s famous friendli-ness is what brought investigators to Matteo Giovanditto’s body — neigh-
bors hadn’t seen him for days, so they 
filed a missing person’s report, then went into his condo a day later and found him.
A few years ago, a resident joked 
with a reporter that 
Celebration would feel like a real town when a bike was sto-
len. 
Now, the majes-
tic town has an un-
solved killing on its 
hands.
“This is very rare and unusual for 
a crime of this magnitude to occur 
in this community,” said Twis Liza-suain, a sheriff’s spokeswoman.Town that Disney built sees 
first killing since founding
Giovanditto
OnCampu sAP Photo
In this Nov. 4. photo, best friends Dave Hibler, left, and Tyler Galganski work out of Hibler’s parents’ base-
ment in Brookfield, Wis., selling adult fleece onesies. ”
Wis. men create 
onesie in hopes of challenging SnuggieFRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010 n ALLIGATOR, 9
n SWAMP RAGE IN THE CAGE WILL TAKE PLACE 
SATURDAY AT 7 P.M.
By CLAIRE BAECHER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville will hold its first amateur mixed martial arts 
cage fighting tournament Saturday at the Alachua County 
Fairgrounds. 
Swamp Rage in the Cage, hosted by Lights Out Promotions 
and AAA Promotions, will feature food, beverages and at least eight live cage fighting matches. 
Doors will open for Swamp Rage in the Cage at 5 p.m., and 
the fighting will begin at 7 p.m. General admission tickets are 
$25, and VIP tickets are $75. Although Mike Hawkins, co-founder of Lights Out, said 
there is no bad seat in the house, the VIP section has 20 tables, 
which seat 10 people each, and surrounds the cage.
“You’ll be right in the middle of it all. It’s so close that you’ll 
get spit on,” Hawkins said.
Amateur MMA was illegal in Florida until February, Hawk-
ins said. Hawkins, 33, and his business partner, Jeff Pablan, 44, began fighting in underground events in Panama City but 
were disappointed because the results 
didn’t seem to matter.
“You would go into a warehouse and roll up the doors. No 
one heard about it,” Hawkins said.
Hawkins and Pablan wanted to create an event where fight-
ers could get recognized and move up. Since February, the or -
ganization has hosted fights at venues throughout Florida. A group of amateur fighters came up with the idea for 
Swamp Rage in the Cage at a fight at Passion Nightclub in Hol-
lywood, said Adrian Ray, founder of AAA Promotions. Ray, a 36-year-old amateur fighter from Gainesville, said the group was tired of traveling four or five hours to Miami or Georgia to compete. 
Hawkins said he tracks the crowd and agreed the demand 
in Gainesville was high enough to host an event.
“There are a lot of people in Gainesville who love to fight,” 
he said. “It’s important to have a hometown hero.” 
Each MMA fight is held in an octagonal cage where two 
competitors fight in three rounds that are three minutes long. 
Professional fighters can earn up to $15,000, so Hawkins 
said many amateur fighters ask to be promoted after one fight. He usually doesn’t recommend it because once a fighter is pro-fessional, he can no longer fight in amateur events. Fairgrounds to host amatuer cage fighting event
AroundGainesvilleBy MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
Mercury consumption increases homosexual tenden-
cies in birds. 
At least that’s what UF researchers discovered in a re-
cent study led by wildlife ecology and conservation pro-
fessor Peter Frederick.
Frederick directed the seven-year study on white ibises 
intending to confirm the hypothesis that increased mer -
cury consumption would negatively effect the number of chicks the birds produced. 
“We did not expect this,” Frederick said. “We expected 
changes in hormone levels and courtship behavior, which 
we found, but we did not expect that males would pair 
bond with other males.”
The team constructed a 13,000-square-
foot facility, encasing 160 young ibises, which were divided into four groups made 
up of equal numbers of males and females. 
As the team confirmed their suspicions, they also discov-ered something new: As the amount of methylmercury in 
the birds’ systems increased, the proportion of males mat-ing with males increased, too.
While previous studies have shown hormonal changes 
in birds due to methylmercury, this study is the first to find a change in sexual preference.
“We believe the change in sexual preference may be a 
result of changes both in hormones and development,” Frederick said. “However, this is purely speculative. We 
did not find nor can prove this as a mechanism.”
The study indicates the drastic changes mercury can 
make in wildlife populations, even in relatively low expo-
sure rates. Frederick hopes it will persuade officials to pay attention to mercury regulation in the environment.
“Wildlife does not have a choice about what to eat as 
we do,” Frederick said.10, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010
Steven H. Keys / Alligator Staff
UF’s Army and Navy ROTC programs face off at the Army vs. Navy ROTC flag football game at Southwest 
Recreation Center Field on Thursday afternoon.
n NAVY WON 14-7.
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Writer
Instead of drilling, the ROTC 
Army and Navy cadets decided 
to cut loose for an afternoon to square off on the gridiron in the spirit of friendly competition. 
About 250 UF ROTC mem -
bers from the Army and Navy stood on the sidelines of the football field near the Southwest Recreation Center on Thursday , cheering on their flag-football teams as the teams did battle.
The game has been played 
on and off since 1996 and is usu -
ally played in the same week as the actual Army-Navy football game, which is scheduled for this weekend. 
The UF Navy ROTC won 
14-7 in overtime. 
The Army team struck the 
first blow when quarterback Justin Hall threw a long pass to 
wide receiver Jamie Wheeler, 
who hauled it in and took it the distance on fourth down. 
After the score, Army’s fans and players rushed the end zone to celebrate en masse.
Navy responded with a touch -
down and end zone celebration 
of their own later in the half. 
The score held all the way 
until the end of regulation, with 
each team failing to close out the game in the final seconds.
Navy scored first to make 
it 14-7 in overtime, and Army failed to convert a fourth-down attempt, ending the game.
“It was a hard-fought game,” 
said Andrew Rotz, the team captain and quarterback for the Navy  ROTC team. “We’re glad Army showed up and played a good game. We’d really like to 
see this become a UF event and 
get some students out here.”
A scuffle broke out dur -
ing the fourth quarter when an Army cadet tried to steal a flag from the Navy sideline. 
“It’s a heated rivalry ,” said 
Cedric Jones, who worked to or -
ganize the game alongside fel -
low Army cadet Brian Amos. “It goes back roughly 100 years, so there’s a lot of pranks and she -
nanigans. But in the end, we’re all one team; one fight.”UF Navy ROTC beats Army in flag football match  
UF study finds mercury makes birds homosexual
Researchers hope officials will regulate mercury
UFProjectsFRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010 n ALLIGATOR, 11
AP Photo
A baby giant panda born Nov. 3 is held by Dr. Hayley Murphy, director of veterinary ser-
vices, left, and Amy Allagnon, veterinary technician, at Zoo Atlanta on Thursday.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ATLANTA — About 1-month-old, a new 
giant panda cub at Zoo Atlanta is still small-
er than a house cat, but he is healthy and growing fast, veterinarians said Thursday after a weekly medical exam.
The cub, who will be named when he 
is 100 days old following Chinese tradi-tion, will be placed in public viewing areas when he can walk, usually around 4 months old. He measures just over a foot long and weighs 2.2 pounds.
Reporters were allowed to watch the 
exam. During it, the cub was quiet, laying in a small bed as two veterinarians listened to 
his heart beat. He wriggled around a bit as 
the vets took various measurements.
“His abdomen’s really round and full 
and that’s what we really like in a baby,” said Dr. Hayley Murphy, director of veteri-nary services at Zoo Atlanta. “That just tells us he’s eating well and his abdomen’s full of milk.”
Before he was brought into the exam 
room, the cub could be heard making a squawking sound, like a bird, and zoo staff said he was calling to his mother because he had rolled onto his back after she set him down.“He’s still kind of categorized as a new-
born so, you know, he should not be that active yet,” Murphy said. “They should be fairly quiet, not too squirmy, relaxed. As long as he’s warm and well-fed, he’s like any other infant, he’s happy.”
This is the third cub for the cub’s mother, 
Lun Lun (loon loon). She was inseminated earlier this year with the sperm of her mate, Yang Yang. The duo’s other cubs are Mei Lan (may lahn), born in 2006, and Xi Lan (she lahn), born in 2008.
Zoo Atlanta has had Lun Lun and Yang 
Yang for a decade.
Xi Lan still lives in Atlanta, but his older 
sister Mei Lan was returned to China in February to help breed more of the endan-gered animals. China owns 
all the pandas in the United States, even the cubs that are born here.
Atlanta is one of four U.S. zoos with gi-
ant pandas. The others are San Diego, Mem-phis and Washington, D.C.
Researchers estimate there are only 1,600 
to 3,000 of the endangered species remaining in the wild, and another 200 in captivity.
Until the panda is on public display, fans 
can watch the cub’s growth on the zoo’s on-line panda cam.Zoo Atlanta’s 1-month old panda makes his debut
NewsNationalClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$380 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
Greenwich Green 2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352.372.8100
4-20-10-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Gainesville Place
Now leasing for 2011-2012!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
 (352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $379***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
Student Friendly 4/4's 
$424 for EVERYTHING
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
ONLY $410/person
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES
3Bedroom/3Bathroom
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 1/1 avail. in 4/4 Countryside condo on SW 
23rd. Fully furnished, W/D, includes utilities 
cap. $300 dep. $400/mo. Call 352-514-3398   
12-8-21-1
Very nice,furnished 2 BDRM 1 BA Lge Liv 
Rm w/ parquet wood floor All new BA w/tile 
floor Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans 
Like new Kit appliances Laun Rm w/W/D 
Cent. H/A Internet/Cable available Every RM 
furnished On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $735/mo. 
Call 727-423-9463 jlglackin@yahoo.com   12-
8-10-5-1
2 ROOMS AVAIL. IN 2/2 APT AT WINDSOR 
PARK. ALL UTILITIES INCLUDED. 3 BUS 
ROUTES, 10-15 MIN TO UF. GREAT 
AMENITIES. $450/ROOM. CALL/TXT 
ANGIE 786-239-2740 FOR INFO.   12-8-6-1
QUIET SPLIT-PLAN HOME IN HAILE
Has furnished 2BR/1BA. $385/per BR.
Cable, utils, use of W/D, kitchen.Non-smoker. Leave message 352-377-1648   1-5-10-7-1
4/2 $399/Bedroom! Privately owned condo 
in University Commons. Cable, Internet, $40 utilities included. Any length of lease avail -
able. Call (904)-607-0713    12-8-5-1
Free rent for female: bedrm,
bath, kitchen, W/D, pool, cable, internet, quiet, close to UF, on bus line, $650 valuein exchange for minimal duties. 352-331-1686 lv message.    1-6-10-6-1
ONE BLOCK FROM LIBRARY WEST
*$350/month ALL INCLUSIVE*
->Includes food, utilities, internet, parking
Apply at www.cloliving.org TODAY 
Cooperative Living Organization, 
352.377.4269
1-5-10-5-1QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-
10-70-2
Arbor Park
2 1\2B. $549 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Studios $599 Downtown location
Arlington 352-338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-8-10-74-2
Pinetree Gardens
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-8-10-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-8-09-168-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
*NEWLY UPGRADED APT HOMES*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-20-10-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
Cobblestone
3/3 Twnhme $1059
Cable and internet included
Call now 352-377-2801
4-20-70-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        12-8-10-74-2
Madison Pointe
2 Bed 2 Bath $869
One Month Free
Call 352-372-04004-20-70-2
●3/3 Only $899/month●
Mention This Ad To Receive
$0 MOVE IN FEES!!
3 Bus Routes (9,34,35) & Great Amenities!
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2The A  School District!
1Bed-$599*2Bed-$779
4Bed-$1099*Pool*Tennis
Townhomes*Walk in Closets
Personal Trainer*332-7401
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
$499 ALL INCLUSIVE
Steps from SW Rec.
1room available in 3/3
Female Roommate Match
(352) 379-9255
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
● Amazing Rent on 1 and 2BR apts.
Ranging from $390 to $545.Sorry no pets or Section 8.Madison on 20th. 335-7066      4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $540.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF!
● Studios $295-$325●1BR $425● 2BR $700 - 1 MONTH FREE RENT!Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
 2 & 3 BR   Huge Floorplans!
·         2/2 from $659 * 3/2 from $779
·         Washer/Dryers * Pets Loved!·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness!·         Call Now! * 377-7401
4-20-10-70-2Renting Now!!
We have REAL 1/1s
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE-1 MO FREE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
3Blks to UF- GATOR NEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS 1 MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
1-31-10-68-2
LOOK!! NEAR UF
Many properties available near campus! 
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352-373-7578
12-8-10-74-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $699 2/2's from $799
3/3's from $899
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-23/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
2.1 1/2 Bath Townhome
select units from 500.
352.376.6720 or 352.376.7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
2/2 & 3/3 RMM
Walk In ClosetsPrivate BathroomsCable w/HBO & Showtime
Full size W/D
Pet friendly352-374-3866                   4-20-10-70-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-8-10-74-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
NAPIER GRANT
"HUGE" 2 BR/1BA
Starting at $575.
W/D hookups. Pets OK
Walk to Vet School
352-377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/napiergrant
Text: napiergrant@65374
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   12-8-10-93-2
GATOR GREAT!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
12-8-10-74-2SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs  
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.  
Must see! Call 332-7700
12-8-74-2
● Walk to UF ●
Sorority Row Area
2/1 1000SF
$750/mo 352-375-8256
12-8-10-69-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
Modern 2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across 
from Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, Rent Neg. K&M Properties 372-1509      1-5-10-67-2
1BR/1BA, full kitchen. Near UF. 
H2O & sewer incl. $475/mo.
Call 352-332-8481 or 352-359-1644   1-5-10-51-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   12-8-
10-41-2
2 Months Free!
Sundowne Villas
Studio *$430 and 1/1 *$457
Located behind Butler Plaza
Pet friendly No weight limits!
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
12-8-10-37-2
One Month Free!
Courtney Greens
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 *$499
Near Oaks Mall Near UF and Butler Plaza
Cyber Cafe and 24hr Fitness Center
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
12-8-10-37-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$447
2/1 *$548
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
12-8-10-37-2
2 Months Free
Sunrise Villas
One Bedroom Villa *$428
Near UF and Shand's
Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Ph. 372-4835  www.gremco.com
12-8-10-37-2
Creekside Villas! Off NW 13th by Lowes
1/1 laminate floors, vinyl floor in kitchen, re-modeled bathroom, washer/dryer $525/mo incl water, sewer, trash, $400 dep 352-562-6509    12-8-10-30-2
First Month Free
Campus Walk Apartments
All Inclusive Individual Leases
4 Bedroom Townhomes and flats
Located on UF campus
$350 per bedroom All Inclusive
Semester Leases available!
(352) 376-0828
(Rental office at Homestead Apts.)
www.gremco.com 
12-8-10-27-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceilingfans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, security.No dogs. 538-1550 aprleve@aol.com   1-5-10-22-2
HISTORIC HOUSES ● 3BR/1.5 BA front 
porch, ceiling fans, hardwood floors. $1280/
mo 222 NW 4th Ave. ● 3BR/1BA 923 SE 4th 
St. Large yard, $1000/mo 1st, last, sec. No dogs. aprleve@aol.com or 352-538-1550   1-5-10-22-2
● HOUSE 4BR/3BA 2816 W University Ave 1 mi to UF. Fenced-in nice backyard. W/D, DW. $1450/mo Negotiable.●3BR2BA 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo.327-2931, 376-6183    1-5-10-22-21 BLK TO UF! Behind Leonardos 
Pizza.  2BR 1 BA Apts
Central H & Air, 1234 Sw 1st Ave- 
$650/Mo   Call Merrill 
Management Inc 352-372-1494     12-8-10-
18-2
$475 per Month  2BR 1BA Apts
3  BLKS TO UF! 840 Sq. Ft. 
Large Rooms,  Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. 
Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  
St. Croix Apts, Call Merrill Management Inc. 
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie21@bellsouth.net     12-8-10-18-2
2BR 1BA Apt  3 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo  Window A/C,
Nat Gas Ht. 216 SW 12th Street.  
Call Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494     
12-8-10-18-2
EFFECIENCY -2 Rooms(not bedrooms)
Shared Bathroom, Window A/C
Carpet, Across from UF Stadium
1830 NW 1st Avenue  $295/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494     
12-8-10-18-2
GRAD II APTS
1236 SW 4th Avenue
1BR 1BA Apt 1 BLK to UF
Central H & Air, Inclds
Wtr, Swg, Pest Contrl 
$500/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 x10       12-8-10-18-2
TUMBLING CREEK CONDOS
1BR/1BA. Close to campus. $550/mo, $550 
dep. 352-493-3487 or ronrobis@gmail.com   12-8-10-16-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $450 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF FT Students only
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
1-5-10-13-2
●●1BR/1BA APARTMENT●●
Cent heat/air, new carpet/paint, new applianc -
es, new cabinets. 1109 NW 41st Ave. $500/
mo. www.AndreeRealty.com 352-375-2900    1-5-10-13-2 
●●●4BR/2BA HOUSE●●●
One mile to UF, offers fenced yard, washer/
dryer, lawn service, pest control included. $1100/mo ANDREE REALTY 352-375-2900    1-5-10-13-2
●Quaint NW 3br house, ceramic tile through-
out, washer/dryer, includes yard care & some utilities, small pet ok, ●Renovated NW 2br, 2ba home with ga-rage, new appliances, interior paint, & car-pet, $800/mo●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year lease, $700/mo●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr lease●NW 2br flat with utility rm, close to Millhopper & Hunters Crossing shopping, li-brary & banks. Affordable for retired folks or the young professional, $620 includes yard care●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and tennis courts. $1000★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
12-8-10-11-2
Spring housing available
The Estates has limited spring spaces avail-
able. Apply online at www.theestatesuf.com 
or call 352.692.1313.
12-8-10-10-2FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010   ALLIGATOR, 13
DUCKPOND STONE COTTAGE STUDIO
Located behind vintage house. Small but 
cute! Full kitchen, bath, W/D, large yard, 
quiet. Avail Dec/Jan. $475/mo. 306 NE 6th 
St 352-538-6527   1-5-10-7-2
1 BD APT IN VINTAGE 100 YR OLD HOME!
Hardwood flrs ,tile kitchen and bath, new 
cabinets, high ceilings, large closet, washer/
dryer, fireplace. free internet. 115 NE 9th St 
$500 per mo 317-1458 Avail now.  1-5-10-
7-2
2 large bedrooms/2 bath house. 1,250 sq. 
feet. Wood floors. Front screened porch. 
Quiet residential neighborhood 1.5 miles 
from campus. Convenient location. Energy 
efficient. Garden space. $800/mo. 374-0848.   
12-7-10-5-2
MILL POND CONDO
3BR/2BA, garage. Across from GHFC. 
$1000/mo. Available January. 331-6872   1-5-10-7-2
Walk to campus from huge 1/1 located one 
block from Tigert Hall - 1113 SW 3rd Avenue. 
$700/month does not include utilities. 
Available immediately. Drive by & if interest-
ed call 352-494-7899.   12-8-10-5-2
5bd/2ba $1400/mo. or 5 share at $280 each. 
Screened in pool! Fenced-in backyard. Over 
1,800 sq ft! Fireplace,living,dining, kitch-
en. Furniture and washer/dryer available. 
Walking distance to bus line. 3 miles from UF. 
Email rfandler@hotmail.com   1-5-10-6-2
LARGE HOUSE 3BR/2BA
All wood floors, 4 fireplaces. Downtown in 
the bed & breakfast area. $1500/mo. 352-373-7566   1-5-10-5-2
Sorority Row/Norman Hall
921 SW 8Th Ave - Large 3/1 House
New paint, New carpet, W/D includ
386-405-8376 - A Must See!
Open House 12/10 9am-12pm
12-8-10-4-2
2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE OVERLOOKING 
A LARGE POND. Located west of Campus Credit Union on County Road 20, Millrun Subdivision. Clean & neat. $750/mo. Call 352-871-7801   1-5-10-5-2
Sublease a 1/1 in a 3/3 at The Crossings @ 
Santa Fe. Common living room, kitchen, din-ing w/ washer and dryer. Lease goes to Aug 2011 $449 per month 561-386-3781   12-3-10-5-3
Stratford Court
Reduced $300/mo!
1 BR Luxury Apartment--800 sf plus balcony
$829/mo; walk 1 block to UF campus
Contact Stephanie at 954-536-5133
1-5-10-7-3
Attractive 1/1 available in a 2/2 just 1 block 
from campus. Available Jan through July. $500/mo + utils. W/D, dishwasher, parking, pool, pet-friendly. Living room furnished & bedroom upon request. 407-538-2886  12-7-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-20-70-4
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA upgraded condo 
at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & pool. Avail immed. $425/mo1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-792912-8-10-24-4Female seeking same $385+1/3 utl (Wrls int, 
Sat tv, & GRU). Room for rent in 3/2 house 
in NW neighborhoods, quiet area. Avail now.
Pet friendly, W/D, wood flrs, fenced yard.
Bus route 8. Jessica 352-222-6900   1-12-
10-30-4
LARGE BEDROOM, PRIVATE BATH in 
3/3 townhome. Share with 2 UF Seniors. 
Washer/dryer, pool, tennis. Screened porch 
faces trees. On bus route. $395 plus 1/3 utili-
ties. 301-305-6206.   12-8-10-10-4
Avail. Dec - 5 Blocks to UF Great House;
2 Roommates Needed; N/S - 4 Bed/2Ba 
House $450/mo ea + 1/3 Util Sandy 352-
359-8484    12-8-10-12-4
look for female rmmt in 3/3 @ hidden lakes 
incl util,cable,internet,w/d,pool,tanning,gym 
locate on bus route 5 min uf $437/mon avail 
mid dec call deb 352-438-4692    12-8-10-
10-4
Seeking 2 prof/grad females.3 bed/2b house 
in NW palm grove subdivision, quiet fam-
ily environ, washer/dryer/electricity included 
$450, RTS bus route, 7 miles from UF/
Shands, excellent bike route!352-5140316   
12-8-10-7-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-
cluded. $350/mo. No deposit required. 863-
634-1893. Available immediately.   1-5-10-
6-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551   12-8-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4 
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,  University Realty at 352-219-2879.  12-8-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL 2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-355112-8-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS - New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879   12-8-74-5
BANK ORDERED ONSITE AUCTIONS: 
677± acres. Commercial, timber and hunting 
land. Hamilton, Gilchrist and Clay counties. 
December 2nd and 3rd. Visit RowellAuctions.
com -AU479/AB296    12-3-1-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-8-10-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-8-10-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-8-10-74-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-8-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      12-8-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    12-8-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      12-8-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
12-8-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  12-8-74-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     12-8-10-74-6
COMPUTER & DESK, TWIN BEDS, 
BOOKSHELVES, MUCH MORE - Call 352-
376-8901 - By appointment only.   12-8-10-
4-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
12-8-10-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-8-10-74-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-8-10-74-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-8-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-8-74-10
★BK CHRISTMAS TREES★
Containerized Southern Red Cedar & Arizona 
Cypress. 2ft - 12ft, $5 - $65. 20926 NW 75th St, Alachua. 386-462-2060    1-5-10-9-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-8-10-74-11★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
★★★GatorMoto★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No le-
git shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275 GatorMoto.com  12-8-10-74-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   
12-8-10-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
!NOW OFFERS FREE PICK UP!
For Motorcycles & Scooters for theremainder of 2010. In Gainesville only.Call 352-377-6974     518 SE 2nd St, 
12-8-74-11`●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 15 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    12-8-74-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
12-8-10-56-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     12-8-73-1214, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     12-8-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     12-8-73-1202 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       12-8-73-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $899903 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      12-8-73-12
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243.  12-8-
74-13UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-70-13
St. Francis House is a
homeless shelter and soup kitchen located 
in downtown Gainesville and
we are looking for help from
volunteers like you. St. Francis House is in 
need of donations such as razors, body  
wash, soap and toothbrushes.
If you are interested in helping
please contact:
Jared Salter at (352) 378-9079
or by email at:
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
10-3-6-13
I'm blind, Catholic, & attend Mass at Queen 
of Peace. If you're interested in sharing 
transportation with me, you can be my bless-
ing. Please call 352-219-6948. I often take 
part in church service, as a lector or greeter.  
12-8-10-74-13Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  12-8-10-74-14
HIRING 50 DRIVERS
Domino’s is hiring drivers for all shifts.  
Applicants must have 1 ticket maximum in 
the last 3 years, a 2003 or newer car and a 
positive attitude.  $12-$15 per hour.  Apply at 
gatordominos.com.    4-20-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys    12-
8-10-74-14
 Earn $1000-3200 per month to 
drive our car with ads.
www.AdCarDriver.com   12-8-10-32-14
Academy Medical is offering an internship to 
help build out its technology infrastructure. 
Candidates must have strong IT skills includ -
ing SQL. Previous experience with building online databases is a plus. 20 hours week @ 
$15/hr. Please send resumes to rob@acade -
mymedical.net. Questions call Rob Fischetti 
at 804-690-4422.   1-5-10-21-14
CNAs who believe in compassionate care & 
uncompromising services are encouraged to 
apply on-line at http://ck546.ersp.biz/employ -
ment. Strict background checks/drug screen. 12hr shifts, days, nights & wkends avail.   12-
6-10-14-14
FT NANNY needed M-F start by JAN;
min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs;  travel w/ mom;3yr old / 9 mon; $12/hr; exp; good refs;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix,schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    1-5-10-15-14
BARN HELP
Sundays only in exchange for lessons 
at Hunter/Jumper facility. EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 352-359-4149   1-5-10-15-1
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE 
NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. $7.50/hr + incen -
tives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 NW 13th St   12-3-10-10-14
Extended Day
Enrichment Program
Is Hiring Now for Jobs
Starting January 2011
SCHOOL BOARD OF ALACHUA COUNTY
AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM -VARIOUS LOCATIONS-●ENERGETIC PEOPLE TO TEACH OUTDOOR GAME - $10/hr - BA desired or successful exp. working w/ children.●CREATIVE PEOPLE TO TEACH ARTS & CRAFTS - $10/hr - BA desired or success-fule exp. working w/ children.●Girl Scout Leaders, Tennis Instructors, Dance Instructors & 4-H Leaders.Hours required -M,T,Th,F - 1:45-5:30, Wed - 12:30-5:30 PMDRUG TESTING REQUIRED-BACKGROUND CHECK CONDUCTED-AA/EOE
For More Information Call: 352-955-7766
Apply online www.sbac.edu
12-3-5-14
RGIS INVENTORY SPECIALISTS
Part-time hourly workFlexible schedules$8 an hour to startApply online at RGIS.COM    12-8-10-7-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   1-7-10-9-14BE A BLESSING TO ME, AND COME HELP 
ME LEARN TO RAKE KNIT, 2 Wednesday 
evenings a month. The things we will make 
WILL BE SENT TO HAITI AND OTHER 
PLACES. Call 352-219-6948.     12-8-10-
74-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs4-20-10-70-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and 
Communication skills. PC skills needed. 
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G. 
352-371-5888 x 111                  4-20-70-14FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010   ALLIGATOR, 15
CAREER POSITIONS
Stay in Gainesville. Great benefits and op-
portunities. Flexible hours.
● ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT
● SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
Please apply online at http://www.gleim.com   
12-8-10-6-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT
Flex hours. Excellent Word, Excel, typing, 
internet skills. $7.25/hr. Indicate current and 
spring semester available schedules, major, 
graduating semester. siva1950@yahoo.com   
1-5-10-7-14
PORTRAIT SALES
Help wanted for busy retail stores.
Full time, part time, local and some travel.Call Dominick 352-229-1004   12-7-10-5-14
SALES CONSULTANT
Solutions Bridal
25-35 hours+ Commission
Weekends a must
Fax Resume to:
352-372-7293
12-3-3-14
LEASING AGENTS WANTED!
Stoneridge Apartments. Several part time 
positions available. Experience a plus, but 
not required. Detail oriented and outgoing a 
must! Apply in person at:3800 SW 34th St.   
11-8-5-14
Going to be in G'ville during break? One seri-
ous hardworking and trustworthy UF student. 
Gen or const labor, exp w/electrical & plumb -
ing, carpentry, chainsaw &  heavy lifting. PT flex hrs. $7-7.50/hr. 327-2931 or 376-6183   
12-6-10-3-14
Colonial Life seeks entrepreneurial profes-
sional with sales experience to become a District Manager. Life/Health license is re-quired. Substantial earnings potential. Please contact meredith.brewer@coloniallife.com or call (904)424-5697    12-3-1-14
**ABLE TO TRAVEL** Hiring 6 people, Free 
to travel all states, resort areas. No experi -
ence necessary. Paid training/Transportation. OVER 18. Start ASAP. (866)734-5216    12-3-1-14
Drivers - FOOD TANKER DRIVERS 
NEEDED OTR positions available NOW! CDL-A w/ Tanker REQ'D. Outstanding pay & Benefits! Call a recruiter TODAY! (877)882-6537 www.oakleytransport.com    12-3-1-14
Drivers Earn up to 49¢/mi! 1 year minimum 
OTR experience qualifies you to be a trainer for our fleet! Call: (888)417-7564 CRST EXPEDITED www.JoinCRST.com    12-3-1-14
Drivers Hornady Transportation Miles Money 
& Home Time! Start up to .42 cpm Sign on Bonus Available Great Benefits!! Great Hometime!! OTR Experience Req’d. No felo-nies Lease Purchase Available (800)441-4271 X FL-100    12-3-1-14
CDL A Drivers: Regional Opportunity 100% 
Owner Operator Reefer Company. $2000 Sign-on bonus! Great rates and family at-mosphere. Call (800)237-8288 or visit www.suncocarriers.com    12-3-1-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-8-74-15
FREE HORSES FOR
TLC HORSEBOARD
Call Charlie at 352-278-1925.12-8-74-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES/UHAUL
$39 storage units/mo. Student discounts available. UHaul truck/trailer rentals. No line, no waiting. Call 24/7, 352-373-6294  
minimaxiwarehouse.com       12-8-74-15
Do You Need a Photographer?
Weddings ●Events ● Posters ● Slideshows
Gator Alum $100/hr You keep the digital files
www.mrdigital.biz  352-672-5206
12-8-10-74-15
NEED A DOG WALKER?
Aloha Pet Sitting & Dog Walking
(352) 792-5598
www.AlohaPetSitting.info
Licensed, Insured, Bonded   12-6-10-15-15
International Health teams for students!
Our trips work around your schedule.Check out our website for an experiencethat will change your life! www.islonline.org   1-5-10-7-15
CASH NOW! Cash for your structured 
settlement or annuity payments. Call J.G. Wentworth. 1-866-SETTLEMENT (1-866-738-8536). Rated A+ by the Better Business Bureau.   12-3-1-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.com   12-3-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA approved program. Financial aid if qualified - Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (866)314-3769.   12-3-1-15
"Can You Dig It?" Heavy Equipment School. 
3wk training program. Backhoes, Bulldozers, 
Trackhoes. Local Job placement asst. Start 
digging dirt Now. (866)362-6497   12-3-1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-8-74-16
A Woman's Answer
Think you might be pregnant?Testing, confidential advisingReferrals352-376-2716        12-8-74-16GAIN MALE SIZE FDA Medical Vacuum Pumps Gain 1-3 Inches Permanently. Testosterone, Viagra, Cialis FREE PILLS! 
(619)294-7777 Code FL www.drjoelkaplan.
com (Discounts Available)   12-3-1-16
VIAGRA 100MG and CIALIS 20mg!! 40 Pills + 
4 FREE for only $99. #1 Male Enhancement, 
Discreet Shipping. Save $500 Buy The Blue 
Pill Now! (888)777-9242   12-3-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
12-8-11-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
TRY OUR At-Your-Location-Business. No 
Set Up Costs! Sell Vacation Properties From Your Location! Take FREE Vacations! Call Now! 1-877-465-8463   12-6-10-4-20
Will Earth be hit by an unknown planet? Leo 
Roy will be having a talk on 1/5/11 about the event that will be coming towards Earth Dec. 10-27, 2012 at the Alachua County Lib. Room A. 1-3pm All welcomed to a curious talk!    1-5-5-20
NEED MORE RESPONSE? Advertise in 
Over 100 Florida Papers reaching MILLIONS of people. Advertising Networks of Florida, Put us to work for You! (866)742-1373 www.florida-classifieds.com.   12-3-1-20WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
12-8-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS
PET ADOPTION FESTIVAL
THIS WEEKEND BEHIND OAKS MALL
Over 100 pets from local shelters
will be there and many will be
available for only $5!
Sponsored by Helping Hands Pet Rescue. 
352-281-4358 for more info.
12-3-3-24OPERATION CATNIP
LAST SPAY DAY FOR 2010
DECEMBER 12TH
Don't miss the last chance in 2010 for you 
to make an impact on the community cat population. If you don't have a community cat in mind that needs to be fixed please let us know and we will pair you with a caregiver who needs your help getting cats to the clinic for FREE spay/neuter. If you cannot spare your time please make a tax deductible dona -
tion. While our services are offered to care-givers for FREE our cost is actually about $30 per cat. Contact us about our Wish LIst too. ocgainesville@gmail.com 352.380.0940
Purchase one of our
Florida Animal Friend License Plates
★GREAT CHRISTMAST GIFT IDEA★
12-8-6-24
LOST VIDEO CAMERA
Panasonic SDR H40 42x
Last seen at the bathouses Sat 10/9/10
Any info call (850) 543-3762
REWARD $500
1-6-25-25
FOUND LITTLE GRAY BUNNY
Sweet boy, loves to be petted. Found at NW 
16th Av. & NW 6th St.  377-4217   12-4-4-25
FOUND: CAR KEYS
Near Courthouse last Wednesday, Nov 24th. Call to identify 376-2998                12-3-3-2516, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010
By MATT RUBIN
Alligator Writer
 
When Florida started the season back in August, it did 
so surrounded by questions.
After the 2009 Gators became the first UF team to fail 
to win the Southeastern Conference in 19 years, this year’s 
squad was picked by SEC coaches to finish third.  
After all, the Gators did lose Elyse Cusack.Cusack, the SEC’s all-time leader in digs with 2,138, fin-
ished her career as arguably the greatest defensive special-
ist/libero in conference history. A 13-time SEC Defensive 
Player of the Week selection, she was given the honor more times than any other player in league history.
Her replacement: Erin Fleming, a former walk-on who 
had never even played the position before.
“She’s really stepped up to the plate,” senior middle 
blocker Lauren Bledsoe said. “This year she’s had to really fill some big shoes without having all the experience to do so, and so she’s had to figure out how to do a lot of things very quickly. That’s really hard to do as an athlete.”
Twenty-eight matches later, Fleming and the No. 1 
Gators have surpassed all expectations. They finished the 
season with an overall record of 27-1 and took the SEC title 
with a perfect 20-0 season.
“She’s easily one of the most improved players from 
August to November,” coach Mary Wise said. “Erin’s game 
has just gotten so much better. She had never played that 
position or that side of the court. For Erin, in a brand new position, to play as well as she has is part of the reason why 
this team did win an SEC title going undefeated.”
At Orlando Lake Highland Prep, Fleming was an all-
state player who led her high school team to three straight state championships. However, the only offers she received 
were from Division II schools.
That all changed when Wise went to a tournament to 
scout.
“Mary saw me at a tournament down in Orlando and 
described a player she was looking for, and one of the coaches pointed me out, and from there we got to know each other,” Fleming said. “At the time I was playing out-
side hitter, so I wasn’t really interested in walking on or 
being a [defensive specialist] or a libero.”
Wise, the 2010 SEC Coach of the Year, did what all great 
coaches do: recruit and convince.
“Once Mary talked me into it, she told me all the great 
things and benefits about Florida and their academic pro-
gram,” Fleming said. “From there it was pretty simple. I 
came and visited a couple times and I was like, ‘Division I volleyball with amazing academics — what more could 
you ask?’”
Fleming decided to become a Gator and came to 
Gainesville as a preferred walk-on. During the next three years, she bounced from position to position while getting 
limited playing time.
In her freshman year, Fleming saw action at right back, 
substituting for Florida great Amber McCray. Although it was her first time playing right back — she was used to playing left and middle — Fleming quickly became com-fortable there.
She couldn’t stay settled for long, as her sophomore and 
junior years she switched to playing middle back for out-side hitters and had to learn a new position and a new role again. 
The constant hard work would eventually pay off. Dur -
ing her junior year, she received a phone call from Wise telling her she would be on scholarship.
“I was more than happy to accept,” Fleming said.After the Gators lost Cusack to graduation last spring, 
the starting libero position opened. Following what Wise called one of the best springs and summers she’s ever seen 
from a player, Fleming returned to her favorite spot on the 
court.
“This year I went back to the left side, where I was most 
comfortable back in high school, and then I had to relearn everything because I was used to so many different other positions,” Fleming said. “The reading from everywhere 
on the court is different — different angles, different shots 
hitters can hit, and you have to know where the baseline is 
and how many steps it takes to get there.”
Fleming had little trouble handling the pressure. In 97 
sets this season, she has recorded 348 digs, with a career-high 22 coming on Nov. 21 against LSU.
“You just have to take one day at a time going through 
practice,” Fleming said. “I got to watch Elyse a lot of the time — how she moved on the court, the things she did and 
the things I knew I could do well and could take over to the libero position. Just watching everything, learning, never 
giving up and not quitting was the most important thing. 
With time, everything aligns perfectly.”
Last weekend the Gators watched as the brackets for the 
NCAA Tournament were announced. The team instantly celebrated when they saw a number one next to Florida.
“It is so exciting, I couldn’t ask for a better senior year,” 
Fleming said. “To be No. 1 and the starting libero — that’s a great goal that I’ve always wanted. I’m excited and thrilled and just can’t wait for the tournament. Everything has re-
ally lined up for us.”
The Gators will open the tournament with a match 
against South Carolina State (17-22) tonight in the O’Connell Center at 7:30 p.m. 
“[South Carolina State] is not as big, but they have a big 
heart and a big fight coming into this tournament,” Flem-ing said. “‘Wouldn’t it be nice to knock off the No. 1 team?’ 
I’m sure is what they’re thinking. We have to prepare men-tally as well as physically for that dogfight.” 
Fleming and the rest of the Gators know they cannot      
take any team for granted.
“I’m excited for the tournament, but every game could 
be your last,” she said. “Thinking that this might be the last time I put on my jersey representing Florida is shocking.”
Fleming says a national championship would be the 
perfect finish to a perfect senior year. From a walk-on to the startling libero, Fleming has definitely saved her best 
for last.FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010 n ALLIGATOR, 17
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
After multiple position changes, Erin Fleming (left) has found a home as Florida’s libero, and she and the No. 1 
Gators will open postseason play tonight in the O’Connell Center.
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF senior libero Erin Fleming has 348 digs in 97 sets this season, and she set a career high against LSU last month 
with 22, transforming from a former walk-on to a solid replacement for UF legend Elyse Cusack.
Digging 
for a 
scholarship 
“It is so exciting, I couldn’t 
ask for a better senior year.”
Erin Fleming
UF liberoSports
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Picks 
Column
SITE: Your Living Room (2-8 
people) 
KICKOFF: Saturday at noon
TV/RADIO: Several ChannelsBy GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
Given the fact they were return-
ing five starters, the Gators didn’t 
expect teamwork to be an issue. 
But over their last two games, the team has been plagued by self-ishness and poor decision mak-ing. 
Those are areas No. 18 Florida 
(5-2) will look to improve when 
it travels to Washington, D.C., to 
take on American (5-2) Sunday at 2:30 p.m. Last year, the starting five col-
lectively recorded a 1.2:1 assist-to-turnover ratio. 
Through seven games of 2010, 
they have combined for 69 assists 
and 75 turnovers. 
Those numbers come primarily 
from players’ struggles making de-cisions with the ball in their hands, 
something coach Billy Donovan has been stressing for weeks. 
“We’re not getting the best 
available shot for our team,” senior 
Chandler Parsons said. “We’re 
not understanding our personnel. If I have a good shot and Kenny Boynton has a better shot, he has to get the ball.”
Instead, the Gators have wast-
ed many offensive possessions by pushing the ball up the floor too quick, often resulting in a turnover 
or wild shot attempt. 
Alternatively, Florida has also 
forced itself into a lot of desper -
ate and contested looks by simply 
passing the ball around the perim-eter until late in the shot clock, at which point it doesn’t have time to generate a quality scoring op-
portunity . 
“It’s not that they’re being self-
ish,” Donovan said. “It’s more 
like they want to do well but their mind is not clearly focused on what’s going on.”
Donovan says his team needs 
to do a better job of using its tal-ents and getting the ball to which-
ever players are performing at a 
particular moment. 
As an example, he referenced 
Wednesday’s 57-54 loss to UCF, when the team failed to get the 
UF FOOTBALL ONLINE TEEING OFF WITH ANTONIO CHIANG
n LeBron James not only did his famous pregame ritual with the 
powder, he embarrassed Cleveland on national TV for a second 
time this year. ... The Yankees are planning to increase their of -
fer to aging shortstop Derek Jeter. They will be adding free hous -
ing at a New York nursing home in their contract.n The UF men’s and women’s swimming and 
diving teams will be without their most promi-nent athletes as the Gators compete in the Big Al Open this weekend. For more information, go to alligatorSports.org.Defensive tackle Gary Beemer was nominated for the Rudy Award on Thursday. Beemer, a walk-on senior, scored a rushing touchdown against Appalachian State on Nov. 20.Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF coach Billy Donovan said the Gators don’t have a problem with selfishness, but he’s concerned by the poor decision making they showed in a loss to UCF this week. They face American on Sunday.Weekend gives UF chance to fix teamwork
n FLORIDA WILL FACE PROVIDENCE AND BROWN THIS WEEKEND.
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
Kayla Lewis did not start against Old Do-
minion on Tuesday, marking the first time this season the freshman guard came off the bench.
But instead of showing her youth, Lewis 
took the decision in stride. 
“Coach talked to me about the whole start-
ing-not starting thing, and that didn’t bother me at all,” Lewis said. 
And once she got into the game, she fin-ished with a career-high 13 points on 6-of-10 shooting. Lewis also grabbed four rebounds in 29 minutes of action against a team known for frequent trips to the NCAA Tournament.  
“It was a big-time game, 
and I like playing on a big stage in front of a lot of people,” she said. “I wanted our résumé to look good for when it comes time for the Big Dance, so I was just ex-
cited about that.”
The Gators (6-1) have a 
chance to improve that résumé with another tournament win this weekend, when they travel to Providence, R.I., for the Brown Bear Classic. Florida will play Providence (4-4) Saturday 
at 4 p.m. and Brown (2-5) on Sunday at 2 p.m.
After employing the same opening lineup 
for the first four games, coach Amanda Butler made some tweaks.
Forward Jennifer George started in place of 
Ndidi Madu against South Alabama on Nov. 26, and guard Deana Allen replaced Lewis for the beginning of the ODU game Tuesday.
Butler said she makes adjustments in per -
sonnel depending on the opponent and the tone she wants to set coming out of the gate. She has repeatedly downplayed the impor -
tance of being a starter and emphasized using her whole bench. 
Against Old Dominion, seven players Butler shuffles lineup, looking for right fit Usually during this time of year, 
we’re talking about Florida in the 
SEC Championship game.
Obviously, that’s not the case this 
season as the Gators will be watch-
ing it from the comfort of their very 
own living rooms.
But another school in Florida is 
playing this weekend — just not for a conference championship. 
(Well, there is another Florida 
team playing for a conference cham-pionship, but we figured you didn’t want to hear about THEM.)
USF will take on Connecticut 
on Saturday to try and prevent the Huskies from winning the Big East.
We left it to alligatorSports col-
umnists Kyle Maistri and Anthony Chiang to debate the game.
UCONN (+1.5) will become Big 
East champions because…
UConn is twice as good as 
Chiang’s boy-hood team.
I’m sure Anthony thinks highly 
of South Florida after the Bulls walked into Coral Gables, beat his ‘Canes and got Randy Shannon canned.
But let’s be honest. Beating UM 
doesn’t mean as much as it used to.
South Florida lost to Florida, for 
crying out loud. And we all know how hard it is to do that these days.
UConn will prove to be the best 
team in the nation’s worst confer -
ence by the end of the weekend.
— Kyle Maistri
The Bulls (-1.5) will continue 
their stampede because…
Kyle, how are you going to write 
a feature on the possibility of USF becoming one of Florida’s elite col-
lege football programs and then 
pick them to lose to Connecticut? Stick to your guns. 
Excuse Kyle’s abrupt switch in 
positions. Coming off a win against Lewis
“We’re not getting the 
best available shot for our 
team.”
Chandler Parsons
UF  forward
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 19
SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 19 SEE PICKS, PAGE 19FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010 n ALLIGATOR, 19
the Hurricanes, the Bulls will end the Huskies’ Big East title 
hopes.  
— ANTHONY CHIANG
(Editor’s note: Anthony was incapable of writing more than two 
sentences because both his hands were wrapped around a life-sized Dwyane Wade body pillow Thursday night.)
Now on to the picks!
In first and tantalizingly close to a picks column title at 72-
55 is Gatorbait.net’s Keith “It’s the worst movie ever made. 
Even with tons of nudity, it’s still unwatchable” Niebuhr, who apparently is not a fan of the 1979 blockbuster “Caligula.”
Desperately trying to close the gap in our final week at 67-60 
is the Miami Herald’s Joe “Ah, screw it” Goodman, who again couldn’t be bothered to get his picks in because he covered LeBron’s return to Cleveland last night. Instead, we assigned Bron’s first 10 shots to our 10 games and gave Joe the favorite 
when James scored and the underdog when he missed. You 
love LeBron more than us? We let him pick for you.
In third, at 66-61, is the Alligator’s Kyle “When I win, Bud-dha Belly wins” Maistri, who’s trying to spend his recent pok-er windfall on truckloads of cheeseburger fried rice.
Next, with a 64-63 mark is alligatorSports assistant editor 
Tyler “The owl sees at night” Jett, who surprised the rest of the staff with his in-depth knowledge of Florida Atlantic foot-ball. Ah, who could forget Jared Allen’s winning touchdown pass against Middle Tennessee State?
In fifth at 62-65 is alligatorSports editor Anthony “Serious-
ly, what if he gets hurt?” Chiang, who was concerned LeBron James could be murdered in Cleveland on Thursday. Come on, Chiang. The bad guy never dies this early.
Tied with Anthony is FightinGators.com’s Cody “I know 
nothing about soccer except that it’s unwatchable” Jones, who is relieved the U.S. won’t host the 2022 World Cup. Cody will be dragging his bore children to see Chipper Jones manage the Braves in 12 years, and he does NOT need you soccer fans 
getting in the way.  
Tied for last with a record of 61-66 is The Gainesville Sun’s 
Edward “I <3 Driskel” Aschoff, who is leading the charge for 
everybody’s favorite future Gators quarterback, Jeff Driskel. At this point, we wouldn’t be surprised to see Edward ink his left butt cheek with a tattoo of Driskel’s face.
In dead-ass last place (and a victim of the alphabet) with a piss-poor record of 61-66 is the Alligator’s Mike “I saw a lot of famous asses this year” McCall, who spent his summer cov-ering the Seattle Mariners and sneaking locker room photos with his cell phone. If you want to see Ichiro Suzuki’s chop stick, check out McCallinItLikeIPeepIt.com.
PICKS , from page 18Freshmen offer better ball-handling
ball to senior Vernon Macklin despite the fact 
that he was 10 for 11 from the field while the rest of the team was shooting just 28 percent. 
Boynton called that “selfish” play.“Our older guys are less focused on what 
they can be doing to help the group get better,” Donovan said. “A great player makes everyone else around them better. We have a bunch of 
guys on the floor that make nobody better.”
A potential solution to this problem is to find 
more minutes for the team’s freshmen, who 
have combined for a 1.7:1 assist-to-turnover ra-tio this season. 
But Donovan’s ability to use the freshmen 
extensively has been limited by their lack of scoring, as they collectively average just .21 points per minute. 
Seniors, on the other hand, average .38 
points per minute. “The younger guys really carried our team 
in the second half of that Florida State game, but they don’t have the offensive ability because they’re young right now,” Donovan said. 
In the final 20 minutes against FSU, lineups 
with four or five starters were featured for just 
2:44. During that span, they failed to score and allowed 10 FSU points. 
For the vast majority of 
the half, the Gators used line-ups of three or fewer starters. Those units collectively out-scored the Seminoles by five, 
allowing UF to hold on for the 55-51 win. 
“I guess we had things going right, things 
were clicking,” freshman Patric Young said of the younger unit’s play . “Coach Donovan is all about strategy and he knew exactly what 
he was doing. I guess we were exactly what he 
was looking for.”HOOPS , from page 18
racked up more than 15 minutes, and 
only two of the 10 who saw action failed to score.
“The plays were kind of divided 
amongst everyone,” Butler said. 
“I think that’s one of the things 
that makes us really hard to play against.”
Last season, Butler utilized 11 
different starting lineups and had a 
different group on the court in nine 
of Florida’s final 11 games.  She has used three variations through six games this season, and more changes are likely as Butler continues to iden-
tify the skills of her young players.  
But Lewis, who played a season 
high in minutes against ODU, is carv-
ing out a niche in Florida’s offense.
Lewis, who blends the athleticism 
and ball control of a guard with the 
post presence and rebounding of a forward, stays on the court by flash-
ing that diversity. She leads all UF 
freshmen in minutes played and is 
averaging 7.6 points and 4.3 boards 
per game while also blocking eight shots.Lewis finding role in offense
W-HOOPS , from page 18
  AC   TJ   KM  MM
Auburn (-6) vs. S. Carolina     SC   AU  AU  SC
Arizona State (+5.5) at Arizona  ZONA  ASU  ZONA  ZONA    
SMU (+9) at UCF   UCF  SMU  UCF  UCF
Oregon (-16.5) at Oregon State   OU  OSU  OU  OSU
FSU (+4) vs. Virginia Tech       TECH  TECH  TECH  FSU
Connecticut (+1.5) at South Florida   USF  USF  CONN  USF
Nebraska (+6.5) vs. Oklahoma   NEB  OU  NEB  NEB
USC (-6.5) at UCLA   USC  UCLA  USC  USC
Rutgers (+20.5) at West Virginia   RUTG  RUTG  RUTG  RUTG
Illinois (-5.5) at Fresno State  ILL  FRES  FRES  ILL
  EA  JG  CJ  KN
Auburn (-6) vs. S. Carolina     AU   AU  AU  AU
Arizona State (+5.5) at Arizona  ASU  ASU  ZONA  ASU    
SMU (+9) at UCF   UCF  SMU  SMU  UCF
Oregon (-16.5) at Oregon State   OSU  OU  OU  OSU
FSU (+4) vs. Virginia Tech       FSU  VT  FSU  TECH
Connecticut (+1.5) at South Florida   CONN  USF  CONN  CONN
Nebraska (+6.5) vs. Oklahoma   NEB  OU  OU  OU
USC (-6.5) at UCLA   UCLA  USC  USC  USC
Rutgers (+20.5) at West Virginia   RUTG  RUTG  RUTG  RUTG
Illinois (-5.5) at Fresno State  ILL  FRES  ILL  ILLMen's
Bask etball20, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2010
Saj Guevara / Alligator
Even though the Gators are the No. 1 seed in the NCAA Tournament, UF coach Mary Wise said her 
team has prepared for first-round opponent South Carolina State just like it would any other squad.n GATORS HOST SOUTH CAROLINA STATE TONIGHT AT 7:30 
By MATT RUBIN
Alligator Writer
 
Since the first match of the season 
on Aug. 28, Florida has tried to con-
sistently improve until the end of fall, when the NCAA Tournament begins. 
It is now December, which means 
the top-seeded Gators have little room for mistakes.
No. 1 UF (27-1, 20-0 Southeastern 
Conference) will begin tournament play tonight, taking on South Caro-lina State (17-22) in the O’Connell Center at 7:30.
“Our team understands that we 
are 0-0 because that is what every-body is in the NCAA Tournament,” 
coach Mary Wise said. “We’re happy 
that we have a chance once again to play in the O’Connell Center, and we 
hope that we will have great crowds 
all weekend. This is one more chance for our fans to see this team at home.”
Although Florida is expected to 
easily win the match against the Bull-dogs, Wise and her players know that 
it is the postseason — one loss and the 
season is over.
“This team loves to compete, and 
I think they will do that come Friday night,” Wise said. “Our goal is to play 
well and advance, and we’re not go-
ing to look beyond that.”
South Carolina State, winner of the 
Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference, lost to South Carolina in straight sets 3-0 (25-14, 25-12, 25-8) on Sept. 10. The 
Gators beat the Gamecocks twice this 
year. 
Florida won 3-0 (25-20, 25-17, 25-13) on Oct. 27 and 3-0 (25-14, 25-16, 25-12) on Nov . 26 — their last match of the regular season.
“We’ll gameplan for South Caroli-
na State just like we do all opponents, and that’s a big piece of our defense,” 
Wise said. “When we looked at them 
initially we said, ‘They don’t have the size that we have.’ How you take ad-
vantage of that in volleyball is control 
the first contact. 
“If we are in system then we can 
take advantage of our size and that will certainly be a big part of the game plan come Friday.”
South Carolina State is making its 
first NCAA Tournament appearance in school history . It will have the task of containing UF junior setter Kelly Murphy , who was recently named the 
2010 SEC Player of the Year.
“We’re exactly where we want to 
be at this point in the season,” Mur -
phy said. “We know we have a tough 
road, but as long as we keep working hard we should be able to achieve our 
goals.”
With a first-round victory against 
the Bulldogs, the Gators will take on the winner of tonight’s 5 p.m. matchup 
between Georgia Southern (27-8) and Florida State (21-10). The two teams 
that advance from the first round will 
play Saturday in the O’Connell Cen-ter at 7:30 p.m.
“There’s a whole group of teams in 
this field this year who can make an 
argument that they can really make 
a long run,” Wise said. “Our goal at the beginning of the season was to be 
playing our best volleyball at the end, 
to keep improving along the way and we’ve done that. We have been fortu-
nate enough that we have stayed rela-
tively healthy and that’s a big piece of it.”Top-seed UF to start 
NCAA Tournament run
