the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 77 We Inform. You Decide.
Progress, Orange
and Blue 'unite'
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
They might not be Facebook offi-
cial, but the relationship between the
Orange and Blue Party and the Prog-
ress Party has become a little bit less
complicated. The parties announced
Wednesday that they will join into one
party this semester.
Orange and Blue Party Sen. Jona-
than Ossip, who represents the Mur-
phree Area, said the two parties had
discussed the merge for about two
months when the decision was final-
ized during winter break.
The parties are still discussing a
possible name and potential candi-
dates for leaders, Ossip said.
He said Senators held their first
meeting as a single party Tuesday.
"It's definitely going to positively
impact our issues," Ossip said.
Ossip said the two parties have
similar views on issues such as reform-
ing the Code of Ethics in the Student
Senate and creating an online voting
system for Student Government elec-
tions.
"Pretty much on every vote, you
would see the two of our parties align,"
Ossip said.
Ossip said he hopes an online vot-
ing system would increase voter turn-
out and allow more students to partici-
pate in SG.
"When we have a lower voter turn-
out than a lot of other institutions, then
clearly we're doing something wrong,"
Ossip said.
Ossip said the differences between
the two parties were never very big,
and he did not realize just how alike
they were until discussions about themerger began.
"If you really combine what issues
we emphasize, you see a sum that's
greater than its parts," Ossip said.
Former Progress Party Sen. Dave
Schneider said the Orange and Blue
Party focused on reforming SG, while
the Progress Party emphasized the
need to increase student participation.
He said he thinks the combined
party will be able to uphold both ban-
ners equally.
"We're going to be pushing for a
similar objective," Schneider said. "We
want change through participation."
He said the par-
ties share similar
views about the im-
portance of boosting
transparency in SG
by posting senator
voting records on-
line and publishing
ossip the budget online for
students to see.
He said the merge also stems from
the results of the past two elections, in
which the Unite Party gained the ma-
jority of Senate seats.
Schneider said the results showed
weaknesses in the campaigning strat-
egies of both parties and emphasized
the need for them to change their tac-
tics.
"It's basically a grade that we're
getting -how well are we reaching
students?" Schneider said.
Senate President Ashton Charles,
who represents the Unite Party, said
the Unite Party will also be focusing
on protecting student interests in the
upcoming election.
She said the Unite Party will focus
on its own campaign rather than on
the merger.1b
THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2010
CHILLY CITRUS
Craig Hepworth sells tangerines at the Alachua County Farmers Market Wednesday.
He said the cold weather hasn't hurt his crops but made them sweeter and juicier.
WEATHER
Fla. snow may be no-show
By KATHERINE BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
Don't believe the hype.
Despite record lows, a load of rumors and
the collective hopes and dreams of everyone in
Gainesville, officials aren't expecting snow to fall
this Friday night.
Once again, Floridians are left high and dry and
shivering in the freezing cold.
There remains an outside chance of flurries,
said David Schuler, a meteorologist with the Na-tional Weather Service, although it's more likely to
be a light rain.
North Florida continues to face one of the cold-
est winters in its history. Wednesday, the NWS
center in Jacksonville braved 21 degree weather,
the city's coldest temperature on record, Schuler
said.
"It hasn't been that cold since 1884," he said.
Despite the unlikelihood of snow, some resi-
dents are still crossing their fingers.
"I vote'yes' on snow," said Amanda Du Bour, a
zoology student at Santa Fe College.
New RTS route aims to reduce crowding, boost safety
* ROUTE TOOK EFFECT MON.
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Staff Writer
ctillo@alligator org
UF's Parking and Transporta-
tion Committee and RTS created
one new bus route and extendedanother in an effort to boost stu-
dent safety and reduce crowding
on buses.
The changes went into effect
Monday.
Maryam Laguna, the Student
Body Treasurer and the chair of the
Parking and Transportation Com-
mittee, said the new route, Route38, goes along Old Archer Road.
It circulates from the Hub, ac-
cording to an
Around RTS press re-
Gainesville lease.
The route
will run along
both sides of Old Archer Road,
so students do not need to worryabout crossing it, Laguna said.
She said the new route will also
help eliminate crowding on buses
by offering an alternate route for
students who ride Route 1, Route
12, Route 22 or Route 36.
The committee also extended
the East/West Circulator route,
which runs from Lakeside to So-rority Row, Laguna said.
She said the route will now loop
around Southwest Depot Avenue
and will go to more apartment
complexes near Norman Hall, in-
cluding Royal Village and Oxford
Terrace.
"We're doing all we can to make
students safer," Laguna said.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersToday
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 11 'tr
CLASSIFIEDS 16 Sunny
CROSSWORD 11 56/39
SPORTS 21
visit www.alligator.org* The Gators will
play their first
home conference
game tonight
against Auburn.
UF plans on using
more man-to-man
defense because
of its poor zone
defense.
See Story, Page 21.RCYW\1r_
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 7,2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Shabbat at Hillel
Friday, 7 p.m.; Saturday, 10:30
a.m. and 6:30 p.m.
2020 W University Ave.
Students are invited to ar-
rive at Hillel at 7 p.m. Friday.
Services (Reform, Conservative
or Orthodox) will start at 7:15
p.m., followed by free Kosher
dinner at 8:30 p.m. Services con-
tinue Saturday at 10:30 a.m., fol-
lowed by a Lunch and Learn at
12:45 p.m. Students will gather
again at 6:30 p.m. Saturday for a
Havdalah service and hot choc-
olate.
Information Session for UF's
Seven Year B.S./M.D. Program
Jan. 14, 5 p.m.
McKnight Brain Institute,
Room LG-101
There will be an informa-
tion session about UF's College
of Medicine's Junior Honors
Medical Program. More infor-
mation about this program and
event can be found at http://
jhmp.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the Endependent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 77 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner, jmisner@a//igator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, cti//o@a//igator.org
Opinions Editor Will Olsen, wo/sen@a//igator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore, Will Olsen
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
George Pappas, Paul Runnestrand
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Sales Development Shaun O'Connor
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
John Downey, Natasha Dykes,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Samantha Owen, Julian Pothemont,
Andrew Reid
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-F ND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
Assistant Bookkeeper Amanda Miller
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
NATIONAL
Mormon missionaries struggle to find followers
By CJ Pruner
Alligator Writer
Editor's Note: This is the third
installment in a four-part series.
For the first two parts of the
series, see Alligator.org.
The Grind
Every day at 6:30 a.m., a small,
compact clock-radio breaks the still-
ness of Mormon missionaries James
Tate and Marques Schroeder's two-
bedroom apartment, announcing
the arrival of a new day. Rolling out
of his inflated mattress, a groggy
Tate takes four to five steps toward
the door to the hallway. Schroeder
follows.
Flipping the lights, they trudge
toward the living room, which has a
white table filled with portraits of Je-
sus, scripture and a cluster of hand-
scribbled notes.
As they mount the staircase and
cautiously thump down the hall-
way, they briefly confer on who
should take the first shower, which
falls to Tate. After rinsing off the
sweat and build-up from the prior
day's work, he dries off and makes
his way to the walk-in closet located
in his room.
With a slight turn to the right
and a flick of the light switch, Tate's
wardrobe options reveal themselvesto him. The parade of white shirts
and dark slacks do little for innova-
tion but serve as a daily reminder of
the simple lifestyle he must lead.
After dressing, his eyes fall upon
the tie rack. His only shot at splicing
some creativity into the outfit, Tate
goes with a purple tie, nonchalantly
fluttering it into the same knot he
has tied for the past 10 years.
Schroeder, whose wardrobe
nearly set him back $1,000, does
likewise.
"He paid how much for that?"
asked Tate, who only spent between
$500 and $600 on his missionary
clothes.
The tandem spend the next two
hours studying scripture. After their
spiritual reflection, they strap on
their helmets and hop on their bicy-
cles for the mile-long journey to the
UF campus.
Once they reach their destina-
tion, they go around preaching the
message of their faith. Many will
hear it, very few will listen.
For those who do, the mission-
aries set up teaching lessons where
they introduce the tenants of their
faith.
"A lot of people think we're
Amish or that we live in the moun-
tains with our wives," Schroeder
said. "Some of the stuff that they
come up with is actually quite hilari-
ous.""A lot of people think we're
Amish or that we live in the
mountains with our wives."
Marques Schroeder
Mormon missionary
Although they are more than
willing to hear the missionaries' ex-
planations, most quickly balk at an
invitation to worship at a Sunday
service or set up a teaching appoint-
ment.
With the exception of the hour-
long breaks they take for lunch and
dinner, they do this until the sun
fizzles out of the sky.
A Carnation of Hope
Darrell Janson views success a lot
differently than most people.
Although the specks of gray that
frost his temples illustrate the years
of yore, Janson can firmly recall his
youthful years as a Mormon mis-
sionary in Germany. Full of energy
and zeal, he couldn't wait to spread
his church's message in a far away
land.
There was just one problem -
nobody was converting. In his first
five months in Germany, he couldn't
baptize one person.
"It was incredibly frustrating; I
couldn't help but think that I was
doing something wrong," he said."You get humbled pretty quickly."
Eventually, after hundreds of
refusals, there was an answer. An
elderly woman named Charlotta
became intrigued at what the mis-
sionaries had to offer. After a few
months of investigating, she agreed
to be baptized.
When she emerged from the wa-
ter, her eyes locked on a white car-
nation in the distance. She turned to
the young Janson and pointed at the
flower, excitement radiating from
her face.
"Now I'm as pure and clean as
that," she beamed.
Although he would go on to bap-
tize five more people while in Ger-
many, that first one holds a special
place in Janson's heart.
"I could've just had that one mo-
ment of joy and it would've been
more than enough for the two years
that I was there," he said. "That is
the definition of true success."
According to the National Coun-
cil of Churches, the Mormon Church
is the second-fastest growing church
in the United States and Canada,
only falling behind the Jehovah's
Witnesses.
Although high birth rates con-
tribute to the figure, the steady in-
crease throughout the years can be
attributed to the Mormon mission-
aries' efforts to spread their message
across the world.
YOUR HEALTH IS
OUR PRIORITY
Our medical professionals are on-
call around the clock to help when
you are sick or injured. Just call us to
reach a health care provider at any
hour. In case of an emergency, dial
9-1-1.
Call 352-392-1161
UF IStudent Health Care CenterIn 2008 alone, more than 260,000
people were baptized into the
church, according to statistics pro-
vided by the church.
One of the religion's main sell-
ing points, according to Janson, who
now serves as a bishop and a coor-
dinator of Latter Day Saints semi-
naries and institutes, deals with the
church's steadfast stance of moral
issues, particularly those relating to
the family structure.
"We don't bend with the wind
of social change based on what soci-
ety believes at the time," he said. "If
it's of God, then it's not going to be
something of this world."
Another key to the church's ap-
peal, he insists, is based on the high
example that missionaries set when
they go out into the public sphere
"People see their character, their
morals and the way they carry
themselves and think to themselves,
'That's what I want to be,"' he said.
"You can see their happiness, but to
understand it, you have to immerse
yourself in it."
Tate and Schroeder, Janson be-
lieves, serve as those prime exam-
ples.
"They're both hard workers, car-
ing, compassionate and have great
relationship skills," he said. "If they
have any personal struggles, they
keep it to themselves. They are in-
credibly focused missionaries."
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 7,2010
Police still searching for Santa Fe student's shooters
0 DRUGS TAKEN FROM APT.
By KATHERINE BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville police are still
searching for the two men in-
volved in the fatal shooting ofSanta Fe College student Stacey
Brown, 20, who was dead when
police arrived Monday night.
Brown was visiting her friend
Mannuel Shaw, 21, in his apart-
ment in Pine Ridge when the men
forced their way in, said GPD
Capt. Ed Book.One of the men fired two shots
when Shaw threatened them
with an unloaded gun, and one
bullet struck Brown in the back
and traveled through her chest,
Book said.
The motive has been deter-
mined as robbery, as some drugsand a small amount of cash were
taken from the apartment.
Police cannot tell if Brown was
the intended target, he said.
The suspects are described as
black males between the ages of
25 and 30.
One may have tattoos on hishands or a long goatee, Book
said.
Anyone with information
about the car or the men are
asked to call Det. Mike Schentrup
at 352-334-2471.
To give an anonymous tip, call
352-372-7867.
FIla sherit Car niin lottery, *inner murdered
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
G e 6s e
Health & FitnessGHFC.com
HSRN#3 First time local guests. 18 years and older. Expires February 28, 2010DON'T JOHN MAYER SATURDAY
MISS! W,,,,,,ECIAL GUET MIIEI t SPfAPH) F EBR UA RY ed
THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Nigerian indicted inSalvation jirmvleft %hoft
plot to bomb plane
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
hIif.com
AN 3 COMPANY
Music Video Games
Compare prices at the campus store. Use your phone to see how much the same books cost on half.comSPARKS
U. ~*,
Books DVDs
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 7,2010
It takes two
Indie SG parties smart
to rejoin
It's almost that time again.
That time when no one is safe from the mass of blue, or-
ange and red fliers.
That time known as Student Government elections.
However, this cloud does have a silver lining because there
will only be two SG parties hounding you every time you walk
through Turlington Plaza instead of three.
The Orange and Blue Party and the Progress Party have
finally made amends and rejoined to try once more to defeat
the behemoth known as the Unite Party (you know, that little
ole' party currently holding 87 Senate seats and the executive
branch.)
Party officials from the new, nameless, super-indie party (or
is it just a regular indie party now since they broke up two se-
mesters ago?) say the parties share a desire to give students a
stronger voice and to make SG more transparent.
But we here at the Alligator suspect their reason for realign-
ing may have stemmed from another issue.
It's clear to anyone with eyes that these two parties have had
a measly existence the past two semesters with the Progress
Party only holding seven Senate seats and the Orange and Blue
Party only holding two Senate seats.
Whatever the reason may be, we're just glad to see those
silly kids worked it out and put the past and bickering behind
them.
Let's face it; if things continue the way they're going, the
Unite Party won't just be the majority party, it'll be the only
party, and that doesn't seem like much of a democracy to us.
Will we ever forget?
group of students at aDearborn, Mo., high
school is in hot water
over senior class sweatshirts
depicting the number 11
as the twin towers and the
school's bird mascot flying
toward it above the words,
"You can't bring us down."
The question is, nearly a
decade later, is it still too soon
for 9/11 references?
Michael Jackson jokes
were acceptable the second
Perez Hilton announced his
death. Holocaust jokes will
probably never be OK. But
9/11 falls into a gray area that
no one can agree on.
Just weeks after the at-
tack, Gilbert Gottfried joked
during a Hugh Hefner roast
that he couldn't get a direct
flight to New York because of
a detour to the Empire State
Building. Definitely too soon.
But is there really any
harm in students who hadn't
even hit puberty at the time
of the attack referencing it as
a symbol of school pride?
The students were not
punished because theyseemed not to mean offense.
According to a Detroit Free
Press article, the pardon
earned the school a pat on
the back from the American
Civil Liberties Union-yep,
the same ACLU that cried for
Gainesville students' First-
Amendment right to wear
shirts that read 'Islam is of the
Devil' in red letters.
Now, though, they're hap-
py with the absence of pun-
ishment because instead of
only offending the sane, this
message has the potential to
offend America as a whole.
Offensive or not, though,
the students should be al-
lowed to wear the design. In
its most innocent connotation,
the design relates pride in a
strong senior class acting as a
microcosm of a strong coun-
try. At its worst, the shirts
make light of an incident that
still stings many Americans.
Either way, it's time to let
go. To continue walking on
eggshells is to perpetuate a
sense of fear, and if America
is going to move on, it needs
to do it. All or nothing.
all e independent ftorida
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORSWill Olsen
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor shoud not exceed 150words (about one letter-sized page) They must be typed, doubie-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer showsjust cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Ae , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
Gainesvi Iie, FL 32604-2257oi umns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Oaii 376-4458Opinions
IN THE TRAD IT O
txi
IT---
(ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/opinions
N0
-V
Du/<D 7hCA, /P(/// /o
K
America has soft spot for aging rockers
he end of a decade is naturally a time for reflec-tion, and the end of this decade has inspired over-
whelmingly bad reviews from everyone who has
taken the time to ponder the last ten years of depressing
suckitude.
Although the desire to pile on and deliver a crushing
death blow to the aughts is difficult to overcome, it is con-
tingent upon me to find a silver lining to our decade of
Enron and Viagra.
The last ten years have been exceedingly kind to old
rock stars. Far from being cast onto the scrap heap of mu-
sic and society, old rocker dudes have ascended over the
last decade and now occupy a powerful spot atop our
socio-musical structure.
The Rolling Stones are lining up stadiums to fill for
their 17th annual retirement tour, and the hottest tickets
in music for most of the recent past have featured bands
that experienced the 1980s as taxpaying adults.
Don't get me wrong -I can't hear a good Billy Joel
song without looking, to an impartial observer, like I
just had a series of minor strokes, but my own dancing
skills aren't important for the terms of this discussion.
How can it be that our society has been sonically steered
into the first years of a new century by people who were
born before houses had microwaves?
This veneration of old rockers seems to be gaining
steam even as the digital age threatens so many old par-
adigms and tired prophecies.
Our country virtually shut down when Michael Jack-
son mercifully died this summer, placing an interna-
tional spotlight on our greatest cultural resource: the
eco-friendly way we recycle popular music and pop
stars. Dead superstars are an excellent source of fodderfor our universal condemnation
machine known as the 24-hour
news cycle, and the cyclical nature
of popularity ensures that some-
body, somewhere, will always
think Don Henley doesn't suck.
Tommy Maple Since Justin Timberlake sav-
letters@a Iligator org agely revealed Janet Jackson's
sad-looking boob to an audience
of millions at the Super Bowl in 2004, old rockers have
absolutely dominated the entertainment at our nation-
wide sporting spectacles.
Michael McDonald is Yah Mo-booked for the next
decade of national anthems at stadiums across our great
land, thanks to our overzealous Federal Communica-
tions Commission and a teensy bit of breast.
But what is it about our venerated old rockers? Is it
that they are simply the safe alternative to edgy new
artists who may or may not become old rock stars them-
selves?
Are they clinging to a bygone era of power and influ-
ence by channeling their best years and riding as long as
they can on accumulated goodwill?
Are we, as Americans, doing the very same thing
geopolitically in the face of a wholly uncertain future?
I don't think I am allowed to answer that question
without first getting expresslu written consent from our
Chinese landlords, so I will leave it up to you to ponder
that query. It sure got weird in this country, though,
when the people who didn't trust anybody older than
30 got the keys to the kingdom.
Tommy Maple is a graduate student in international
communications. His column appears Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Monday's question:
Do you think the merger will get Are you against Obama appoint-
the new party more votes? ing a transgender official?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org32% YES
68% NO
109 TOTAL VOTES
THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
ff~ c~4o~~\in kaoLrZO a0* AAr s Nc-tA
10\0
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersDoctors not so 'greedy'
nhis letter to the editor inTuesday's
Alligator, Kenneth Maness focused
his entire letter on "greedy" doc-
tors being the real reason for the cur-
rent state of health care in the U.S. To
place the majority of the blame for
such a widespread problem on one
group of professionals is absurd.
He could have pointed out the bil-
lion-dollar insurance companies that
are swimming in cash like Scrooge
McDuck or the hospitals that charge
triple for household items like aspirin.
He also could have ranted about occu-
pations that glean their success from
the expense of others. Some of these
include Wall Street traders, billion-
aire bankers and even casino owners.
All of these make significantly more
than physicians, but they thrive on the
weakness of others.
Perhaps Mr. Maness does not know
what a typical doctor goes through to
become a physician, so I will refresh
his memory. Most doctors have to
complete a minimum of eight years
of schooling after high school, during
which they are self-supportive. With
in-state tuition for Florida medical
schools being about $40,000 per year
for state residents, most graduates find
themselves about $115,000 in debt.
These numbers are significantly
higher elsewhere nationwide and for
out-of-state medical school stu-
dents. After successfully completingJordan Miller medical school
and amassingSpeaking Out large amounts
of debt, physi-
cians then must complete another
three to seven years of training dur-
ing their residency programs. During
this time, they are meagerly compen-
sated for their time. Most physicians
in residency end up making about
minimum wage and work 80 to 100
hours per week. Clearly, it is easy and
inexpensive to become a physician,
so naturally they should not be paid
much for their services. Or so Mr. Ma-
ness thinks.
I would suggest next time Mr. Ma-
ness has a medical problem, perhaps
he should take care of it himself. This
seems to be the best route for him be-
cause he does not want to compensate
a highly trained professional for their
expert opinion and service. Doctors
are paid more than other profession-
als because they know and do more.
I don't know anyone who wants to
go to "Bill's Bargain Surgery Barn."
It is not fast food, it's your health. If
you do not want to pay for it, don't.
Most physicians actually want to help
humanity. So before you go point-
ing fingers at doctors for causing all
the problems with health care, think
about the facts.
Jordan Miller is a senior health science
major.
8, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 7,2010
Pending cuts force Speodial Ovmpoc% to la event%
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
EYE,EXAMS
(by Independent Optometrist)Z n 10A Corner of
NI htNW 3th St.
& 39th Ave.
Near Publix
EVECARE
I EXPRESS 1
(352)375-6133
Smile.
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
foel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
ID. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Availablel
Walk-ins Welcome.
A Biotest
FrmNat-refor Lfe
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesvill FL 32601
352-378-9431HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For:
BlueCross BlueShield
FmNumber: of Florda
For Number 18533-99SUIndependent Insurance Agents
373-0775
3669 S.W. 2nd Avenue%i
GROOVALOO.COM
FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 7:30 P.M.
PHILLIPS CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
Sponsored by G yue JMAJI
On Friday, January 15,1:00 -2:30 p.m., GROO VALOO will be
offering a special dance workshop for students who have purchased tickets
to their evening performance! For more information, please visit:
www.performingarts.ufl.edu/events/2009/groovaloo/
Tickets are available at the Phillips Center Box Office, University Box Office
at Reitz Union and all Ticketmaster locations or by calling the
Phillips Center Box Office at 352-392-ARTS (2787).
University vt Flvrida Pvrforming Arts is supported in part by
Eiversity t Flvrida Stvdent Governmevt.
Events, dotes, times avd programs are subject to change,
US mother bab girl killed b) elephant in Ken a
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Census calls for
BURN
NOTICElocal involvementA member
By ERICA JOHNSON of the Bridge
Alligator Contributing Writer V Crew watches
over a fire line
The local census office is calling all UF students to get Wednesday
involved in the upcoming 2010 census, which ends April in case the
1. prescribed burn
Norm Sassner, the local census office manager, said jumps the linepart-time jobs as census takers, supervisors and crew
leaders are still available. and ignites on
Sassner urged locals to get involved in this year's cen- the other side
sus. of Kings Pinna-
"They know the neighborhood and they know the cle in Crowders
community, making it easier for them to Mountain StateNational gather information than a stranger in a
News particular area," Sassner said. Park in Gasto-
Gainesville spokesman Bob Woods nia, N.C. The
said this year's census questionnaire will have 10 ques- reasons for the
tions on it. The topics covered include race, gender, age burn were de-
and number of occupants per household, Woods said. cades of forestBut even those without homes will be counted. refuse.
"During a given time, we will actually go out and do a
headcount and try to gather as much information from the AP Photohomeless as we do from [homeowners]," Sassner said.
For more information, call 866-861-2010 or visit
www.2010censusjobs.gov.
Ab' up? DfrY' ( V *a?( rrtrr1) ~ t %h( * t( ulh 1ifio 4 *pef
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
10, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 7,2010
CATS
Saturday, January 9 & Sunday, January 10
SPONSORED BY HOME MAGAZINE AND 973 THE SKY
Complexions Contemporary Ballet
Wednesday, January 13
The 5 Browns
Thursday, January 14
SPONSORED BY LOWRY FINANCIAL ADVISORS AND WGFL CBS4
GROOVALOO
Friday, January 15
SPONSORED BY GAINESVILLE HEALTH & FITNESS AND JMAJ LLC
Young Concert Artist:
Naoko Takada, Marimba
Sunday, January 17
Squitieri Studio Theatre
Nnenna Freelon, Carolyn Blackwell
and Mike Garson in
Dreaming the Duke
Friday, January 22
Natalie MacMaster and Donnell Leahy -
Masters of the Fiddle
Saturday, January 23
SPONSORED BY COLDWELL BANKER M.M. PARRISH REALTORS AND WUFT
Leipzig String Quartet
Sunday, January 24
Squitieri Studio Theatre
Haochen Zhang
Thirteenth Van Cliburn Competition Gold Medalist
Thursday & Friday, January 28 & 29
Squitieri Studio Theatre
SPONSORED BY SHANDS HEALTHCARE
L.A. Theatre Works
Susan Albert Loewenberg, Producing Director presents
RFK: The Journey to Justice
Thursday, February 4
Joshua Bell, Violin
Jeremy Denk, Piano
Saturday, February 6
SPONSORED BY KOSS-OLINGER FINANCIAL GROUP, SHANDS HEALTHCARE, AND SFIUniversity of Florida
Student Tckets
are on sale now for these performances!
THE OPERA SHOW
Tuesday, February 9
SPONSORED BY SHANDS HEALTHCARE
Hairspray
Wednesday, February 10
SPONSORED BY BOSSHARDT REALTY SERVICES, WCJB TV20
AND HOLLOWAY FINANCIAL SERVICES
Soweto Gospel Choir
Thursday, February 11
SPONSORED BY GAINESVILLE GUARDIAN
Richie Havens
Friday, Saturday & Sunday, February 12, 13 & 14
Squitieri Studio Theatre
The Israel Ballet
Sunday, February 14
SPONSORED Bv COX MEDIA AND DHARMA ENDOWMENT FOUNDATION
Philharmonia of the Nations
with Jon Nakamatsu, Piano
Thursday, February, 18
SPONSORED BY DHARMA ENDOWMENT FOUNDATION
Eileen Ivers -Beyond the Bog Road
Saturday, February 20
Christine Brewer, Soprano
Sunday, February 21
University Auditorium
SPONSORED BY HANDS HEALTHCARE
Craig Martin's Classic Albums Live:
Bob Marley -Legend
Wednesday, February 24
SPONSvRED BY THE SKY 97.3 WACHOVIA AND WMYG MY11
An Evening with Brazili-AHN Trio
with Special Guests
Welson Tremura and Larry Crook
Saturday, February 27
University Auditorium
Cuarteto Latinoamericano
with Manuel Barrueco, Guitar
Sunday, February 28
University Auditorium
All performances above are at Mne Curtis M. Phllps Center for the Performng Arts unless otherwise noted.
Events, dates, times and programs are subject to change.
* Plus applicable sales tax (final purchase price $10.50).
*$10 student tickets are available at the Phillips Center Box Office and the University Box Office. Each UF student may buy one student-priced ticket per event.
Students must present their valid ID (must be valid at time of purchase and the time of performance) to be sold a ticket. Tickets are limited and subject to availability,
University of Florida Performing Arts is supported in part by University of Florida Student Government.
For more information, call the Phillips Center Box Office at 352-392-2787 or visit
www.performingarts.ufl.eduUF UNIVERSITY ofFLORIDA
theAvenue thursday, january 7, 2010
feline frenzy!
a.
Broadway phenomenon "Cats" opens at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts this weekend. But don't
expect kitties to be on stage. These animals still have their claws and crazy costumes, too. Tickets can be
purrchased at the Phillips Center Box Office or any Ticketmaster location.
page 13THIS WEEK:
PG 13: A review of the Sex and
the City 2 movie trailer
PG 14: What's in and what's out
for 2010
ONLINE: Lane Nieset offers
fashion resolutions to keep your
style fresh this year
www.alligator.org/the-avenue
REGULARS:
SEX: sexToon, page 13, and he
says she says, page 14
FASHION: Stay stylish
warm in capes, page 12and
COMING UP:
Next week, dance group
Groovaloo comes to town. Plus,
why we still love Chris Brown.
New Year. New YOU! Vow to
lose some of that beer belly this
decade by spending more time
at the gym. Head over to the
Student Rec Center or Southwest
Rec for fun classes like kickbox-
ing and zumba. Or sign up for
the group fitness instructor train-
I ing course STarTing Jan. 19.
Michael Cera gets dangerous for 'Youth In Revolt' film
By JON SILMAN
avenue writer
What do Michael Cera, sex-crazed teenag-
ers and gratuitous violence have in common?
They are all mashed up in the new film "Youth
in Revolt," a teen sex comedy opening nation-
wide in theaters tomorrow. You may have, by
now, been exposed to the subtly salacious
trailer or seen the posters with Cera's boyish
face around campus.
The movie involves anti-teen heartthrob
Michael Cera as the cynical and sex-crazed
16-year-old Nick Twisp, vying for the affections
of Sheeni Saunders (played by newcomer Por-
tia Doubleday). Saunders is not into the wimpy,
quiet type, so Twisp creates another persona, a
French persona, named Francois. Francois is a
badass with a mustache, but he ends up mak-
ingTwisp a wanted criminal.
This film was not plucked out of obscurity.
It's actually based on a series of books written
by Harvard-educated author C.D. Payne. Payne
was 44 when he wrote the first book in 1993and has been writingthe Twisp story ever since,
with book six released in 2006.
"Youth In Revolt" was written 16 years ago.
Since then, there has been the advent of beep-
ers, cell phones and Internet porn, to name a
few things Twisp didn't have in the early '90s.
"It could be argued that Youth in Revolt had
such a convoluted trek to the screen because
it was ahead of its time. It was very close to
receiving a green light at one studio when an
executive killed the project because he said
R-rated teen comedies couldn't find an audi-
ence. This was a few months before 'American
Pie' roared onto the scene," Payne wrote in an
e-mail.
Payne's series focuses on male teenage
sexual angst, and he drew inspiration from his
disturbing middle school experiences, which
he calls the nadir of his life, to create Twisp's
character.
"One does not forget such traumas, even
when one has reached the lofty age of 40," he
wrote. "I would say about 23.7 percent of Nick
is actually me. The rest is entirely made up.""It could be argued that You
Revolt had such a convolutE
the screen because it was a
its time. It was very close to
a green light at one studio
executive killed the project
he said R-rated teen comed
find an audience. This was
months before 'American Pi
onto the scene."
With Michael Cera's Tiger B
and every-guy awkwardness, it
why he was chosen for the role
question burning in the minds
erywhere is: What is he like in p
"Micheal Cera is even more a
life than on the screen. He's ath in with a razor-sharp dry wit," Payne wrote.
d trek to It's not hard to see why Hollywood has
of come knocking on Payne's door -it's a sym-headi biotic relationship that benefits both parties.
Receiving If the movie is a success, there are a wealth
when an of novels to march down the aisle as sequels.
because And as for the author, it can't hurt book sales.
ies couldn't Payne said he wants people to walk away from
a few the movie with an "extreme and overwhelming
e' roared desire to read the novel."
Thankfully for Payne, there's a lot of press
surrounding this movie. CollegeHumorcom is
hosting a contest in which you dress up like
C.D. PAYNE Francois and "wreak public havoc." Whoever
author submits the most revolting video wins a trip to
Vegas.
Payne has a good reason for wanting this
seat popularity movie to do well.
s easy to see "The first sequel, 'Revolting Youth,' has
of Twisp. The been optioned by Weinstein Films, so if the
of females ev movie does well, there might indeed be a fol-
erson? low-up. I hope so, 'cause they're on the hook to
adorable in real pay me considerably more this next time. Even
very funny guy more reason for everyone to see the movie!"
12, ALLIGATOR *THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2010
0D
omericon
Cafe Gardens
For over a third of a century,
the Original World Famous
Cafe Gardens has been
serving Gators with delicious
food and a large selection
of beers and wines. Located
just across from campus near
the Florida Book Store, this
quaint landmark establishment
with award winning courtyard
dining is perfect for any date
or gathering. For live music
schedule, call 376-2233.
Hours: Mon-Wed llam-l0pm,
Thurs-Sat 11am-11pm, Sun
Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave
Gotor Dow9s
We have 26 styles of hot dogs
to choose from. Chicago, Heart
attack, Frito, Colombia, etc.
Even create your own. Our
burgers are prepared daily and
cooked to order. Our fresh deli
sandwiches come with over
1/4 lb of meat. Check out our
full menu at GatorDawgs.com.
Several delicious vegetarian &
vegan options. We are located
at 1023 W University Ave.
378-4353
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and
Stacks. The only way to
describe the Stack is that is
outrageously delicious! Its
uniquely different presentation-
three 6 inch flour tortillas
stacked high with fresh grilled
ingredients and just the right
accent of cheese- is strangely
inviting to one's palate. Come
out & try our 1/3 lb Burgers,
steak seasoned Panchos, &
Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the Home Grown
and Homemade Black Bean
Hummus! Now serving draft and
Red Stripe beers! We deliver!
Open late to serve your late
night cravings! Sun-Wed:11am-
3am. Thurs-Sat: 11am-4am.
34th St Plaza (Sweetbay) 0
2124 SW 34th St 672-6111
www.jdoobies.com
barbecue
David's BBQ
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, Eat-
in, Takeout, Drive-thru, Cater-
ing, or Tailgaiting. Everyone
loves David's BBQ because,
unlike ordinary BBQ places,
David's cooks over a real wood
fire! Eat where the locals eat!
Voted #1 BBQ in Gainesville!
Approved caterer for UF's
Emerson Alumni Hall. Mon-Sat
7am -9pm. Sundays open at
8am. Drive Thru until 9:30pm
7 days! 352-373-2002. Have
David's BBQ delivered by Ga-
torfood.com. FREE WIFI. 5121
NW 39th Ave
www.davidsBBQ.combreakfast
and lunch
Bogels Unlimited
Serving Gainesville for over 25
years. BU is a tradition of sorts.
We offer many breakfast platters
cooked fresh, featuring omelettes,
eggs any style, large pancakes,
French Toast, Knishes, 17
varieties of bagels and a large
assortment of spreads. Also
available are tofu and tempeh.
Over 100 bottles of hot sauces
are available for sampling.
1222 West University Ave.
Open everyday from 6:30am-
3pm.
c hne,5eGolden Buddha
Where eating well means eating
healthy.Gainesville's best
Chinese food. Now with more
sizes available with more vegan
options. As always, generous
portions, fast service & super
lunch/dinner combos. FREE
DELIVERY.
613 NW 16th Ave. 372-4282 or
380-9076. Full menu and specials
@ GoldenBuddhaSpecial.com
(crackerSisne
The Yearing
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog legs,
and alligator, as well as USDA
Prime beef, seafood, grits, greens
& hush puppies. Open Thursday
& Friday 5pm-1 Opm, Saturday
12pm-10pm & Sunday 12pm-
8:30pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999
www.theyearlingrestaurant.com
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301
D'Lites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
DLites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
d'licious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly without
the diet taste. We also feature afrozen treats : ndion and
U~whole array of cookies, chips, and
various grocery treats that appeal
to Atkins@, Weight Watchers@,
and other dieters. Our every day
daily specials make shopping
at DOLites a special value!
Come weigh your options at
the Marketplace Plaza at NW
16th Blvd. and 43rd St. (next to
the Hollywood Video) or at the
Shoppes of Williston at S.W. 34th
Street and Williston Rd. (next to
Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook.
Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts,
loose leaf teas, and beer, with
lots of vegan options. Now open
24 hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
blocks east of campus at 1025 W.
University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve frozen
yogurt as a healthy dessert
alternative. Our yogurt has 0%
fat and contains live and active
cultures. Choose any combination
of 8 different flavors and over 30
toppings. Everything for just 45
cents an ounce. 3841 SW Archer
Rd (next to Bento Red) Open
from noon to midnight daily!
Yogaberry
OPEN LATE-ACROSS FROM
THE UNIVERSITY IN TARGET
COPY! Come build your healthy
treat at Yogaberry! Our yogurt
is 100% fat free and the only
yogurt that is made with real
organic milk. Choose from an
array of fresh fruit toppings cut
daily, candies and fun cereal.
New flavors for you to try daily,
and always free samples! In
addition, we have the finest
organic, free-trade coffee.
Our coffee bar features lattes,
cappuccino's, espresso, cuban
coffee's, yoga mocha's and
much more!
home&[y ye1cooking
L Let's Eat Diner
The best kept secret
inGainesville, Let's Eat Diner is
a small diner just off the beaten
path on 39 Ave at NW 22 Dr.
Open Mon-Sat 7am till 8pm
serving breakfast, lunch, and
supper and Sunday 11am till
2pm with a lunch buffet. We
serve home style cookin'. "Just
like Momma used to fix." 352-
378-0738 www.letseatdiner.com
Oh yeah, we also do catering!vegetonion
Green Mango
The best Indian food in
Gainesville. Serving Gainesville
since 1991. The best Samosas
in Florida. Offering many vegan
dishes. We are specialized in
catering any group size. Delivery
available-free delivery on any
purchase over $25! Open 7 days
Mon-Sat 11:30am-9pm, Sunday
1 pm-8pm. Call 352-505-6200.
7625 W Newberry Rd
japanese
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a hip,
trendy atmosphere. Two great
locations with outside eating.
Open every day for carry-out
or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.
k e no w e,5
Cabana Cove
Key West Grille
Now offering a new bistro
inspired menu.
Open for lunch and dinner.
Full martini and mojito bar.
Voted nicest outdoor dining.
COUPON -DATE NIGHT -COUPON
Choose 1 appetizer, 2 entrees, a
bottle of wine, and share a slice
of Key Lime Pie.
All for only $39.99 (expires
12/31/09)
2410 NW 43rd Street
Gainesville
352-377-3278
Please visit us online at
www.cabanacove.net for
additional savings and coupons.
* atin
Ichine,5e
Green Ploantoins
Happy Hour $2.75
Drink+Appetizer from 3-7pm.
$5 To-Go Dinners. Mon-Sat
from 4pm. Don't miss out $4.95
dinner + soda on Thursday,
student night from 4pm-1Opm.
Visit us at 5150 SW 34th Street
at the new Publix Shopping
Center 7 days a week.
We cater. Check us out on
GatorFood.com 352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.comAvenue gets makeover, wants your opinions
local C
organic
THE JONES
Gainesville's own independently
owned community restaurant
dedicated to bringing sustain-
able, local, and organic food
to the table. Oh, and it's really
yummy. Herbivores, carnivores,
& omnivores welcome! NOW
SERVING DINNER EVERY
NIGHT! New hours: open every
day 8am-10pm. Check out our
facebook page for specials and
events. 401 NE 23rd Avenue.
352.373.6777
Mildred's
Big City Food
Eat Gainesville's Best Food at
Mildred's. We support LOCAL
and SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh
Dishes Made From Scratch!
OPEN SUNDAYS!
CONVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371-1711
MildredsBigCityFood.com
New Deal Cof
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burgers! This 12oz.
Goliath is Naturally Aged and
Fresh Ground. MONSTROUS
desserts. HUGE Martini's. $5
glasses of wine and 20 wines
under $20! Mon-Thurs. 11am-
10pm
Fri & Sat. 11am-11pm
371-4418
newdealcafegainesville.com
Located next door to Mildred's.
Keepin' it fresh -Keepin' it real!
mediferranean
Ti Amo!
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine
agrees, "[the chef] adds visual
flair to every dish to make it as
good-looking as it is flavorful."
NEW Happy Hour Specials!
Every day from 4pm-7pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices & terrific
service.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.com
12 SE 2nd Ave. 378-6307mexican
Boca Fiesta
Best Margaritas in Town!
Fresh-squeezed + all natural!
Tasty tacos, burritos, nachos!
Cheap beer, full bar, open late!
232 SE 1st St Downtown
336-TACO!
izz0
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta, & desserts. All you
can eat buffet available!
Outdoor dining. Visit www.
newyorkpizzaplus.com for
coupons. We Deliver!
490 NE 23rd Ave.
376-3444
vegeforion
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade, meals,
sandwiches, soups, home-baked
desserts. Brunch Weekends.
Specials: Cupcake Mon.,
Southern Cooking Tues., Greek
Wed 6pm, Ethiopian Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 10am-8pm.
505 NW 13th St 384-0090
v1Ienome,5e
Soigon Legend
Delicious traditional Vietnamese
cuisine with popular Asian
favorites. Pho-Banh Xeo, Banh
Tom Ha-Woi. Enjoy great food
at great prices. Family owned
restaurant. Next to Holiday
Inn. Vietnamese subs-pork,
chicken, & tofu. Dine-in or take
out. Catering available. Mon-Sat
10:30am-9:30pm, Sun 11:30am-
9pm
374-0934
1228 W Univ Avehgr-o (:gTHURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2010 + ALLIGATOR, 13
9,@g ma@ Ook @Q QQ gubo@ q@ 00adag @QUQ,( @Om aokpua &&@GffldR@.o
@Ahw N@00, *9-G mBy ASHLEY ROSS We've got new, cutting edge stories for you cov- 5 p.m. to pitch your ideas, show us your work or
avenue editor eringthe latest in everythingfrom fashion and mu- give us any feedback. Can't make it? E-mail us at
sic to nightlife and sex. But we want to know what avenueeditor@gmail.com. We want to write what
Welcome back, boys and girls. I hope you're you want to see. And if you want to help create you want to read, and whoever said the sky's the
ready to get 2010 off to a fresh start because the the Avenue, even better. We're open to all ideas limit has it coming. With the Avenue, there is no
Avenue is back, revamped and ready to keep you regarding photos, columns, stories and multime- limit.
so entertained that you get in trouble in class for dia pieces. Check us out online atalligator.org/theavenue
reading it but don't even care. Stop by The Alligator Friday between 2 p.m. and and follow us on Twitter @GatorAve.
Musical is cats meow 'Sex and the City
By MICHELLE PROFIS stops on the current national tour, but it 2 ) trailer n o
avenue writer also boasts a great history with the show.
The first performance atthe Phillip's Center
Cats are coming to Gainesville. was "Cats" in 1992.
No, not the kind that kick up your aller- "It'sjust the universality of the show that b u lo s f sh e
gies and require a litter box. These cats are makes itsuch a favorite with the Gainesville By Ashley Ross
the singing and dancing kind. community," Douglas said. avenue editor
"Cats," a musical that has reached Known as a Broadway phenomenon,
international success, is coming to "Cats" has made its way into the hearts + SPOILER ALERT!
the Phillips Center for the Performing of audiences worldwide throughout its 27-
Arts this weekend for three performances. year run: It's been acted throughout five When you're wearing metallic gold Christian Louboutin
This feline phenomenon was first per- continents, translated into 20 languages pumps, who needs a plot line?
formed in London in 1981 and made its and performed in 26 countries. Not Carrie Bradshaw in the new trailer for Sex and the City 2.
Broadway debut in 1982. With outrageous Jason Wise, the actor who currently The minute, 19 second trailer released in mid-December of-
and outlandish cat costumes, "Cats" re- plays Tumblebrutus, an energetic and play- fers a taste of what to look forward to in the long-awaited sequel.
mains a Broadway force to be reckoned ful feline, could not be more excited to bring Although the clip does make it known that the girls are back (as
with. The musical features an eclectic fu- this show to Gainesville. is the fashion), it steered clear of any display of what the movie
sion of pop, classical, jazz and rock music. Wise, 20, first dreamed of starring in is about. But despite concealingthe plot, which was far from the
"It's really a story that crosses cultures," Cats" at age 10 when he sat in the last case with the original film's trailer, this one simply stirs the usual
said Amy Douglas, director of marketing at row in the top balcony of a performance. thrill and giddiness that comes along with hearing Sarah Jessica
the Phillips Center. "'Cats' is all the experi- Now, every time he takes a bow he glances Parker's voiceover and an orchestrated version of the "Sex and
ences that we as humans have, but we get up to the balcony and wonders what young the City" theme song.
to see it through the eyes of cats." actor is sitting up there with the same as- Flashing a series of New York City sights to the beats of Alicia
And don't think that these are ordinary pirations. Keys' "Empire State of Mind," the trailer tells viewers this sum-
cats named Kitty or Fifi. These felines have The unique details in the show have mer is time to "Carrie On." Now, it can be argued that using a pun
names like Old Deuteronomy, Jennyanddots helped make "Cats" the force that it is to- with Carrie's name is quite cliche, especially considering it was
and Grizabella. day. After winning seven Tony awards in done with the first film ("to get Carried away"), but the silliness
Based on T.S. Eliot's "Old Possum's Book 1983, including Best Musical, "Cats" has only adds to the fun of it all.
of Practical Cats" and composed by theater become the longest continuously touring The trailer highlights the friendships, the fun and, naturally,
proficient Andrew Lloyd Webber, "Cats" cel- Broadway musical in history- the fashion. It gives you everythingyou've been waitingfor: a look
ebrates the lives and stories of a variety of Purrformances are Saturday at 7:30 p.m. at Carrie in her closet, Charlotte (Kristin Davis) baking cupcakes
dancing, prancing cats. Even those not too and Sunday at 1 p.m. and 5 p.m. Tickets with a baby on her hip, Miranda (Cynthia
familiar with the musical will probably have range from $34 to $66, except student Nixon) happily married and Samantha (Kim
heard songs like "Memory" or "Magical Mr. tickets, which are $10, and can be pur- Cattrall) -who would have guessed this
Mistoffelees." chased at the Phillips Center Box Office or one -sexing it up with a hot stranger. The
Not only is Gainesville one of many any Ticketmaster location. And remember, best thing about the trailer -aside from the
no anti-allergy medication is needed. clothes -is that it focuses less on the ordi-
narySATC drama and more on the cherished
friendships between the four girls we've all
come to know and love.
Inspired by Candace Bushnell's novel, the series launched
on HBO in 1998 and ran for six seasons. The episodes are now
replayed on TBS, WGN and other cable channels, which have cut
out explicit sexual content aired in the original episodes. But the
12-year run with the girls has made fans feel as though they're
just as good of friends with each character as the characters are
with each other. And the new trailer ends with a shot of the fa-
mous four strutting in flowy, fabulous outfits on vacation in the
desert as Parker's familiar voice says, "Sometimes you just have
to get away with the girls." It inspires the perfect, most fabulous
summer vacation you could ever imagine.
But let's get down to what really matters: the fashion. The
\U trailer shows Carrie in 14 different spectacular outfits, and even
though the beloved Carrie necklace is nowhere in sight, she does
wear everythingfrom glitzyjewelryto adorable headpieces, mar-
velous Manolo Blahniks and even a simple J'adore Dior T-shirt.
Charlotte, Miranda and Samantha are all in striking styles as
well, each outfit exemplifying how meticulously one ages as a
movie star.
Tabloids have exploited a few spoilers surrounding the reap-
pearance of Smith (Jason Lewis), whom Samantha split with in
the last movie, Miranda's unexpected career move, Charlotte's
struggles as a mother and even a possible cheatingscandal with
Big (Chris Noth). But perhaps leavingthe plot out of the trailer is
a good thing it just leaves us wanting more.
So shake up some cosmopolitans and rent every season and
the first movie to catch up on the girls because no matter how
cute and exciting the trailer may be, we've got five months until
we can slip on our stilettos, book our tickets on Fandango and
Carrie on.
Alligator staff For the trailer, visit sexandthecitymovie.com.uv
I
14, ALLIGATOR +THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2010
witness i f 2
Scrawny's in for 2010
Avar<'s
IJake SullyI
TeOciinicolor Shots of
pints absinthe
Schoolgirl
pLaidsStar Trek's
Capt. KirkI 7ChndIer
Parsons
RHuedi
Cooper
SakeVamp-e
Wee end's
Superskiny ties
Edwaird
Cidlen's
vampnwe
Skinny ties claim
Hunter Sizemore/ Alligator Staff
Sheer panties sex things up
By JARED MISNER and ASHLEY McCREDIE
avenue writers
he says.
All right, boys, wake up.
These simple resolutions will help you score
just a little bit more.
As for all you boys who like boys? Don't worry.
I know your games, too. We'll get to you all soon
enough.
First, those Guy HarveyT-shirts with the gaudy
watercolor of a grouper, or any other type of sea-
food for that matter, belong in the garbage. Put it
this way: Do sailfish make you want to dry hump?
And for the sake of fashion and your libido, dump
the jean shorts. They died with the '90s, along
with your jean-short-sporting sex life.
"That's right, sX it up in diffjzrnt pbe
because, let's face it, a bed can get a little
old (and aren't you tired of hearing the
same mattress squeaks every time?)
ASHLEY McCREDIE
avenue writer
Your first resolution is to go shopping for a few
new additions to your lackluster wardrobe. I real-
ize some of you boys might find this unnecessary
and exhausting, but I promise you, the bedroom
benefits of the newly dapper young Gator will sur-
prise you.
ZZ Top knew what they were talking about
when they said, "Every girl's crazy 'bout a sharp-
dressed man."
Oh hey, you say you haven't showered in three
days? Oh, and you have a 5 o'clock shadow at 9
in the morning?
Yeah, my girlfriends and I are wincing in our
RTS seats as we look at you from behind our
hands and whisper about you.
Ignoring shampoo and shaving cream for more
than 24 hours will not make you a hipster. It's not
even masculine. It's disgusting.
Take heed to my second resolution for you,
boys. Pay attention to yourself for a change. Take
care of yourself. Because if you don't, a sweet-
smelling lady sure won't.But I will let you in on a teeny, tiny secret: Girls
and a good 10 percent of guys like to be under-
neath a good-smelling man.
There's a reason Gucci hasn't started bottling
up the smell of sweaty, unshaven frat boy.
she says.
Welcome back my fellow females, it's time get
a hold of life and realize that -OMG -it's 2010!
When making resolutions for the first year of the
new decade, your sex life should be at the top of
your list. After all, a good sex life enhances every
other part of life.
The first resolution can be conquered by even
the shyest girls out there: Buy lingerie. Take a trip
to the mall and do what we do best: Shop. High-
tail it to Victoria's Secret and find that black lacey
bra and panty set that your parents would never
approve of. Or, for the more adventurous, go all
the way with a sheer bra, garter belt and a match-
ing lace-up thong.
For the single ladies out there, wearing some-
thing sexy underneath your outfit will make you
feel sexier. And in return you will send out con-
fident vibes to potential partners. You can also
think of it as your own little secret that only those
worthy will be let in on.
For girls who are taken, watch your boyfriend's
jaw drop when you pounce in bed in your new at-
tention-grabbing lace instead of the nude push-
up bra and cotton thong that regularly adorn your
body. And remember, there is no need for a spe-
cial occasion. Pull it out to spice up a Wednesday
night when all he's expecting is some cuddling
and a movie.
With or without new lingerie, have a new sex-
ual experience for the new year and change loca-
tions. That's right, sex it up in different places
because, let's face it, a bed can get a little old
(and aren't you tired of hearing the same mat-
tress squeaks every time?) Go Luda style, "back
seat, windows up," or make your own mark on
the Florida Field. There is no limit on this one,
just be sure not to get caught. Lastly, get to know
yourself. You can't be fulfilled with anything in
life until you find out what will satisfy you. And of
course, none of us can read minds like Edward,
so tell your man what tickles your fancy.
Get out there, ladies. Go turn some heads,
makes some boys drool and unleash the updat-
ed, 2010 version of your sexy self.What s
IBy ERIK VOSS
avenue writer
EveryJanuary, after peeling off my
Christmas sweater and shaking out
all the sugar cookie crumbs, a pale,
unchiseled torso frowns glumly back
at me through the mirror.
"You'll start working out this year,"
I'll tell myself. "You're gonna get more
ripped than Carrot Top."
Of course, I'm lying to myself. By
the time I locate a gym, squeeze into
an old summer camp T-shirt, admire
how buff it makes me look and, pant-
ing, crawl the 20 feetto my car, I bare-
ly have enough energy to finish chew-
ingthe days-old half of a Snickers bar
I found under my bed.
And besides, "Lost" is on!
At this stage in my life, the only
practical benefit to regular exercise is
improving my sexual attractiveness.
(Health? I'm good, thanks. I voted
for Obama, and he's got me covered
there.) I'll pick up a dumbbell when
the other channels of attracting wom-
en become obsolete.
I'm just not convinced the only
route to women is on a treadmill. I've
been working on a formula that in-
cludes dim lighting, alcohol, a sense
of humor -maybe some cash if I
make it to a second date -and that
'Dead Man's Cell
Phone' opens at HIPP
By ALLISON BANKO
avenue writer
Some claim that the eyes are the
windows to the soul. However, the truth
can really be discovered in our iPhones
and CrackBerries. Our photos, texts
and voicemails are precious secrets
we hope to keep safely concealed in
our pockets. We keep our cells tightly
strapped to ourselves at all times,
shifting our eyes up from texting only
to ensure we are able to walk across
the street without getting hit by that
clueless jackass in the Oldsmobile.
But imagine having that glue be-
tween you and your little darling pried
off. What would happen if someone
else had complete access to your cell
phone, your world? Oh the secrets
that they could uncover! (Cue a cer-
tain golfer who had been doing some
putting around of his own). This heart-
wrenching fear is played out on stage
in Sarah Ruhl's comedy "Dead Man's
Cell Phone" set to be performed at the
Hippodrome State Theater from Janu-
ary 6 to 31.
Jean, a simple woman, was mind-
ing her own business in a quaint cafe
when she suddenly found herself an-
swering an abandoned cell phone.
Much to her surprise, the phone be-
longs to a deceased man, Gordon. By
answering the phone, Jean is soon
sucked into Gordon's topsy-turvy life of
lies, a hidden mistress and his kooky
family.
"Dead Man's Cell Phone" is a pro-
duction that is unparalleled not onlyin its characters, but in its costumes
and set designs, as well. EmmyAward-
winning costume designer Marilyn
Wall captures the oddities in her styl-
ish designs.
"This play really is a feast for the
eyes. The set, the lights, the costumes
-it's really a spectacle that can only
be experienced in a live theater," Alt-
meyer said.
Sure to evoke multiple laughs,
"Dead Man's Cell Phone" also serves
as a scope into the modern lifestyles
we have adapted with our beloved
technologies.
"The production poses many ques-
tions to the value
we hold toward
connection. We
seem to be in the
most contact we
have ever been,
and yet, we are
less connected as
a result. 'Dead Man's Cell Phone' al-
lows a humorous look into this," Alt-
meyer said.
Under the direction of Lauren
Caldwell, there will be eight shows a
week. Tickets are priced at $12 for
students. For more information, visit
thehipp.org.
"Dead Man's Cell Phone" is surely
a production for the modern genera-
tion. And after leaving the theater, you
may want to consider enabling a pass
code on your mobile. After all, your se-
crets can all be uncovered in the pass
of a finger on a screen or with the push
of a button.seems to work well enough for me.
If pop culture is any indicator of
female sexual desires, then Icabod
is in. Coldplay's Chris Martin clings
to that microphone pole as if a strong
breeze might blow him away, and Jo-
seph Gordon Levitt's starvation is so
severe he constantly sweats.
If a majority of Twilight readers are
members of "Team Edward," clearly
there's still hope for the pale and
frail.
And if you're still worried women
want a bigger guy, sheep, shaggy
dogs and wild turkeys provide us with
an excellent solution: layering. Wom-
en deceive with makeup -why can't
we do it with thick, wool sweaters?
The recent drop in temperature
has given us a great excuse to hide
our bony or flabby frames behind big,
heavy coats. Never mind if it's only
55 degrees -in Florida, that's tundra
weather. The ladies can only assume
those sweatpants are covering the
calves of a bike messenger
Now, I have to admit I'm not com-
pletely happy with myself. There's
always room for improvement, sure.
But I'm goingto feast on dust-covered
caramel and try to predict Ben Linus'
next move on "Lost" for as long as I
can still get away with it.
See you not in the gym in 2010.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2010 + ALLIGATOR, 15
around gainesville
Deals help wallet, social scene
Ashley McCredie
Get stylish this season with beanies, scarves and a new hit on the scene -capes
Stephanie Granada and Matthew Turner pose ready for the low Gainesville tempera-
tures during their night out
_,IBy ALEX ORLANDO
avenue writer
So, you're back in Gainesville from that relaxing
cornucopia of holiday food, family and presents.
Your belly might be full, but your pockets are
probably empty because, let's face it, the magic
of Christmas isn't free. Imagine you have only $30
left in your wallet. Here are the best deals around
town to make your first weekend of spring semes-
ter a memorable one:
Friday night: The first week of classes are out of
the way, so warm up a little on University Avenue
before plunging into the downtown party scene.
If you're in the mood to throw back a few in an
old-school bar scene, there are Balls and Salty
Dog, which are positioned within about 50 feet of
each other.
If you can manage to get over to Balls between
6 p.m. and 8 p.m., you and your friends will be able
to drink all you can for $7.
And don't forget to eat on your drinking adven-
tures. Further east on University Avenue, there's
Mother's Irish Pub, which serves 10 wings for
$4.99 on Fridays.
There is also the Italian Gator Pizza, which
serves two cheese slices with a soda for $5.75.
By this time, it's around 10 p.m. You're full,
maybe a little buzzed, and you've spent about
$12, depending on where you went.
Positioned almost directly above the Italian
Gator is Grog House, a bar/night club, where, for
a $5 cover charge, you can play "beat the clock."
Starting at 9 p.m., pitchers of beer cost 25 cents,
and the cost increases a quarter every 15 minutes
until midnight.Maybe loud, thumping club music isn't your
style. On Northwest First Avenue, Tim and Terry's
-a music store and venue that doubles as a res-
taurant/bar and triples as a small convenience
store in front -has free live and local music on
Friday nights.
With your Friday night about wrapped up, you
should be headed home with enough money in
your pocket for tomorrow night's downtown run.
Saturday Night: Boca Fiesta, positioned next to
the Hippodrome, has an exotic meat menu. This
month, they have meal worm tacos for $5. Also,
for 50 cents with each shot, Boca Fiesta offers an
eight ounce can of Miller Lite.
Also, on your way to the clubs is Big Uly's, a walk-
up burger joint that usually has 80's rap pouring out
its windows and cooks dancing in the kitchen.
If house music, laser lights and a smoky dance
floor are more your scene, $5 will get you into the
Neon Liger Dance Party at Spannk night club. The
club also has $5 double wells and $2 PBR on Sat-
urday nights.
Your date and your wallet may also appreciate
Saturday Ladies Night at 101 Downtown. The club
has no cover charge and has two-for-one wells and
$3 house wines for your female friend, plus free
valet parking.
Bythis time, it's 1 a.m. Sunday and you've prob-
ably danced yourself up another appetite. Five Star
Pizza servers are out on the prowl with $7 cheese
and $8 pepperoni pizzas for the last of your origi-
nal $30.
You split the pizza with your date and head
home slightly drunk for some much-needed rest.
After all, Monday morning is less than 23 hours
away.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
$399 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
24hr Fitness Center * 2 Pools
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-1
**CUT ME OUT AND SAVE BIG*
The coupon is good for a $1200 value
Sign for a 2/2,3/3 or 4/4 for fall 2010
Furnished. All inclusive. Student suites.
$0 Signing Fees, 42" TV or New Sofas
352.373.9009 lexingtoncrossinguf.com
*CUT ME OUT AND SAVE BIG**
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$250/MO
Fully Furnished Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, Campus Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $775/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432
1-20-09-50-1
Female wanted for 4/4 condo. Furn room
w/ private bath Clean, bus rte pool workout
room. Inc utilities cable internet wash/dry
$435/mth for spr sem $300 sec dep Jeff 904-
612-3944 or weeks63@comcast.net 1-20-
09-20-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
Scholars' haven in modern, elegant house
in woods 1 mi no of UF. Share w/ 1 woman
grad student. On busline. $400 + util. Jan 1+
mardavis03@yahoo.com 1-8-10-5-1
$522/2br in a 2-2. SHORT TERM LEASE!!!
JANUARY TO JULY201O AT THE ESTATES.
FULLY FURNISHED, UTILS INCLUDED!
SW 20th Avenue, APT #1026A.
PLEASE CALL 205-834-5852 ASAP!!!
1-12-10-7-1
Rooms available in 4 bed 4 bath apt for
Spring move-in. Furnished or unfurnished.
Starting at $399/ month. Cable, internet, tile
floor, 24 hour amenities. Waived app fee.
(352) 380-9899 universityclubapts.com 1-8-
10-5-1
Beautiful 3/3, close to schooldir. on bus!
Brand new appl, paint, bedding, remdld
bthrms, Frint bldng, upstrs.
bdduf86@comcast.net
1-25-10-14-1
A Windsor Park fully furnished upscale
3bd/3bth apt. ONLY $399 NO SECURITY
DEPOSIT+ 1 MONTH FREE! includes cable,
internet, utilities, and amenities. Dont miss
out! call 786-312-7004 for more information
1-15-10-8-1University Commons -Available Immediately
$299 per month -flexible lease terms
Fastest and best bus service to UF
Lots of amenities
Call Jay 704-677-2018 1-20-10-10-1
Rmmate wanted NOW to share very nice
3BR/3BA condo. Very close to UF & Santa
Fe. Fully furnished. Prv't BR/BA. Pool &
porch. No pets please. $550/month ALL
UTILITIES INC!! Call Talia (305)304-1703.
1-21-10-10-1
1 month of free rent!
1 bedroom sublease in a 3/3 townhome in the
woodlands apt.complex off SW62nd. blvd.
$600 per month, utilities are included.
Two male room mates who are clean and
easy to live with. call 904-305-3036 if inter-
ested! 1-15-7-1
Kensington South Townhouse 2bed/2.5bath.
Furnished Downstairs. $450/month per
room including internet and alarm system.
954-598-3986. Available immediately or for
Summer/Fall 2010. 1-27-14-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 372-6881 or
mobile 213-3901. 4-21-09-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
$99 MOVES YOU IN!
1 brs from $539
2brs from $599
3brs from $750
Wtr incl.*Pet Friendly*Spacious
1 mile from UF*Shands*Downtown
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
Limited Availability-Downtown Apartments
Studios-$599*One Bedrooms*$699
Two Bedrooms-$859*Three Bedrooms-$1299
Move in NOW or Fall 2010
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
4-21-09-71-21 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR/1 BR $465 * 2BR/1 BA $569
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 Iv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now or Fall 2010.
2 & 3 Bedroom Townhomes.
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
A SPECIAL PLACE TO CALL HOME
1 BR from $585
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $755
Tanning*Fitness*Tennis*Pool*Playground
Washer/Dryer*Fireplaces*Pools
Call us for a tour! 376-2507
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
1, 2, 3's! madisonpointe.org
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
4-21-71-2
*POLOS
Three Bus Routes (9,34,35,36)!
1.5m to UF, Shand's, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$799 3/3-$979
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-21-09-71-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 17
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For RentF nfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75 SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 4-21-
71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2* SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$465, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
4-21-09-71-2
BRAND NEW REDUCED RATES!
1's, 2's, 3's
Inclusive Pkgs Available
* Pet Friendly!
Immediate or Fall Move In
352-374-3866
4-21-09-71-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
40NOW LEASING FOR FALL 2010
Utility Packages Available
*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key s Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
5 Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
5 Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
RATES STARTING AT $449
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/1 BA $425
5 2BR $450-$600 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-21BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St.
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <50lbs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 1-29-
10-60-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 1-8-09-
43-2
Working at Shands or VA- nice 2/1 @ Summit
House across the street. $700/mo + $200
dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 1-29-47-2
WWW.BIKETOUF.COM
1 BR from $575
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $745
Tan ning*Fitness*Ten nis*Pool
Washer/Dryer*Pets Welcome!
Call us for a tour! 377-7401
4-21-09-71-2
* 2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE
7209 SW 45th Pl. $600/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 1-20-10-
28-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 1-29-09-35-2
Custom 2BR/1BA in pvt 4 Unit complx. Tiled
fir in Liv rm, Carpet in BRs w/ceiling fans. All
new BA. New Kit w/stainless appl, W/D, Cent
H/A, i-net/cable avail. Mgr pays water, pest
contrl, lawn main, security lites. Near bus rte.
Sorry no pets $635/mo Call 727-423-9463
6Also avail: Fully furn 2BR/1BA $735/mo.
1-19-09-23-2
WALK/BIKE TO UF/SHANDS! Campus Edge
1 BR/1 bath, washer/dryer, stove,dishwasher,
poolgymno pets,$550/m,2360 SW Archer
Rd.561-313-1549 Owner agent 1-11-09-
15-2
$99 Moves-U-IN! $299 + 75 utility package.
Downtown Vintage room, or 34th st condo
room w/private bath & walk-in closet. 352-
226-3535, 713-705-6279 1-7-09-10-2
3/1 Vintage House! $900/month Walk to UF!
Porch, w/d hook-ups, central AC 352-226-
3535, 713-705-6279 517 NW 8th St 1-7-
09-10-24 Bed/2 bath Vintage House $990/month.
Walk to UF! Univ/by Leo706. 818 SW 3rd
Ave. Central A/C, porch, w/d, and close to
downtown too. 352-226-3535, 713-705-6279
1-7-09-10-2
BLOCKS TO UF
Available August 2010. Now showing
multiple houses. 2BR/2BA, 3BR/2BA,
4BR/3BA, 5BR/3BA. www.dalyproperties
com or call Carol 359-3341 2-26-10-43-2
Move-In Now & Walk to UF
2BR $300/br * 1 BR $599 * Studio $720
Dorm style $509 Roommate Matching Avail
www.ForRentNearUF.com *352-376-6223
4-21-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
2BR/2BA, kitchen, living room, loft, laun-
dry, patio, large 6 ft fenced backyard, small
pet allowed; excellent, clean; minutes to all
shops & UF. $800/mo. Call Hal at 653-281-
7414 or 800-248-7788 1-13-10-10-2
HOUSE avail Dec 15th. 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF bus
rte. Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo. Call
327-2931 or 376-6183 1-8-10-7-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
IBR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 1-29-10-20-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 1-29-10-20-2
Luxury Student Condos Close To Campus
Includes internet and utilities
From $385 per month each.
Please call us for the details.
Bristol Park Realty (352) 367-2669
1-29-09-20-2
Luxury student condos close to calmus.
Includes interent & tuilities
From $385 per month each.
Please call us for the details.
Bristol park Realty 352-367-2669 1-29-10-
20-2
Copyrighted Material2BR/1 BA w/ small study near Shands. Large
screened room w/ W/D hook-ups. Available
S now. $650/mo. Sec dep $650. Pets ok 3300
SW 23rd St. Apt #1. Call 352-371-3473 leave
message. 1-15-10-10-2-
Townhouse 2BR/1.5BA, WD hook-up. New
kitchen w/ private courtyard. $700/mo, Sec
dep $700. Pets ok. 4007 B SW 26th Terr.
Call 352-371-3473 leave message 1-15-
10-10-2
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers2/2.5 Beacon Hill Condo. 1400sgft built
in 2006. 1.5mi to Shands/UF. Jet tub in
Master bath with dual sinks. Balcony in 2nd
bedroom. pets ok. $800/mo. 352-256-0639
or gqgator07@yahoo.com
1-1 1-10-6-2
Historic Pettit House in dntwn Waldo. 1 bdrm
apt $575.00 (1st, last & security) front & back
porches, fenced yard. convenient to Gvle &
Starke. Coffee cafe next door. Great for grad
student. 378-2141 lv. msg. 1-11-10-5-2
SWEET 2/1 POOL HOUSE
Prime location, 708 NW 10th Ave. incl all
Utils, W/D, beamed ceiling, swimming pool.
Avail 1st Jan. $440 + sec. Call Karl 332-5030
1-8-10-4-2
$400/mo Room to rent Rockwood
Villa Condo, pvt bath, on bus
route, wd, cent h/a, cble/intrnt
some utilities, non-smoking,
female only -904.874.6877 1-20-10-10-2
$99 Move-IN Special
$500-$700 2 bed/1 bath
Walking distance to UF and downtown
(352)226-3535 or (352)505-9264 2-17-10-
30-2
18, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 7,2010
For Rent Ro m Furnishingsunfurnished ff mes O Rlstate fli shigs ih
Holiday Special/ Valentine's Day
NO MOVE-IN COSTS -Free Rent
(Don't Pay Anything til 12/14/10)
Please Hurry. Only A Few Units Avail!
(Se Habla Espanol)/ 352 240-9009
2-12-09-27-2
Rocky Point Apts 3100 sw 35th pl- 376-1619
Country Garden 2001 sw 16th st- 373-4500
Regency Oaks 3230 sw Archer rd 378-5766
Southwest Villas 3643 sw 20 ave 336-9000
Archer Woods 3020 sw Archer rd- 373-8727
2-12-09-27-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 1-12-
10-5-2
Cute & Clean! Vintage 1-BR with wood floors
& great front porch in quiet NW area. Walk to
Ward's, Publix & buslines, bike to downtown
& UF. Avail. NOW! $575/mo. 352-338-7670
or email shepley@cozygator.com 1-12-10-
5-2
Rmmate wanted NOW to share very nice
3BR/3BA condo. Very close to UF & Santa
Fe. Fully furnished. Prv't BR/BA. Pool &
porch. No pets please. $550/month ALL
UTILITIES INC!! Call Talia (305)304-1703.
1-13-10-5-2
SMALL CABIN 2/1, 20 ACRES
Watermelon Pond views. 27802 SW 120th
Lane, Newberry. Horse pens, dog door.
Needs work. $575/mo. $750 move-in 330-
329-8834 1-13-5-2
Baxter Cottage
2 blks to UF campus, 1013 SW 4 Ave
2BR/1BA, Bright, clean, completely remod-
eled, Cent AC/Ht,wood firs, DW, W/D, NS,
NPets. $650+util. ATucker458@aol.com
1-29-10-16-2
LARGE 1BR HOUSE
Urban loft design -fully remodeled. Very
nice. Backyard, trees, downtown, big city
cracker. 316-6667. $670/mo. Available now
1-21-10-10-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
1BR home on a hill, 14' x 24'living room with
view, dining area seats 6, huge patio, private
entrance, carport, near UF, NW 8th Ave. All
utilities paid. $850. 352-395-6250 or 332-
1429 1-29-10-16-2
Luxury 2BR/2BA condo in
prestigious Charleston Pl.
Quiet NW nghbrhd, uf bus rte.
$800 p.m. D/W W/D Pool
avail mid jan Call 443-949-9815 1-13-10-
5-2
-subleases
FIRST MONTH FREE
1/1 in a 4/4 in Gainesville Place $399/mo all
inclusive -best deal in town!
AVAILABLE ASAP
(727)804-4765 or smithse@ufl.edu 1-8-5-
3
Male sublease in Biven's Cove available any-
time January thru July. Only $323 a month
plus utilities, W/D, direct bus route to campus
contact Trevor at 239.682.6351 1-11-5-3
<<SUB-LEASE SIGNING BONUS >
3br/3ba @ The Enclave apt. Two great male
roommates, full kitchen, w/d, patio, fully fur-
nished! $375/mo lease ends @ end of July.
Contact BL @ 954-701-0487 1-13-6-3Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $299/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 4-21-09-71-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail Jan 1st.
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 1-11 -
10-37-4
Female roommate needed, 4/2.5 townhouse,
1-75 and Newberry, all included, gated, $400
baezwpa@bellsouth.net 954-557-4769
1-19-09-30-4
Luxury House -room, $500 incl. utilities.
W/D, ceramic tile, micro, etc. Looking for
graduate/professional for nice place & likes
small pups. Williston/SW 23rd St. 352-226-
3535/713-705-6279 1-7-09-10-4
Grad student seeking two female roommates
(NS/ND) to share a new 4/2 house in a quiet
neighborhood 3 mi. W of 1-75. With cable,
internet & security alarm. 475/mo., util. incl.
Please call 352-331-8794. Rooms are avail-
able immediately. 1-12-12-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
1-20-10-17-4
2BRs in 4/2 house $375 ea. (or $700 both)
+ share util/cable/DSL + dep. Craigslist
ad: http://gainesville.craigslist.org/
roo/1495891104.html. 352 376-9200 1-8-
10-5-4
1-2 Roommates needed for 4br/4ba $385
Fully Furn Condo. ALL UTIL Inc., Pvt. bath
walk-in closet, w/d, pool. Short ride to UF on
2 bus routes. STUDENTS ONLY, non-smok-
ing 954-593-3063 1-8-10-5-4
HISTORIC HIBISCUS PARK!! 2 rooms avail/
share common area/beautiful kitchen/all ap-
pls/$500 mo. all inclusive. WALK TO LAW
SCHOOL AND SWAMP!! Grad student own-
er occupied.Call 561-222-9383 for more
info. 1-12-10-5-4
Looking for roommate to share 3BR/2BA
house with large yard. 2 rooms available,
common area and kitchen furnished.
Located off NW 14th Place. $400 plus
electric. 561-222-4111. Must like dogs.
1-12-10-5-4
1 ROOMMATE NEEDED ASAP For 4bd/3ba
House. Shared With 3 UF Dance Students.
$440 + 1/4 Utils. House Fully Furnished.
Private Bath! Car Garage. W&D Inc. Call
Jessi 813 244 1919 Ready To Move In!
1-29-10-17-4
2 rooms for rent in house by Duck Pond.
Common areas furnished. W/D, Dishwasher.
Available immediately. $425/mo incl utils &
basic phone. $100 deposit. Phone 904-797-
5487 night. 904-547-3482 day Mon -Thurs
1-12-5-2
2 spots available 4/2 house. 1.5 mi from UF.
.5 from bus depot. Weight set, cable, net
$285 month + utilities. for more info, contact
Quin at 352-514-2105 Hurry! 1-13-5-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-71-
5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
130 FEET RIVER FRONTAGE! 1.5 ACRES,
BUILDABLE LOT WITH LARGE SELECTION
OF HUGE TREES ON PEACEFUL SECTION
OF RIVER. GREAT INVESTMENT! ONLY
25K. (352)665-8067 1-13-09-20-5
Won't Last
3/2 -Great Community
Owner Financing
$650.oo/mo
352.378.4411 1-15-10-8-5
Only 3 miles from the Ocean
3 and 2 beds avail/low down/low monthly
Call today! 352.378.4411 1-15-10-8-5
2 & 3 bdr's
>From $599.00/month
Owner Financing
Low down
352.378.4411 1-15-10-8-5
Move In Ready
3/2 Adorable
>From $99.00/mo
Westside/owner finance
352.378.4411 1-15-10-8-5
OWNER FINANCING
3 & 2 bedrooms avail
Great Locations
Call 352.378.4411
today! 1-15-10-8-5
Up to $8K tax credit
For 1st time home buyers
3 & 2 bdrs avail
WE FINANCE
Call today! 352.378.4411 1-15-10-8-5
FOR SALE 2006 Fleetwood 16 x 80
Mobilehome
Avaliable immediately -located in Arrendondo
Farms,7117 SW Archer Road Lot #2611. Call
386-208-3949for information. 1-12-10-5-5
NEW HOMES -3.2 MILES NORTH OF UF
US Dept of Energy, professionally energy
tested, est elec bill $80. 3 different plans,
starting at $208,900. Schackow Realty, de-
veloper 352-514-5060 or rlschack@aol.com
1-13-10-5-5
Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
UF- voters
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
U
US
u-rn
I5,'-p.r
U
THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Computers Motorcycles, Mopeds Motorcycle ds Autos Help Wanted
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
rz Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
MFFo r Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
PARKING 60 SECONDS TO UF
Next to McDonalds NW 13th St.
Call for semester rates: 352-538-2454.
1-15-10-8-10
IVE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Aye, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21 -09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***www.B~uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
E 0
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersDiscount Motorcycle Gear
www.turn2co.com. Up to 75% off original
MSRP. 904-294-8344 Turn 2 Gear 1-29-
10-26-11
11 Autos E
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
1-29-09-75-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
94 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $1499 cash
96 Kia Sephia $999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1499
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
95 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900 SOLD
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-122003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASHThis newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
202 iToyota Coroia, 68k $6999 CASH the independent florida
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12 a
STUDENTS GUARANTEED FINANCING!
Do you have a valid drivers license? RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
Do you have a part time job? FULL TIME POSITION
Ride today for $750 down! Sales driven person to train student sales
Call Angie @ 352-672-5048 1-19-10-12 staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
97 BMW 3281 CONVERTIBLE MANUAL.M3 constantly changing staff.
WHEELS. BRAND NEW TOP & INTERIOR. Duties include training university students
EXCELLENT CONDITION. EVERYTHING in outside newspaper sales, layout and
WORKS.$7000. 352-494-2374 1-20-10-12 copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, goodWanted benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS: PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings email to tcarey@alligator.org.
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade * No phone calls please. EOE
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13,,.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 1-8-09-71-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 1-8-
09-71-13
Have transportation
and want to help?
We need volunteers who are available to
help with trapping projects in mobile home
communities all over Alachua County.
Opportunities are available to help trap for
Operation Catnip Sunday Spay Days and
during the week for surgery at Operation
PetSnip. Operation Catnip will supply you
with all the information and equipment you
need! Email us [mailto:operationcatnip@
nmhp.net] or call to get involved! 352-380-
0940
OTHER OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE TOO!
1-15-8-13
LIONS CLUB IS SEEKING ASSISTANCE
The Newberry Lions Club is planning a
trip for the visually impaired community of
Gainesville to Daytona Beach on January
15th to attend the "Magic of Braille" exhibit
which is touring the US. A total of $700 is
needed to ensure transporation for the group.
Any amount donated is truly appreciated.
Donations can be made to the Newberry
Lions Club, PO Box 1439, Newberry, FL
32669. For further information, please con-
tact Bob Respess, Secretary/Treasurer at
352-472-5434. Newberry Lions Club is a
501(c)(4) organization registered with the
State of Florida .1-11-3-13
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.LiKE- TU WORK WITHr LUXURY CAMR?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
Hair models wanted for long hair in motion
studies. Hip-length or longer only. No experi-
ence necessary. $70 to $120 and hour. Call
352 792-1824 modelslh@yahoo.com
1-14-09-32-14
RGIS INVENTORY SPECIALISTS
Part-time hourly work
Flexible schedules
$8 an hour to start
Apply online at RGIS.COM 1-8-09-8-14
20, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 7,2010
UFHelpWanted HelpWanted services Personals Rid
Live in companion needed for disabled
woman. Light housekeeping asst, vehicle
needed. Experience req. background check.
send resume to vendorslynz@gmail.com
1-11-10-8-14
fHowiGotAnA' H
Have a 3.6 GPA & want to earn some extra
cash? We are hiring notetakers & office staff
for spring '10. Go to www.HowlGotanA.com
1-8-10-6-14
Need 50 typists/transcriptionists to start
January 2010. Must type minimum 65 wpm.
Create your own work schedule, but you
must maintain 16 hours a week between
7am-midnight, M-F. Need impeccable
English skills. Ideal for PT and Students.
Productivity based compensation, profit
sharing, close to campus. Contact now to
reserve a spot for January training sessions.
gnvjobs@uigfla.com
1-8-10-5-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
SPRING 2010
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
1-15-10-9-14
PT lead generation/appt. setting: Work from
home or your location, Day/evening options,
Hourly rate plus bonuses, Paid training, pre-
fer some phone experience. Check us out:
www.onsitetm.com/join-our-team.php send
resume to: careers@onsitetm.com 1-11-
20-5-14
UCB
Looking for energized individuals to work part
time as an office assistant mainly for packing
online orders.
High paced environment so attention to
detail is key. Hourly pay $8.50/hr. Very
nice job environment and 10 min from
UF! Preferred bilingual English/Spanish,
but not required. Please send resumes to
universitycollegebooks@gmail.com and
make sure your contact information is in-
cluded.
Thanks 2-2-10-20-14
SAT Coordinator
Immediate full time/part time opening for
a person with SAT tutoring background
to help develop a new program at Gleim
Publications. Great opportunity and experi-
ence for a "go getter". Please send your re-
sume to hr@gleim.com or apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com 1-20-10-10-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk
elem, mid school students. 1-4 afternoons
per wk. $10/hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed
wk study req for emp. Volunteers welcome.
Contact Sally 352-384-1155, st23@cox.net
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
Linux Administrator
Full time career position with a success-
ful 30 year employer located in Gainesville.
Must have strong Linux/Unix background
and should be conversant with the following:
kernel compiling, network configuration, ip-
tables/ipchains, Sendmail, Procmail, MySQL
and Apache. Please apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com. 2-3-10-20-14
Medical Receptionist needed PT at family
planning clinic. Experience pref. Must be or-
ganized & able to multi-task. Please fax re-
sume: (352) 374-6823. EOE. 1-12-10-5-14
Bookkeeper-Office Mgr -PT -for law firm. 15
hrs/wk. Must know Quickbooks & be highly
organized. Please email resumes to:
robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com. 1-15-10-
8-14Nanny needed for afterschool to help with
homework, errands and meals. -15-20hrs
per week. Reliable, experienced, referrences
required. Reply to kthcrfts@gmail.com 1-8-
3-14
BARTENDERS/COCKTAIL. New upscale
downtown bar, Main Street Bar & Billiards is
now taking applications for day & night bar-
tenders & cocktail waitstaff. Apply in person
at 108 S. Main St. 1-12-10-5-14
Preschool Co-teacher wanted for Jewish
Day School. T/Th/F 11:30am-5:30pm. $9 an
hour. Must have exp. with young children.
Call 352-376-1508 ext. 110 for more info.
1-12-10-5-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Afternoons,
evenings & weekends. Fax resume to 373-
2230 1-20-10-10-14
Full-Time position available in specialty run-
ning store. Passionate workers preferred
with a love for running and helping people.
Please email resume to
mike@runningandwalkingstore.com 1-14-
10-7-14
MOLLY & FRIENDS CAT FURNITURE CO
Needs good help. We hand-craft a great
product here locally. Contact Holly at 337-
1535 if interested in a position with us. 1-13-
10-5-14
LPNs & RTs NEEDED IMMEDIATELY
to work for a home health agency. Flexible
hours, great pay. Full-time & part-time avail-
able. Call 352-284-2336 or email
hcpservices@bellsouth.net 1-21-10-14HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* *GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS**
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
GOT A TICKET?
TAKE TRAFFIC SCHOOL 100% ONLINE
STATE OF FLORIDA APPROVED
NO POINTS ON LICENSE
www.EasyTrafficSchoolNow.com 1-8-20-
15
The Law Firm of Chris McChesney
a sustainable virtual law office for Floridians
landlord/tenant -residential real estate -wills
wwww.chrismcchesney.com
physically located in Arlington, VA 1-11-5-
15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
1-28-15-15
ZServiCes Health Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 1-7-09-
120-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
STD/Pregnancy Testing
Confidential, Affordable, Fast and Easy.
www.JustGetTested.com
5% Off with Discount Code UF2010 2-3-
10-20-16
CF Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards
Employment Visas & Naturalization
www.ruthlaw.com (352) 335-6748
2-2-40-18 GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30W Jl IConnections Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
Event NtiCes
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-21-09-71-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
Gentle Women.through the lens of
Douglas J. Nesbitt, newly released book
now available for holiday gifts!
www.gentlewomen.us
1-11-09-10-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers-p+ iIwwgmgtrans.com 352-2 15-8 1964-21-71-23
Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
We need volunteers and stray/feral cats to
fix! On Sunday, Jan 10th, we will be spay-
ing/neutering homeless cats to increase their
quality of life and to save lives. You can help
make a difference in your community- join
us! No matter what your talent is we have
ways for everyone to get involved. Trap a
stray, volunteer your time at the clinic, do-
nate a lunch item, or help spread the word.
Join our Facebook group, Operation Catnip
Gainesville Chapter, or tweet with us at www.
twitter.com/operationcatnip. For more infor-
mation: (352)380-0940 operationcatnip@
nmhp.netvwww.nmhp.net 1-8-3-24
W1 .ost & Found
FOUND:
SAMSUNG CAMERA
In case at Reitz parking garage. Call to iden-
tify 222-2840 1-11-3-25
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you ve found. Call 373-FIND.
MOST WANTEBj
Ivey Hawkins
Black Male
(DOB 06/27/77); 510",
210 lbs, Black Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
3 Counts of Dealing In
Stolen Property,
Burglary of a
Conveyance and
Battery on a Person
65 Years or Older
ALACNUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOP'04
Sports
THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Hernandez skipping senior season for NFL Draft
0 THE JUNIOR LED UF IN
RECEPTIONS WITH 68.
By BOBBY CALLOVI
Alligator Staff Writer
bca llovi@a Iligator org
The hits keep coming for Flori-
da.
As expected, junior tight end
Aaron Hernandez declared Wen-
desday that he will skip his seniorseason to enter the NFL Draft.
"It is really special for me to take
this first step toward my lifelong
dream of playing in the NFL on the
fourth anniversary of my father's
passing," Hernandez said in a press
release. "I know he would be proud
of not only me, but of my whole
family, whose love and support are
the only reasons I am where I am
today."
Hernandez led the Gators in- receptions (68)
and was second
on the team in
receiving yards
(850) and receiv-
ing touchdowns
(five).
His outstand-
Hernandez ing year earned
him the John Mackey Award, given
to the nation's top tight end.
The All-American topped hisseason off with one of his best per-
formances. He had a career-high in
receptions (nine) and his second-
highest total in yards (111) during
Florida's 51-24 win against Cincin-
nati in the Sugar Bowl.
Cornerback Joe Haden an-
nounced earlier in the week he
would also be skipping his senior
season, and there are still about five
UF players considering going pro.
Hernandez could be the tough-est to replace. The only other schol-
arship tight end on the roster is
Desmond Parks, who was redshirt-
ed this season.
The Gators also tried out fresh-
man quarterback Jordan Reed at
tight end this year in practice.
Also, two tight end recruits,
Palm Beach Dwyer High's Gerald
Christian and Tampa Blake High's
Michael McFarland, have commit-
ted to UF.
Gators win streak on the line
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@aIIigator org
Coach Amanda Butler said her team came back
mentally refocused after Christmas.
Whatever the players did on their own time in
that period has paid immediate dividends. UF is 3-0
after Christmas and looking to push that win streak
to four games tonight when the team plays its first
home Southeastern Conference game of the season
against Auburn at 7 in the O'Connell Center.
"There's absolutely no replacement for
the confidence a win gives you. The way
we've played after Christmas has been
what we needed, more than anything."
Amanda Butler
UF women's basketball coach
"We had a bunch of kids that came back with
renewed minds," Butler said. "Maybe a little bit of
a physical break helped them, but I think just a re-
newed spirit. We're turning the page here, it's a dif-
ferent part of the season."
Before the Gators (8-6, 1-0 SEC) even step foot on
the court, they'll need to keep their concentration
on the Tigers (9-5, 0-1 SEC) because mistakes are
magnified in conference play, where many games
come down to the last possession.
"There's no gimme games," guard Jennifer Mos-
sor said. "You have to have extra sharpness because
one turnover might cost you the game. One missed
layup or one bad pass, or anything like that; you
have to have that extra bit of focus you normally
may not have."
After opening up SEC play with a win in Fayette-
ville, Ark., the team is riding high -and is feeling
the best it has about itself all season.
"There's absolutely no replacement for the con-
fidence a win gives you," Butler said. "The way
we've played after Christmas has been what we
needed, more than anything."
One of the most noticeable changes to take place
over winter break on the court has been the atten-Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
Florida will face Auburn tonight in its first home
conference game this season.
tion the team has given to playing man-to-man de-
fense instead of zone. Even with the shift in empha-
sis, Butler admitted that her team should be playing
better zone defense than it has up to this point.
The switch to more man-to-man defense has
paid off though, and Butler said that scheme will
serve as the "backbone" of what the team does de-
fensively from here on out, though she won't limit
her team to it.
SEE WHOOPS, PAGE 23
FORMER GATORS
* WR Percy Harvin was named
AP Offensive Rookie of the Year on
Wednesday. He was in the top two
for receptions, receving yards and
TDs among rookies.POLL QUESTION
Today's question: Who will be the next
Gator to announce he is leaving early for
the NFL Draft?Alabama will claim
another title for SEC
n undefeated season and the chance to win a second
BCS National Championship in the last five seasons
gives Texas a lot to play for today.
But that's the least of it.
The Longhorns have a chance to shut up people like me.
It's not that I think Texas isn't a good team. Or even a very
good team. Or maybe even a great team.
It's not that I don't like Colt McCoy or Jordan Shipley or
Earl Thomas.
The problem is: Alabama plays in the Southeastern Con-
* ference.
And from what I think I know, that
means the Longhorns are in for a long
night against Heisman Trophy winner
Mark Ingram and the Crimson Tide.
The SEC is the best conference in the
country, and every year its teams prove
Kyle Malstri how wide the talent gap can be between
Kyle Points them and good teams from other con-
kmaistri@aligator org ferences. Just ask Cincinnati.
When I fill out my bowl pick 'em
every year, just being from the SEC is
enough for me to give a team a three-point advantage.
People from all around the country can say whatever they
want about the league's quarterback play or lack of creativity
on offense, but the SEC wins big games. Period.
Even this year -a down year for the SEC by all accounts
-the conference has a chance to go 6-4 in its bowl games, in-
cluding two BCS bowl wins if Alabama can knock off Texas.
The 6-4 record might not be too impressive, but a Sugar
Bowl win and BCS National Championship Game win says
everything casual college football fans need to know about
the strength of the best teams in the conference.
If the Crimson Tide defeat the Longhorns in Pasadena,
they will bring home the fourth-consecutive national cham-
pionship for the SEC.
That's domination.
And for the second-straight season, the SEC will have
taken down the Big 12 in the national championship and the
Cotton Bowl, where Ole Miss has knocked off Texas Tech and
Oklahoma State in consecutive seasons.
The Big 12 has been the second-best conference over the
SEE KYLE, PAGE 23
TEEING OFF WITH PHIL KEGLER
U Congrats to former UF receiver Percy Harvin, who was named AP Offensive
Rookie of the Year and earned a Pro Bowl bid after his first season with the
Vikings. The success of Harvin and Louis Murphy (Raiders) should help change
the stigma about Florida WRs. .A few weeks ago, I said I wish the next decade
would include sports in 3D. ESPN isn't going to make me wait long.
22, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 7,2010
Gators expect more from 2010
0 UF BROUGHT IN THE NO.1
RECRUITING CLASS.
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@alligator org
Florida is fourth in the pre-
season rankings. Coach Rhonda
Faehn knows it, accepts it and un-
derstands it.
But that doesn't mean she feels
the same way.
"I genuinely feel the potential
of this team is far greater than we
are preseason ranked," Faehn said.
"But I understand that position
simply because of where we fin-
ished last year and maybe coaches'
apprehension of not knowing what
our newcomers are doing."
Last season, the UF gymnastics
team finished fourth at the NCAA
Championships with just eight
gymnasts on the roster after losing
a third of the team to injury.
This year's squad returns all but
three members of that team.
Corey Hartung graduated, Mel-
anie Sinclair was dismissed from
the team after facing legal prob-
lems in October, and Kailey Tis-
sue decided to apply for a medical
scholarship.
Hartung and Sinclair both com-
peted in the NCAA Champion-
ships.
Faehn said Sinclair, who is stillattending school, promised her she
would earn a degree.
"That's the most important
thing, that she gets her life back on
track," Faehn said.
Armed with the nation's top-
rated recruiting class and follow-
ing last year's fourth-place finish,
the sky is the limit.
Well, Gainesville is the limit, as
this year's NCAA Championships
will be held in the O'Connell Cen-
ter.
Senior Amanda Castillo, who
was hampered by bursitis before
getting season-
ending surgery
for her Achilles
heel last season,GymnasticS said she feels
healthier this
season and that the team is more
prepared as a whole.
"My goal is to be back in the
all-around (category) this year,"
she said. "I don't want to put too
much pressure on myself. I want
to go out enjoying it, not regret-
ting it. I'm going to have fun and I
know that if I do that, I'll meet my
goals."
With Castillo and eight other
veterans around, finding the right
combination of returning and
rookie gymnasts is a must.
"We have a very talented fresh-
man class," sophomore Amy Fer-
guson said. "They've adjusted sowell. I'm really excited for them to
have a chance to compete because
you try to describe to them what
it's like and you say, 'It's so fun,'
but that doesn't even describe it.
"There aren't even words to de-
scribe how much fun it is out on
the competition floor."
The five freshmen -Ashan6e
Dickerson, Liz Green, Marissa
King, Dali Lemezan and Randy
Stageberg -join five seniors, one
junior and three sophomores to
create more of a balance between
the classes.
As much as 50 percent of the
new routines this year could come
from freshmen, Faehn said.
"It'll definitely be different from
last year," she said.
The addition of five first-year
teammates, coupled with a return-
ing core from last year's team gives
the Gators more depth than Faehn
has seen in a number of years at
UF.
That will prepare the team to
deal more effectively with injuries
and hold off putting some gym-
nasts on every event until later in
the season.
One example is Maranda Smith,
who competed as an all-around
gymnast towards the end of 2009
and may perform in just three
events against Oklahoma on Friday
to open the season. The meet will
begin at 8 p.m. in Norman, Okla.UF sophomore gymnast Amy Ferguson is one of nine returning
athletes the Gators will rely on along with a talented freshman
class when they open the season Friday.
"What are your strengths?"
Prepare yourself for work after college by building your resume and
gaining valuable work experience with the nation's largest student-run paper.
Open House
The Alligator is looking to fill the following positions:
section editors, online staff, videographers, writers,
graphic designers, columnists, photographers,
bloggers, copy editors and sports writers.
Interviews will be held on-site, so please bring
your resume, clips and portfolio if you have one.
The Alligator is located at 1105 W. University Ave, two blocks
east of UF campus, across the street from the Bank of America.alligator
- ___* S Eh7 BOOS
Please, no blood ot ddnk in the library. 0S
UYOU NEVER CALL.
50s-0224
YO" NVR FAX.
HOIRS
WHAT, I'M UP WITH
THE CHICKENS!
1P ~Sun-Wed 6amn-10pmn
Thurs-Sat 6amn-3amn
ast TAKEOUT OR DELIVERY? -
O OME AEFAOR. ISE
CALL OR FAX YOUR TAKEOUT
Now Open in Midtown!
1124 W University Ave
OVER 31 Different Sandwiches
to Choose From!
4Eli
Lounge Games
THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 23
Arenas suspended for gunpla
Copyrighted Material
Cddtt S yndicate ontent
Available from Commercial News ProvidersKYLE, from page 21
last few seasons, and its elite quarterback play and
flashy offenses are a bold reminder of exactly what the
SEC isn't.
But the clich6 has proven to be true time and again:
Defense wins championships.
The SEC plays defense.
And we all damn well know the SEC wins champion-
ships.
If Texas is going to beat Alabama, the Longhorns' No.
1 run defense is going to have to contain Ingram, some-
thing Florida's then-top-rated defense couldn't do in the
SEC Championship Game.
And McCoy is going to have to make enough plays
to win against a top-two scoring defense, something he
couldn't do against Nebraska in the Big 12 Champion-
ship Game.
At risk of being called an "SEC homer," I think Nick
Saban wins his second crystal ball and the Tide rolls all
night long.
But Texas has a chance to prove me, and thousands of
people who think like me, wrong.
And that's a chance not often afforded in college foot-
ball
UF focusing on SEC play
WHOOPS, from page 21
"That's hard to do in our
league," Butler said. "It's
hard to go toe-to-toe with ev-
ery team you play and say,
'We're going to man up and
be better than you.' That's
very hard to do night in and
night out."
The Gators will test their
man-to-man defense against
Auburn, the defending SEC
champs, which is on a two-
game losing streak.
Unlike Florida's last few
opponents, whom have boast-
ed smaller front courts, the
Tigers are ready to unleash
6-foot-7 senior KeKe Carrier,
who comes in averaging 13.6
points per game along with
7.7 rebounds and 30 blocked
shots this season.
The Gators know it's im-portant for the team to build
on its recent run of good form.
The early part of the sched-
ule pales in comparison to
the importance of conference
play because a strong show-
ing in the SEC could book a
spot in the postseason.
"The main goal is to get to
the NCAA
STourna-
ment, and
no matterWomen's what you
Basketball do in non-
conference
(play), if you go above .500
in the SEC -because it's the
best league in the nation -
you're automatically going
to get a look for the NCAA
Tournament," redshirt senior
guard Susan Yenser said.
Gator Spirit Night!
The most spirited Gator fan can win prizes!
Come dressed up in Gator gear, bring a great signor lead cheers for the Gators, and you mightbe a winner!
First 200 fans receive koozies, keychains and magnets
courtesy of the Flying Biscuit Cafe!
..--. Ad. . .d h. C. C ..if-W CmGENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF anv one GNC Product
CannotbecombinedOneCouponpercustomer
3914 SW Archer Rd
Butler Plaza NewberrySuare
335-1232 332-3937
a1Egggqgports
Tune in for the
latest Gators
sports news
and analysis
from our beat
writers and
columnists.
Check it out at
alligatorSports.org
or subscribe on iTunes.
24, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 7,2010
JS 111 i l
D mBT 4t
D n~lf | SK|
