the independent florida
the C
Avenue te
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 136 We Inform. You Decide.S7 RCt6
THURSDAY, APRIL 8, 2010
Counselors explain crisis response protocol
* BEFORE THE SHOOTING
A MENTAL HEALTH EXPERT
TALKED TO ADU-BREMPONG.
By MINCH MINCHIN
and JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Writers
Kofi Adu-Brempong was afraid
he was going to be kidnapped, taken
to Africa and slain in a ritual killing.
In the days leading up to his
shooting and arrest on March 2, the
35-year-old Ghanan graduate stu-
dent sent e-mails to the faculty and
staff in the UF geography depart-
ment, accusing them of scheming
to kill him, said Keith Yearwood,
Adu-Brempong's friend and fellowgraduate student.
The recent episode involving
Adu-Brempong, who exhibited psy-
chotic and delusional behavior, has
brought increased attention to the
issues of mental health and campus
safety. The UF Dean of Students Of-
fice has several programs in place to
help students suffering from mental
health problems, said Wayne Grif-
fin, the associate director of the UF
Counseling Center.
One such program, the Critical
Response Team, or CRT, is com-
posed of safety and mental health
professionals including professors,
police officers, counselors and hous-
ing coordinators, he said.
The day before Adu-Brempong
was arrested and shot, a CRT coun-
selor, along with a University PoliceDepartment officer and Adu-Brem-
pong's adviser, visited him at his
apartment in Corry Village for two
and a half hours, according to a po-
lice report.
The counselor, Laura Templeton,
did not get a good chance to talk
with Adu-Brempong
Special and was unable to de-
port termine his overall
mental state, Griffin
said. No counselors
came the night of the shooting be-
cause the situation had become too
volatile and dangerous.
When Templeton met with Adu-
Brempong the day before the inci-
dent, she determined Adu-Brem-
pong did not meet the criteria for the
Baker Act, according to the report.
Had he been submitted under theBaker Act, Adu-Brempong would
have been taken to one of two crisis
units in Alachua County where he
would have remained under ob-
servation for up to three days, said
Bruce Stevens, a professor in the UF
College of Medicine.
Stevens is also a member of the
UF Faculty Senate and the co-presi-
dent of the Gainesville chapter of the
National Alliance on Mental Illness.
As a member of NAMI, he is an
instructor for the Alachua County
Crisis Intervention Team, or CIT,
an organization that trains police of-
ficers and 911-dispatch operators to
handle emergencies involving citi-
zens suffering from mental-health
problems. The CIT training, which
was first offered in Alachua Coun-
ty about six years ago, is a 40-hourseries of lectures, videos, field trips
and role-playing scenarios designed
to help officers understand mental-
health issues, Stevens said.
About 400 UPD officers, the
Gainesville Police Department and
the county sheriff's office have gone
to the training facility and graduated
from the program, he said.
Between two and four of the
five UPD officers who were in
Adu-Brempong's apartment when
he was shot had been through CIT
training, he said. Keith Smith, who
shot Adu-Brempong, had not un-
dergone training, he said.
Stevens is calling for an addi-
tional investigation to determine if
the officers involved in the incident
SEE CRISIS, PAGE 5
Copyrighted Material
P7 Syndicated Content
SAvailable from Commercial News ProvidersAROUND GAINESVILLE
Senate hopefu I
meets students
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
In his journey to become Florida's newest senator, Con-
gressman Kendrick Meek made a pit stop in Gainesville
Wednesday night to listen to and talk with students.
Speaking to a crowd of about 30 at Santa Fe College,
Meek related stories of his own personal education ex-
periences, pointing out his mother worked for a commu-
nity college.
"I look at community colleges as places of excellence,
not places where you go when you have
nowhere else to go," he said. "Just the
fact that you're at Santa Fe means you're
going to prove a lot of people wrong."
In terms of broader issues, Meek
vowed to fight on behalf of students by
making sure they get the funds neces-
sary to finance their education.
Meek "I'm not running on behalf of the
government," he said. "I'm running on
behalf of the people who are trying to make it."
The first portion of the night was spent with a panel of
students bringing forth issues to the congressman, such
as student debt, financial aid and employment prospects
after school. He then devoted the rest of the time to lay-
ing out his platform while addressing questions from the
audience.
Although he's competing for a high government of-
fice, Meek admits that he can still use some more school-
ing.
"Let me tell you something," he said. "I'm a nerd,
too."
Today
FORECAST
OPINIONS
the AVENUE
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
8
12 Partly
cloudy
85/61
visit www.alligator.orgNothing But Mammals
Kelly Frye, a UF biology major, designs an orgasm T-shirt during an event put on during Pride Awareness
Month on the North Lawn Wednesday afternoon. "My boyfriend and myself are animals," she said. See
Story, Page 4.
* UF quarterback
Trey Burton played
a role in keeping
the nation's top
recruiting class
together despite
the uncertainy in
the coaching staff,
including Urban
Meyer's future.
See Story, Page 17.
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 8,2010
News Today
LOCAL
Martial arts comes to :08
Florida Fight Nights is bringing
mixed martial arts to Gainesville
on Saturday at 8 Seconds (:08).
The eventwill feature 20 top
amateur fighters from six gyms
across Florida and Georgia, who
will fight 10 matches and showcase
Muay Thai and kickboxing.
Muay Thai is an aggressive
fighting style in which fighters can
lock limbs and elbow and knee
each other. The fighters will weigh
in at I p.m., but doors will open to
the public at 9 p.m.
Tickets are $15, or $45 for VIPCopyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
passes, which offer free drinks
and a balcony view of. Custom-
ers will receive 20 percent off ad-
mission if they pre-purchase the
tickets on the Web site, http://
www.floridafightnights.com.
Tickets will also be sold at the
door of 8 Seconds (:08).
-CRISTINA RABAZAThe Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
SP ROJ E C T
Finally!
Aprescription with
side effectsyou want.
Blueberries and red
beans are powerful
remedies against
cancer. Research
shows that fruits,
vegetables, and other low-
fat vegetarian foods may
help prevent cancer and
improve survival rates. A
plant-based diet can also
lower cholesterol.
For a free nutrition booklet with
cancer fighting recipes,
call toll-free 1-866-906-WELL or
Visit WWW.Canicerproject.org14" TIRES from 15" TIRES from 16" TIRES from
P185160R-14 P185165R-15 P205160R-16
P195160R-14 P195/65R-15 -P205165R-15 P215160R-16 -P225/60R-16
P195/60R-15 -P205160R-15 P205/55R-16. .................
flFGaadtrichi e u i~ILcMr
601 A 919
ANY SET OF 4 PIRELLI TIRES
ON ANY SET OF 4 BFG TIRES! OR 4 FALLEN 512 TIRES!
OFFER VALID 4/4/10 TO 4/24/10. MAIL-IN REBATE OFFER VALID 4/5/10
SEE STORE FOR DETAILS. TO 4/17/10. SEE STORE FOR DETAILS...
GOOD, YEAR
Cnfinentadl BRIDOESFOME i(7YOKOHAMA
GAINESVILLE
3003 SW 34th St. MV-62914
(Behind Carrabba's, University Town Center)352-491-2812
M-F: 8:00-6, SAT.: 8:00-5 -OVER 750 STORES NATIONWIDE!
IfREy
AMERICA'S LARGEST INDEPENDENT TIRE DEALER
dciscounttire.com
STATE OR LOCAL TAXES AND, WHERE REQUIRED OR CHARGED, STATE ENVIRONMENTAL OR DISPOSAL FEES ARE EXTRA.althe independent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 136 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligatororg
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner, jmisner@alligator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, cti//o@a//igator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmccall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
M att Tripp, mtripp@alligatororg
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.rg
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@a//igator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Holly Kane, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
Andrew Pantazi, Paul Runnestrand,
Coln Simmons, Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor,
soconnor,@alligatororg
Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara lngebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@ailigator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligatororg
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 pm Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also ca n
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions InciD I -S T TIRE
AOI M E-*Y I SUJPER SA VIN4GS! i
Come in
and try our newest flavor
I Up WHEN YOU I
I TO BRINGIN I
THIS COUPON I
3443 SW Archer Rd
3822W Newberry Rd, Suite B $25 OFF any purchase of $250 or more
- OR $50 OFF any purchase of $500 or more
OR $100 OFF any purchase of $1000 or more
MAIL-IN REBATE OFFER. OFFER EXPIRES 6/30/10. PROMO CODE: 87991
MUST PRESENT COUPON AND VALID STUDENT/IFACULTY 1.0.
--------------- o o ml
THURSDAY, APRIL 8, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
iPad Wi-Fi network problem on campus has easy fix
About 40 people lined up at Best Buy
By VICTORIA ISRAELS
Alligator Contributing Writer
For some of the 40 people who
waited in line at Best Buy Saturday
morning, the iPad may not have
been worth the wait. If they attend
UF, they may have a difficult time
using Apple's latest gadget.
Some UF students are havingproblems signing into the cam-
pus' wireless network, according
to UF's Network Services. While
some students can sign on easily,
others can't make it past the initial
log-in screen.
The problems experienced by
some iPad users appear to be relat-
ed to the AutoFill feature in Safari.
Disabling the AutoFill feature cor-
"ROCK 'N' ROLL FANS OF EVERY GENDER AND
GENERATION WILL IDENTIFY WITH THIS"
-A. Scott, THE NEWYORK TIMES
"THIS IS AN ANTHEM TO THOSE YOUNG WOMEN
WHO WOULDN'T TAKE NO FOR AN ANSWER.
-Thelma Adams, US WEEKLY
"STEWART AND FANNING HAVE
NEVER BEEN STRONGER:
-Michael Phillips, CHICAGO TRIBUNE
"'THE RUNAWAYS'GETS EVERYTHING RIGHT"
-Mick LaSalle, SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE
REGAL GAINESVILLE CINEMA 14
S TARTS FRiDAY APRiL 3101 SW 35TH Blvd Gainesville
1 (800) FANDANGO 185#-1rected the issues with.
Best Buy, located at 3750 SW
Archer Road, has a few iPads left
and does not take pre-
On orders or have a wait-Campus ing list, said Aimee
Pauquette, a Best Buy
sales associate.
Best Buy sold out of their initial
shipment of 60 by 3 p.m. Satur-day.
"Saturday was absolutely ridic-
ulous," Pauquette said. "The cus-
tomers that arrived by the time we
opened didn't even need to look at
it. They just wanted to buy it."
Nick Carson, a UF computer
engineering senior, pre-ordered
the 3G version of the iPad coming
out in late April. The current ver-
sion, which Best Buy sells, offers
WiFi connection.
Carson paid $729 for the 32GB3G iPad. The current WiFi versions
range from $499 to $699, depend-
ing on the size of the hard drive.
The 3G version does not require
an Internet contract for users to
sign, and users will pay up to $30
for Internet access each month.
Aside from Web browsing, Car-
son plans to use his iPad to down-
load textbooks.
"The textbooks will be cheaper
and obviously less weight," Car-
son joked.
Butler Plaza Newberry Suare
335 -1232 332-3937
C 2 20wi1P
F>
Smile.
=I A I L-1 609 I' f.J L'LJ L-"1 ! I L A l ] l k'J I '
DON'T MISS THE PARTY
WORTH TRAVELING FOR"f
It's a year-end blowout party just for you. 7
Check out Opening Night with Weezer and New Music NightWed.April 28.
sunfest.com/newmusic. We've stacked the line-up with great music.
Come and stay for Florida's largest waterfront music festival -check out hotel deals
at sunfest.com/comeandstay
Tickets online at sunfest.com or call 1-800-SUNFEST (786-3378)
Join us on:
facebook.com/sunfest
twitter.com/sunfestft
PAFR HEACH
FORD DEALERSsunfest.COm
_--verizpnSaving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
A Biolest
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431
r-- --------------
L Sex brng l- f -nt th wold It ca als tak it awy Prtc y-rsl agis AI- -I-t o
ATILR-TD[VFL.OPI[NTCOL-1 RFLDFRG[FC
----------i
Protect yourself against AIDS. ISex brings life into the world. It can also take it away.
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 8,2010
500 try vegan pizza,
ice cream at VegFest
me-11 n. ncyb mirgatuff atl
Students line up for a free vegan lunch that was eaten faster than it could be prepared by the Animal
Activists of Alachua on the Plaza of the Americas Wednesday afternoon.* ABOUT 900 ATTENDED
THE EVENT LAST YEAR.
By ASHLEY HEMMY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Cheese-free pizza and soy ice
cream awaited about 500 students on
the Plaza of the Americas Wednes-
day during VegFest.
The event, which was sponsored
by the UF chapter of Animal Ac-
tivists of Alachua County, offered
free vegan food to students and in-
formed them about local restaurants
that offer vegan options.
"Many are happy to eat free
food," said Alyssa Cohen, the presi-
dent of the UF chapter of Animal
Activists of Alachua County. "Many
seem interested in the vegan life-
style and considered it, but never
researched it."
Last year's event had a turnout of
about 900 people and included more
sponsors, but this year the chapter
had trouble getting restaurant spon-sors because budgets were tight.
Restaurant donors this year in-
cluded Leonardo's Pizza, Gyro Plus
and Karma Cream, Cohen said.
Besides organizing VegFest, the
UF chapter of Animal Activists of
Alachua County also sends volun-
teers to animal shelters and holds
rallies in support of animal rights.
"We want to show people that
vegan food tastes good and that
it's easy to get in
On Gainesville," said trea-Campus surer and junior Anan-
dani Maharaj
Maharaj said all kinds of students
stop by for free food, and some have
never tried vegan food before.
Material science and engineering
graduate student Krishna Nittala
said he was a vegan but switched
back to meat recently because it was
hard for him to get the right nutri-
tion.
"The main concern for most veg-
ans is that they can't eat out," he said.
"VegFest gives a list of local restau-
rants that offer vegan options."
PRIDE AWARENESS MONTH
Students get tested for HIV, paint orgasms at pride event
By JAMEL F. LANGLEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students added color to
their sex lives Wednesday during
Pride Awareness Month's Paint
Your Orgasm event on the Reitz
Union North Lawn.
Participants painted T-shirts
with pictures representing their
interpretation of what their or-
gasms would look like.More than 300 people stopped
by the tables, and the organiz-
ers of the event gave out 220 T-
shirts, according to the event's
co-directors, Jose Genao and
Richard Roberts.
Alicia Gardiner, a UF fresh-
man, attended the event.
"I'm a screamer," Gardner
said, referring to her own reac-
tions. "Therefore, my shirt design
is eclectic and colorful."
According to Genao and Rob-"I'm a screamer. Therefore,
my shirt design is eclectic
and colorful."
Alicia Gardiner
UF freshman
ert, the event, which has been
taking place for 10 years, is one
of the more popular events dur-
ing the annual Pride Awareness
Month."We want people to go to their
happy place and truly express
themselves," Roberts said.
The co-directors agreed the
main focus was to inform people
about safe sex.
"As long as we are human, we
orgasm," Genao said.
As people painted, the Ala-
chua County Health Department
provided free HIV testing in the
Reitz Union for the first 100 peo-
ple interested.Vox: Voices for Planned Par-
enthood also had a booth set up
with nontraditional games in-
cluding condom races and jeop-
ardy to inform students about
safe sex.
Paint Your Orgasm was co-
sponsored by Lesbian, Gay,
Bisexual and Transgendered
(LGBT) affairs, the Alachua
County Health Department and
Vox: Voices for Planned Parent-
hood.
Seeking 14 Associate Justices and one Chief
Justice to render judgments on parking citation
appeals filed by students
Brief interviews for successful applicants will be
held on Thursday, April 22 (a Reading Day).a.
Why just talk about it? Get involved and
make a difference.
Apply online at www.parking.ufl.edu, or
pick up an application at the Student
Government offices in the Reitz Union or
at Transportation and Parking Services.
Please contact Transportation and Parking Services at (352) 392-8048 for additional information.
TI-URSDAY, APRIL 8, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Professor calls for investigation to determine if officers violated CIT training
CRISIS, from page 1
violated what they learned in the CIT course.
"The implementation of what the officers
learned in CIT training broke down," he said.
"I don't know what happened."
Before the standoff and arrest, other break-
downs prevented Adu-Brempong from get-
ting the mental care he needed, he said.
"There were several times on [the day be-
fore and the day of the shooting] that the Baker
Act should have been employed," he said.
The Baker Act involves withdrawing
someone's constitutional rights. Universities
and cities merge crime prevention and mental
health care differently, he said.In 1988, the first-ever crisis intervention
team was created by the Memphis Police De-
partment after officers shot and killed a man
suffering from hallucinations, Stevens said.
Since then, universities and cities across
America have adopted their own systems for
merging mental health care with police af-
fairs. After the shooting at Virginia Tech when
Seung-Hui Cho killed 32 people before taking
his own life, the university tried to strengthen
its ability to respond to students in distress.
One measure was the creation of the Threat
Assessment Team, a collaboration between
several university departments and UPD.
According to the university's Web site, the
team determines if individuals pose threats
to themselves or others and intervenes whennecessary to maintain campus safety.
The creation of the multidisciplinary team
led to more dialogue between the counseling
department and UPD. Christopher Flynn, psy-
chologist and counselor for the Cook Counsel-
ing Center, said he meets with the Threat As-
sessment Team regularly.
"We talk .two to three times a week,
about any students that may be ofSpecial concern," he said.Report But Eugene Zdziarski, the
vice president of student affairs
at Roanoke College in Virginia, said students
also play an important role in helping students
with mental problems.
Zdziarski, former dean of students at UF,
has written several books and papers on cam-pus safety. He said many people feel reporting
on troubled students will get them in trouble.
"Everybody on campus needs to take on
responsibility to intervene," he said. "They're
not getting them into trouble. They're getting
them out of trouble."
Yearwood, who is now teaching Adu-
Brempong's class, did not think the e-mails he
received from Adu-Brempong, who suffered
from polio, were a big deal.
UF has historically done a good job of help-
ing students suffering from mental health
problems, but the UF administration should
do everything it can to makes sure the issues
can be discussed openly, he said.
"You're never going to stop every situation
from happening," he said.
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 8,2010
Editorial
No Question
There is such a thing as
a stupid questionGoing against the tradition of bringing in intellectu-
al "heavy hitters" such as Meghan McCain, Andy
Samberg and the ever-esteemed, generic "Real
World" cast member, our beloved high council of white
sepulchres at Accent were able to lure religion experts
Dinesh D'Souza and Christopher Hitchens to campus
Tuesday night.
When it came time for the Q-and-A session, we nev-
er prayed harder for emergency phone calls as the two
speakers were subjected to a machine-gun barrage of mo-
ronic statements and questions that went way beyond the
infantile.
Such million-dollar winners include asking an atheist
to look inside himself, advising the participants to brush
up on their medieval Italian history before their next stop
at Notre Dame (I'm sure the two immediately went to Li-
brary West and poured over dusty textbooks of the Med-
ici family out of fear of being exposed as charlatans) and
the wailing of an ever-expected ad hominem ass-clown,
whose Oscar-winning performance as a real-life "Simple
Jack" might have slowed the process of human evolution
by a few millennia.
However, the best was saved for last. We respect the
young woman for trying to approach Hitchens, who can
be very daunting with his scathing sarcasm, by asking
him to take her seriously as a Christian. However, when
you immediately follow up this request by completely
butchering his last name -"Hitchenson" -you become
the personification of an epic fail.
We understand that with every public forum, you're
going to have a few turds that float to the top of the punc
bowl, but when it gets so bad that the moderator of the
debate, who is said to be nothing but a well-mannered,
class act of a professor, tells the audience they can do bet-
ter, public beatings need to ensue.
Hell, even the two opposing debaters, who under nor-
mal circumstances would have trouble agreeing on the
color of the sky, were able to put their intellectual differ-
ences aside for a minute as they united in calling one of
the questions "incomprehensible."
Are these failures of contraception, er, students, a true
reflection of the intellectual capacity of the UF Student
Body?
We can say without hesitation that they are most cer-
tainly not. That's why it's such a crime against human-
ity to have these people speak on our behalf. God forbid
an outsider sees a video of Tuesday's performance and
comes away with the impression that UF molds students
with reading lists composed of "Green Eggs and Ham"
and "The Puppy Who Lost His Way."
It doesn't matter if you're a heathen who likes to sac-
rifice baby sheep to the Fox News Channel or if you're
the second coming of Ned Flanders. Either way, we en-
courage students to stand side-by-side in delivering a
heavenly ordained, ecumenical trashing to this brigade of
bumbling bozos.
If we don't, expect our intellectual arteries to clog by a
robust lecture diet of Rob Schneider, the Kardashians and
any woman who gets a TV show on TLC because her iron
uterus can punch out a platoon of fetuses.
0the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must includethe
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Aye, or send them to P0 Box 14257,
Gainesvi Iie, FL 32604-2257Co liumns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/opinions
/fMEAN, PEALL, IA3"I
T-tOuCHT 7-IS PLA SHIP T7 HiC7 /CAN
C)01) I PE 7 -. PvA,5 A O3 ieSA17
AP SCHOOL
Column
Amendment Zero: solution for 'Kongress'
ne of the great mysteries of our time is the para-dox of state government. Every few years, each
state in our great union selects the brightest and
most talented descendants of privilege and sends them
away to plot out the boundaries of our daily lives. Just
like clockwork, these seemingly divine figures time and
again fail to deliver on their promises and the effulgent
nature of their haircuts.
For this and many other reasons, my unfunded po-
litical action committee is now backing the fledgling
campaign of Amendment Zero.
Here in Florida, we are not immune to the plague
of inadequacy that regularly undercuts the potential of
our state politicians. The biggest pothole on the road to
good governance in Florida is the setup where powerful
guys at the top of important committees essentially go
on tour and accept open bribes from the people they are
supposed to regulate.
This leads to a few regular patterns of behavior in
Tallahassee. Aside from open hostility toward the edu-
cational system, Florida lawmakers traditionally hold
a great deal of animus for people with disabilities and
the middle class. (To be completely fair, the education
lobbyists always buy the cheap caviar; how hard is it to
remember to get beluga?)
Florida annually spends a great deal of money to
feed and house hundreds of insatiably hungry lawmak-
ers, and what our state gets in return is often simply
a handout to the people and groups who already have
all the money and power that they will ever reasonably
need. If reason and need are no longer part of the equa-
tion in Florida politics, it is the position of Amendment
Zero that our fine state would be much better served
by dissolving the Florida Legislature and replacing itwith a handful of reality television
stars.
For instance, any combination
of Kardashians would be a better
political body for Florida than the
one we are burdened with right
Tommy Maple now. Kim, Kourtney and Khloe
letters@alligator org already know how to accept gifts
and whore themselves out for
money and exposure, so they are at least as qualified
to govern as 95 percent of the current Legislature. Add
in the mom and maybe one of the younger sisters, and
we would have a "Kongress" that cherishes real family
values. And lip gloss.
For the House of Representatives, Amendment Zero
suggests any four residents of VH1's "Sober House" (to
be chosen by Lt. Governor Tom Sizemore) and the cur-
rent winners from the latest seasons of "Celebrity Fit
Club" and "Dancing with the Stars" -a diverse and
representative group with expertise in all types of men-
tal illness. It goes without saying that all of this will
first have to pass muster with Gov. Justin Bieber, whose
education platform and awesome hair often make Char-
lie Crist cry in a dark corner of the governor's mansion
master bedroom.
Amendment Zero seeks wholesale changes to the
structure and functions of government, but Florida is
completely broke and the current alternative is quite
scary by comparison. I guess Florida law requires some
signatures or something, but the carnage in Tallahassee
right now shows any rational person why Amendment
Zero deserves at least a shot on the ballot.
Tommy Maple is an international communications gradu-
ate student. His columns appear on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Wednesday's question:
Would you want Justin Bieber to If you were a teacher, would you
be the Florida governor? support Senate Bill 6?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org22% YES
78% NO
59 TOTAL VOTES
Letters to the Editor
UF suffers zombie-hater infection
There is a vast hoard arising at UF. It
is recognizable by the hoard's pasty, livid
complexions. You can spot them a mile off
by their awkward, stumbling, limp gaits.
However, the best way to spot one of these
bastion's life-sucking buggers is to get up
close and personal, so you can see the dead,
hopeless gaze in their eyes.
I am of course referring to the growing
number of zombie haters who have begun
to spread their infectious nature around our
fair campus.
These horrible, ghoulish creatures are
especially dangerous because, unlike their
undead counterparts, they do not shriek or
yell before an impending attack.
There is no rush of clopping footsteps to
aim your Nerf gun at. No, the only moans
you hear from this group are on Facebookstatus updates and mean-spirited editori-
als.
Luckily, many have a pre-existing im-
munity to this horrible affliction. Yes, there
is hope for all those who have a sense of hu-
mor and the ability to do something just for
the sake of having fun.
For those of you who have decided that
your college memories will consist of noth-
ing else but resume builders, social point ac-
tivities and alcohol-induced blackouts, I am
sorry to say that there may be no cure. You
are doomed.
I can only hope that those of you who
have succumbed to this horrible plight of
being incapable of doing or even under-
standing the act of something fun just for
the sake of fun, learn to keep your opinions
to yourselves.
I would ask that you at least learn toabide by a simple rule that the resistance
and the undead alike have sworn to uphold
and respect: "Don't be a dick!"
Sean Mallon
UF student
Resistance survivor
UPD's CIRT officers are unqualified
It goes without saying that students
should not have to fear the police who
are employed to protect them. Kofi Adu-
Brempong's incident is surely a moment the
University Police Department should learn
from. But the student organizations calling
for the end of the Critical Incident Response
Team are clearly missing the point.
It serves a clear and defined purpose forTHURSDAY, APRIL 8, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
moments of crisis. Without an incident to
justify its need, it may seem dangerous, but
the Student Body would be better served
to call for reform rather than totally aban-
doning a necessary component of campus
security. The university and the Student
Body must come together to call attention
to the lack of training that CIRT members
undergo.
As Minch Minchin's article in Wednes-
day's Alligator noted, the CIRT officers re-
ceive no more than rifle training. They are,
for lack of a better word, super-charged of-
ficers without further training. It's this lack
of training that leads to the incompetence
that some of your readers note. But incom-
petence is no excuse to create further flaws
in campus security.
Jacob Power
Alligator reader
Guest column
Judd Apatow-style underdog movies aren't one-size-fits-all
here's been a recent trend in mainstream cinema thatthrusts schlub guys into the spotlight. They're normal
everyday dudes who drink, smoke pot, look like your
neighbor and have lame jobs, if they have jobs at all.
The fad can be traced mostly to one Judd Apatow, a
writer turned director turned producer turned famous
name who gives away his credibility for free to his friends.
His movies have ranged from well-written comedies to di-
rectionless, gross-out films (and that's depending on who
you talk to). Apatow has led this trend that has continued
all the way up to the recent film "She's Out of My League."
Now, Apatow's loser-hero would be fine to watch if he
didn't remind us every time that, although men can now
be overweight and not-so-handsome, they still have to date
beautiful, sexy, skinny women.
How many times have we seen this film in the past five
years: A loser is the star, and he gets a girl who would be
way too hot for him in real life? "Knocked Up," "Superbad"
and "Forgetting Sarah Marshall" are just some of Apatow's
credits with this phenomenon. And, believe us, it didn't end
with Apatow. It's actually becoming the mainstream come-Julia Tilford dy of our generation, or so we've been
Spea king Out told. Dozens of movies have come out
with the same premise.
And the weird thing is, it seems
that it took this year's "She's Out of My League" for anyone
to say, "Hey, maybe we need to discuss exactly how unlike-
ly it would be that a guy who's a two would end up with a
woman who's a nine." The only problem here is that's only
one movie that would even admit the unlikelihood.
We know Hollywood has always been sexist, and we
understand that, back in the day, even Michelle Pfeiffer
was paired with Jack Nicholson. But this recent phenom-
enon is boggling to us because no one really seems to notice
it. Young people have been known to call "Superbad" the
"high-school movie of our generation."
Well, when we went to high school, the cheerleaders
didn't get snuggly with the guys in the A.V. club.
If the standard for attractive men in cinema is changing,
then why is the one for women standing still? Don't get us
wrong; if people want to make a movie about the average
guy or the sub-average guy, fine. Brad Pitt doesn't need tograce every screen, and the lack of him wouldn't tank ev-
ery film. But don't cast the anti-Brad with Jessica Alba. The
film we're watching is just the lame fantasy of the average
guy, not a movie about him. In our opinion, the fantasy has
been filmed so many times now, we'd rather be allowed to
see the truth. The Apatow formula attracts a small number
of people, and we're sick of being told these films are for
everyone.
We're not saying only people who look alike should be
together. We just want to see changing standards for men
reflected in changing standards for women. Enough films
with an Amazon being paired with our hero, the manager
of a Dairy Queen. Enough movies where romance blossoms
between a guy described as a "loveable loser" and a girl
called a "bombshell." Please make us a movie that fights
the idea that a guy can be anything, but a woman has to be
perfect.
Apatow said in a recent interview, "[The movies] may
be my way of saying to every girl who broke up with me,
'Why'd you do it?"' Truthfully, we don't really care.
Julia Tilford is an English junior.
Friday, April 9, 6 p.m.
Saturday, April 10,
9 a.m. -4:30 p.m.
Join international scholars for a
discussion about the relationship
between art and politico.
Keynote Speaker
Frangois Cusset, Professor of American
Studies, University of Paris
Speakers
Alex Alberro, Virginia Bloedel Wright
Associate Professor of Art History, Barnard
College, Columbia University
Nora Alter, Professor in Film and Media
Studies, English Department, University of
Florida
Claire Bishop, Associate Professor of
Art History, Graduate Center, City
University of New York
T.J. Demos, Lecturer, Department of
History of Art, University College London
Tim Griffin, Editor of Artforum
Maria Hlavajova, Curator and Artistic
Director, BAK; Program Director, Tranzit
Shepherd Steiner, Visiting Assistant
Professor in Modern and Contemporary
Art, School of Art + Art History, University
of Florida
I R M U S E U M 0 A R T
U N I V E R S I T Y 0 F F L 0 R I D A
FREE ADMISSION
www.harn.ufl.edu 352.392.9826Enjoy live
music, dance
performances,
poetry readings,
presentations by UF
doctoral students, movie
screenings, a scavenger hunt and
free food at this Museum Nights.
Fikreto Fk ,i Turks h, b. 1976, Tinico
2004, video,7 minutes 32 seconds
Muosem Nights is an ongoing prouvy mod poible
by the, geous support ofth iversioity ot Florida
spnors reram and Student Covernn. Additional
European Studies.
The symposium is co-sponsored by the following
University of Florida entities: School of Art + Art History
Horn Eminent Scholar Chair in Art History, School of
Art + Art HSicor, Center to, Euopeanc tudies, Center
for Huanitieso ad the Public Sphere, Frane-Flotid
Research Institute and the International center,."BECOME A YOGA TEACHER AND CHANGE YOUR LIFE"
200 Hour Yoga Teacher Training
Yoga Alliance Certified
' Next One Month Intensive Begins May 18th
www.inspirationyogainstitute.com
(352) 870-7645 -Alachua, Florida
Tools for Schools
Spring for Supplies Drive
OIL April 22 -May 1, 2010STUDENT LOANS
Cash For Anything!
Best Jewelry and Loan
523 NW 3rd Ave -371-367 -371 -GEMS
GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
S25% OFF any one GNC Product *
cannot be combined. One Coupon per customer.
3914 SW Archer Rd
.,I uu I :377-00 Exp 4/30/10
EXAMS
(by Independent Optometsrit)y W Corner ofI NW 13th St.
& 39th Ave.
Near Pub] ixIEYVECRE'
I EXPRESS 1
1 (352)375-6133
crabic 03aII
7pm -1Opm
Gainedville Women's Club
flerformaince N- 0,=
Tickets are $ 10
Contact Tara Meyer
3 2 1- 543 -6 5 5 8
tmeyer200 5 @qgmail.comn.<
theAvenue thursday, april 8, 2010
get ready, gleeks.they're back!
IL
"Glee" is back on Tuesday on Fox and is better than ever. We've got the scoop on what to expect from our
favorite McKinley High students. Get ready for guest stars galore, Lady GaGa musical numbers and original
songs. The show premieres at a special time, 9:28 p.m., right after "American Idol."
page 11
Gainesville Fashion Week kicks
By ALLISON BANKO
and ASHLEY MOSES
avenue writers
Change clothes and go. The sexy
catwalk is all set for the fabulous-
ness of the runway models who are
about to stomp their heels into it.
It's Gainesville Fashion Week.
"We have an extended list of de-
signers showcasing their pieces-
the event has grown tremendously
since last year," said Melanie Ling,
media relations coordinator of
GFW.
The firsttwo seasons of GFW held
their runway shows at the downtown
lounge. The event's overwhelming
popularity caused the show to move
to the shows will be moving to The
Vault at 238 W University Ave. The
new, upscale lounge can hold about
800 people, said Tiffany Williams,
producer of GFW.
GFW will focus on designers and
boutiques such as Bobby K, Wolf-gang, Kenneth McCraney, Mesh
and Dahlia among others. All fash-
ionistas will have their fashion taste
buds satisfied with the wide range
of designer styles spanning from a
Colombian-based swimwear line to
athletic Game-Day apparel.
Wolfgang will kick off the week
with the first show tonight.
"It's cool that my show is the first
one people will see," said Matthew
Turner, owner of the boutique. "I
hope to start everything off with a
bang."
Turner will be showing more
than 60 looks in a collection of late
spring and early summer looks.
He will also show a preview of fall.
Turner is excited to introduce a few
new brands that his boutique has
recently acquired. The show will
include sexy dresses from brands
such as Motel and Pleasure Doing
Business.
In GFW tradition, the closing
show will headline local designerBobby K. His show will be ferocious
and scandalous, he said.
"My whole theme for this show is
glam," he said.
"Wv dre giving a kzv9d of
zxpzriezne z that would
usually be found at the larger
metropolitan cities."
MELANIE LING
media relations
coordinator of GFW
Although he usually sticks with a
more casual look, K said his show
was inspired by Hollywood starlets
from the '50s. He will be showing
everything from floor-length maxi
dresses to men's swimwear. The
dedicated team of GFW has been
waitingto see its masterpiece come
to life as the event has been in the
works since September of last year.
In February, everything started
to take shape with the open cast-THIS WEEK:
PG 9: Get your taste of the
green fairy with Absinthe
PG 11: Check out a unique drum
performance this weekend
ONLINE: Daily updates on
Gainesville Fashion Week and
how to home brew your own
beer
www.alligator.org/the-avenue
REGULARS:
SEX: Is chivalry dead? He says/
She says, page 9
FITNESS: How to eat healthy on
campus, page 14
COMING UP:
Our last edition of the Avenue
for the semester will cover ev-
erything from brunch to 4-20.
Worried about your ladies'
night specials going out the win-
dow? The Web site nightgator.
com categorizes every drink
special by the day. So you can
get your drink on at student-
friendly prices and keep things
far from sexist.
off, offers big shows
ing call for potential models. More edge. This is the type of experi-
than 200 hopefuls came out from ence we want to provide to those
all over Florida wishing to be one of who won't go to Miami, L.A. or New
the chosen 53. But more than just York," Ling said. "We are giving a
the models and designers will be level of experience that would usu-
shining in the spotlight during GFW. ally be found at the larger metro-
"This is an event focusing on politan cities."
design on all levels," said Ling. Each night will begin with an
"Whether it's hairstylists or bou- opening performance, Williams
tique owners, we are giving them said. Opening acts will vary from
a chance to get themselves out musical performances to choreo-
there." graphed dance pieces.
The plethora of featured hair Tickets for Gainesville Fashion
stylists includes those out of Salon Week are about $20, depending on
119, Tecnicolors Salon and Avant your desired viewingspot of the run-
Garde Salon. Each runway event way show. The events will be taking
will also have a featured DJ who will place for the remainder of the week
be providing a musical spin to the and the finale runway show will take
night's fashion. place Saturday evening. Tickets
GFW is aiming to bring what may be purchased on the event's
wouldn't usually be found in a city Web site at gainesvillefashionweek.
where Tim Tebow is the closest com, where there is also a list of the
treasure to the glitz and glamor of designers featured for each day.
fame. Check out alligator.org/theav-
"Gainesville is an area that's enue for footage from the event
younger and upbeat with a lot of throughout the week.
THURSDAY, APRIL 8, 2010 +ALLIGATOR, 9
Who should open the
door, pay the bill?
By MICHAEL PERRONNE
and AMELIA HARNISH
avenue writers
He says.
Chivalry isn't dead. It just has a
right time and place. In a dating culture
where nice guys finish last and the as-
shole gets the girl, it's easy to see why
the gentleman is no longer en vogue.
But the blame for this shift does
not rest solely on the male gender. As
women have evolved away from Susie
Homemaker and toward Miss Inde-
pendent, the rules of the game have
changed.
The dating field is full of strong-
willed, sexually empowered women,
which means that it takes an equally
assertive man to woo them. This new
edition of female is similar to its prede-
cessors, only its attraction circuitry has
changed.
In our parents' time, courtship was
as simple as a statement of interest
with a little wining-and-dining, but acts
like buying drinks or dinner dates don't
carry with them the same implications
that they once did.
Nowadays, offeringto buy a random
girl a drink is a demonstration of being
sleezy. You may think you are being a
gentleman, but all you are really saying
to her is, "I don't have anything interest-
ing to say, so I bought you this with the
hope that you'd talk to me." Instead,
grow some balls and justtalk to her.
Girls, attractive ones especially,
know that they can exploit these so-
called "nice guys" to score drinks, din-
ners and gifts without ever having to
return the favor. It is not uncommon for
a girl to accept a dinner date for the sole
reason of getting a free meal.
Don't sweat over outdated proto-
cols. I'm not sayingto abandon all man-
ners and act like a jerk. Instead, when
you are holding that door open, temper
your expectations. She maythink you're
sweet, but you're probably no closer to
getting in her pants.
After a bond has been created and
mutual respect earned, the time for
chivalry begins. When you are on your
way to establishing a meaningful rela-
tionship, it is perfectly all right to go out
of your way to make her feel special.
Giving up your coat on a cold day, open-
ing her car door, walking her home are
chivalrous gestures that make her feellike a princess and make you seem like
Prince Charming.
Until then, save your money and
spare the formalities.
She says.
Let's be honest: Chivalry has been
dead for a longtime.
The dictionary defines this ridiculous
set of customs as: "the qualities ideal-
ized by knighthood, such as bravery,
courtesy, honor and gallantry toward
women." Yeah, I think that fairy tale
ended with the fall of King Arthur and
definitely by women's lib.
Yet some of these tired rules still
creep into our expectations of modern
dating, namely the practice of buying
drinks and dinners.
First, I have to admit I have accept-
ed a drink from a guy and just walked
away. I have also entertained conversa-
tion with men just to secure free bever-
ages for me and my friends, and I have
definitely gone out to dinner to eat for
free.
But this just shows how ridiculous
chivalry is in today's context. Women
are on their way to taking over. We are
perfectly capable of opening our own
doors, buying our own
drinks and dinners and
making the first move,
butsome of us still expect
the damsel-in-distress
treatment and some of
us, regrettably, abuse it.
Ladies, we just can't have it both
ways. We cannot expect that men, who
feel forced to take care of us in every
way or simply feel the need to buy us
presents in exchange for our attention,
will pay us the mutual respect we de-
serve. Atthe root of the chivalry concept
is the idea that we are somehow incom-
petent and need to be taken care of. I
think in more recent years, the demand
for chivalry has been based on some
sort of female entitlement -"I'm such
a great catch, he better be a gentleman
and pay for my dinner" -- which is just
counterproductive to equality.
But gentlemen, do not confuse chiv-
alry with good manners. Just because
it's unnecessary to throw your coat over
a puddle for me doesn't mean it isn't a
nice gesture to offer your blazer if I'm
cold.
And for the traditionalists, if you re-
ally want to buy me a drink, fine. But let
me get the next one.Absinthe 'Light' comes to U.S.
By GABRIELLE FALCONEIRI
avenue writer
She's the mistress to Vincent Van Gogh and friend
to bohemians and scenesters everywhere. Elusive,
magical and maybe even a little dangerous, the Green
Fairy-better known as Absinthe-is the stuff legends
are made of.
Absinthe, a strong alcohol infused with the herb
wormwood, is rumored to have hallucinogenic proper-
ties. Those are mostly myths, though Van Gogh did cut
off his own ear during a supposedly Absinthe-induced
stupor, according to absinthealchemist.com.
Wormwood releases a chemical called thujone,
which is the "culprit" behind the hallucinations and
can be toxic in high doses. However, the amount found
in Absinthe isn't nearly as dangerous as the up to
190-proof alcohol itself. Anybody binging on Absinthe
would get sick from alcohol poisoning way before the
thujone could hurt them.
The fascination surrounding Absinthe as a mind-
altering substance continues to hold strong.
It might be the cloudy green hue, the complicated
preparation process or simply the strength of this bev-
erage, but from "Moulin Rouge" to Johnny Depp and
even the teen classic "EuroTrip," Absinthe culture up-
holds its mystical reputation.Absinthe has been banned in the United States and
certain European countries since the early 1900s. If
you're wondering what bottle you recently saw in the
liquor store container, think of it as Absinthe Light.
Absinthe isn't banned as a drug in the United States,
but the chemical thujone is a substance controlled by
the Food and DrugAdministration, accordingto its Web
site. American Absinthe makers realized they could fil-
ter out the thujone and capitalize on Absinthe's popu-
larity.
Thujone-laced Absinthe, while harder to get, still
exists for people who desire a "real" Absinthe experi-
ence. Countries in the European Union allow Absinthe
production, though they strictly regulate thujone levels
in any commercially produced liquor.
For those of us in the U.S., companies that produce
Absinthe brewing kits, such as Green Devil Absinthe,
boast a thujone level higher than the European Absin-
thes.
Their kits include everything you need to make
and drink your own Absinthe except the alcohol, and
because they sell them as novelty products, the kits
exists in the semi-legal gray area between prohibition
and acceptance.
To take a trip with the green fairy, go to Publix Li-
quors in Butler Plaza, where two types of Absinthe are
sold.
Eating healthy not impossible
* WE'VE GOT TIPS FOR EAT- those who do not.
ING HEALTHY ON THE GO.
By LANCE FULLER
avenue writer
It's five minutes until your next
class. You have just come out of a
three-hour-blockand nowhavetorun
across campus to present a project.
Bythe way, your stomach is growling.
As a busy college student, you've
probably faced the problem of too
much to do and not enough time to
do it. When you finally get a chance
to eat, you may end up overeating
on foods that are quick and cheap
but not healthy. Here are some
quick tips on how to eat healthy in
college from UF's GatorWell and
Janis Mena, registered dietitian
and nutritionist from UF's Student
H health Care Center
1. Don't skip the most impor-
tant meal of the day
According to GatorWell's Web
site, even if you get out of bed at
the last second before class, eat
a piece of fruit or something quick
like yogurt on the way to class.
Studies consistently show that peo-
ple who eat breakfast have a sig-
nificantly higher metabolism than2. Stock up and plan ahead
When you go grocery shopping,
stock up and buy things that you
can freeze and take out as a snack.
Mena suggests planning your
meals in advance. Along with string
cheese and crackers made without
hydrogenated fats, sandwiches will
be a great mid-day snack that you
won't have to worry about when you
have multiple classes in a row, she
said.
3. Eat when you're hungry and
stop when you're satisfied, not
full
Accordingto caloriecount.about.
com, it takes the brain anywhere
from 10 to 20 minutes to realize
that the stomach is satisfied when
eating. The slower you eat, the few-
er calories and food you will take
in, thus you will feel fuller without
eating three meals worth of food.
For healthy eating, portion control
is a top priority and when you feel
satisfied, stop eating and push the
plate away from yourself, Mena
said.
4. Take advantage of the dining
centers and convenience stores
on campus
The many on-campus grocerystores like Provisions on Demand
in the Reitz Union, Beaty Market,
Graham Oasis and Little Hall Ex-
press have grab-and-go items that
are healthy and delicious such
as sushi, hummus and soy milk.
Also, the different student dining
centers have full salad bars and
fresh fruit and are always all-you-
can-eat. Although you have to set
up an account with Gator Dining
you will save more money in the
long run having a meal plan and us-
ing the dining halls instead of eat-
ing at the different on-campus res-
taurants every day, said GatorWell
intern Beth Kravitz.
5. Try healthier versions of your
favorite comfort foods and bever-
ages
Considering a cheeseburger
and fries to eat while you study?
Try leaner and healthier forms of
protein like grilled chicken and have
some veggies on the side or beans
and rice instead offries, Kravitz said.
Also, avoid sugary beverages like
regular sodas and fruit-flavored
drinks and instead drink more wa-
ter, skim or soy milk and unsweet-
ened or lightly sweetened tea.
Formoreinformation, checkoutGator
Dining'sWebsiteatgatordining.com.
tree Ouse
VILLAGE
Entire units from $649
2 Bed/2 Bath, 874 sq. feet units
-Bus Route 16
-Washer/Dryer
No Decal Parking
* No Towingf
treehousevillage.con117 SE 16th Ave
(352) 372-3096 (Day)
(352) 494-9724 (Night)
hweales@vanrooy.com
UNIVERSITY AVE.
S 16'SE 16th AvGrand donated inhi His gift provided shot t for
mother's name. the Tyler family after a fire.
Support the Red Cross and change a life, American
starting with your own. T Red Cross
Call 1-800-RED CROSS or visit redcross.org.9 Equal Access Clinic
13th Annual 5K Run
Aprl 10, 2010 at 8 a.m.
Behind North Florida Regional
Medical Center
Benefiting the student-run Equal
Access Clinic of Gainesville which
provides free healthcare to
underprivileged populations.
For more info:
Call Stephanie Mazariegos at
(813) 484-8031 or go to
ufpremed.org/easc
10, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, APRIL 8, 2010
american
Cafe Gardens
For over a third of a century,
the Original World Famous
Cafe Gardens has been serving
Gators with delicious food and
a large selection of beers and
wines. Located just across from
campus near the Florida Book
Store, this quaint landmark es-
tablishment with award winning
courtyard dining is perfect for
any date or gathering. For live
music schedule, call 376-2233.
Hours: Mon-Wed 11am-1Opm,
Thurs-Sat 11am-1am,
Sun Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave. Join us on
Thursday late nights for "Mid-
night in the Garden" with Food
& Drink specials and DJ.
cafegardens.net
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and
Stacks. The only way to
describe the Stack is that it
is outrageously delicious! Its
uniquely different presenta-
tion -three 6 inch flour tortillas
stacked high with fresh grilled
ingredients and just the right
accent of cheese -is strangely
inviting to ones palate. Come
out and try our 1/3 lb Burgers,
steak seasoned Panchos &
Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the The Home Grown
and Homemade Black Bean
Hummus! Now serving draft and
red Stripe beers! We deliver!
Open late to serve your late
night cravings!
Sun-Wed:11am-3am. Thurs -
Sat: 1lam-4am. 34th St. Plaza
(Sweetbay)@ 2124 SW 34th St.
672-6111
www.jdoobies.com
The Swam
Restaurant
The Swamp Restaurant has
been the gathering place for ga-
tors of all ages for the past 15
years. It's your first stop in town
& your last chance to see Gator
memorabilia for as far back as
1994. Our food and staff are
award winning. Always make
the Swamp your only stop for
lunch, dinner and drinks on our
famous front lawn. The Swamp
Restaurant-Where Gators
gather. Open 11:00am-2:00am.
Daily food and drink specials
and happy hour from 4-8pm.
www.swamprestaurant.com
1642 W. University Avenue
(352) 37-SWAMP0
))U oo a nD N N (A
David's BBQ
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, Eat-in,
Takeout, Drive thru, Catering, or
Tailgating. Everyone loves
David's BBQ because, unlike
ordinary BBQ places, David's
cooks over a real wood fire! Eat
where the locals eat! Voted #1
BBQ in Gainesville! Approved
caterer for UF's Emerson Alumni
Hall. Mon-Sat 7 am-9 pm.
Sundays open at 8 am. Drive
Thru until 9:30 pm 7 days! 352-
373-2002. Have David's BBQ
delivered by Gatorfood.com.
FREE WIFI. 5121 NW 39th Ave
www.davidsBBQ.com
U rea kfast F6
43rd Street Deli and
Breakfast House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to
for over 25 years -we probably
served your parents. Biggest
4 egg omelette, French toast,
and daily specials. Not full yet?
Have l unch with us & enjoy a
large selection ofusandwiches,
the best Reuben, gyros, and
soup all at a reasonable price.
Vegetarian? Not a problem. We
have a selection that is sure to
fulfill your needs. We now offer
free WiFi! Open All day Every
day 7am-3pm. 4401 NW 25th
Place 373-2927. 3483 Williston
Rd 373-5656. Conveniently
located off 1-75
The Yearling
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog legs,
and alligator, as well as USDA
Prime beef, seafood, grits, greens
& hush puppies. Open Thursday
& Friday 5pm-1Opm, Saturday
12pm-1Opm & Sunday 12pm-
8:30pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999
www.theyearlingrestaurant.com
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301D'Lites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
delicious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly without
the diet taste. We also feature a
whole array of cookies, chips, and
various grocery treats that appeal
to Atkins@, Weight Watchers@,
and other dieters. Our every day
daily specials make shopping
at D'Lites a special value!
Come weigh your options at
the Marketplace Plaza at NW
16th Blvd. and 43rd St. (next to
the Hollywood Video) or at the
Shoppes of Williston at S.W. 34th
Street and Williston Rd. (next to
Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!
Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts,
loose leaf teas, and beer, with
lots of vegan options. Now open
24 hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
blocks east of campus at 1025 W.
University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve frozen
yogurt as a healthy dessert
alternative. Our yogurt has 0%
fat and contains live and active
cultures. Choose any combination
of 8 different flavors and over 30
toppings. Everything for just 45
cents an ounce. 3841 SW Archer
Rd (next to Bento Red) Open
from noon to midnight daily!
Manuel's Vintage
Room
This family owned restaurant is
perfect for dinner any day of the
week. Come in and check out
one of the best wine lists in town.
Ask questions and learn while
you wait for the chef to put out
nothing but goodness from the
kitchen using fresh, simple, and
local ingredients. Try the Early
Dinner Sunday, Tuesday-Thurs-
day 5-7pm. $3 wines/$1 0 bottles.
$10 Menu. Ask about our Monday
Wine Dinners and private parties
for lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
St. (352)375-7372
vegetarian
Green Mango
The best Indian food in Gaines-
ville. Serving Gainesville since
1991. The best Samosas in
Florida. Offering many vegan
dishes. We are specialized in
catering any group size. Delivery
Savailable-free delivery on anyvegetar an
purchase over $25! Open 7 days
Mon-Sat 11:30am-9pm, Sunday
1 pm-8pm. Call 352-505-6200.
7625 W Newberry Rd
Caribbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
& oxtail. Opened Mon-Thurs
11am-7:30pm, Fri & Sat 11am-
11:45pm, Sun 1lam-7:3Opm
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
352-374-8111
j apaneae
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a hip,
trendy atmosphere. Two great
locations with outside eating.
Open every day for carry-out
or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.
Cabana Cove Keg
West Grill
Open for lunch and dinner.
Full martini and mojito bar.
Voted nicest outdoor dining.
Try one of our 1/2 gourmet
salads for under $5.
COUPON -DATE NIGHT -
COUPON
Save $5 off your next visit of
$25 or more.
Online ordering & delivery
available.
Call ahead seating.
2410 NW 43rd Street
Gainesville
352-377-3278
Please visit us online at www.
cabanacove.net for additional
savings and coupons.
Green Plantains
The best MoFongo, churrasco,
& chofan in town. $5 To-Go
Dinners. Mon-Sat from 4pm.
Don't miss out $4.95 dinner +
soda on Thursday, student night
from 4pm-1 Opm. Visit us at
5150 SW 34th Street at the new
Publix Shopping Center 7 days
a week. We cater. Check us out
on Gatorfood.com
352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.comorganic
THE JONES
Gainesville's own independently
owned community restaurant
dedicated to bringing sustain-
able, local, and organic food
to the table. Oh, and it's really
yummy. Herbivores, carnivores,
& omnivores welcome! NOW
SERVING DINNER EVERY
NIGHT! New hours: open every
day 8am-1Opm. Check out our
facebook page for specials and
events. 401 NE 23rd Avenue.
352.373.6777
New Deal Cofi
BURGERS! BURGERS!
BURGERS!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burger! This 12oz burger
is Naturally Aged and Fresh
Ground. CHEAP Wines $5/
Glass and 20 bottles under $20.
OPEN LATE servering HUGE
Martini's and cakes to DIE for!
Mon-Thurs. 11am-1Opm. Fri &
Sat. 11am-11pm
371-4418
newdealcafegainesville.com
Real Food Made By Real
Chefs.You Should Feel Guilty
If You Haven't Eaten Here Yet!
mexican
Boca Fiesta
Best Margaritas in Town!
Fresh-squeezed + all natural!
Tasty tacos, burritos, nachos!
Cheap beer, full bar, open late!
Now serving brunch!
232 SE 1st St Downtown
336-TACO!
fne33-gAhborhood
Farah's on the
Avenue
Farah's on the Avenue
now celebrating 30 years
in Gainesville! Located on
University Avenue, between
Modern Age and Bank of
America, just minutes from UF.
Farah's is newly remodeled and
offers a cozy, fun atmosphere
with a fireplace, the area's
largest indoor atrium and an
open air patio. Farah's also
boasts a full bar and seven new
flat screen TVs airing a variety
of sports programming. The
extensive menu features award-
winning wings and burgers as
well as vegetarian and vegan
fare. Perfect for private events
or casual dining. Now offering
"smoke till you choke" hookah
specials on Friday and Saturday
and drink specials all week
long, including $1.50 Pabst, $5
pitchers, $2 wells.
Hours: MO & TU 11am-1Opm,
WE&UTHn1yam-l2am,
FR &SAT llam-2am.
1120 W. University Ave. 378-5179.New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta & desserts. All you can
eat buffet available! Outdoor
dining. Visit www.newyorkpiz-
zaplus.com for coupons. We
Deliver! 490 NE 23rd Ave.
377-2542
vegetan
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade, meals,
sandwiches,usoups, home-baked
desserts. Brunch Weekends.
Specials: Cupcake Mon.,
Southern Cooking Tues., Greek
Wed 6pm, Ethiopian Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 1Oam-8pm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
Saigon Legend
Delicious traditional Vietnamese
cuisine with popular Asian
favorites. Pho-Banh Xeo, Banh
Tom Ha-Noi. Enjoy great food
at great prices. Family owned
restaurant. Next to Holiday Inn.
Vietnamese subs-pork,chicken, &
tofu. Dine-in or take out. Catering
available. Mon-Sat 10:30am-
9:30pm, Sun 11:30am-9pm,
374-0934,1228 W. Univ Ave
U(@ p Q
6~dbh aI
20
?&6O4343IcoDrum shows
hit Gainesville
By LAUREN GOLD
avenue contributing writer
Drum roll, please. Trinidad & Tobago Sweet Tassa is
comingto Gainesville.
The group will perform, host classes and speak about
tassa, a drum of North Indian origin.
Tassa is a large part of weddings, religious practices
and other cultural celebrations in Indo-Caribbean cul-
ture in Trinidad and Tobago.
The UF Center for World Arts and the School of Music
will also be hosting Lenny Kumar, one of the most recog-
nized tassa drummers in Trinidad and
Tobago and founder of the Trinidad &
Tobago Sweet Tassa Academy.
The weekend of music and culture
from the Indian-Caribbean diaspora
will be full of events free toathe public:
On Friday there will be a guest lec-
ture in Room 144 of the Music Build-
ing at UF at 10:40 a.m. The main performance will be
Saturday at 2 p.m. at the Sante Fe Springs Arts Festival
in downtown Gainesville.
Studio Percussion, a non-profit organization that of-
fers percussion lessons, will also be holding a class at
4:30 Saturday.
At 8 p.m., there will be a lecture and recital by UF
ethnomusicology student Chris Ballenge, featuring T&T
Sweet Tassa in the Steinbrenner Band Hall courtyard.
For more information, e-mail Chris Ballengee at chris-
bal@ufl.edu. Space is limited for each event.SRAAAIW
a-ii
fNu
II
'Glee' returns with Lady GaGa and guest stars
By MICHELLE PROFITS
avenue writer
Associated Press
Am ber Riley with President Barack Obama at the White H ouse "Glee" performance.Gleeks, the wait is over The show
that left America singing its high school
heart out is back from hibernation, and
not a moment too soon.
For those of you who have been liv-
ing under a rock, I'll forgive and forget if
you tune in when the show returns Tues-
day on Fox after a four-month hiatus.
But just because we haven't been
able sit in awe as New Directions belts
out another powerhouse ballad doesn't
mean the stars haven't been hard at
work. The cast made an appearance
at the annual White House Easter Egg
Roll invited by the first lady herself on
Monday Yesterday, the cast invaded
the set of "Oprah" for a "Glee"-centered
episode. This summer, the cast will
embark on a national tour, performing
its Broadway-infused songs to adoring
fans. And get yourself to the nearest
store to snatch a copy of this week's
Rolling Stone as cast members are fea-
tured on a 1950s-themed cover.
So what will become of our favor-
ite McKinley High kids when the show
kicks off? Although the season ended
with the thank-goodness-this-finally-
happened kiss between Will and Emma,
the songsters winning sectionals, and
Sue Sylvester getting kicked off her high
horse for sabotagingGlee club, we have
many questions left to be answered.
Can Finn ever come to his senses and
snatch up Rachel before it's too late?
Will the snappy, sneaky Sue finally seek
her revenge upon Glee club? And can
Puck halt his wandering eye and take
care of Quinn and his baby?
Aside from the obvious plot twists
and turns that we have to look for-
ward to (oh, who am I kidding? We only
care about the music), creator Ryan
Schwartz has also lined up quite the
itinerary of guest stars as Neil PatrickHarris, Idina Menzel, Molly Shannon
and the reoccurring Kristen Chenoweth
splash onto the "Glee" scene in the
coming weeks. Also new to theshow
is Jonathan Groff, most known for star-
ring in the Broadway smash "Spring
Awakening" with Lea Michele. Groff will
play Jesse St. James, a member of Glee
club's rival group, Vocal Adrenaline, as
well as an amorous contender for Ra-
chel's heart.
We can laugh at Kurt's diva prow-
ess and swoon over Puck's mohawk
all we want, but when push comes to
shove, there's really only one thing on
everyone's mind: What are they going
to sing?!
The show kicks off next week with
something a little different: an entire
episode with original music. Dubbed
"Original Song," the episode will feature
the kids writing and performing their
own pieces of music. Skeptics, hold your
horses and don't turn away quite yet be-
cause after this innovative episode airs,
we will be on to the.wait for it.entirely
Madonna-themed episode. The set list
features hits like "Vogue" and "Like a
Virgin." Bonus? The album, titled "The
Music, the Power of Madonna" is al-
ready available for pre-order on iTunes.
Other songs on tap for this season?
Promos feature Lea Michele belting out
"Like a Prayer" (also from the Madonna
episode) and the cast version of "Hello
Goodbye." But what got most fans in a
bedazzled tizzy was the announcement
that "Glee" would take on Lady GaGa's
"Bad Romance" and "Poker Face." Cue
the gleegasms.
So there you have it, gleeks. New
songs, new drama, new romance and
new Sue Sylvester zingers are headed
our way. It's pretty clear that "Glee" is
well on its way to taking over the world.
We wouldn't want it any other way. For
more on "Glee," visit Fox.com/glee.sexooV
<S6
iALl~ cA> &W\rnt$
>tJhC g'WtTHURSDAY, APRIL 8, 2010*4ALLIGATOR, 11
)
i ----4W
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, APRIL 8, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
*3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
1 MONTH FREE!
Immediate availability
All Inclusive Student Living from $399
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-1
Crosswiq
*Rates @ $379*
All inclusive & Fully Furnished
Or Get a New iPad!
TV or new sofa package
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
373-9009
4-21-10-74-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, University Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
Summer Rates 2010
Summer Free 2011
On 15 month lease
352-376-6720
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-1
Luxury Apartment Homes
Define the Good Life
2/2*4/4* All inclusive
Direct Bus Route to Campus
EnclaveUF.com * 376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
*$200 VISA GIFTCARDO
Townhouse & apts accross the street from UF
all-inclusive & fully furnished from $479/BR.
Sign this week & get a $200 visa giftcard!
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. 239-250-6149 5-11-10-79-1*Move in Today*
Rates ( $299!
2,3 & 4 bedroom suites
All inclusive & Fully Furnished
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
373-9009
4-21-10-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
2/2*3/3*4/4
Experience the Good Life
Text "Enclave" to 47464
4-21-09-71-1
REDUCED 1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $300/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished 
+
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 4-14-10-46-1
2 Blocks to UF $300/mo
Furnished bedroom in 4BD condo.
Rent includes utils, cable TV & internet.
378-4626 / 262-4290 4-21-10-31-1
$339- Fully Furnished fairly new condo
4Br/4Ba spacious bedrooms & living area,
w/d in unit, great kitchen, great bus rtsl2
& 35 ten mn to UF & shopping Discounted
rent Avail. Start fall. 941-232-1960
4-13-1-2-1
$339 rm/mo all utils incl. 4BR/2BA Condo
at University Commons furnished W/D/TV/
Cable/Parking. Immediatley avl. summer/fall
Great Place Great Price 239.253.8701 or
email at: tom@moorelandscape.com 8-16-
10-36-1
4-4 condo will rent monthy, quarterly or
yearly. $500/month/room includes: washer-
dryer, dishwasher, private bathroom/bed-
room, walk-in closet, utilities, cable, wireless
internet, pool, gym, volleyball and basketball
courts. Living, dining and kitchen have wood-
en floors, bedrooms have nice clean carpets.
Bus services every 5-10 minutes. 352-213-
7059 5-20-10-30-1
1BR/1BA. $850 per month (everything in-
cluded). Covered parking behind unit. Less
than one block from campus. Call for more
details, 724-974-9591. 4-8-16-1
Roomate needed for 2010-2011 School year
Clean, furnished condo on RTS #8 busline
and close to UF. All utilities, cable & internet
included, $500/month
Contact: Maurice (mwmascoe@yahoo.com)
4-1 3-10-15-1
3BE/3BA clean and quiet condo for rent. All
utilities included. $400/room or $1000/apt. 1
mile from UF. 2 bus routes available. Must
see!! Call Dory 954-816-1468. 4-13-10-10-
Rockwood Villas Fully Furn. 2/2 with den.
Remodeled. Screen porch, laundry, all ap-
pliances.Great Bus lines,volleyball,(2)pools
and tennis. $800 month. Security $500 one
year lease minimum. 352-494-6110 4-9-
10-7-1
ROOM FOR RENT Lg master suite in new
home, 15 min to VA, Shands & UF. NS, pro-
fessional only. Util, cable TV, garage & wire-
less internet incl.Kitchen & laundry access.
$525/mo. 352-219-3410 4-9-10-7-1
2/2 Woodlands of Gainesville Luxury Apt.
Indiv. leases, $670/room/mo.$360 Cash
Back. Cable, High Speed internet and
Utilities included. On 3 bus routes and close
to major shopping/food areas. summer
2010(May-July)
(786) 449-7029/rodriba@ufl.edu
4-15-10-1Townhome for rent.
Spacious 2 x 2.5 in Grantwood, a gated com-
munity. 5 minutes from campus. Contact
Eddie at 954-699-3665 for more information,
or to arrange a viewing. 5-25-10-19-1
4/4 Countryside Condo private bed/bathincl
utilities, wd,cable,wireless int,pool,gated
workout room, great bus rte,$400/mth all
in-Jeff @904-612-3944, will consider semes-
ter lease. 8-5-10-40-1
Spacious 4/4 fully furn condo in SW G'ville 5
mins to UF! Indiv. leases, $375/rm/mo. On 3
bus rtes, close to major shopping/food areas.
Utils incl up to $200/mo. $200 SD. Avail. im-
mediately/summer/fall. Email anu87@ufl.edu
4-21-10-14-1
$450 room in beautiful, landscaped house.
Looking for mature adult -owner gone May
to Oct. W/D, wireless internet, full house
amenities, half utilities. Call 352-219-1095
4-12-10-5-1
3BR/3BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room + utils cl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Bball, pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd FIr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, Sebastian 352-874-8905 4-21 -
10-12-1
Female roommates needed for 3/3, own bed/
bath, furnished, Windsor Park, close to UF
on bus stop, pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $335,
1/3 utilities; looking for a clean and studious
roommates, 407-361-1154. 4-21-10-11-1
Pool Party Special
Sign a lease 4/9/10
Enter to win a
$150 visa gift card!
Rates @ $379 Fully Loaded
Lexingtoncrossinguf.com
373.9009
4-8-10-1-1
OFFor Rentunfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901 4-21-
10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
Now Available Downtown!
Luxury 1, 2, and 3 Bedrooms
Alarm*Walk-in Closet*Pets OK
Stay Out Late & Walk Home!
Call today-don't wait! 338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
AFFORDABLE RATES! QUIET COMMUNITY!
www.frederickgardens.com
1BR/1BA $469 * 2BR/1BA $515
2/1 special price will not last long!
Adopted pets live free!! 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOWor FALL 2010.
2/2 from $999 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool *W/D *Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$709 2/2-$809 3/2-$909
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-71-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
*More Play, Less Work@
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
BRING IN THIS AD FOR $0 MOVE IN FEES!
2/2s: From $799; 3/3s: From $959
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2Great School Districts!
HUGE 1 Bed- $595!
2 Bed- $729*4 Bed- $949
Tennis*Pool*Basketball
Call TODAY*332-7401
4-21-71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 3/2s from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Museum Walk
All Inclusive Roommate Matching -$439
3/3 Flats 2/2 Townhomes & UF LOCATION!
#117 Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave MuseumWalk.com
Call for Specials!*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
2 BLOCKS FROM UF
2BR/1 BA from $338/person
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
We <3 pets! Wood floors avail!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $635. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees *We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $515 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$369
INCLUDES UTILITIES
1 month FREE, Move In TODAY!
24hr Amenities & Valet Trash!
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
THURSDAY, APRIL 8, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 13
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
SUN KEY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!)
Student Discount
From $599/mo; Up to 3 Months Free!
Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Special runs until 4-15-2010
352.376.6720 or 352-376-7041
Check out our unbelieveable
bandwidth: 30x10 IPV6
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, is from $575
$0 M/l Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
WALK TO UF -AVAIL NOW & FALL!
*1BR $460- $495
* 2BR $485- $600
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
Across From UF
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Cal 376-1111
4-21-65-2FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -YOUR NEW HOME!
Unique LOFT floor plan only $595!
1/1 from $625 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning* Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis * 1 mile to UF
377-7401 * www.boardwalkapt.com
4-21-09-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 5-11-10-79-2
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content dp
Available from Commercial News Providers
SA
I
-m
II
IUPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1 bedroom from *$457 2 bedroom from *$558
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 bedroom 1 bath from *$549
2 bedroom 2 bath from *$641
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Additional $200 off next month
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 $549
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
5-11-10-64-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 2 bd/ 1 ba
Hardwood floors, must see
$900/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Large 5 Bedrm House**
1 full & 3-1/2 baths
Plant Atriums, Unique floorplan, W/D
Plenty of Parking, 8 blocks N of UF
$2,500/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Great Parking! Walk to UF! 4BD/4.5 BA
Located near SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St.
Call today to view @ 352.373.7578
Union Properties www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
NEWLY REMODELED 1BRs
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
6-29-64-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 4-16-
10-45-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 5-11-
10-48-2
2BR/2.5BA townhouse condo, 1 mi from
UF on bus route. Inc W/D, community club-
house, pool & fitness center. Wired for inter-
net & security sys. $878/mo. Avail 5/1 or 8/1.
Call/text 332-8841 lindalu@gatorhomes.com
4-19-10-40-2
T i-
P$ LO S
OResort Lifestyle*
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
ALL INCLUSIVE PRICING!
2's: From $546/person; 3's: From $451/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-42-2
2BR HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area. Wood firs, new kitchen
vinyl, Cent H/AC, DW, fenced yard, wood
deck, parking, $975/mo. Pets ok Avail Aug
16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 Iv mssg 5-27-
10-46-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority
Row/Norman Hall area. W/D, ice maker,
ceramic tile. Cent H/AC, DW, parking,
fenced yard. $1485/mo. Pets ok. Avail Aug
16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 Iv mssg 5-27-
10-46-2HUGE 4BR/2BA 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area, remodeled baths, new:
stove, DW, disposal & AC, W/D, wd firs. cent
H/AC, parking. $2400/mo Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg
4-21-10-40-2
Houses Available for Fall!
2631 NW 1st Ave -$1845
402 NW 36th -$1425
315 NW 17th St. -$875
4 NW 25th St -$1499
717 NW 34th St -$1320
FREE UF Parking!
352.371.7777
4-21-71-2
$199 Move-In Special
$500-$700 2BR/1BA
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or 352-505-9264 4-16-10-
30-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $650/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220. (leave
a voicemail) 4-21-32-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 5-11-10-114-2
$600, 2BR, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet school
& campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furn; Parking; 352 376
0080;352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-27-2
For a Limited Time Only! 1BR/1BA seperate
dining rm, Ig living rm, walk in closet, cent
H/AC, full kitchen, full bath. H20 & sewer
incl. Free pest control. Close to Oaks Mall,
Archer Rd & UF. $395/mo. 2 & 3 BDs avail
in several locations, dif floor plans. 215-7780
6-17-10-38-2
0* Very Nice 1BR 0*.
Full bath, living room, dining room, full kitch-
en, in-law suite, w/ W/D, cable, all utils incl.
$750/mo near Haile. (352) 367-0372
4-13-10-20-2
Walk to UF. Openings in April -Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
4-21-10-26-2
Available Immediately! Small 1/1
Efficiency apt. W/D avail, new paint & carpet.
10 min walk to UF. Perfect for international/
graduate students! $500/mo + utils. 284-0979
4-21-10-26-2
10houses.com
3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$1000 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
5-11-10-26-2
OFREAKS!! DOWNTOWN 414 SE 2nd St
2BR/1 BA DUPLEX apt w/loft, central heat,
window air, off-street parking, $620/mo,
SALSO: Studio/garage apt. $420/mo.
Call 352-373-6551 4-9-17-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
Walk to Campus
1/1 Townhomes from $579
2/1.5 bath townhomes from $699
Check out our unbelieveable bandwidth:
30x10 IPV6
352-376-6720 352-376-7041
Ask about our specials!
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-25-2
SUN BAY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!)
Student Discount
From $599/mo; Up to 3 Months Free!
Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Special runs until 4-15-2010
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-25-2
14, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 8,2010
For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished WE U
FREE MONTHS RENT 1BDs
1114 SW 7th Ave $650/mo
Spacious loft style, parking onsite.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-24-2
That's what She Said!
"I LOVE Hidden Lake because.
Cable & internet are Included,
roommate matching is available,
furniture & utility packages are available,
I'm just 1.5 miles to UF & midtown,
there's FREE tanning & a 24-hr gym,
a designer pool AND pets are welcome!"
Come see for yourself!
call 374-3866 for a tour or text
HIDDENLAKE to 47464 OR.
Next time you're on facebook,
creep on over to Hidden Lake's page
to see floor plans, pics & more!
4-21-10-25-2
7 Blks UF , 4BR/3BA, 2 masters, POOL HOT
TUB, 2500 sq ft, 2 porches, 5 car parking,
responsible students, professionals only, Will
leave plasma TV on wall, $2375/mo -nego-
tiable. Avail May or Aug, Jordan 352-222-0211
4-9-10-15-2
3bed/2bath Creeks Edge condo -just off NW
13th St. W/D, pool & clubhouse. Close to UF
and on bus route. Available August. Seeking
roommates $395/mo/ea. 727-463-0560
6-29-10-35-2
ONE BLOCK TO CAMPUS
ONE MONTH RENT FREE
1122 SW 2nd Ave 3/1.5 $1575
1123 SW 1st Ave 3/1 $1500 includes utilities.
1118 SW 2nd Ave 3/1 $1200
1 & 2 BRs also available. No dogs.
Call Kinetic Properties at 337-9600 4-12-
15-2
ARLINGTON SQUARE (2b/2ba) -$799/Mo,
Luxury Downtown APT, access to main RTS'
NO short-term. Avail 4/21/10, Call Sean,
239-410-1603 5-13-22-2
***HOUSE 4BR/2BA***
Available 8/1. Lovely, remodeled. W/D. Bike
to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. $1200/
mo. 373-1558, 246-8645, or 256-8370 4-9-
10-10-2
House,4BR,3BA,LR,FR,recently renovated.
2 Masters w/pvt bth. fenced in back yard.
garage. Off 34th. tander@bellsouth.net 954-
340-2732 5-13-10-20-2
Looking for an apartment ASAP? Cheapest
apartments in town can be found right here!
Please call (352) 262-9920. 2/2's available
for as low as $500/month, ready for immedi-
ate move-in. 4-9-10-10-2
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2
BR vintage apts. near UF & downtown. All
have wood floors, fans, & blinds. Pets pos-
sible. Rent from $575-$950/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com, 352-338-7670
4-12-10-10-2
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean 2 & 3
BIR homes near UF. Some wood floors, all
with CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds, & lawn up-
keep. Rent @ $790-$1275/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com, 352-338-7670
4-13-10-10-2
2 Br Houses near 13th St. Walmart:
Beautiful vintage charmer 2ba $950
available now. Available May:
Pet Heaven, fenced yard 1ba $675
Call owner/agent 352-328-7474. 4-21-10-
16-2
TOP QUALITY -GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to cam-
pus -on N & E sides. Year lease, beginning
summer or fall. K & M Properties. 372-1509
4-21-10-15-2
JACKSON SQUARE CONDO -Annual
rental beginning 8/1/10. Immaculate, new,
2BR/2BA, 1 blk from UF. W/D in unit, un-
dercover parking. Call owner for details 561-
912-0190. $750/mo/room. 4-21-10-15-2
AVAILABLE NOW. 641 NW 34th St. Lovely
4BR/2BA house. 2288 sq ft. Step-down LR,
dining/family rm. Central Heat & A/C, W/D,
private big backyard. $1100. Call 770-822-
9657 or 404-245-1300 4-14-10-10-24BD/3BA HOUSE NEAR UF!
W/D, Central AC, Wood Floors. 3514 NW
7th Place. Available Aug. 1st. Call Manny at
352-317-4408 4-21-10-14-2
4BD/2BA HOUSE NEAR UF!
W/D, Available Aug. 1st. 610 NW 34th
Terrace. Call Manny at 352-317-4408 4-21-
10-14-2
*WANT IT ALL?@
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
FURNITURE NOW INCLUDED!
ALL INCLUSIVE rates beginning at
2/2-$546/person, 3/3-$451/person
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-14-2
One month free rent to qualified tenant with
year long lease- 2/1 $575.00 mo, across
from Santa Fe College w/d hkups & central
A/C. Edbaurmanagement.com- 4121 NW
37th PI Suite B, Gainesville, FL 4-15-10-
11-2
Beautiful Northwood Pool Home with large
1/2 acre lot. 3 bed, 2 bath has plenty of room
for summer fun while swimming or hanging
out in the hot tub. Washer Dryer included
with full 2 car garage and lots of storage.
Pets OK, call Jeffrey for more information.
352-246-5801 5-1 1-10-14-2
Spacious 1 BR apt for rent.
1 BR/1 BA apt near Oaks Mall.
Walk to mall, restaurant and coffee shops.
New appliances. Call 352-258-4695 4-9-
10-5-2
Homes Avail for Fall! Pets welcome!
Minutes to UF and Santa Fe.
4/2 3321 and 3236 NW 30 PL $1200/mon
4/2 5402 NW 25th PL $1200
Call April 352-514-1441 for more info! 4-21-
10-13-2
Duck Pond rentals -The NE Blvd Apts are
1/1 units, ~ 850 sq ft w/high celings, wood
floors, ample parking; avail mid July thru Fall
$540/mo; Historic 1/1 at 205 NE 3rd St, $550/
mo, off steet parking Edbaurmanagement.
com 4121 NW 37th PL Suite B 375-7104
4-15-10-9-2
2 bedroom, 2 bath condo in NW Gainesville,
nice quiet complex, screened porch, vaulted
ceilings, washer & dryer,2 parking spots
$725/month (239)851-8948 4-12-10-5-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home.
Shady lot. From $300 -$450/mo
FIRST MONTH HALF PRICE incl water.
No pets. 4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887
5-11-10-13-2
AVAILABLE NOW & AUGUST
*2BR/1 BA fenced bkyd, cent H/AC $745/mo
*3BR/2BA fenced backyard. $1025/mo.
Gore-Rabell Real Estate 378-1387.
www.gore-rabell.com 4-21-10-13-2
APTS and HOMES for rent near UF!
Avail Summer and Fall, visit our website at
merrillmanagement.net or
Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494 x10
4-21-10-13-2
1BR 1BA Apt Grad II Apts
New carpet, paint. Avail Now
Or Fall 1236 Sw 4th Ave $540/mo
Central H &Air, Laundry Fac.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494
4-21-10-13-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue. St. Croix Apts
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
2BR 1BA, Wood Floors, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 or tazzie2l@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-22901 NW 14th Street
1BR or 2BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425-$550/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 or
tazzie21 @bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
8-16-10-37-2
Lovely 2 BE/21/2BA. NW 43rd Ave. Garage.
All appliances, W/D, internet,security, cable
included. Prefer quiet, stable residents. $999/
mo. Available June 1st. Long term lease
available. Ph. 941-776-1767. 5-20-10-15-2
Barn Eff Apt, Rural Living Jonesville
Pets Welcome, Avail Now, 15 Ac prop
$400 mo+util, TV, Wash/Dry Inc
Stalls also avail, 954-292-2244 4-20-10-
10-2
*STUDENTS**
123,&4 bedroom Houses and Apartments
available for fall. Pets arranged. All near
campus. Call 371-3260 or 870-2760 4-21-
10-11-2
WOODS EDGE SOUTH- 2BR/2.5BA
Recently constructed townhomes, located
off of 34th St. Spacious living room and wide
kitchen area. Bay windows for breakfast
nook. Double master suites and large clos-
ets. Screened back porch. W/D, next to bus
stop, close to UF.
$550/mo/rm + utilities.
Call (305)799-7042 5-18-14-2
1 Bedroom/1 Bath Apartment for Rent.
$535. Available Immediately. Downstairs
Unit. Country Club Atmosphere. Towne
Parc Apartments, 2930 SW 23rd Terrace,
Gainesville. Cell: 217-553-6045. 4-16-10-
8-2
SMALL CABIN 2/1, 20 ACRES
Watermelon Pond views. 27802 SW 120th
Lane, Newberry. Horse pens, dog door.
Needs work. $575/mo. $750 move-in 330-
329-8834 4-13-5-2
3BR/3BA Condo across st. from campus
on corner of Archer and 13th with all tile
floors and all appliances. $1500/month or
individual leases. Available summer 2010
call 989-980-2807 4-21-10-10-2
4/3, 3000+sf, $1975. HOUSE STAFF. 352-
301-2403 4-14-5-2
4Br/3Ba Large Home w/ 2 car gar, 8 min from
UF, large fenced yard, dogs ok. Exquisite
oaks & landscaping, wood & tile floors, new
appliances. $1,600/mo. 352-466-0358. Avail
summer or Aug. 3120 NW 31st Blvd. 4-21-
10-10-2Summer sublease 1BR/1BA at the Estates
Furnished + W/D. $882/month (negotiable).
Rent includes utilities, internet, cable +
covered parking. Gym, billiard/poker room,
basket/volleyball courts. Call 7865540378
4-9-8-3
$375 1/1bed in a4/4 apt.
May-July furnished & clean
University House 13th&7th ave
6 blocks from UF 2flr poolview
Contact-hannahbananab@gmail.com 4-12-
10-5-3
Free Love-seat and Mattress/Box springs
$350/mo Summer Sublease
1216 SW 2ND Ave
Unfurnished. 1 Bed, 1 Bath
Option to renew. 217-370-6560 4-13-10-
5-3
Rm in 4/4 in the Estates for summer! $400/
mo, great roommates, 10 mins from campus,
kitchen, bathrm, wrkout ct, pools and laundry
rm. Contact Sam at 386-212-7341,
samanthaajones@ufl.edu 4-9-3-3
Summer sublease at Canopy Apartments for
only $495/month(negotiable).
It's a 4BR/4BA with utilities, 42Flat
screen,HBO included.15min to LibWest,5min
to Oaksmall Call 3528713769 4-15-7-3
SPEND SUMMER BY THE POOL
Enjoy a close location and a poolside 4-bed-
room townhouse! Looking for a female sub-
leaser to stay at The Courtyards during
Summer B or C. Call 443-244-1184 for more
info! 4-16-10-7-3
Bar hop then walk home!' 2/2 LUXURY
APARTMENT $799 reduced from $999.
Washer & dryer, private porch, all ameni-
ties. Across from Library West, a block from
Midtown. Call 561-389-4535 4-14-5-3
JUMBLERoommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES
IN FURN 4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF.
$290/mo incl elec, cable tv, internet, pool,
laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626
4-21-09-71-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
5-11-10-62-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsNA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$325/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220
(leave a voicemail.) 4-21-32-4.
$400/mo Room for Rent plus elec, Rockwood
Villas TH, pvt bath, on bus route, w/d, free
internet, non-smoking, female only. Avail
Immed & Fall. 1st Mth Free w lyr lease.
ktellmann@ufl.edu/904-874-6877. 7-13-
10-45-4
Seeking roommates for 3 bed/ 2 ba quiet
condo at Creeks Edge. New flooring, recent
remodel,upstairs unit, washer/dryer, on bus-
line to campus, partial furnished. Available
Aug 1st. $395/mo. 727-463-0560 5-11-10-
28-4
a* I
J~j~ae~~9Available from Commercial News Providers
DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Sublet: Walking Distance to Class!
Right Behind Sorority Row!
Master Bedroom in House/Ample Parking!
Needed May-Mid August / $475 monthly
352-275-2461 4-16-13-3-a
S fCopyrighted Material
*Syndicated Content., 0
41
THURSDAY, APRIL 8, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
F Roommaes Roommates l Furnishings Motorcycles, Mopeds l9Aut
Grad student looking for roommates for 4
bed/4 bath condo at University Terrace.
$400/room/month, incl. cable, internet, util.
On 2 bus routes, fully furnished. Tidiness
preferred. Call 352.575.0731. 4-12-10-15-
Roommate wanted: College house; 4/3: Lg
rooms, Lg yard, FP & Lg pool, Walk/bike to
UF or 4.5 mi. to SFC. Nice/safe neighbor-
hood! Join the good life! $375/mo +1/4 Util:
Call Justin @ 813-748-6042 4-12-10-15-4
1 Room avail in Large 1800SF home. Mins to
UF/Santa Fe, steps to a bus. Ideal for grad/
young professional. Only $300/mon + 1/3
utilities! Avail Aug. 6th. 352-514-1441 4-15-
10-14-4
1 room in 3/2, 10 blocks north of university
on nw 22nd st. rent + util&cable&internet is
$500 total/month. large 12'x12' room w 7'x2,
closet, corner window. summer or year avail-
able immediately. Jason @ (352) 577-8235
4-9-10-9-4
Responsible and Clean Rommate needed
Asking $600, spacious room w/ private bath.
Fully furnished, 5 minutes from campus, ac-
cess to bus routes 9 & 35. Contact Eddie at
954-699-3665 for details or a viewing. 4-21-
10-14-4
Grad student looking for roommates for 4
bed/4 bath condo at University Terrace.
$400/room/month, incl. cable, internet, util.
On 2 bus routes, fully furnished. Tidiness
preferred. Email anu87@ufl.edu 4-21-10-
22-4
Need FEMALE roommate! All-inclusive, fully-
furnished 1BR/1BA available in a 3BR/3BA
apt @ Windsor Park. Bus routes 9,34,35,36.
Contact me for RATES and INCENTIVES:
aptinfo4u@yahoo.com 4-21-13-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $350/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
4-21-10-11-4
MOST WANTED3 Roommates needed for a 4/2 newly pur-
chased house, Backyardlarge kitchen large
patio. Fully furnished besides bedrooms.
5min from UF. FREE NEW SCOOTER WITH
EACH YR LEASE SIGNED. Asking $549 for
singles including utilities. Move in -May 15.
call Shaun at 904-838-8412 4-21-10-11-4
DUCKPOND -BIKE TO UF
Serious student/foreign grad. Fully furn small
room in quiet house. Close to downtown, on
bus line. Utils incl. $90/week. 352-514-3409
4-21-10-11-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Biks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Campus Edge / Somerest VillageWalk to
Shands/VA/class 2units, 2bd/2ba vault-
ed ceilings 2nd/3rd floor w/d in unit,best
locations parking. $8,000 tax credit.
$164,900/$132,900. Move in Ready 954-
439-2301 stedel@bellsouth.net 4-21-10-
41-5
Motivated. For sale by Owner. Must sell
beautiful 3bd/2b 1777 sf home in Cottages
of Country Way, Newberry, FL. Close to
schools. No HOA. Large lot. Asking $184,900.
(530) 613-6488 4-21-10-28-5
Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
Cy For Sale
*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie -373-5929 4-21-18-10
Sotorcycle, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***Www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
ELECTRIC SCOOTER
No insurance/registration needed
Inexpensive to own & operate
Assembled/free delivery/guaranty
American Electric Bike Co
www.greenscootersoncampus.com
4-16-10-25-11
2007 KAWASAKI NINJA 500
Garage-kept, never dropped. All mainte-
nance done. Very, very clean. 720 miles.
$3500. Call anytime 352-214-5191 4-13-
10-20-11
Yamaha R6S 2008
Only 932 miles
New Condition
Contact (352) 284-5237 4-13-10-5-11
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS 0
ORunning or not!@
ONEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
5-27-09-124-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699
94 Chevy 1500 $999
92 Chrysler Cirrus $999
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
93 Ford F150 $1999
98 Ford Explorer $1999
96 Mits Galant $1999
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Nissan Stanza $1499
98 Pontiac Transport $1499
97 Plymouth Voyager $1999
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-1200 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2999
99 Olds Alero $2999
99 Pontiac Grand Am $2999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
99 Chrysler Sebring $2500
01 Dodge Neon $2500
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Mustang, 40k, $5500 CASH
03 Chevy Venture, 143k, $6900 CASH
05 Jeep Liberty, 105k, $6999 CASH
05 Saturn Ion, 123k, $7999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
06 Ford Taurus, 40k, $8900 CASH
05 VW Jetta, 111k, $8999 CASH
05 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
05 Chevy Trailblazer, 135k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Ranger, 158k, $7999 CASH
06 Chrysler PT Criuser, 46k $9999 CASH
07 Chevy Cobalt, 24k $10,999 CASH
02 Volvo S60, 97k $8999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
W Z FWanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948. 4-9-10-72-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 4-9-
10-72-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14Fcomputers
Tony Hopkins
Black Male
(DOB 01/01/58); 511",
210 lbs, Black Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
Possession of a Controlled
Substance Without a
Prescription and Possession
of Marijuana
ALACHUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOP
16, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 8,2010
UF HepWanted HelpWanted services Health Services Evntotices
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male summer camp counselors ages 18 and
up. FEYC is an over-night camp located off
of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL. The camp
runs June 14- Aug 7. Please contact Krys
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352
455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have a fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
Build your own online business from your
laptop. Fifty year old company. Contact John,
352-219-0871, or John@JCantlon.com
4-12-10-20-14
Start securing your career today!
Join UF ARMY ROTC!
Register for MSL 1001 and 1001L
Call 392-1395 today to learn about
jobs available as an Army officer!
8-5-10-50-14
Leasing Agent PT Must be fluent with face-
book, excel &familiarw/ UF & SF campuses.
Very Friendly & Smiles Often
Fax Resume to 338-7468 4-9-10-14-14
Ever think about joining the Army?
Ever considered being an officer?
If you have 2-3 years left at UF you
may have an opportunity through
Army ROTC Call 392-ARMY!
5-27-10-32-14
STAY IN GAINESVILLE
CAREER POSITIONS
(with benefits)
MARKETING/SALES REPS
ADMIN ASST
TECH SUPPORT
ACCOUNTING EDITOR
RESEARCH ASST
SOFTWARE TESTER
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
(PT also available)
Apply online at http://www.gleim.com
4-21-10-17-14
PT work home and office. Lawn work exp.
preferred. Students only. non-smoking. $10/
hrCall Sebastian (352)591-3000. 4-12-10-
9-14
Swim, Gymnastics, Dance & Cheer
Instructors, Summer Camp Counselors &
Maintenance Staff. Submit applications to
Sun Country Sports Center (download at
www.suncountrysports.com) 4-9-10-7-14
MASTER HYPNOTIST
Seeks intern w/excellent computer, internet
& interpersonal skills. Phone Richard in AM
352-949-0813 4-21-10-15-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Afternoons,
evenings &weekends. Fax resume and avail-
able hours to 373-2230 4-15-10-10-14Nonprofit organization seeking business
sales rep for outreach position. Flexible
schedules and competitive pay. Email re-
sumes to johnb@safeid4families.org 4-9-
10-6-14
WINDOW BLIND INSTALLERS NEEDED
Independent contractors. Call immediately
339-4600 4-21-10-14-14
Dental Receptionist-FT position for friendly,
experienced, and long term receptionist.
Bilingual a plus. Salary based on experience.
Email your resume and cover letter to
epdentistry@live.com 4-13-10-7-14
COMFORT INN WEST on SW 40th Blvd
is currently looking for a dynamic, full-time
night auditor & part time desk assoc. Must be
available to work a flex sched & have a posi-
tive attitude. Apply in person. 4-12-10-5-14
Join the JanSport Team!
JanSport is currently seeking
Student Ambassadors during Fall 2010
for an on-campus paid internship.
For more Information on the position visit:
www.jansport.com/students
Or email: grace.kessler17@gmail.com
4-12-10-5-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable, writ-
ing skills a must, bookkeeping skills a plus.
Call Carrillo & Carrillo, PA @352-371-4000.
6-8-10-21-14
Fun summer jobs! Earn Great Pay! City of
Gainesville Parks/Rec Dept. is now hiring for
seasonal Recreation and Aquatics positions!
Apply online at www.cityofgainesville.jobs
AA'EOIDFWP 5-11-10-12-14
Can you guess her age?
Participants need for a study of age
perception in voices. $10 for one hour.
Email: spl.ufl@gmail.com
4-9-10-3-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Help wanted for wait staff and hostesses.
Experience required. Apply in person be-
tween 2pm and 4pm at 7038 NW 10th place.
4-21-10-10-14
Courier Service Driver needed
Part-time delivery
Call Marvin 561-602-3158 4-14-10-5-14
LAW STUDENT-
EXCELLENT WRITING SKILLS.
1 year+ commitment. Resume to: 626N.E.1st
Street,32601or paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14
FRENCH TUTOR-TEMPORARY-
Family visiting France in summer. Please
include salary requirement. Resume to
paulsrothstein@yahoo.com. 4-21-10-10-14
GUITAR INSTRUCTOR-
two middle school children-beginners. Prefer
home instruction. Resume to
raulsrothstein@yahoo.com. 4-21-10-10-14
CLEANER/GARDENER-
P/T, flex- house. Thorough and conscienten-
tous. Pay competitive. Resume to:
paulsrothstein@yahoo.com 4-21-10-10-14
OFFICE ASS'T-
F/T or part-time- love numbers, passion for
organization and fitness. Eye for detail. 1
year+ commitment. Resume to: 626N.E.1st
Street,32601or paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14
POLITICAL COORDINATOR / GRASS
ROOTS ALACHUA COUNTY ELECTIONS
Resume to paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruction;
15 minutes from UF. Charlie at 373-5929.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-
15
Local Immigration Attorney -Marriage
Green Cards/Fiance Visas/Naturalization
Matters -$295.00 Attorney Fees Plus Costs
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
6-1-45-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding. Owner
housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 6-3-10-
30-15
KEN GARVIN APPLIANCE SERVICE
10 YEARS EXPERIENCE 8AM-8PM 7 DAYS
LOW RATES ALL BRANDS STUDENT
SPECIAL $40 SERVICE CALL PLUS
PARTS WWW.KENGARVIN.COM 338-1708
4-21-20-15
Free Tutoring! Prepare for Finals at the
Teaching Center and Reading & Writing
Center in Broward Hall. TC offers live tutor-
ing -plus TV & podcasts -in various math,
science & other classes; see www.teaching-
center.ufl.edu for courses and times. RWC
offers help with any writing assignment; see
www.at.ufl.edu/rwcenter for details 4-9-5-
15
Tutoring Podcasts & TV. ATTV offers live
tutoring on Campus Channel 15 & streamed
live on the web, Sunday-Thurs from 6-9 p.m.,
with repeats & study skills programs week-
days from 11:00 a.m. to midnight. Watch
the live stream & download our podcasts to
review for Finals at www.teachingcenter.ufl.
edu under "TV Tutoring." Great tutors, 13
courses covered, & we take your emailed or
phoned-in questions, too! 392-6420 4-9-
5-15
ATTN GARDENERS!
I will till your gardens for less than you can
rent a tiller! Call Chauncy Gardener 352-
214-1767. Chauncy Gardener Gardening
Service. 41 years of gardening service!
4-21-10-15
Is your iPhone 3G or 3GS Screen Cracked?
I can fix it for you for a GREAT Price!
FREE Phone Case, Car Charger, or Screen
Protector with each repair!
Call 561-315-8772 4-8-2-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
Grieving the loss of someone?
National Students of AMF
Join our Facebook group:
"Gator Students of AMP"
TalkAboutLoss.org 4-21-43-16
A Woman's Answer
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716 8-24-74-16
ee Study Improvement & ee
e Test Anxiety w. Hypnosis e
Call Maureen (352) 870-1527
4-19-10-15-16
*QUIT SMOKING*
****** WITH HYPNOSIS ******
Call Maureen (352) 870-1527
4-19-10-15-16
Q5 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
WJCLonnections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
Asian male, 70 years old, professional, slim,***ROLLER DERBY!***
Sat., 4/17 at Skate Station
$8 advance, $12 at the door
Ticket info./event details at
GainesvilleRollerRebels.com
4-16-10-8-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
***ROLLER DERBY!***
Sat., 4/17 at Skate Station
$8 advance, $12 at the door
Ticket info./event details at
GainesvilleRollerRebels.com
4-16-10-8-21
W J Rides
tall, dark. Seeking a white feamle with fair
hair between the ages of 50-70 years old. 'SE
Write to P.O Box 1823 Keystone Heights, FL
32656 4-21-10-10-19
GMG TRANSPORTEvent NiCes FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
FREE SPAYS FOR STRAYS! charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
Operation Catnip will provide free spay/ -$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
neuter, vaccines, & treatment for fleas, ear 4-21-71-23
mites, & worms to unowned, stray or feral
cats from mobile home parks in Alachua
County. Volunteers are needed to help with
trapping & transportation of cats. To volun-
teer or request spay/neuter for homeless
cats call (352)380-0940. 4-21-18-20
FREE CPT/CLASR WORKSHOP from the
UF Teaching Center. CPT replaces the
CLAST exam, for students who must satisfy
the CLAST requirement. Both sessions from
5-7 p.m. --Communication test section re-
view on W, 4/14; Computation review on R,
4/15. Call 392-2010 to register and learn the
room location. 4-9-5-20
FREE STUDY SKILLS WORKSHOPS &
Videos. UF Reading & Writing Center offers
sessions on Memory (W, 4/14) and Test Prep
(R, 4/15), from 3:00 -3:50. Call 392-2010
to register & learn the location. Go to www.
at.ufl.edu/rwcenter, then "Video Resources"
for study skills video 4-9-5-20Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's lost
what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: HONDA CAR KEY
along Stadium Rd between Williamson and
Weimer Halls on Wed, Mar 31. Call 352/339-
3236 or 352/273-4010 4-8-3-25
FOUND 2007 HIGH SCHOOL RING
IN UF PARKING LOT ACROSS FROM
REITZ UNION PLEASE CALL TO IDENTIFY
352-316-5529 4-12-3-25
Sports
THURSDAY, APRIL 8, 2010
Burton deserves
credit for '10 class
* THE QUARTERBACK
HELPED KEEP THE GATORS'
RECRUITS TOGETHER.
By BOBBY CALLOVI
Alligator Staff Writer
bcallovi@alligator org
Many wondered how Florida
was able to sign the nation's best
recruiting class this year amid un-
certainty surrounding coach Urban
Meyer's career, but it wasn't just the
staff that was working to keep the
class together.
Freshman quarterback Trey Bur-
ton, who was the second UF com-
mit for the 2010 class, was quick
to make sure no one was jumping
ship.
"I had to make sure I knew
what was going on first, then I
didn't want to lose the class, obvi-
ously, so I called (Ronald) Powell, I
called (Josh) Shaw, I called as many
people as I could and told them to
spread the word that coach is fine,"Burton said.
Powell, the nation's top pros-
pect, and Shaw signed with UF, and
the commitments of the top recruits
really started pouring in after Mey-
er chose to take a leave of absence
rather than resign.
The process the unit went
through while waiting for final de-
cisions about Meyer and the rest of
the coaching staff, which needed to
fill four vacancies, only brought the
group closer together.
"Coach talks about family, and
that's pretty much what we're
like," Burton said. "Every time one
of them comes done that is not here
already, we always hang out with
them."
Burton committed to UF before
his junior season and came to al-
most every Gators game since, but
despite the long wait, his transi-
tion to college-level football has not
been easy.
The three-star recruit struggled
early during spring practice and
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 18A47
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF freshman quarterback Trey Burton passes during the Gators' spring practice Wednesday afternoon.
His has struggled with his throwing motion since enrolling in January.
UF MEN'S BASKETBALL
Tyus considers going pro
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
A year after testing the transfer wa-
ters, Alex Tyus is evaluating his NBA
Draft options.
Tyus, the 6-foot-8 power forward
who announced and reversed his deci-
sion to transfer last offseason, told the
Gainesville Sun on Wednesday that he
will submit his name into the NBA Draft
but will not hire an agent.
UF spokesman Fred Demarest said
Tyus has not filed the draft paperwork
yet, but he likely will in the near future.
"Mainly, I just want to see where I
stand," Tyus told the Sun on Wednesday.
"I want to go through the process, getting
a chance to meet some teams, working
out against other players, trying to get
better."
As a junior, Tyus averaged 11.8 points
and tied for a team-high 6.9 rebounds
per game, shooting 50.3 percent from
the field and 68.3 percent from the free-
throw line.
ESPN's Chad Ford currently doesn't
have Tyus rated as a 2010 NBA Draftprospect. The only two UF players Ford
has listed are freshman guard Kenny
Boynton (No. 101) and redshirt junior
center Vernon Macklin (No. 208).
He is the third Florida player to en-
ter his name into the NBA Draft without
hiring an agent. The other two, Mar-
reese Speights and Nick Calathes, left
the Gators for pro careers after their
sophomore seasons,
though Calathes opted
for Greece instead of the-NBA.
Tyus can start work-
ing out for NBA teams
on April 25, but he can't
miss class during work-
Tyus outs and must decide
whether he'll return
to school by May 8. He told the Sun he
won't leave early unless he's projected as
a first-round pick.
The Sun's report that Tyus will test
the draft waters runs contrary to what UF
coach Billy Donovan said Wednesday af-
ternoon. He indicated that Ray Shipman
would be the only player to leave the pro-
gram this offseason and said he expected
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 18I'm rooting for Tiger despite faults
'm going to let you in on a little se-
cret.
It's not something I'm sure I'm
proud of, but I can't deny the truth.
I'm rooting for Tiger Woods to win
the Masters this weekend.
I obviously don't condone any of
his off-the-course behavior. I don't ap-
preciate the "new Tiger," which seems
almost worse to me. At least before, I
didn't really know much about Tiger,
because he rarely let any outsiders in.
While I may have stupidly believed
that old sculpted image, that was pretty
much on my shoulders.
Now Tiger is pretending to let every-
one in but faking it. Doesn't that make
him less real in a way?
Regardless, I know I probably
shouldn't want Tiger to succeed this
weekend. My mom, and many other
women, would probably not approve.
It's a lot like rooting for the villain or
betting the Don't Pass line on the craps
table.
The only way I rationalize it to my-self is that I want
to see greatness.
And to me, Ti-
ger winning the
Masters after this
kind of layoff
Phil Kegler would be one of
Phil On the Hill the most remark-
pkegler@alligator org able sports feats
I've seen in my
lifetime. A victo-
ry at Augusta after a five-month break
would rank right up there with his U.S.
Open win on a bad ACL.
I know Tiger usually doesn't play as
many tournaments as other players and
often times even sits out the events pre-
ceding majors.
But this layoff is five months away
without a competitive tournament. Five
months filled with tabloids and treat-
ment.
Winning this weekend would effec-
tively be Tiger flipping a middle finger
SEE PHIL, PAGE 18
TEEING OFF WITH MIKE McCALL
U A new Nike ad shows a somber TigerWoods with a voice-over from his de-UF SWIMMING
* UF coach Gregg Troy will serve as
head coach for the men's United
States Pan Pacific Swim Team. The
event begins Aug. 18 in Irvine, Calif.UF SOFTBALL
U Francesca Enea was named one of 25 fi-
nalists for the 2010 USA Softball Collegiate
Player of the Year Award on Wednesday
for the second time in her career. It is the
sport's highest individual honor.ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
ceased father, Earl. Pretty creepy, and if you ask me, this is part of Elin's plan to
make sure her husband is marketed in the least-attractive way possible from now
on. And there's a new alleged TigerGirl: his 21-year-old neighbor. I'd love to make
a bet on Tiger's eagles at the Masters vs. mistresses revealed this week.
18, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 8,2010
Marsh's hip surgery recovery ahead of schedule
FOOTBALL, from page 17
was criticized for his awkward throwing motion.
But he showed a vast improvement in Saturday's
scrimmage, looking like more than just a threat to run.
Despite playing better and seeing improvements in
his throwing motion, he still has a long way to go in
quarterbacks coach Scot Loeffler's eyes.
"It's improved. Is it there yet? No," Loeffler said.
"It's not where we want it, but we are making some
strides."MARSH SHOULD BE READY FOR FALL: Defensive tackle
Lawrence Marsh has been out this
spring after having surgery on both
hips to repair issues with his mus-
cles and tendons.
Defensive line coach Dan McCar-
ney said trainers told him Marsh's
recovery is ahead of schedule and he
Marsh a should be ready by Aug. 1.
The redshirt senior played nine
games last season, but he was the starter at nose tackle
in 13 games in 2008.
Tyus news contradicts Donovan's statement
HOOPS, from page 17
Tyus to join Macklin and forward
Chandler Parsons as a part of the
Gators' all-senior frontcourt.
"I don't anticipate anyone be-
ing in a situation where they're
looking to make a change," Dono-
van said.
Even if Tyus leaves, UF's front-
court should still be the team's
strength in the 2010-11 season.
Macklin, Parsons and Erik Mur-
phy return from last year's eight_
Save
and
save
again.
Recycling
is an idea
that's worth
repeatingman rotation, Kenny Kadji and
Adam Allen should be return-
ing from injuries, and Donovan
spoke highly of
incoming 6-foot-
8 forward Patric
Young.
Men's "He is a very
Basketball physical, high-energy, likes-
contact guy,"
Donovan said of Young. "The
last couple years, when we lost
(Joakim) Noah, (Al) Horford and
even Chris Richard, we haven't
Inner lube Rental'
*with purchase of any admission
386-454-7188really had that kind of physicality
in our frontcourt."
DONOVAN TO RECEIVE WOODEN
AWARD: Donovan will be honored
with the John R. Wooden Award's
"Legends of Coaching Award" on
Friday night at the Los Angeles
Athletic Club.
"I think it's a great honor. I'm
sure there's a lot of guys that are
deserving of the award," he said.
"Anything that's affiliated with
coach Wooden's name is a big
honor and a big deal."
F
GinnieSprinjgsOutCloors.comn \
Not valid with any other discount.
Rental deposit required
MLISt present coupon at check-ini.
Limit 4 rentals per coupon, expires 5/15/2010
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA2010
presented by a l o
so N-Saturd ay, April 10 (a1-p) mPurchasew tces atu Be 1 il G ifn Stadium
Purchase tickets at GatorZone.com or call 800-34-GATOR.
Stop by your local Florida Farm Bureau
agent and ask how to get free tickets!
veriZon
Visit the Verizon Wireless FanFest outside Gates 6 and 7 of the stadium for
iteractive games, autographs from Gator athletic teams and live music
from bands! FanFest begins 3 hours prior to the game!
The Manor from 10:30 a.m. -11:15 a.m.
Eager Beaver from 11:45 a.m. -12:30 p.m.PHIL, from page 17
to the world of golf. What more impressive statement could
he possibly make? He'd be showing everyone that the sport
still revolves around him and that the rules of mortal men
simply don't apply.
Also, it's important to point out that Tiger didn't really
wrong me. We're not related. I've never met him. The fact
that he's a jerk and cheated on his wife doesn't exactly make
him much different than a lot of other great, once-in-a-life-
time athletes. The hatred you might have of Woods -do
you despise other greats like Michael Jordan and Magic
Johnson? Rumor has it those two weren't exactly the most
committed men. These things simply weren't as big a deal
because the TMZs of the world didn't exist.
I know part of the problem with Tiger was that we all
felt like he was different. We thought he was going to be
that great sports star that was also a great role model. So ev-
erybody felt burned when his transgressions were revealed.
The fact that he was put on a pedestal isn't Tiger's fault.
But this isn't any sort of apology for Woods. He made
his choices because he lives in a different world than you
and I. He felt like rules don't apply to him, and the truth is
they still do not. Maybe he'll change and become some great
person of character.
The truth is I don't really care. All I want from Tiger is for
him to be putting on another green jacket come Sunday.
Ginnie Springs OUdors014
TuLbe ~ Swimn ~ Volleyball Camp ~ Picnic ~ Canoe
A Contracted General Agency For:Making Their
By ANDREW OLSON
Alligator Writer
ompeting for a national
title on the field it uses for
practice is a dream scenario
for any team, but for the UF Paint-
ball Club, that scenario involves a
trip to Lakeland.
Every Sunday, the team drives
two hours down 1-75 to practice at
Central Florida Paintball, and this
weekend it'll make the same trek
to compete in the National Col-
legiate Paintball Association Na-
tional Championships.
"It's the best field around for
tournament paintball," UF Paint-
ball Club President Thomas Irby
said. "The area (Gainesville) fields
don't have bunker layouts."
That statement alone makes it
clear that there's a difference be-
tween this kind of paintball and
what most people enjoy recre-
ationally.
There's intricate strategy and
major time and financial commit-
ments from those involved, and
all that will come to a head this
weekend.
" P e o p l e
hear 'paint-
ball tourna-
ment, and
t h e y ' 11
say, 'Oh'
y o u ' r e
going togo hide out in the woods?"' said
sophomore Whittaker Bullard, the
club's vice president.
There's more of a strategy to
tournament paintball than duck-
ing behind trees.
Each of the five players has a
designated role. There are two
distinct sides of bunker layouts,
called dorito (left) and snake(right), with a front and back play-
er on each.
The fifth member is the "home
row" player who fires shots at the
other side of the field to dictate
where the other team will run.
Irby said a front player will
typically fire 300-to-400 rounds
per game while the back play-
ers fire between 1,000 and 1,200rou
frec
diff
sco
exa
sna
Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShield
of FloridaFr Number: Lil33 -36 .W 373-0775
Form Number: 18533-599SU 3669 S.W. 2nd AvenueTHURSDAY, APRIL 8, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Mark
play two
r formats:
Class A (18
4 .total teams)
o and Class
J AA (50
teams).
The UF team typically
competes in AA, which con-
sists of eight to 10 games of five-
on-five for one point each, but by
virtue of a second-place finish at
a fall tournament, it will also take
on Class-A competition.
Class A is more popular in the
Midwest and Northeast, where
teams play as many five-on-five
games as possible in 32 minutes.
Irby said a Class-A league in
the Southeast may be in the works.
That would likely make a dent in
the players' wallets.
The Gators have budgeted for
eight-to-10 cases of paintballs
'"""""'"""(containing 2,000 each) for the
M a Class-AA tournament and plan to
.need roughly 15 cases per session
of Class-A play.
Even in the less-expensive
nds. Class AA, funding has not come
bunker layouts are rearranged easy for the UF team.
uently, and teams develop This year is the first time since
erent breakout formations and the club's formation in 2003 that it
outing reports on other teams. has received Student Government
'We know that Ole Miss, for special allocations funding for en-
mple, shoots strong on the try and supplies in a tournament.
ke side," Irby said. Even with the SG contribution,
At this weekend's national the club expects to be out about
championships, the Gators will
WE PI9VER
jd.~biel
672-6111SUN-WED 11AM-3AM 1FREE WIFI
THURS, FRI & SAT
IIAM-4AM NEXT TO SWEETBAY
WWW.JDOOBIES.COM 34TH ST. PLAZA
-4 - m iIr um
-~ ---u " ni 0 ILI FI
E'-R UM
, _ Diet Friendly, Yet
Creamy & Delicious
D'Lites ice cream complements ALL diet
programs. Low-calorie and low in carbs, with
only 50 calories per serving in over 150 flavors!
More than ice cream, our stores offer a whole array of food
products and treats to help with your weight loss goals.
iBUY CUPORCONEi oy
'GET FREE!
Regular Size Cup or Cone Only,
I Toppings Extra. One per customer per
offer. Not good with any other offer.
S-- Expires 4/20
Marketplace Plaza (SPEN LATE! Shoppes of Williston Road
4216 NW 16th Blvd. Mon 13i-sSlpm 5218 SW 34th St.
(next to Hollywood Video) i-aim2fopm (next to Publix)
375-4484 %%as 2 m9pm 378-2969
Check our daily flavors at www.gatordlites.com)SEE PAINT, PAGE 20
Relief Rally
for the
Earthquake
in Chile
April 10th at 7pm
Chesse & Wine Tasting,
Silent Auctions, Live
Music, and more!
Queen of Peace Catholic
Church -Walsh Hall
10900 SW 24th Avenue
552-532-6279HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
A rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
20, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, APRIL 8,2010
Gators open national championship play Friday againstKennesaw St.
PAINT, from page 19 on campus, or you need to registerit with UPD. Any violation of UF
$800 after paint is purchased for safety regulations means you're
this weekend. off the team."
And those weekly trips to Lake- It helps having someone to look
land add up, too. Ten to 12 players up to. Former Gator Mike Carthy,
pitch in roughly $50 every Sunday who played for UF in 2003 before
to cover field entry fees and paint. starting a professional career, is
For some students, the cost of pay- a member of the National Profes-
ing upward of $600 over the sional Paint-
course of a semester ball League's
is giving Tampa Bay
up their Damage and
Saturday- "A lot of people make the was MVP of
night social vandalism association. They t h e
lives. think you have a paintball gun 2006
Irby, just to shoot at cars." NXL
w h o Whittaker Bullard A 1 1 -
has been UF sophomore Star Event.
a member of "I run into
the club for f o u r them at Lakeland
years, said this is especially dif- sometimes," Carthy said. "I
ficult for paintball club members like seeing the guys and talking
who also take part in Greek life, as to them, especially the new guys
the only way to make the team is who have joined since I was (last)
to show up to practice. there."
And in addition to that com- UF begins games in the 18-team
mitment, representing the sport in Class A competition Friday at 8
a positive way is a must. a.m. against Kennesaw State and
"A lot of people make the van- will face Connecticut at 10 a.m.
dalism association," Bullard said. followed by a 1 p.m. game against
"They think you have a paintball Liberty that will be broadcast live
gun just to shoot at cars." on foxcollegesports.com.
"People like to throw around Class-AA play, which has 50
'gun' like it's a bad word," he teams, begins Saturday, and the
added. "There's a zero-tolerance tournament lasts through Sun-
policy on the team for violating day with live streaming of games
UF regulations. You can't keep it available on b2tv.com.Breaking Out
A
212
Map by National Collegiate Paintball Association, Illustrations provided by UF Paintball Club.This diagram shows a
play the UF Paintball
Club plans to use at
this weekend's National
Collegiate Paintball
Association National
Championships in
Lakeland. On the map,
colored shapes are ob-
stacles, solid black lines
represent player move-
ments from the initial
breakout point (bottom
center of map), and
the thicker lines show
planned firing lanes.
The goal of this play is
to advance the player
on the "snake" (right)
side up near midfield
to gain a better firing
angle on the opposition.
Two players run to the
corners to provide cover
fire down the sides,
while another moves
around the left side
to help advance the
snake player forward.
The "home row" player
remains in the middle.
