the independent florida
theAvenueliat
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 101 We Inform. You Decide.lb
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010
ON CAMPUS
Stood-up group YOU.
protests at union
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Writer
The members of the Stu-
dent/Farmworker Alliance
who walked through the Re-
itz Union Food Court Wednes-
day didn't stop for a bite to eat.
Instead, the group of about 20 stu-
dents chanted to protest the treat-
ment of the workers who pick toma-
toes in Immokalee, Fla.
Aramark, UF's food provider,
purchases tomatoes picked by the
Immokalee workers.
The gathering was originally
planned as a meeting between the
alliance and Aramark representa-
fives in the Retiz Union Amphithe-
atre, but the representatives cited an
emergency and canceled, asking to
reschedule for Tuesday at 2 p.m.
UF environmental science senior
Krissy Abdullah, a member of theStudent/ Farmworker Alliance, said
she questions whether Aramark
wants to meet with students.
"It makes me wonder if it's just a
tactic of avoidance," she said.
Holding signs with slogans like
"Aramark vampires -workers'lives
are not a food source," they marched
to the Gator Dining Services office
in the basement of the Reitz Union
and spoke to Melanie Poling, UF
operations analyst for Aramark. She
apologized and asked to come to the
rescheduled meeting.
"I think we're after the same
thing," she said.
Moments after the group had
dispersed, University Police Depart-
ment officers arrived because they
received a call about a disturbance
in the Reitz Union.
Officer J.A. Savona said, accord-
ing to Florida law, protesters were
not supposed to be inside the build-
ing or even on the colonnade.Justin Wooten (left) and Diana Moreno (right) protest with others in the Reitz Union Food Court on Wednesday
for the Student/Farm Workers Alliance against unfair treatment and wages of workers in Immokalee, Fla.
Former GPD officer on trial
for abuse of infant daughter
0 THE BABY SUFFERED INTERNAL BLEEDING,
FRACTURED RIBS AND RUPTURED ORGANS.
By MINCH MINCHIN
Alligator Writer
A trial continued Wednesday for a former
Gainesville police officer charged with the neglect and
abuse of his 2-month-old daughter in January 2007.
Herbert Priester, 39, allegedly squeezed her, causing
internal bleeding, fractured ribs and ruptured organs,
said Chief Assistant State Attorney Jeanne Singer.
According to testimony from Priester's wife, Tabitha
Priester, 25, the infant was found lying naked and cov-
ered with scratches and bruises in the couple's home
in southwest Gainesville shortly after her husband re-
turned home from work.The defense said the wounds were caused by the
Priester's family dog, Bandit. The infant was released
from the hospital after 10 days and is now healthy. The
state charged Herbert Priester with abuse and neglect.
The pediatric radiologist at Shands who handled the
case, Jonathan Williams, said during
the trial that such damage would be
"highly unlikely unless it was a very
large dog."
In her testimony, Tabitha Priester
defended her husband and dog,
blaming herself. Priester once
A worked for the Florida DepartmentPriester of Children and Families, she said.
"It's not the dog's fault," she said. "It's my fault for
not securing the dog."
Testimony will resume today at 9 a.m. at the Ala-
chua County Criminal Justice Center.V-Day sales may dip
By ALLEN HAYNES
Alligator Contributing Writer
Local merchants are concerned smaller wallets will mean
fewer bouquets again this Valentine's Day.
This year, the country's total holiday spending is expected
to reach $14.1 billion, which is low in comparison to the $17
billion spent in 2008, according to the National Retail Federa-
tion.
Americans spent about $14.7 billion on gifts in 2009, ac-
cording to the organization.
The federation predicts couples will spend
Local about $63.34 on nontraditional Valentine's gifts,
News compared to $67.22 last year. The average person
will spend $103 on Valentine's Day merchandise
like candy and flowers, similar to last year's $102.50.
Local florists are already preparing for another decrease
in sales.
Barbara Crevasse, owner of Crevasse's Florist, said total
sales have slowed in the last two years, and the trend toward
cheaper arrangements is increasing.
She said people are still sending flowers to loved ones;
they're just smaller.
Elizabeth Cavallo, manager of Floral Expressions Florist,
thinks the decrease in sales will have more to do with Val-
SEE V-DAY, PAGE 8
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersToday
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 9
CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD 15
SPORTS 18Partly
cloudy
56/360 UF forward Chan-
dler Parsons didn't
get another chance
for a buzzer-beater
against South
Carolina, as Florida
struggled at the
free-throw line and
fell 77-71 to the
Gamecocks.
See Story, Page 18.visit www.alligator.orgt cycle
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010
News Today
FORECAST
TODAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
56/36FRIDAY
RAIN
48/35SATURDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
56/32SUNDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
61/39MONDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
56/28
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
13th Annual
April 10, 2010 at 8 a.m.
Behind North Florida
Regional Medical Center
Benefiting the student-run Equal
Access Clinic of Gainesville which
provides free healthcare to
underprivileged populations.
For more info:
Call Stephanie Mazariegos at
(813) 484-8031 or go to
ufpremed.org/eascSt's Oscar Tilgh at the
Women's Basketball game
Join us as the Gators take on LSU
Thursday, Feb. 11th. Redeem this coupon I
at the Alligator table at Gate 1 for a free I
Women's Basketball collectors glass.
One coupon per person while supplies last.
In the spirit of Oscar Night, dress up
like your favorite character, movie star
or group to win individual prizes.
I The Alligator will be giving out various other prizes. I
a I I igN(O -, to"r
Come out for a night of basketball,
movie stars, and ee stuff!
Lose 15-20 lbs. by Spring Break
Alliance
Permanent Weight Loss Program
Healthy lifestyle alterations
developed for your
individual needs by
Physicians & Medical Practitioners
Appetite Suppression Medication
No special foods or starvation -
We show you how to be healthy
and lose weight at the same time.
ALL Medications and Injections included.
Call Donna at (352) 337-3961
for information & appointments
-w .line eih s~oa the Emdependent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 101 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Flonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Man
Manage
Assi
Assi
alligatEditor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
aging Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta @alligator.org
ing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
stant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@a//igator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner, jmisner@a//igator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, cti//o@a//igator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
stant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
orSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
M att Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@a//igator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Corey McCall, Amanda Milligan,
Emily Morrow, Andrew Pantazi,
Paul Runnestrand, Colin Simmons,
Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Gary Miller, gmi//er@a//igator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Shaun O'Connor
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, e//ight@a//igator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@a igator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 3
Art therapy helps patients
By CINDY TAVERAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
His head shakes in unison with his trem-
bling hands as he moves his marker across a
white paper, leaving behind traces of blue ink.
Chip Colley, 54, is a self-taught artist. He's
also one of about one million Americans with
Parkinson's disease, according to the U.S. De-
partment of Health and Human Services.
At Art for Life, a free program offered every
Wednesday for people with movement disor-
ders and their caregivers, he is not restrained
by his disorder.
"I think it's odd I can hardly write my
name," he said. "But I can draw a straight
line."
Parkinson's disease is a chronic movement
disorder that causes slow, involuntary tremors,
according to the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services.
Katherine Castle, an Art for Life volunteer
who also has Parkinson's disease, said shedoesn't want to be defined by her disorder.
"I don't want to be the artist with Parkin-
son's disease -I just want to be the artist" she
said. "Parkinson's is part of me, but it's not all
of me."
Some of the activities at Art for Life include
drawing, sketching, painting and creating ori-
gami.
Jill Sonke, assistant director for Shands Arts
in Medicine, said the program is an expressive
and social outlet for those with the disorder.
"It's a disease that can be man-
On aged well but does require sup-Campus port," Sonke said. "It's stressful."
Colley, who couldn't draw
before his disorder, wants people to know that
living with a movement disorder doesn't have
to be negative.
"There can be a blessing in there some-
where. It's helped me cope with it," he said.
Art for Life is offered every Wednesday
from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. at the Criser Cancer Re-
source Center.BLACK HISTORY MONTH
Forum promotes unity
By LYN KRAMER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students learned to find unity with-
in their diversity at the African Student
Union interactive forum Wednesday
night.
"We want to emphasize that no
matter where you're from, we all have
a common history," said Roberta Rob-
erts, the public relations director for
the African Student Union.
The purpose of the forum, which
was held in the New Engineering
Building, was to promote unity and
dispel stereotypes by bringing black
people together, Roberts said.Jhenny Saint-Surin, an anthropol-
ogy and political science junior and a
member of the African Student Union,
said she hopes the forum will be a
learning experience for African-Amer-
icans.
Faye Harrison, an anthropology and
African-American studies professor,
and Kole Odutola, an African-Ameri-
can studies professor, spoke about the
sense of disconnectionblacks feel in the
U.S. because of the stereotypical labels
constantly stamped upon them.
"Race is not something that exists
biologically," said Harrison. "It's a ma-
terial term manufactured by human
beings."
The Adventures of
A section of the Alligator dedicated
to giving students tips on healthy
living and exercise!
F N \change your business
from a zero.
Deadline: Thursday, Feb. 18
Run date: Wednesday, Feb. 24
Contact the Alligator today!
352-376-4482
Yoruba people, Nigeria, Owo, Altpr i c1 (p) At the Florida Museum of Natural History view Quilting Natural
Early 20 century, wood, gift of Rgd MG do' Florida 11, and students with a Gator 1 get in free to the
Butterfly Rainforest, 5-6 p.m.RETIREMENT?
FloridaWealthAdvisors.com
ANY 1 ME AL
WITH PURCHASE50%~OF 2ND MEAL
vin AT MENU PR ICE
GOOD AT UNIVERSITY1124 W UNIVERSITY AVE LOCATION ONLY.
NOT VALID WITH DELIVERY.
505-0224 LIMIT 1 PER VISIT505-0224 EXPIRES 03/02/10 _.
VALENTINE'S MOVIE
F E BRUARY with DESSERT SOCIAL SCREENING
FEBRUARY 12, 2010 FEBRUARY 15, 2010
6:45-9:00 P.M. 7:00-9:00 P.M.
@ Christian Study Center @ Reitz Union, Rm. 346
[112 NW 16TH ST.]
OA i lA 0R S I AN I WSIIPe e FREE FOODII
games, fun & fellowship lr"-. s &
a&20no Valentine required Shswissg~J- .(2002)
Contact Allyn at akyes27@cox.net for more info
GHT
April 17, 2010y 11, 6-9 pm fm 8am to 3pm
at the Martin Luther King Center
manes by the Help clean
zuti Africa Choir up trash
:sical and litter,
inces by Agbedidi plant trees,
it featuring and paint
African artists over graffiti.
Museum Nights is an ongoing program made possible
FREE ADMISSION by the generous support of University of Florida Student
Government and the Honors Program The HamLocated at SW 34th St. & Hull Rd., gratefully acknowledges the additional program funding
across from SW Rec. on February 11 by the Center for African Studiesgot lube?
Gainesville's Lagt Seeton of Lingerie,
Lotions, Potions & Sexy Notions
Butler Plaza -Next to McAllister's Deli
To help the survivors of Haiti, the Harn will be
collecting supplies for Gators United for Haiti during
Museum Nights. Visit the Harn's Web site at
harn.ufl.edu for a list of supplies needed.To isepse call 352-371-9444
o em .kacb@gmoil.com
L f ided! Free giveaways!
Presented bKeep Alachua County Beautiful
SAFETY BELTS
SMART FROM
THE START
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010
NATIONAL
NRA holds campus talk
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
Representatives from the National
Rifle Association Institute for Legisla-
tive Action hoped to trigger student
involvement in their campaign to pro-
mote gun rights when they visited UF
Wednesday night.
Speaking before a crowd of about 60
people at the Florida Gym, two grass-
roots coordinators from the gun advo-
cacy group came as part of the NRA
University program, which attempts
to educate college students about their
rights to bear arms.
"We're entering an era of very, very
close elections," said Seth Waugh, one
of the coordinators. "Don't just make a
point, make a difference."
The coordinators addressed miscon-
ceptions about the impact of guns on
society by arguing against a correlation
between gun ownership and crime.Although the event was sponsored
by the UF College Republicans, the co-
ordinators stressed their message was
nonpartisan.
"We want people to know their
rights."
Johnathan Lot
chairman of the UF College Republicans
"We don't care if you're Republican,
Democrat, Green Party or Libertarian,
as long as you're with us, we support
you," said Kristiana Cupp, a coordina-
tor.
Johnathan Lott, chairman of the UF
College Republicans, considered the
event a success.
"We want people to know their
rights," he said. "When people go to the
ballot box in August, they'll vote for the
people who will protect their Second
Amendment rights as opposed to those
candidates who will take them away."Andres Farfan / Alligator
Kristiana R. Cupp, National Rifle Association of America grassroots coordinator, speaks to
students in the Florida Gym Wednesday night.
British double-decker bus to make stop in Gainesville
It will go on a 10-month tour around the US
By CAROLINE LEWIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
A 1966 double-decker bus
from London will be stopping in
Gainesville tonight to kick off a
10-month tour of the U.S.Nick Elliott and Darren Cun-
ningham, both 25, traveled hereas many people as possible,"
said Elliott, co-
from England to document and Around founder of the
experience local culture in Amer- Gainesville tour, dubbed
ican cities. Routemaster66.
"We have no idea what we're Elliott and his friend Darren
in for, but we want to get to know Cunningham, both 25, plan tostay in Gainesville until Friday
before driving to New Orleans to
celebrate Mardi Gras.
They want to meet people and
let them enjoy the bus while ex-
periencing the city, Elliott said.
"You provide the people, and
we'll provide the ride," he said.
The cost of buying and remod-
eling the bus was about $23,500,Cunningham said. He and Elliott
could not estimate the total cost
of the trip.
The trip will be paid for by
the group's savings and project
partners, including The Thomsett
Group, a property developer.
For more information about
the bus, visit www.routemas-
ter66.com.
"What are your strengths?"
Prepare yourself for work after college by building your resume and
gaining valuable work experience with the nation's largest student-run paper.
Open House
Friday, February 12
2pm to 4pm
The Alligator is currently hiring for:
Opinions editor, graphic designers,
Greek life, multi-cultural, and other writers
and photographers.
Interviews will be held on-site, so please bring your resume, clips and portfolio if you have one.
The Alligator is located at 1105 W. University Ave, two blocks
east of UF campus, across the street from the Bank of America.the independent floridaalligator
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
ON CAMPUS
ZipCarts to charge $3
By TIFFANY SUTTON
Alligator Contributing Writer
ZipCarts, a nightly shuttle
service in Gainesville, and a for-
merly free ride, is now charging
$3 per person.
"We have to charge because of
our insurance with the company.
The insurance increased, and in
order to pay for it we need to gen-
erate more revenue," said Jordan
Long, one of the owners and cart
operators.
Long said the main problem
is that the company can't anchor
down large advertisements, so the
ZipCarts are now more like a taxi
service.
"We're really concerned with
keeping the streets safe. We want
to keep drunk kids off the street
late at night and keep the roads
safe," Long said. "We want to be
there when people need a safe
ride home."
But students can still get a freeride for now.
ZipCarts teamed up with the
UF Census Bureau to offer free
rides around UF every Friday in
February from 10:30 a.m. to 2:30
p.m.
"We want to keep drunk
kids off the street late at
night and keep the roads
safe."
Jordan Long
co-owner and cart operator
For Ashley Sammons, a UF
senior, the eco-friendliness of the
service is the best part. Charging
ZipCarts costs 50 cents, and they
do not need any gas to operate.
Once fully charged, they can go 40
miles before needing to recharge.
"It's a safe and convenient
mode of transportation and
cheaper than a taxi," Sammons
said. "I love how eco-friendly the
ZipCarts are. It's great."
Take beg inning Chine e 1 & 2
this Summer in China!
$3992 = 13 weeks lodging, excursions,
transfer credit tuition (13-16 credits)
For more info, contact
Kristen Eller at k anfer@ufic.ufl.edu
Enrollment cap is 16 students
Application deadline is March 5
Info session, Wednesday Feb 17 at 5pm
at 302 Pugh HallParties debate campus issues
By ELIZABETH BEHRIMAN
Alligator Writer
Student Government elections may be about
two weeks away, but the debate between the
Unite Party and the Student Alliance party is al-
ready beginning.
The parties'candidates for Student Body presi-
dent, vice president and treasurer discussed their
opinions about the Reitz Union fee, perks for SG
officials, reform in the SG cabinet and campus
food prices at Wednesday's debate hosted by the
Freshman Leadership Council.
All six candidates outlined their plans for the
future of the university.
Ben Cavataro, Student Alliance party candi-
date for Student Body president, said the Student
Alliance party would like to make SG open to all
students by making the budget more transparent
and implementing an online voting system.
"Our vision is one where every student gets a
voice, where we open the gates to everyone inter-
ested in helping," Cavataro said.
Rafael Yaniz, the Student Alliance party's
candidate for treasurer, said that, if elected, the
YEAR GILRAT
Butler Plaza Newberry Square
335-1232 332-3937
Legalize it. Don't criticize it!
Pd. PoL Adv. approved by Richard Selwach
V RichardSelwacs
www.seIwachformayo2!m
O (k~ ]EYII cwr M wfion Hfl E btq
__'o the game dressed as your favorite
nv ie character for the chance to win
vje tickets for Valentine's Day weekend!
1st 500 fans receive visors
courtesy of Pepsi!party's candidates would donate their salaries to
the Florida Opportunity Scholars Program, which
funds scholarships for first-generation college
students.
Ashton Charles, the Unite Party candidate for
Student Body president said the salaries are nec-
essary because SG positions leave no spare time
for another job.
"It's something that's in place that will allow
any student of any economic background to do
this job," Charles said.Student Charles said the goal ofGovernment the Unite Party candidates
is to continue making sure
students are well-represented by the most expe-
rienced leaders on campus.
"We have a really amazing platform coming
forward, and we'll continue to advocate on the
behalf of the students," Charles said.
Andrew Hecht, director of special events for
the Freshman Leadership Council, said he ex-
pected more students to be in the audience for the
sixth annual debate.
"The reason you put on an event like this is to
change the minds of students and make sure they
are informed," Hecht said.
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010
Editorial
All hugged out
Crist-Obama hug not
that big of a deal
ugs don't mean much to us.H The Editorial Board has embraced old acquaintanc-
es we'd rather not see, weird relatives we'd rather not
hear and ugly babies we'd rather not smell. Sometimes, a hug
is just a social maneuver designed to keep the peace or appease
the other party.
Marco Rubio doesn't seem to understand this concept, so,
as the Republican Senate primary draws nearer, he's holding a
rally to remind voters how heinous the Obama-Crist hug was.
To emphasize the point, Rubio's speaking at the same spot the
offense occurred.
A year ago, Gov. Crist hugged Obama in Fort Myers to show
support for the stimulus bill the president was pushing. As we
remember, Obama still had that new president smell lingering
around him. He was riding a wave of popular support at the
time, and most politicians would have been happy to associate
with him.
However, feelings change and hope is turning into despair
and anger for much of the nation. So, as self-serving politicians
have done for centuries, Crist drifted to a more popular opin-
ion, leaving himself open to accusations of changing his stance
on various issues.
Politicians change their minds just as everyday people do,
although with a keener eye for strategy. The Board would usu-
ally shy away from defending Charlie, but Rubio needs to get
over his aversion to PDAs and start focusing on the true issues
in the Senate race. When the run up to an election reminds us
of tweens gossiping about who kissed whom, we tend to roll
our eyes.
Rubio should hope other voters don't do the same.
Put a sock in it
This week, the EditorialBoard is taking a page
out of Bill Maher's
book and issuing a "New
Rule" of our own: Celebrities
and politicians are no longer
allowed to speak in public.
Yes, we realize this may
cause a bit of trouble when
it comes to interviews and
the campaign trail, but this
epidemic of foot-in-mouth
syndrome cropping up in
public figures is getting out
of control.
John Mayer apologized
Wednesday for the latest in
a series of eye-roll-inspiring,
groan-inducing word choices
with "scandal" writtenall over
them. In an interview with
Playboy, Mayer joked about
being widely accepted by the
black community, using the
N-word. Granted, we under-
stood what he meant and the
meaning was in no way racist,
but everyone -except May-
er, clearly -knows the word
is off limits.But he's not the only one
(See: Dog the Bounty Hunter,
Don Imus, Michael Richards,
Mel Gibson, Paris Hilton).
Every time we turn around,
someone with a household
name -lately Rush Lim-
baugh, Rahm Emanuel and
Barack Obama -is formally
apologizing to the Special
Olympics CEO Tim Shriver
and getting Sarah Palin's
panties in a twist.
To be fair though, the pub-
lic could stand to take it down
a notch. We get the glass
house thing. After all, it's not
as though we haven't had the
occasional case of verbal diar-
rhea ourselves; we at the Al-
ligator seem to have a gift for
offending people.
All we ask is that next time
someone in the public eye de-
cides to use an inflammatory
word or phrase, they consider
just for a moment the impli-
cations. In retrospect (Mayer,
Emanuel, Obama, Limbaugh,
etc.), sometimes it's best just
to shut up.
01 the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University A , or send them to PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigato r.org/opinions
C e
-
Column
Iran covering up 'Lost' set duplicate
he announcement by Supreme Leader Ayatollah AliKhamenei of an Iranian surprise that will "punch"
the rest of the world and leave them "stunned" was
met with an exaggerated yawn this week from a Western
media enervated by vague threats from heavily bearded
men.
The cat-and-mouse game Iran has been playing with
its super-double-secret nuclear program would be much
more compelling if any new U.N. sanctions stipulated that
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad had to stop referring
to himself on Facebook as "the Persian Tom Selleck."
It has been speculated that this stunning punch of an
announcement, set for a big reveal today, involves a se-
ries of burning flags and pictures as well as some scary-
sounding Arabic chants. My own network of confidential
sources, who I am now fairly certain are either Chinese
hackers or a committed group of wildly talented, Web-
savvy wombats, are suggesting that today's surprise is
something much more awesome than some lame nukes.
The Iranian government has figured out the ending of
"Lost."
It is no surprise that Iran is totally in love with the ABC
series, and a Time magazine article from last week by
Shervin Malekzadeh went so far as to state that "the U.S.
TV series has dominated the underground DVD market
in Tehran; almost nowhere in the world is the sixth and
final season of 'Lost' anticipated more than in Iran." Ob-
viously my wombats know of what they squeak.
Unknown to everyone not named Ayatollah, the se-
cret Iranian nuclear program is in fact simply a clever
ruse staged to keep prying eyes off the real secret Iranian
program -a complete, fully operational reproduction of
the various research stations built by the Dharma Initia-Tommy Maple
letters@alligatororgtive on the island.
The crazy machines on the island
have somehow used electromag-
netism and time travel to create a
television show so convoluted and
cluttered it makes quantum phys-
ics seem like a color-by-numbers
preschool session. Iran, through
faithful dedication to the intricacies
of the show and a couple hundred million dollars in oil
money, has managed to reenact the first five seasons of
the show in the last fifteen months. The announcement
this week will let the world know that the project is hum-
ming along and Iran should break the code of the final
few episodes in the next day or so.
Many in the international community are sure to be
up in arms over this shocking news and will certainly
call for Israel to bomb the secret Iranian underground
research stations. If the Jews really do run Hollywood,
expect a dozen or so F-161 fighter jets scrambled together
immediately, as the final (and extremely profitable) sea-
son of the show would be totally one-upped by the Per-
sian version.
George W. Bush, for all his shortcomings, was no
friend of Weapons of Mass Confusion and seemed genu-
inely puzzled when his intelligence told him the Arab
"Lost" project was actually in Iraq. While presidents are
the favored punching bags of pretty much everyone,
who among us can say that watching "Lost" has never
prompted them to make a face only Barbara Bush could
love?
Tommy Maple is in international communications gradu-
ate student. His column appears on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Wednesday's question:
Should people get over the Will you participate in the water
Crist-Obama hug? balloon fight?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org14% YES
86% NO
21 TOTAL VOTESuihexe u swW ose Knives.-.
0,, ,
*7 4 {\JCS
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 7
Guest column
UF College Republicans does not support animal cruelty
In response to Bruce Friedrich's column printed Wednes-
day, I must take a moment to point out the grave inaccu-
racies in both his perceptions and argument against the
College Republicans' People Eating Tasty Animals event.
First, Bruce pointed out that I was not at his forum/speech
held at UF in October. While this is true, it does not negate
the fact that he did not show up at my event, either. Bruce
was quick to make harsh and thoroughly misguided judg-
ments as to the intent of the event and my beliefs on the
issue of animal rights.
For one, I thought this would all be established in the de-
bate I agreed to have with him, so I am not sure why the
pre-emptive and wholly false attack on the College Republi-
cans was printed just days before the event. Bruce, althoughBryan Griffin many people have refused to debate
Speaking Out your extremist views, I am not doing
it for you. I am doing it to set the re-
cord straight on what a conservative,
rational human being's thoughts are on the issue of animal
rights in this country.
Let me go ahead and state it, then, in case there is any
confusion on Friday: Neither I nor the UF College Republi-
cans support animal cruelty. In fact, I am in favor of govern-
ment measures to reduce animal cruelty practices in the ani-
mal industry, so long as they do not cause the cost of food to
exceed affordability by the average American trying to feed
their families in hard economic times. I love people more
than animals, and I believe people's rights are superior. Thatbeing said, I have a strong respect for the animal kingdom
and nature as a whole, and I would never want to see, nor
would I actively endorse, cruelty to any living thing.
But, Bruce, our method of accomplishing positive change
differs greatly. You and your organization, PETA, spend
millions upon millions pushing an extremist viewpoint with
unobtainable goals (getting people to stop eating meat), and
you call that dedication to the cause. I am going to work
within the political system to make positive changes on this
earth, including enforcing regulations on the animal indus-
try to reduce animal cruelty practices. That is real dedication
to the cause.
Bryan Griffin is the executive director of the Florida Federa-
tion of College Republicans
Column
Student Body should not suffer for Unite Party's mistakes
In November, about 75 graduate studentsshowed up to a Student Senate meeting
to voice their concerns about a resolution
that would tax students for funds to renovate
the Reitz Union.
The resolution, authored by Senate Presi-
dent Ashton Charles (now the Unite Party's
candidate for Student Body president), would
call for students to pay for the proposed $42.5
million renovation with a new student fee.
Right now the average student pays $320
per year in fees to Student Government. These
fees make up SG's $14.4 million budget that
funds RecSports, campus programs and stu-
dent organizations, among other things. And
at $10.65 per credit hour, according to Sen.
Jonathan Ossip, the fee is already pretty hefty.
Charles'bill would increase student fees by
$3 per credit hour and a semesterly $20 flat.
Despite the initial protests, the resolution
was passed. There was little debate on the
merit of increasing student fees in a time ofeconomic distress, and public discussions con-
cerning other sources of fundraising (such as
tapping into UF's extensive alumni network
or applying for state and federal grant money)
were muzzled.
This is what happens when one party, in
this case the Unite Party, holds 88 out of the
100 seats in our Student Senate.
After the resolution was forced through
the Senate, Student Body President Jordan
Johnson took the passed resolution to the UF
Board of Trustees. Johnson used the resolution
as evidence of full student support for increas-
ing their own price of tuition to pay for Reitz
Union renovations.
Don't get out the pitchforks and lanterns
just yet.
After outrage over the fees mounted, Stu-
dent Senate leaders begrudgingly offered to
put a referendum on the upcoming spring
election ballot to let the students decide them-
selves. The same referendum, by the way, wasMatthew Christ
letters@a lIigator orgwhat Student Alliance
senators Ossip and
Alan Yanuck authored
last November as a
cautious alternative to
ignoring the Student
Body. Their proposal
-the proposal to let
students vote -was
rejected by the Unite
Party 66 to 18.
Graduate assistants continued to protest
the fees, and yesterday, after months of fight-
ing, and with an election around the corner,
Johnson wrote to the Alligator claiming he
would prevent graduate assistants from being
charged a fee. The problem is that it shouldn't
take an election to make SG listen. The very
purpose of SG is to champion student voices.
There's a problem when it takes this long for
the Unite Party to respond to student con-
cerns, and it's a problem that will now affectall students. Because graduate assistants were
ignored by the Unite Party for so long, now
other graduate students and undergraduates
will have to pick up the tab.
So now all students have to pick up the
tab for the Unite Party's fiscal irresponsibility,
their ad hoc leadership and their ears that are
deaf to student concerns. Graduate assistants
should be exempt from this fee, but so should
everyone else. All students need to come to-
gether to reject this wasteful fee and elect
leaders who will work to find other sources of
funding.
This election season, it's time to kick out the
people who have taken the word "student"
out of Student Government. It's time to end
single-party rule. It's time to return Student
Government back to the students.
Matthew Christ is a political science and
journalism sophomore. He is running with the
Student Alliance party to represent the college of
journalism and communications.
/~ PRANGE'S10 risij
o a vase with a box of
chocolates and
Happy Valentine's Day
balloon
$72.00
does not include sales tax or delivery fee
Must mention this ad to get
discounted price on 12 roses,
balloon, and chocolates
335-0100
www.pranges.com
16 E University Ave., Downtown
.__CA$H'
GOLD /
Best Jewelry and Loan
523 NW 3rd Ave e Pawn Brokers
371-4367 -371-CEMS-8I
#271
Thing to do
before you die
Play strip poker
with Hooters girls!
Saturday, Feb. 13 from2-7pm
at Ocala Poker andai-Alai
"Taking It Off for Charity"
benefitting the St. Francis House
visit
pkedge5.org/events
fordetails
8, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010
Candidate vows to balance city budget
Editor's Note: This is the fourth segment
of the Face in the Race series.
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
With the walls lined with guns and gui-
tars, the small pawn shop at 523 NW Third
Ave. hardly looks like the ideal place for a
campaign headquarters.
Yet for Richard Selwach, the owner of
Best Jewelry & Loan Pawnbrokers, the shop
serves as his platform for engaging people
to tell them his mayoral campaign plans -
whether they want to hear it or not.
"People don't want to hear the truth," he
said. "I'm here to tell you the truth."
Selwach said he's offering simple solutions
to some of Gainesville's biggest problems.
For students, Selwach wants to keep local
bars open until 4 a.m. while requiring them to
stop serving drinks at 2 a.m. He argued that
this revision would give patrons a chance to
sober up before leaving.
If elected, Selwach, a self-
FaceS described libertarian, vows to
in the balance the city's budget byRace eliminating programs he sees
as wasteful, such as the Office
of Equal Opportunity and the
Communications Office.
"We need to go back to the basics," he
said. "Anything that's not essential is up for
the chopping block."
He also opposes plans to build a biomass
plant, which he said will bum an unneces-
sary amount of trees.
Coinciding with his stance on decriminal-
izing marijuana, Selwach offered a solution
of burning hemp in place of the trees.
"They can put it in their biomass plant and
smoke it," he said.
Selwach is no stranger to bold statements,
especially when it comes to the city's anti-
discrimination ordinance, which modifies
Chapter 8 of the city's Code of Ordinances to
include protection from gender discrimina-
tion.
The ordinance allows citizens to use bath-
rooms that suit their gender identity, definedThomas Plevik/ Alligator
Mayoral candidate Richard Selwach poses with Mossberg and Winchester shotguns
inside his pawn shop and campaign headquarters on Northwest Sixth Street.
as "an inner sense of being a specific gender"
as opposed to biological sex.
Selwach said that his opposition to the
bill stems from what he described as sloppily
written language, not an underlying preju-
dice toward transgender people.
"I'm not here to take any rights away
from anyone," said Selwach. "I'm not going
to gamble with the safety of the children.
a 10-year-old girl doesn't need to see some
guy's penis."
For Selwach, the anti-discrimination ordi-
nance is such an important issue that he told
Gainesville City Commissioner Craig Lowe,
one of the other mayoral candidates who
assisted in the ordinance's passage, that he
would drop out of the race if Lowe modifiedthe language in the ordinance.
"I pulled him aside and told him 'Craig,
I like you, and if I wasn't running, I'd vote
for you,"' he said. "Sometimes it gets really
heated but that's politics."
According to the latest campaign financial
reports, Selwach has contributed $2,900 to his
campaign.
He is not accepting campaign contribu-
tions.
As the March16 electionnears, Selwach in-
sisted that if elected, he would use his role to
serve and protect the people of Gainesville.
"In my life, before I go, I want to do the
right thing," he said. "You don't want a guy
like me to give up. I'm here to do my job."--
Lawyer Advertisement
YAZ LITIGATION
Recently the F.D.A. issued a public health advisory stating that a substatial risk of
complications are assocated with yaz, Yasmin, or Ocella resulting in blood clots,
stroke, heart attack and death. The F.D.A. also issued a warning letter citing the
manufacturer for misleading the public about the approved uses of Yaz.
If you or someone you know suffered a blood clot, stroke, heart attack, or worse,
while taking Yaz, Yasmin or Ocella, you may have a potential claim against the
manufacturer. Again, the most serious side effects of Yaz, Yasmin, and Ocella are:
Blood Clot(s) -Deep Vein Thrombosis -Pulmonary Embolism-
-Gall Bladder Removal -Heart Attack -Stroke -
If you or someone you know has taken YAZ and suffered an injury, you may be
entitled to a financial compensation. Please contact the Branch Law Firm for a free
consultation at 1-800-562-3456. Please visit our website at www.branchlawfirm.com
for more information.
*~~BRANCH LAW FIRM
2025 Rio Grande Blvd., NW
Albuaueraue, NM 87104Don't be chicken.
Stop your friends from
driving drunk.Local store
owners fear a
slow holiday
V-DAY, from page 1
entine's Day falling on a Sunday
than the down economy.
She said people like to have
the flowers delivered to their sig-
nificant others during the week
while they're at work. She hopes
people will think ahead and send
arrangements and gift baskets
early this year.
"It's never too early to say 'I
love you,"' Cavallo said. "We're
hoping people will have things
delivered on Friday."
Cavallo said they will offer a
substantial variety of arrange-
ments for all budgets ranging
from about $30 orders to custom
orders in the hundreds of dollars,
including the traditional dozen
red roses and a tulip special.
Crevasse said Valentine's Day
is their Super Bowl of holidays,
even though Mother's Day brings
in more total money. She said
they hire extra floral designers
and delivery drivers to help re-
lieve the pressures of completing
the holiday orders.
Cavallo echoed a similar senti-
ment.
"We have people who want
something delivered every hour.
That's kind of hard when you're
screaming busy," Cavallo said.
"Those guys must be crazy in
love."
theAvenue thursday, february 11, 2010
pucker up!
}
0
Rachel Calderon, Hollanda Iwanski, Michelle Colby and Morgan Carlson model perfect pouts just in time for
Valentine's Day. Inside: how to get kissable lips, what to drink this holiday weekend, a lingerie fashion spe-
cial, an all-new sexToon and more. Online: A Cupid-themed gay sex column, a review of romantic hot spots
to eat this weekend and a new Alligator musiCast.
page 1V-DAY PLAYLIST:
By JOEY FLECHAS
alligator writer
Every day needs a sound-
track, especially the holiday
of love.
There are plenty of super-
sexed songs out there to last
all night, but don't forget that
Valentine's Day is about the
romance, too.
1. "That's How Strong My
Love Is" by Otis Redding
2. "Earth Angel (Will You
Be Mine)" by Death Cab for
Cutie (covering The Penguins)
3. "Two is Better Than One"
by Boys Like Girls featuring
Taylor Swift
4. "Home" by Edward Sharpe
and The Magnetic Zeros
5. "Candy" by LL Cool J feat.
Ralph Tresvant and Ricky
Bell
6. "Everybody" by Sister
Hazel
7. "Just the Way You Are" by
Billy Joel
8. "The Way You Look
Tonight" by Frank Sinatra
9. "Bonita Applebum" by A
Tribe Called Quest
10. "Let's Get Married" by
Jagged Edge
Forget the flowers: Cupid's arrow works for singles, too
By MICHAEL PERRONE holiday" and go out in droves. and all the romantic things you had But it doesn't have to be this way. fast and drink some coffee. A caff
and AMELIA HARNISH And since the big day rests on a planned for Valentine's Day have gone Last year around this time I was buzz will keep the positivityflowin
avenue writers Sunda the -m11 it brin m ith it mill tn Aste The strate ies -r -nd1-s -mn the -o 1-d re arnr t --I/n .FnnFXn
He Says.
Seriously, be a man!
Whining about not having a date
for Valentine's Day is something that
only chicks are allowed to do.
You should be happy that you
aren't going to be tied down this year.
No girlfriend means no stressing over
gifts, no grand romantic gestures and
certainly no awkward conversations
where she accuses you of beingsweet
only because it's Valentine's Day.
Fellas, I assure you, this weekend
is a blessing in disguise. Remember
the rationale behind "Wedding Crash-
ers"? Women become horny with
jealousy whenever their friends are in
happy relationships. Valentine's Day is
no different.
Girls become emotionally unstable
when they can't secure a date for the
Fourteenth, causing them to band to-
gether in opposition of this "Hallmarkwaft into town as early as Friday. That
means a three-day open season on all
the singles in Gainesville.
Imagine wave after wave of ladies
and no couples dilutingthe field of po-
tential mates. While those in relation-
ships are all out on their picnics, din-
ner dates or unnecessarily long walks
on the beach, their friends will be out
looking for a warm body to snuggle
with.
But you are going to have to go out
into the wild of Gainesville's nightlife
if you want to take part in the hunt.
Don't think that by surprisingthe cutie
in your class who you nevertalk to with
flowers on Friday will make her yours
by Sunday.
When you are out there this week-
end, play to their emotions. Talk about
how fake and corporate Valentine's
Day has become. You could even throw
out the sympathy card and tell a story
about how your girlfriend just left you,But if preying on the unsuspecting
women of UF isn't your style, I under-
stand. There are plenty of other ways
to celebrate that have nothing to do
with romance. Have a boys' night. Or-
der some wings, pick up some beer,
relax and watch whatever game is on.
Overall, girl or no girl, it shouldn't
really matter. If you have a significant
other, make sure you treat her right.
After all, Valentine's Day is all about
the ladies. If you're single, relish the
fact that you are your own man and
be happy to have no obligations to
anyone else. Either way, keep in mind
that there are more Valentine's Days
to come, and that next year, you may
be experiencing itfrom the other side.
She Says.
In three days, singe girls every-
where will turn to cynicism and vodka
in the name of self-loathing and the
patron saint of commercialized love,
Valentine.romantic weekend in New York City
with my beloved. Little did I know, he
was preparingfor his breakup speech,
which, by the way, began with some-
thing like, "So, uh, if we break up, can
we still have sex?"
I have good reason to be jaded. I'm
tempted to spend Sunday wallowing in
my loneliness, blubbering incoherently
(from the vodka) to my cat about my
terrible taste in men, but instead, I'm
going to make like Walt Whitman and
sing the song of myself.
Just because you are down a sig-
nificant other doesn't mean you can't
celebrate.
Here are some tips for making Val-
entine's Dayaboutthe most important
person in your life -you.
Wake up the right way. Morning
masturbation is the keyto staying posi-
tive on V-Day. Nothing says "I love me"
like coloring your day with a self-in-
duced orgasm. Then, eat a nice break-Day that drives everyone crazy? Even
people in relationships pull their hair
out over it, and let's face it, it's just an-
other day. A good bump in business for
the floral industry and a nice excuse
to eat chocolate, but nonetheless an-
other day for us to celebrate the ones
we love, which is something we should
be doing every day.
Be proud. Singledom is not equiv-
alent to leprosy, so refrain from hiding.
Go to dinner with your single friends,
make cards for your roomies and treat
yourself with a manicure or mini shop-
pingspree.
Keep the faith. At this age, be-
ing singe is hardly an omen. One day
you will celebrate Valentine's Day with
someone special, but until then, don't
waste your time wondering why you're
singe or if you'll ever meet someone.
You will. It is better to be alone than
to be wasting your time with someone
who is constantly letting you down.eine
g.
10, ALLIGATOR THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010
o L
american
Cafe Gardens
For over a third of a century,
the Original World Famous
Cafe Gardens has been serving
Gators with delicious food and
a large selection of beers and
wines. Located just across from
campus near the Florida Book
Store, this quaint landmark es-
tablishment with award winning
courtyard dining is perfect for
any date or gathering. For live
music schedule, call 376-2233.
Hours: Mon-Wed 11am-1Opm,
Thurs-Sat 11 am-1am,
Sun Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave. Join us on
Thursday late nights for "Mid-
night in the Garden" with Food
& Drink specials and DJ.
cafegardens.net
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and
Stacks. The only way to
describe the Stack is that it
is outrageously delicious! Its
uniquely different presenta-
tion -three 6 inch flour tortillas
stacked high with fresh grilled
ingredients and just the right
accent of cheese -is strangely
inviting to ones palate. Come
out and try our 1/3 lb Burgers,
steak seasoned Panchos &
Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the The Home Grown
and Homemade Black Bean
Hummus! Now serving draft and
red Stripe beers! We deliver!
Open late to serve your late
night cravings!
Sun-Wed:lam-3am. Thurs &
Sat: la,-4pm. 34th St. Plaza
(Sweetbay) @ 2124 SW 34th St.
672-6111
www.jdoobies.com
break-a5I
and lunch
43rd Street Deli and
Breakfast House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to
for over 25 years -we probably
served your parents. Biggest
4 egg omelette, French toast,
and daily specials. Not full yet?
Have lunch with us & enjoy a
large selection of sandwiches,
the best Reuben, gyros, and
soup all at a reasonable price.
Vegetarian? Not a problem. We
have a selection that is sure to
fulfill your needs. We now offer
free WiFi! Open All day Every
day 7am-3pm. 4401 NW 25th
Place 373-2927. 3483 Williston
Rd 373-5656. Conveniently
located off 1-75cracker
cuisine
The Yearling
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog legs,
and alligator, as well as USDA
Prime beef, seafood, grits, greens
& hush puppies. Open Thursday
& Friday 5pm-1 Opm, Saturday
12pm-1Opm & Sunday 12pm-
8:30pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999
www.theyearlingrestaurant.com
uban
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street-
373-0301
ozen IreManuel's Vintage
Room
This family owned restaurant is
perfect for dinner any day of the
week. Come in and check out
one of the best wine lists in town.
Ask questions and learn while
you wait for the chef to put out
nothing but goodness from the
kitchen using fresh, simple, and
local ingredients. Try the Early
Dinner Sunday. Tuesday-Thurs-
day 5-7pm. $3 wines/$1 0 bottles.
$10 Menu. Ask about our Monday
Wine Dinners and private parties
for lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
St. (352)375-7372i ndian and
vegetarian
Green Mango
Th. best 1ndian fI in ane-
U
d35f
D'Lites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
d'licious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly without
the diet taste. We also feature a
whole array of cookies, chips, and
various grocery treats that appeal
to Atkins@, Weight Watchers@,
and other dieters. Our every day
daily specials make shopping
at D'Lites a special value!
Come weigh your options at
the Marketplace Plaza at NW
16th Blvd. and 43rd St. (next to
the Hollywood Video) or at the
Shoppes of Williston at S.W. 34th
Street and Williston Rd. (next to
Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!
Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts,
loose leaf teas, and beer, with
lots of vegan options. Now open
24 hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
blocks east of campus at 1025 W.
Unve sity Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our prem um sel-serve frozen
yogurt as a healthy dessert
alternative. Our yogurt has 0%
fat and contains live and active
cultures. Choose any combination
of 8 different flavors and over 30
toppings. Everything for just 45
cents an ounce. 3841 SW Archer
Rd (next to Bento Red) Open
from noon to midnight daily!-Uville. Serving Gainesville since
1991. The best Samosas in
Florida. Offering many vegan
dishes. We are specialized in
catering any group size. Delivery
available-free delivery on any
purchase over $25 Open 7 days
Mon-Sat 11 :3am-9pm, Sunday
1 pm-8pm. Call 352-505-6200.
7625 W Newberry Rd
L jamaicanCaribbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
and oxtail. Opened Mon thru
Thurs 11 am-7:30pm, Fri & Sat
11am-1 1:45pm
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
352-374-8111
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a hip,
trendy atmosphere. Two great
locations with outside eating.
Open every day for carry-out
or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.
key west-
y e
Cabana Cove
Keg West Grille
Now offering a new bistro
inspired menu.
Open for lunch and dinner.
Full martini and mojito bar.
Voted nicest outdoor dining.
COUPON -DATE NIGHT- COUPON
Choose 1 appetizer, 2 entrees, a
bottle of wine, and share a slice
of Key Lime Pie.
All for only $39.99 (expires
12/31/09)
2410 NW 43rd Streetkey e5t
Gainesville
352-377-3278
Please visit us online at
www.cabanacove.net for
additional savings and coupons.
chine,5e
Green Plantains
The best MoFongo, churrasco,
& chofan in town. $5 To-Go
Dinners. Mon-Sat from 4pm.
Don't miss out $4.95 dinner +
soda on Thursday, student night
from 4pm-1 Opm. Visit us at
5150 SW 34th Street at the new
Publix Shopping Center 7 days
a week. We cater. Check us out
on Gatorfood.com
352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.com
ocaW
organic
THE JONES
Gainesville's own independently
owned community restaurant
dedicated to bringing sustain-
able, local, and organic food
to the table. Oh, and it's really
yummy. Herbivores, carnivores,
& omnivores welcome! NOW
SERVING DINNER EVERY
NIGHT! New hours: open every
day 8am-10pm. Check out our
facebook page for specials and
events 401 NE 23rd Avenue.
352 373 6777
Mildred's
Big Citg Food
Eat Gainesville's Best Food at
Mildred's. We support LOCAL
and SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh
Dishes Made From Scratch!
OPEN SUNDAYS!
COVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371-1711
MildredsBigCityFood.com
New Deal Cafe
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burgers! This 12oz.
Goliath is Naturally Aged and
Fresh Ground. MONSTROUS
desserts. HUGE Martini's. $5
glasses of wine and 20 wines
under $20! Mon-Thurs. 11am-
Fri & Sat. 11 am-i 1pm
371-4418
newdealcafegainesville.com
Located next door to Mildred's.
Keepin' it fresh -Keepin' it real!rnediterroneon
Ti Amol
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine
agrees, "[the chef] adds visual
flair to every dish to make it as
good-looking as it is flavorful."
NEW Happy Hour Specials!
Every day from 4pm-7pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices & terrific
service.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.com
12 SE 2nd Ave. 378-6307
mexico n
Boca Fiesta
Best Margaritas in Town!
Fresh-squeezed + all natural!
Tasty tacos, burritos, nachos!
Cheap beer, full bar, open late!
Now serving brunch!
232 SE 1 st St Downtown
336-TACO!
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta, & desserts. All you
can eat buffet available!
Outdoor dining. Visit www.
newyorkpizzaplus.com for
coupons. We Deliver!
490 NE 23rd Ave.I
I
I
I
376-3444
vegetain
Book Lover's Cafe K
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade, meals
sandwiches, soups, home-baked
desserts. Brunch Weekends.
Specials: Cupcake Mon.,
USouthern Cooking Tues., Greek
Wed 6pm, Ethiopian Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 1Oam-9pm.
Fri -Sun 1Oam-8pm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
II
I
u ii ' a ]Sl@U @9
oNumbe of Valentines Day cards
exchanged annually, making Valentine's
Day the second-most popular gteetingQ
card-givuing OcCQS(9n nexI to Clfislmuas.
10 ' 0 J
120 V. 100
Number of single men who are in their 20s for every 100 single
women of the same age
15%
Percent of US. wornen who enu themselves
flowers on Voentine's Day
More athome pregnancy tests are
sold in March than in any other
month.
Condom sales are highest around
Valentine's Day, which are 20 percent
to 30 percent higher than us ili
According to &urex condom co.
8
Number of conversation hearts Necco makes each year which is
enough to stretch from lfay to Arizona ard back 29 times. If you don' ge,
to eat your candy hearts this year, they'/I still be ecible next Volentine's
Day. The heax[s have a shelf life of five years.
Jeff Heaton/ Alligat
Delicious dessert:-THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010*ALLIGATOR, 11
Wining and dining for everyone
By GABRIELLE FALCONIERI corn 352-336-0077 officelive.com 352-375-4420
avenue writer
The hipster couple: The Top. The
kitschy design and eclectic menu
shine at this downtown staple with
options from pest gnocchi to deep-
fried corn nuggets. 352-337-1188
The high-roller couple: Mark's
Prime. A staple in Gainesville's fine
dining, Mark's steaks have been
the talk of the town ever since
2002. marksprimesteakhouse.The flashy couple: Yamato Japa-
nese Steakhouse. Dinner and a
show come together at Yamato.
The food is standard hibachi fare,
but always delicious. yamatojapa-
neserestaurant.com 352-332-
4466
The wine-sippingcouple: Mario's
Wine Bar and European Bistro. The
staff helps pair the perfect red or
white with a selection of tapas and
dinner specials. mariobistro.food.The socially conscious couple:
Mildred's Big City Food. Chef Bert
Gill keeps his menu close to home
with locally produced veggies,
meats and seafood. mildredsbigci-
tyfood.com 352-371-1711
The cozy couple: Manuel's Vin-
tage Room. The intimate atmo-
sphere at Manuel's is perfect for
the couple that just wants to get
away from it all. manuelsvintage-
room.com 352-375-7372
Muah! How to get kissable lips
By RACHAEL PINO
Freelance Editor
This Valentine's Day, tryto make your kiss, and lips,
the main event byfollowingthese simple tips from pro-
fessional makeup artists.
Exfoliate
"The biggest mistake I see is people not exfoliat-
ing, especially this time of year. Women remember
to scrub their skin but skip out on lips," said Bonnie
Cato, a professional makeup artist.
She recommends using a lip treatment with sugar
crystals or rice grains.
Joy, who's been a makeup artistforfive years, said
excessive exfoliation can rub your skin raw, but too
little can leave you looking flaky. The right amount of
exfoliation is no more than twice a week for 30 to 60
seconds because your skin needs time to regenerate.
Joy prefers exfoliates with rounded particles, such as
micro beads, over scrubs with crushed ingredients
like apricots and nuts, which can actually break down
the barrier needed to lock in moisture.
Moisturize
"After exfoliating, you absolutely must moisturize,"
said Joy, who recommends readingthe ingredients list
on your balm before purchasing.
"It's nice if they have something else besides wax
or petroleum jelly, like shea butter," Joy said. "Anti-oxi-
dants like vitamin A, C and E are the best."
Prime
"Lip primer is a step many women forget about,
or but it's so important because it fills in any fine lines
and smoothes out the texture of the lips," Joy said.
She said you should apply silicone-based primers
to the lips and then allow it to sit for a few minutes.
Blotting with a tissue should only remove the excess
but not the primer.
"Your lips should have a slight slide to them. Theyshouldn't be bone dry," Joy said.
Line
"When choosing a lip liner, it's best to get
the liner as nude and close to your natural color as
possible," Cato said. She also likes to use a reverse lip
liner, which is applied to the skin around the lips and
acts as a barrierfrom color bleeding or feathering.
For better definition, Joy recommends usingshort,
light strokes instead of dragging the liner. For pouty
lips, try drawing a little caret or triangle in the corner
creases of your mouth with the liner.
"You should make little dashes, so it's kind
of like connectingthe dots," Joy said.
Color
When choosing a lipstick, Cato said to keep your
skin tone in mind. Deeper reds are more dramatic,
while some more neutral tones can have bronzes or a
little pop of color in them.
"Always remember whattime of day it is. You don't
wantto always be wearingthe darker tones to work or
the lighter ones for a night on the town," Cato said.
Gloss
Women tend to slather gloss all overtheir lips, hop-
ing to obtain a sexy shine and to keep their lips from
drying out. Joy said this just makes a greasy look.
"All you really need is a little dot of gloss in the cen-
ter of the lip. Then just lightly press," she said. "The
gloss will eventually spread over your lips on its own."
Lip plumper, which contains ingredients like cinna-
mon bark or menthol, can also be used as a gloss. In
a study conducted by Good Housekeeping Research
Institute, participants found that a stinging sensation
occurred for only a few seconds and saw immediate
results.
"The extracts irritate your lips in a good way. They
circulate the blood up to the surface so your lips swell
a bit," Cato said. "It can be that extra oomph you
need."
chocolate mousse
By SHAYNA BROKER
avenue writer
Supplies:
small sauce pan, small ceramic
or plastic bowl, blender
Ingredients:
+1/4 cup semisweet chocolate
chips
*1 tablespoon water (or 1/2
tablespoon plus 1/2 table-
spoon Kahlua coffee liqueur)
+1 egg yolk, lightly beaten
+11/2 tsp vanilla extract
*1/2 cup whipping cream
*1 tablespoon sugar
Directions:
1. Melt the chocolate chips
in a small saucepan over low
heat. Stir until smooth. Spoon
a small amount of the choco-late into the beaten egg yolk,
stir and return both egg and
chocolate to the saucepan. Stir
mixture for two more minutes
or until it slightly thickens.
2. Remove from heat and
stir in vanilla. Move chocolate
to a small bowl and place in
freezer or refrigerator for at
least five minutes.
3. Meanwhile, pour the
whipping cream into the blend-
er and beat until thickened
(about 10 seconds). Add sugar
and beat until soft peaks form.
Fold the cream into cooled
chocolate mixture and refriger-
ate at least two hours.
4. Serve in martini glasses
or small dishes and top with
fresh or frozen berries. In-
dulge!Say cheers, what bubbly to buy
By RICHARD 0. STEHLI
avenue writer
Go ahead and buy the oysters and
strawberries at a grocery store, but
when it comes to buyingthe booze, go
to a real wine shop. You will find bet-
ter selection and lower prices. Gracey
Castine, of Dorn's Liquors, had plenty
of advice to offer on the subject this
Valentine's Day.
If it says "Champagne" on the
bottle, it has to be grown in the Cham-
pagne region of France, and for a trueFrench Champagne, you often have
to pay a little more. Spanish spar-
kling wine, Cava, will probably cost
less, and you might not be able to tell
the difference. For the big spender,
Castine recommends Laurent Perrier
Rose ($70), but you will not be disap-
pointed with a Cristalino or Freixenent
Rosado ($10).
And there is nothing wrong wine.
As it is Valentine's Day, you should
look for a red and then match it with
strong tastes like dark chocolate or
blue cheese. Pinot Noir is especiallypopular on V-Day.
Again, don't be afraid to spend
$10 or even less on a bottle, so long
as you buy itfrom a reputable source.
For those celebrating on a budget,
Castine recommends wines from
Chile, Argentina and Spain.
Don't forget, there are no liquor
sales on Sunday in Alachua County,
and you cannot buy beer or wine until
after 1 p.m. So, be sure to head to the
stores for your alcohol before the big
day. Dorn's Liquors is located at 4140
NW 16th Blvd.
\~
12, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010
ies Lace, lust and love
By ASHLEY MCCREDIE
4t- avenue writer
Lingerie can be the perfect addition, for boys and girls, to a great Valentine's Day. And with so many
styles out there, there's a perfect fit for everyone's fashion taste, body type and level of sexiness.
"Lingerie is suited to show your best assets," said Rebecca Silver, sales associate at French Addic-
tion. "It cups and lifts boobs, and it streamlines the body for a slenderizing look."
Here are three looks that shoppers can choose from for the holiday:
* S*** *e
Fr * 0The basic bra and
e e ~panty. One can't go eae
wrong with a bra- ee* S
e e and-panty-set. This
look is seductive with
e e lace; sweet with ruffles
and flowers; or wild
and crazy with neon ee
colors. This is practical *
because it can be worn 0 e
under any outfit, so 0 e
you can whip off your 0 e
clothes for a special 0 e* Ssupie 0
The baby doll. This
is perfect for the girl
who wants to be moree romantic and create a
'4e fantasy for her man.
Th The baby doll cutS
has ~ ~ benaon ic shows a natural, femi-
the 6t cetur an isnine side and reveals
famos fr acentat-just enough to keep him
ing omens crvesandwondering. This is a
l t good start for first-time
and~~ ~~ .tcins Thslo
d ingnrr. -Ar's.* S S
e e
* e ee e e *
sex oov
V-IDance like a pussycat
By ALLISON BANKO
avenue writer
When flippingthrough music videos,
it is difficult to keep your mouth from
droppingatthe sight of a Pussycat Dolls
music video. Whether you are a boy or
a girl confronted with the spectacle is
irrelevant. The Dolls' sultry demeanor
and flawless stomachs causes most
guys to contain themselves in their in-
seam and turns girls green with envy.
Luckily, Dolls creator and choreog-
rapher, Robin Antin, has sympathized
with this small feat of ours. Through the
release of her "Pussycat Dolls Workout"
DVD, she teaches dances that will give
women the chance to come one step
closer to becoming a Doll in their own
sense. The DVD is divided intofive parts
that make up an hourlong workout of
the warm-up, a dance to "Don't Cha,"
a dance to "Buttons," a burlesque-style
dance, and the cool-down.
The Start of a Possible Disaster
OK, let's confront the big pink el-
ephant in the room. Most of us are a
bit apprehensive to even think about
anything that involves dancing even if
it is in private. However, Antin has for-
mulated her dances in ways that are so
easy, even someone with two left feet
could perform them.
On another note, you may want to
reconsider those gym shorts you were
goingto do the DVD in. Antin makes her
appearance, alongwith four other PCDs
in the making, sporting sparkly, midriff-
bearing outfits. So, you may feel more
comfortable doing the workout throw-
ing on that stripper Halloween costume
sitting in your closet (Don't act like you
don't have one.) And take that hair tie
out. You'll need to whip around your
mane later on to get the full effect.
The Workout
Antin kicks off the warm-up with
sexy head rolls along with other stretch-
es that are sure to loosen you up effec-
tively.
Followingthe warm-up is the "Don't
Cha" dance. The DVD first breaks down
the choreography of the dances, andthen following adequate practice of the
moves, Antin and the girls perform the
dance to the PCD music with you.
If you are the conservative type,
moves like smacking your "booty" and
"biting your finger" may take you a few
tries to get comfortable with.
The section dedicated to the "But-
tons" dance includes the most chal-
lenging choreography but also holds
a delightful surprise. After mastering
the moves, lead singer of The Pussycat
Dolls, Nicole Scherzinger, makes an ap-
pearance in the performance portion
of the dance.
By now, all the sexiness is out in the
open, and by the time you reach the
burlesque-style dance, the red in your
cheeks should be fading away. During
the start of this piece, Antin prompts
you to grab a scarf or a tie if you don't
have a boa lying around.
By using the boa, Antin teaches a
burlesque routine
that is both sexy
and fun. After slid-
ing the boa be-
tween your legs
and lifting it above
your head to en-
gage your core, the
confident doll in
you will be born.
The Final Verdict
Initiallyone maythink this workout is
a "pussy" in itself. But you'll be sweat-
ing bythe start of the second song and
thoroughly enjoying the process of find-
ing your inner doll. Antin teaches in a
style that is easy to understand and
motivating without being too military-
sergeant-like. You're guaranteed to feel
confident and sexy after shaking your
ass and whipping your hair around in
the routines. The moves are doable
in the smallest of spaces, so your sad
little dorm room will work fine.
Oh, and for the guys out there, if
you are finding yourself "lonely" in the
action department, this DVD contains
barely clothed, sexy women doing pro-
vocative dance moves. And this may
cause fewer viruses on your computer
than those porn sites you visit.
Courtesy of Grand Communications
Pussycat Doll Nicole Scherzinger and choreographer Robin Antin show off their toned
bodies The PCD workout DVD uses dance moves to get viewers in sexy glamorous shape
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
$419 all inclusive 4/4
$509 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
24hr Fitness Center 2 Pools
Now Feline Friendly352-271-
3131*GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-1
0
Crossing
FULLY LOADED @ $399
Individual w/free roommate matching
Cable, Internet and utilities
Pick New 42" TV or Sofa Set
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, University Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2 $639 * deluxe 2/2 $659
3/3 $639 *4/4 $529 * All pies are all inclusive-
Close to UF EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST Townhouse near UF,
Shands, shopping; easy access. 2BR/2.5BA;
great for student/family. Only $750/mo;
LEASE/BUY OPTION -OWNER FINANCED.
Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432 2-17-
09-65-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. 239-250-6149 2-12-10-25-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Unit. $450 ea. W/D.
Property has clubhouse, fitness and busi-
ness/computer ctr. Utilities incl. On bus
route. Windsor Park.
305-788-5681 /Windsor5l5@gmail.com.
2-26-10-28-1
LUXURY 2STORY TOWNHS. 2B/2.5Ba
FULLY FURN. 2 min to UF, Great bus routes
& parking, Pool/gym, Free wifi, All utils inc.
Both rooms avail June 1st or later, Individual
Leases $540/$520 Martha 786 246-3049
3-5-29-1
4BR/4BA, large living, next to bus stop, fairly
new condo. $399/mo each room. Close to
shopping, school & library. Call 941-232-
1960 3-3-10-20-1
4/4 COUNTRYSIDE APTS. Spacious 4 bed-
room close to UF! Close to major shopping
areas and located on 3 bus routes that go to
center of UF. Every room has full bathroom
& large walk-in closets. Entire place is fur-
nished. High efficiency W/D. Rent is $400/
room/month. Utilities included! SD $200.
Available June or August. Call (305) 799-
7042 3-25-30-1
$370-4/4 University Terrace Condo available
starting summer/fall. ALL utilities included,
W/D in unit, on routes 12 and 35, ten minutes
to campus by bus! $250 deposit, individual
lease. Call Anu at 352.262.0628. 2-26-13-1
$370-4/4 Countryside condo for rent starting
immediately/summer/fall. ALL utilities includ-
ed, on bus routes 9 and 35, individual leases.
Call Anu at 352.262.0628. 2-26-10-13-1IMMEDIATE/SUMMER AVAILABILITY
2,3 and 4 bedroom suites
STARTING @ 349
All inclusive, fully furnished
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-10-30-1
For RentF unfurnished
LOW COST MOVE IN
1 BR & STUDY -$395/mo.
372-6881 or 213-3901 4-21-10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
LIVE THE DOWNTOWN LIFE
Steps from clubs-blocks to UF
Studios, 1/i's, 2/2's & 3/3's
The best location .GUARANTEED
Reserve NOW for fall! 338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
AFFORDABLE RATES! QUIET COMMUNITY!
www.frederickgardens.com
1 BR/1 BA $469 * 2BR/1 BA $569
Great Move-In Fee Specials!!!
Adopted pets live free!! 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 Iv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOW or FALL 2010.
2/2 from $1019 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-21, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$699 2/2-$799 3/2-$899
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464
4-21-71-2
$99 MOVES YOU IN!
Call for our Preferred Business Discount!
1, 2 &3 Bedrooms for
IMMEDIATE & Fall Move-In's!
Off FOUR bus routes (9,34,35,36)
connect too Shand's and UF
1/1-$684 2/2-$799 3/3-$979
2330 SW Williston Road
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75 SW 75th Street Call 332-7401
71-24-21-Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions PO LOS
right thru our website!
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, imitation, or discrimination because of color, region, sex, handicap, family status, or national origin, or intention to make imitation, or discrimination." We wll
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising thatis know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
14, ALLIGATOR E THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010
r Rent uFFor Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
u rnished nfnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
SORORITY ROW 2BR
2BR/2.5BA for $1199
W/D & utils included. We <3 pets!
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
* SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
BRAND NEW REDUCED RATES!
1's, 2's, 3's
Inclusive Pkgs Available
* Pet Friendly!
Immediate or Fall Move In
352-374-3866
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $505 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$419 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2 $639 * deluxe 2/2 $659
3/3 $639 *4/4 $529 * All pies are all inclusive-
Close to UF EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key 0 Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
.Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$600 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 2-19-10-75-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -WE'VE GOT IT ALL!
1/1 from $589 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis*1 mile to UF*Huge Laundry Facilities
377-7401 * www.biketouf.com
4-21-09-71-2BLOCKS TO UF
Available August 2010. Now showing
multiple houses. 2BR/2BA, 3BR/2BA,
4BR/3BA, 5BR/3BA. www.dalyproperties.
com or call Carol 359-3341 2-26-10-43-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $540;
1BR $465. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $490;
2BR $590 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
$199 Move-In Special
$500-$700 2 bed/1 bath
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or (352)505-9264 2-17-10-
30-2
Holiday Special/ Valentine's Day
NO MOVE-IN COSTS -Free Rent
(Don't Pay Anything til 2/14/10)
Please Hurry. Only A Few Units Avail!
(We speak Spanish) 352 240-9009
2-12-09-27-2
Rocky Point Apts 3100 sw 35th pl- 376-1619
Country Garden 2001 sw 16th st- 373-4500
Regency Oaks 3230 sw Archer rd 378-5766
Southwest Villas 3643 sw 20 ave 336-9000
Archer Woods 3020 sw Archer rd- 373-8727
2-12-09-27-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 2-12-10-25-2
One Block to UF:2/2.5 bath townhouse. W/D,
Dishwasher, Garbage Disposal, wood floors,
ceiling fans, GUARANTEED Parking call
Todd at 514-4915, VERY Nice townhouse
2-26-10-33-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1st Nice large
4BR/2BA house. Big bedrooms, big living rm.
W/D provided, game rm $1425/mo. 2100 NW
8th Court. Call for diretions. Pets ok, fenced
yard. Other houses available 352-339-2342
2-12-10-28-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments .com
111 NWl16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-21-65-2
* One Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $499 2/1 $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
MU.
Syd~~td ehtT* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/1 from $599 2/2 from $699
Additional $200 off next month
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Sunrise Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $509 Additional $200 off the next month.
NO APP FEE. Near UF, Shands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 $599
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Villas at Ashton Square
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/2 $719 3/2 $849
Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Summer Place Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
i/i $519
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Sundowne Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Studio $469 1/1 $519
Walk to Butler Plaza and Regal Cinemas
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
GmedM
Av3 Bb ea, from Com WI NesPo iesJ vmL it~, IdmjP6o
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
* One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Gator Village Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1/1 $489
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Walk to UF. Openings in Feb, May & Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 0 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 0 studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
2-26-10-32-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
2-11-10-20-2The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
GOT ROACHES?
Buy Harris Famous Roach Tablets.
Guaranteed to kill. Available at: Zells
Hardware, 3727 West University 3-17-10-
35-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
Move in Special: No Security Deposit
2/2 Condo with washer/dryer, screened-
in porch, newer condo, near UF. Shands,
located off 34th & Archer Rd. 2 units
available $750/mo. Call 317-5060 215-5996
3-1-10-27-2
(APLAN) How would you score on Test Day?
Take a FREE Practice Test
Saturday, Feb. 13th and find out!
kaptest.com/practice GMAT, GRE, LSAT, PCAT, DAT, OAT, MCAT
U
d UL26.
C AF
4i >
C42 >***HOUSE 4BR/2BA***
Available 8/1. Lovely, remodeled. W/D. Bike
to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. $1400/
mo. 373-1558, 246-8645, or 256-8370 2-16-
10-15-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Large 4BR/2BA house,
Wash/dry provided, privacy fenced, pets ok,
full sized hot tub on back screened porch,
dishwasher, carport, $1600/mo. 3413 NW
8th Ave 352-339-2342 2-12-10-10-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. 3BR/1BA house. Nice.
Nine blocks from campus, wash/dry pro-
vided, cent H/AC fenced private backyard,
hardwood floors, detached garage. $1125/
mo. 924 NW 9th Ave. 352-339-2342 2-12-
10-10-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Clean modern 4BR/2BA
house. fenced backyard, pets ok, fireplace,
wash/dry provided, wooded private big yard.
$1425/mo, central heat/air. 2606 NW 34th
Street. 352-339-2342 2-12-10-10-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Clean nice 4BR/2BA
house, privacy fenced backyard, pets ok,
hardwood floors, fireplace, plenty of parking,
wash/dry provided, dishwasher, cent heat/air
$1400/mo 830 NW 16th Ave 352-339-2342
2-12-10-10-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. 4BR/2BA clean nice
house 1 block from campus. Hardwood
floors, wash/dry provided, fireplace, modern
bathrooms. $1800/mo 1203 SW 1st Ave.
352-339-2342 2-12-10-10-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. 3BR/2BA house one
block from campus, hardwood & tile floors,
wash/dryer provided, fireplace, dishwasher,
modern baths 110 SW 12th St. $1350/mo
352-339-2342 2-12-10-10-2
Near Campus. 1/1 Cute with Washer/Dryer
and Dishwasher. Safe. Second floor of
Tumbling Creek on SW 9th st. Pets w/ de-
posit. First and $500 Security Deposit to
move in. Call 352-375-7030. 2-11-10-8-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 3-31-37-2
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 3 bd/ 2 ba
Completely Remodeled
W/D inc. Spiral Staircase
Walk to Class, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
*Walk to Class & Stadium*
2/1, W/D, Granite Countertops
Hardwood Floors & Fireplace
Huge Bedrooms,Covered parking
$1300/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Large 5 Bedrm House**
1 full & 3-1/2 baths
Plant Atriums, Unique floorplan, W/D
Plenty of Parking, 8 blocks N of UF
$2,500/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 2-12-2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
216 SW 12th St. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494 x10
2-12-10-9-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 2-12-10-9-2
3BR 1.5 BA Home off NW 16th
Ave. Tile Floors, Laundry Hkups,
Central H & Air. $750/Mo
319 NW 16th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 x10 2-12-10-9-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Walk to UF/Sorority Row 4bd/4.5ba
3 stories w/ 4 master suites. w/d incl.
Near corner of SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
2BD 1 BA WALK TO UF
Charming Quad near AGH
1005 SW 3rd Ave
Hardwood floors & parking
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
NEWLY REMODELED
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D inc. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
2-26-18-2
$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1BA
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands.
W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500sec., $495/
month. 3120 SW 26th Way Unit A. 562-2782
or 514-6869 if interested. 2-23-15-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $700/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220.
2-26-18-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home. Shady lot.
From $300 -$450/mo ind water. No pets.
10-9-2 4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887 3-2-20-21 BR apt. for rent off Tower Rd. $385/mo. We
accept Section 8. We will pay you $500 cash
back for 1 year lease on Section 8. 352-498-
3035 3-2-10-20-2
705 NW 10th Avenue <9Blks from UF
3BR/1 BA, 8rooms + 400 sq.ft.porch, Central
A/C, W/D, $1,250 + util. Avail. Aug. 275-
1259, ATucker458@aol.com 3-5-10-22-2
SMALL CABIN 2/1, 20 ACRES
Watermelon Pond views. 27802 SW 120th
Lane, Newberry. Horse pens, dog door.
Needs work. $575/mo. $750 move-in 330-
329-8834 2-17-10-2
**MUST SEE -IN-LAW SUITE**
1BR full BA, living room, dining room, full
kitchen. w/cable & W/D. Inc all utils. Near
Haile. Quiet. $750/mo. Call 352-367-0372
3-5-1-21-2
10houses.com for more info
2 & 3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$840 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
3-5-10-20-2
WALK ONE BLOCK TO CAMPUS!
1, 2, 3, and 4 BR units available now and
for Fall 2010. Locations between SW 1st
ave, SW 5th ave & SW 12th St. Call Kinetic
Properties at 352-337-9600 (no dogs please)
3-19-10-25-2
4Br/3Ba Large Home w/ 2 car gar, 7-10 min
from campus, large fenced yard, dogs ok.
Exquisite oak trees and landscaping, wood
& tile floors, new appliances. $1,600/month.
352-466-0358. Available summer or August.
3-5-10-20-2
* 2BR 611 NW 34th Ave. $625/mo, cent A/C,
wood floors, W/D hook-ups, fenced back.
* 3BR/2BA 4022 NW 7th St. Huge, close to
UF/SFC bus line. $700/mo. cent A/C.
Both avail now. Call 352-318-8822 2-12-
10-5-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 2-19-
10-10-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2
ROOM IN 3BR/2BA HOUSE
No pets. $350/mo + utils. Available now.
Great neighborhood. Call 863-673-4002 or
email ngrigsby@ufl.edu 2-15-5-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 2-22-
10-10-2
Available now. HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo. All
4BR/2BA $1100/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183
2-23-10-10-2
Female roommate pref for furn/unfurn
lbr/lba in a 2br/2.5ba townhouse in quiet
SW neighborhood near UF & Shands. AVAIL
NOW, M-to-M lease, $450/month & $250
refundable deposit. Call Ann 352-870-7414
2-26-10-13-2
Baxter Cottage 2 blks to UF campus, 1013
SW 4 Ave 2BR/1 BA, Bright, clean, complete-
ly remodeled, 500 sq ft, Cent AC/Ht,wood
firs, DW, W/D, NS, NPets. $550+util. Lease
runs thru 7/1/10 ATucker458@aol.com 3-5-
10-18-2
Lakefront House/5 Acres/Quiet
2BR/2BA/FI Rm w/pri ent/Lg Kit
LR w/Fire PI/Washer Dryer/2-car
Carport/Interlachen $1500./mo
813-473-3713 swellgirl@gmail.com
10-13-22-26-
16, ALLIGATOR E THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010
Frished Roommates Real Estate Furnishings Motorcycles,Mopeds O F nurn Fshed
$650, 2 bdrms, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet
school & campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furnished; Parking; 352
376 0080; 352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
3-5-10-17-2
HAILE PLANTATION CONDO FOR RENT
2/2 condo near the Village Center, walk to
restaurnts, shops, and coffee houses, jog-
ging trails, golf course. Call 352-258-4695
2-17-10-5-2
F subleases
DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
2-26-10-20-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsVA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$350/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220.
2-26-18-4
3 Female Roommates needed, $375 month,
quiet location across from UF's vet school,
located next to pool and fitness center. bus
service provided. 561-719-5558 2-12-10-
6-4
1 room availforMay-August2010 in 3BR/2BA
loft on 2 bus routes to campus, walk to UF
and downtown. W/D, private bathroom, can
be furnished. commit ASAP. $500/mo with
internet & cable included
305-322-9171 or 239-289-1475 2-12-5-4
1 br w/ private bath in beautiful NW home.
rent 375/mo. Washer/dryer, central AC/
heat. Pics on Craigs list. Mike 352-316-3930
2-16-10-5-4OPEN HOUSE EVERY SATURDAY
MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITIES
GREAT HOMES, GREAT PRICES
WE FINANCE, LOW DOWN,
LOW MONTHLY 904-400-0421,SUSAN
2-26-10-20-5
Manufactured Home Communities-
Jacksonville Use your tax refund
Get a 42" TV with purchase
Limited offer, call for details
904-400-0421 Susan 2-26-10-20-5
4BR/4BA fairly new condo for sale. Ideal for
students or family. Within 2 miles of every-
thing: school, shopping, library. Quick sale.
$139,000. University Terrace on 34th St. Call
941-232-1960 3-3-10-20-5
3BR/3BA, 4171 sq ft, heating & A/C, 3-car
garage, 20'x40' screened pool, small office,
sauna hottub, 1 1/4 acres. 1410 NW 110th
Terr, $422,500. 352-332-1050 2-22-10-10-
5
Short Sale Condo!!!
Beautiful Carriage House Lane Townhome
2BR/1.5BA, fireplace. Laminated wd flrdown-
stairs/Carpet upstairs. For more info, please
call 407-709-2703 ExitRealtyProducers
2-16-10-5-5
CALL TODAY! !Ra E Furnishings 
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Summer Sublease
7 blocks from campus
$500 per month, utilities included
fully furnished
678-315-0500 2-11-10-3
1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $400/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished +
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 2-17-10-11-3
2B/1.5B Available for Immediate Sub-Let
2nd fl unit, Arbor Park, 309 SW 16th Ave.
Spacious living/dining area, full kitchen,
balcony, central A/C & heat. 2 pools, laun-
dry and ample parking, well maintained by
friendly management. Pet friendly. Nice com-
plex w/ students & families. Close to Shands,
campus & downtown, major bus route with
grocery across the street. $700/mo (elec-
tric extra) Available NOW thru July 2010.
Contact Sean at 407.353.5721 or
smmcdaniel@gmail.com 2-15-10-5-3
OFRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $299/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 4-21-09-71-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail now
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 2-16-
10-61-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
2-12-10-18-4
Female seeks roommate for 4/2.5 town-
house, cricket club, all included, no pets,
$400 954-557-4769 3-4-10-30-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Manufactured Homes. Won't Last
3/2 -Great Community
Owner Financing
$650.00/mo
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes
3 and 2 beds avail/low down/low monthly
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes 2 & 3 bdr's
From $599.00/month
Owner Financing
Low down
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes. Move In Ready
3/2 Adorable
From $99.00/mo
Westside/owner finance
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured homes.
OWNER FINANCING
3 & 2 bedrooms avail
Great Locations
Call 352.378.4411 today! 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes. Up to $8K tax credit
For 1st time home buyers
3 & 2 bdrs avail
WE FINANCE
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
OC-omputers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
CERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECHO
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
2-26-10-34-7
Gator Computer Solutions, Inc. On-Site
Service. Microsoft Certified Professional.
UF IT Grad. MCSA, A+, Network+, XP,Vista,
Windows7 Certified. $35per/hr. NO Travel
Cost in G'ville! Call 352-338-0132 2-12-10-
20-7
Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
EF For Sale
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
Motorcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Aye, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***Www.B~uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
Barely-used red sporty United Motors scooter.
Bought new in G-Ville by/for UF Alum & sell-
ing for half price! Only 1500 miles. Recently
fully serviced, new battery. Park right next to
class/ SW during the day! Have title. Will e-
mail pics. Contact Ryan- rhutch717@yahoo.
com/ ph:8135030386 2-12-4-11
Gator Mobile Scooter Repair
Stop waiting weeks before getting your
scooter back. Call Gator Mobile Scooter
Repair and ride today.Specializing in On-site
scooter repair and diagnostics. Guaranteed
lowest prices in all of Gainesville. Free oil
change/inspection with this AD.Call Tony at
(305)989-0824or(305)563-4359. 3-1-14-11
WEI EtoP
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS 0
ORunning or not!O
ONEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
S0ver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
2-26-09-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Chevy Camero $999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
96 Chevy Blazer $1999 cash
97 Plymouth Voyager $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699 cash
94 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
co
S--
C-oL
0 0r _J
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 17
Autos Wanted Help Wanted Help Wanted Cnnections
96 Kia Sephia $999
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1999
97 Olds Delta 88 $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
98 Ford Explorer $1900
97 Mits Diamonte $1999
98 Ford Contour $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
94 Nissan Altima $1999
98 Pontiac Transport $1999
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Chevy Malibu $1999
95 Chrysler LHS $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
02 Kia Rio $3900
03 Buick Century $4900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k, $8999CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k, $6999 CASH
2000 Ford Mustang, 111k, $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Ford Escape, 95k, $6999 CASH
2000 GMC Sierra, 166k, $5999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k, $5999 CASH
2007 lsuzu Trooper290 Truck, 46k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Dodge Stratus, 78k, $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
94 CHEVY CAMARO
A/C, Automatic, 196k Miles. $1850/OBO
786-247-1751 2-16-7-12
INSTANT CASH
FOR ALMOST ANY CAR OR TRUCK,
Wrecked or running. Any condition.
Highest dollar paid.
386-365-1855 2-22-10-10-12
W Wanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 2-11-10-71-13LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 2-11-
10-71-13
OSOSOPERATION CATNIPOOO
Many needs and opportunities can be found
at www.nmhp.net. Feral cat capture, spay-
ing, volunteering, office work earn Disney
Tix, etc. Email: operationcatnip@nmhp.net
2-19-7-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos .com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14PART TIME WORK
Great Pay
Customer Sales/Service
Flexible Schedule
Scholarships/Internships
No experience Needed
Conditions apply,
CALL 352-371-9675
2-16-20-14
LATE NIGHT DRIVERS
$15-$17/hr 10pm -4am-
Apply @ gatordominos.com 4-21-10-60-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Entertainment
352/672/1892 2-23-10-20-14
BARTENDER OPENINGS
Earn $150-250/day. No experience required.
Will train. Call now 352-678-5246 2-26-10-
20-14
No jobs available, but we buy LPs, CDs &
DVDs. (And we sell them, too!)
Hear Again Music and Movies
201 SE 2nd Ave. (Suite 105), 32601
352-373-1800
2-26-19-14
Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have a fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
BUSY CHIROPRACTIC OFFICE
PT Front Desk Position -Fun, PC skills,
detail-oriented. Fax Resume, References,
Cover Letter drangelaleone@yahoo.com
fax 352-505-3485. No phone calls. 2-12-
10-5-14
Bartender
Meet new people work in an exciting
environment. Take home cash tips after
each shift. No experience necessary training
available. Call (877) 568-7296
2-19-10-12-14
The Caffeine Bar @ Ben & Jerry's is seeking
outgoing, motivated individuals with their own
transportation. Must thrive in a fast paced
working environment and appreciate cleanli-
ness and organization. Email resume & class
schedule to jen@catergainesville.com
2-11-5-14
N DAT KUT BARBERSHOP
Help wanted -Barbers, Braiders. Low booth
rentals. Call Omarr at 352-260-8776 2-11-
10-5-14
Fun, easy part-time job. Find new products
on line and talk to manufacturer about send-
ing them for review. Commission. Contact
David@thegearguides.com. 2-12-5-14
Computer consultant positions available
in faculty lab. Applicants must be familiar
with Windows and Microsoft Office applica-
tions, Photoshop & Dreamweaver. Friendly
and helpful attitude essential. Pay starts at
$9.00 per hour. Online application:
www.citt.ufl.edu/employment.php 2-19-10-
10-14
Drivers needed for Valentine's
week for flower shop.
Must have own car. Apply at 635 NW13th St.
2-12-5-14
OSOATTENTION SMOKERS!@@
SODo you want to quit smoking?@
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking
cessation study. You may be compensated.
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic 328-6603 or
email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com 2-22-
10-14
SERVERS
Exp in full service. Apply in person between 2
& 5 NAPOLATANO'S 606 NW 75th St. 2-1-
10-4-14Photography Assist PT
Skills: Advanced Photoshop, professional,
organized, fun, attentive to detail. No wall-
flowers. Interest in Photography +. Must be
OK with AODA. Call Today: 352-283-8196
2-23-10-14
Bookkeeper-Office Mgr for law firm -PT -
15 hrs/wk. Flexible schedule. Must know
Quickbooks and be highly organized. 1 yr
commitment. Resume to
robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com. 2-16-10-
5-14
JEFF'S DELI
is hiring exp servers. Please apply in person
at 1124 W. University Ave. M-F between 2 &
4pm. 2-16-5-14
PT Hibachi Chef & Server Wanted Asian fast
paced full service restaurant looking for ex-
pprofessional Hibachi Chefs & strong ser-
vers. Strict business oriented environment.
Responsible, disciplined team players only!
Fax resume to 352-337-0036. 2-24-10-
10-14
F serviCes
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250 x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
l Event Notic es
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-21-09-71-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
15Rides
C3 Health Services O
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
ersonalsGMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
WEZ ets
Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept Call Lost &
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
Sports
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Poor free-throw shooting downs Florida
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@aIIigator org
COLUMBIA, S.C. -Last year at South Carolina,
one missed free throw led to a heartbreaking loss for
Florida. Wednesday night, trouble at the line brought
about another tough defeat in Colonial Life Arena.
UF (17-7, 6-4 Southeastern Conference) shot 10 of
23 from the free-throw line and fell 77-71 to South Car-
olina (14-9, 5-4 SEC) on the Gamecocks' home floor.
"If we focused at the free-throw line and made free
throws, don't turn the ball over and keep them off
the offensive glass, those three things keep them out
of the game," said junior forward Chandler Parsons,
whose missed free throw last year allowed the Game-
cocks to get a full-court pass and fast-break layup as
time expired.
"If we focused at the free-throw line and
made free throws, don't turn the ball
over and keep them off the offensive
glass, those three things keep them out
of the game."
Chandler Parsons
UFjunior forward
After jumping out to a 6-4 lead in the opening two
and a half minutes, South Carolina didn't lead again
until 8:18 remained in the game.
The Gators established a 28-20 lead with 6:38 to go
in the first half thanks to some hot early shooting, but
sophomore point guard Erving Walker missed two of
three free throws that could have pushed the lead to
10.
Florida entered the game second in the SEC in free-
throw percentage, shooting 71 percent on the year. But
aside from Walker, who scored six of his team-high 20
points from the line, no Gator made more than one
free throw despite a combined 13 attempts.
Freshman forward Erik Murphy shot 1 of 5 from
the free-throw line.
Parsons finished with a double-double (13 points,
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 19South Carolina forward Sam Muldrow (right) blocks UF forward Chandler Parsons
in the first half of the Gamecocks' 77-71 win over the Gators on Wednesday.
UF set to begin toughest part of schedule
0 THE TEAM'S NEXT FOUR OPPO-
NENTS ARE RANKED IN THE TOP 25.
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@alligator org
The Gators start the most difficult stretch
of their regular season tonight staring in the
mouths of angry Tigers.
UF hosts No. 23 LSU tonight at 7 in the
O'Connell Center to kick off a four-game stint
against ranked opponents (No. 5 Tennessee,
No. 17 Kentucky and No. 19 Georgia).
The Tigers (15-7, 4-6 Southeastern Confer-
ence) are coming off a triple-overtime loss to
Ole Miss that dropped them to ninth place inthe SEC. Despite being unranked, the Gators
(13-10,6-4 SEC) are tied for third in the confer-
ence with the Rebels.
"Every team in our league is just so good
and talented," coach Amanda Butler said.
"You look at LSU's conference record and
people might ask,'Are they
not that good?' No, that's
definitely not the case.
They just happen to be
Women's playing in the best league
in the country."Basketball inThe Tigers come into
the game with one of the
nation's stingiest defenses, ranking seventh
in scoring.
Holding opponents to an average of 52.7
points per game, LSU boasts the toughest de-fense UF will have played in the conference.
It'll be its most formidable defensive foe since
Rutgers, who held the Gators to a season-low
38 points on Dec. 7, just 14 in the first half.
"They pride themselves on defense," guard
Jordan Jones said. "LSU, no matter what their
record is, they're still LSU. They're going to
come out here and be physical. They're going
to be aggressive."
The Tigers' aggressive defense is evident.
LSU is tied with Kentucky for second in the
nation (and first in the conference) in turnover
margin (8.0). Meanwhile, the Gators sit tied
for 214th in the country (ninth in the SEC) in
that category (-.78).
The Tigers will look to pounce on UF's
inconsistency handling the ball. There have
SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 19Loss could
cost Gators
Tourney bid
here must be something
about the air in Columbia,
S.C.
Last year, Florida led for the
final eight minutes before al-
lowing a layup at the buzzer to
lose 70-69. The Gators went on
to finish 9-7 in the Southeast-
ern Conference, go 1-1 in the
SEC Tournament and miss the
NCAA Tournament.
Wednesday night UF man-
aged to lose a seven-point lead
in the final seven minutes to
South Carolina, whom the
Gators are battling for position
in the SEC East and Big Dance.
Florida found a way to lose a
game in which it shot 56 percent
while its
opponentshot 38.2
percentListen,
even the
best col-Phil Kegler lege bas-
Phil on the Hill ketball
pkegler@aligator org t e a m s
have a
loss during the year that makes
no sense. There is some random-
ness in 18- to 22-year-olds.
The Gators currently have a
better resume than the Game-
cocks, but the gap is slimming.
South Carolina has nine losses,
including Wofford. UF has
seven.
Florida has a bad loss too
-South Alabama (RPI 226). A
strong nonconference schedule
allowed the Gators to overcome
those screwups. This isn't the
time to rekindle poor play.
UF had done a good job
so far in SEC play of winning
games it should. Florida lost to
Kentucky (one of the best teams
in the country), at Vanderbilt
(the Commodores are having
one of their better years) and a
one-point loss at Tennessee.
Now Florida has started
down a perilous path. It has
a lot of games it will be an un-
derdog toward the end of the
SEE PHIL, PAGE 19
U P Stephanie Brombacher, LF
Francesca Enea, RF Kelsey Bruder
and 2B Aja Paculba were voted to
the Preseason All-SEC Team by the
league's coaches.E Senior Marrit Boonstra was named SEC
Women's Tennis Player of the Week, while
teammate Caroline Hitimana won SEC
Women's Tennis Freshman of the Week on
Wednesday.TEEING OFF WITH MIKE McCALL
U Lil Wayne had his prison term delayed a month so he could repair a cracked
tooth that stems from his junk-food diet. I hope this lesson catches on. If you
carry a gun, keep a Ring Pop on your trigger finger and you're in the clear. .On
Jeopardy this week, a contestant picked "Jackass" instead of "Dukes of Hazzard"
as a Johnny Knoxville movie related to Mike Krzyzewski, yet somehow didn't win.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 19
Downey scores game-hig
South Carolina made some chang-HOOPS, from page 18 es of its own that kept Florida off-
balance.
11 rebounds), but shot 1 of 2 from While it was all Devan Downey
the line, as did junior power for- all the time in UF's 58-56 win
ward Alex Tyus (11 points, 15 re- against USC in Gainesville on Jan.
bounds, 1-of-4 free-throw shoot- 23, the senior guard was far more
ing). effective at get-
UF finished with 20 turnovers, ting his team-
compared to South Carolina's six. mates involved
The Gators wasted an otherwise- Wednesday
solid shooting night with their Men's night.
careless plays, as they finished 28 Basketball Downey still
of 50 from the field. scored a game-
"We shot such a high percent- high 24 points,
age, and we got layups and easy but nine of them came on late-game
shots," Donovan said. "But there free throws when the Gators were
were some times we really made fouling to lengthen the game.
some plays that weren't there." "I don't want to sit here and
The Gamecocks capitalized on take credit that we did this great
the Gators' plentiful mistakes, but job stopping him, because I'm noth 24 points
so sure we did," Donovan said.
"I thought he was a little bit more
patient and got some more guys
involved."
Forward Sam Muldrow scored
16 points on 7-of-13 shooting,
giving the Gamecocks a pres-
ence inside to distract the defense
from putting its full attention on
Downey, but guard Brandis Raley-
Ross proved to be a reliable option
from the outside as well, finishing
with 20 points.
It was the first time this year
two Gamecocks scored more than
20 points in one game.
"Their other guys are Division-
I players. They're good players,"
Parsons said. "We just wanted to
control Downey and not let them
get so many points."
Limiting turnovers will be key for Gators
W-HOOPS, from page 18 Shutting down a prominent scorer isn't an unus
been games where the Gators have four or five turn-
overs in one half but cough up the ball double-digit
times in the other.
Against Auburn, the Gators committed six turn-
overs in the first half but had 11 after halftime. And
Florida's 16 first-half turnovers proved costly against
Georgia on Jan. 10.
"Mississippi State played really aggressive pres-
sure defense," Jones said. "But what we're going to
face with LSU, we're going to have to multiply that
by 10."
If the Gators hope to win, they'll have to play some
defense, too.
That starts with trying to contain preseason SEC
Player of the Year Allison Hightower. In 10 confer-
ence games this season, Hightower averaged 19.6
points per game. Teammate LaSondra Barrett isn't far
behind, scoring 17 per contest in conference action.u-
al position for the Gators.
The team has succeeded against top SEC scorers
Angie Bjorklund (Tennessee), Alexis Rack (Missis-
sippi State), and Valerie Nainima (South Carolina),
holding them to below-average totals.
"Every team in our league is just so good
and talented."
Amanda Butler
UF women's basketball coach
This time Florida has to slow down two threats.
The preseason favorite to win the SEC, LSU has
struggled more than anticipated. With six of seven
losses coming after January, the Tigers have added
motivation to prove they're better than their record.
"They're going to come out here and they want to
prove themselves," Jones said. "We can't look at their
record and take them lightly."PHIL, from page 18
season. The Gators are likely to
lose another close one -five of
their last seven games have had
a margin of single digits.
UF let a lesser team stick
around, thanks to 20 turnovers
and a 10-of-23 performance
(43.5 percent) from the free-
throw line. The Gators led from
the 16:31 mark of the first half
to 8:18 left in the game.
Earlier this week, I asked
what UT's strategy would be
for handling USC guard Devan
Downey. The SEC's leading
scorer had averaged just less
than 30 points in his last three
outings against UF.
Serving Walker said the plan
was to let Downey score but
shut everyone else down.
Forget that theory barely
worked when South Carolina
came to Gainesville. In that
matchup, Downey had 36 in a
two-point UF win (Chandler
Parsons' second buzzer-beater
this season). The Gamecocks'
second-leading scorer, Sam
Muldrow, had six.
So Wednesday night,
Downey had what I would call
a relatively "off" night. He had
24 points but made only one of
six three-pointers and didn't
have nearly as many of his
trademark unbelievable float-
ers or runners. It didn't mat-
ter because Muldrow had 16
this time around and Brandis
Raley-Ross chipped in 20.Tough to say that strategy
worked out, but the truth is
South Carolina didn't win this
game. Florida lost it.
The Gators lost it with turn-
overs. They lost it at the free-
throw line. They lost it because
the Gamecocks were able to
have 18 more shot attempts.
And I know Kyle Maistri
beat this point into the ground
in Wednesday's paper, but Dan
Werner's presence on the court
at the end of the game did hurt
UF against South Carolina. I'm
sorry, but it did. You can talk
about intangibles and little
things, but when one player
is literally no threat to shoot
the ball, the opponent figures
that out eventually. He rarely
shoots, even when he should.
And when he took a mid-
range jumper late in the game,
he airballed it. His shot at-
tempts may be a small pool
to evaluate, but they look bad
time after time.
Good news is UF has a big-
time game against Xavier on
Saturday to snap out of it.
UF needs to shake this one
from its memory, because it
has a tough final stretch. The
Gators must beat Auburn at
home and Georgia on the road
to leave them needing one or
two from the following: Ole
Miss, Tennessee, Vanderbilt
and Kentucky.
The path would be easier if
UF took care of business in Co-
lumbia.
Just like last year.
HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShield
Fmmr339 3669d, L.W. 2f Aee 373-0775
FormNumbr: 1533-99SU3669 S.W. 2nd AvenueYNAMP
Valentine's Party,
Saturday
V February 13th
W 10:00 P.m.
Call us today at 352-380-9291
Check it out atanaggiiorspor.s aligatorSports.org
or subscribe onTune in for the latest Gators sports iTunes.news and analysis from our beat
writers and columnists. alligatorGiddy Up Gators 5k
Saturday, February 27th
9:30-11:30am
(Registration starts at 8:30am)
Albert Ray Masley Park
(Old Westside Park on 34th St)
Only $7 to Pre-Register,
$10 includes a shirt
(Day of race registration:
$12 or $15 for a shirt)
Pre-register until Feb. 24 at:
sota.phhp.ufl.edu
Help provide equine-assisted
therapy to Veterans
Want a bigger
piece of the
pie? Ap
20, ALLIGATOR E THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2010
Gators return all three starting outfielders in 2010
0 MEGAN BUSH'S MOVE TO
1B ALLOWS KELSEY BRUD-
ER TO STAY IN RIGHT FIELD.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Writer
Although 2010 is being billed
as a year of change for the Florida
softball team, the Gators have the
luxury of returning all three out-
fielders that started the final game
of the 2009 season.
With Francesca Enea and Kelsey
Bruder back to man the corners
and the speedy Michelle Moultrie
stepping into a starting role in cen-
ter field, UF's outfield is certainly
of the caliber that is expected from
the No. 3 team in the nation.
Even though it comes as no sur-
prise that all three players are back
on the roster, there was reason to
believe things might be looking a
little different defensively.
At the end of the 2009 season,
there was speculation that Brud-
er would be moving from right
field back to first base, where she
played during the early part of her
career. However, a lack of depth in
the outfield and a few adjustments
in the infield have allowed the All-
Southeastern Conference first team
and All-SEC defensive team mem-
ber to stay out in right.
"Kelsey was too valuable in the
outfield and Megan (Bush) made a
great transition to first," coach Tim
Walton said.
For as valuable as Bruder is inthe outfield, she might be even
more valuable at the plate.
Last season she hit .369 with 16
home runs and 68 RBI, while set-
ting a UF single season record in
total bases and tying the record for
slugging percentage.
Still, the junior sees plenty of
ways she can make her game even
better.
"There's definitely always roomfor improvement, and I've been
working really hard with coach be-
fore practice just getting my timing
right and getting my swing back,"
Bruder said.
Enea, who is tied with Bruder
for the slugging percentage mark,
also owns single season records in
home runs and RBIs after hitting
18 and 70 a season ago.
Still, her biggest contribution tothe team might come in the form of
her leadership ability.
"Francesca is the one person if I
had to put my hat on somebody as
being a leader," Walton said.
Walton feels that he has a team
full of leaders, but Enea is clearly
the most vocal of the bunch.
"I just think that with two se-
niors and a large junior class the
best thing we offer is the experi-
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF senior left fielder Francesca Enea broke UF's records for most home runs (18) and RBs (70) in a
season last year.ence we all have playing in high
pressure situations," Enea said.
"We can really help younger play-
ers and tell them what to do in
those situations and make sure
they're doing the right stuff."
If experience under pressure is
the key to success, then Moultrie
should be well on her way.
Coming into last season, the
plan was for Moultrie to split time
in center with senior Kim Waleszo-
nia. But Waleszonia fractured her
knee early in the year, giving Moul-
trie a chance to prove herself full
time, and she didn't disappoint.
From that point on she found her
way into the starting lineup on nu-
merous occasions, and that expe-
rience should make stepping into
her role this year that much easier.
"She's not taking on more than
she's had before, but the expecta-
tions are a little higher than last
season," Walton said.
Moultrie's transition should
also be eased by the presence of
Enea, who was recently one of the
fifty players named to the USA
Softball Player of the Year Pre-
season Watch List.
"I just try to make her feel as
comfortable as possible," Enea
said. "The outfielders are a relaxed
group, but we take the position se-
riously. It's about being able to re-
lax, being comfortable, and having
confidence in yourself. We want to
help you learn from your mistakes
and make sure you don't repeat
them."
UF WOMEN"S GOLF
Florida improves three spots to finish in ninth place
By KELSIE HOECHERL
Alligator Writer
The Gators women's golf team found redemption at the
Northrop Grumman Regional Challenge, finishing in ninth
place with a total score of 911 (304-309-298, +59).
Even though UF jumped up three spots Wednesday, it was
not the result the team expected heading into the competition.
"Overall it wasn't the best week for the Gators," coach Jan
Dowling said. "We actually rebounded pretty well, I'm pretty
proud of them and the way they turned it around. We've got
a lot of things to work on, moving forward, however I think
this golf course was probably a great golf course for us to be
playing first thing this year. You can't hide any weakness on
this course."
Freshman Isabelle Lendl proved herself in her second-con-"We actually rebounded pretty well, I'm pretty
proud of them and the way they turned it
around."
Jan Dowling
UF women's golf coach
secutive round as the leader for Florida. She ended the tourna-
ment carding a 73 for a total of 222 (79-70-73, +9). Lendl started
at the 14th hole and shot a back-to-back birdie-bogey combo,
followed by a double bogey. She picked up her game after
carding three more birdies.
"We are really proud of Isabelle," Dowling said. "She had
a really good tournament. [With] this course you've got to be
playing well; every part of your game has to be on. .She obvi-ously chipped the putter well and she hit the fairways and hit a
lot of greens. she deserves this."
Following 17 spots behind, junior Jessica Yadloczky fin-
ished in a tie for 28th. Her three-round total came to 228, after a
+2 round Wednesday. Yadloczky balanced out her score with
four bogeys and two birdies.
Sophomore Marika Lendl finished five behind her team-
mate in 33rd, carding her lowest round of the tournament in
the third round with a four-over 75. She ended the tournament
with an overall score of 229 (77-77-75, +16). Lendl picked up
her four extra strokes with two bogeys and a double-bogey.
Sophomore Evan Jensen and freshman Mia Piccio rounded
out the Gators lineup, finishing in a tie for 61st and 67th, re-
spectively.
Piccio bettered her second round score by one stroke
Wednesday for a tournament total of 238 (77-81-80, +25).
Zaiser's return, Green's emergence help beam scores
Gators ranked in top 10 in event
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
At the midway point of the season, No.
6 Florida ranks in the top 10 nationally in
every event, but the area the team has im-
proved most since last season has been the
balance beam.
The Gators have averaged 48.875, a
.485-point improvement over the team's av-
erage at the same time last season.
Last year, the team was ravaged
by injuries on the beam, including Re-bekah Zaiser's broken foot, forcing UF
coach Rhonda Faehn to piece togeth-
er lineups at times during the season.
Lack of depth, however, has not been an is-
sue for Florida this year, as it has 10 gym-
nasts competing for beam lineup spots al-
most every week.
"Whenever you have competition with-
in the team, it makes you stronger," Faehn
said.
Zaiser, a senior, has returned from two
major surgeries to lead off the event for
UF, and Faehn said Zaiser's discipline andwork ethic have meant a lot to the team.
Part of that competitiveness Faehn sees dur-
ing practice comes from the push that Zaiser
brings to the team.
Possibly the biggest im-
pact on the team's beam
performance has been the
emergence of freshman
Liz Green, who has taken
home the event title for
three-consecutive meets.
"She's a natural beam-
er," Faehn said. "She's aggressive, she
doesn't hold back and she combines the dif-
ficulty, the flexibility, the grace and the art-
istry. She's the total package up there."Green just enrolled in classes this semes-
ter but said the coaches told her to be pre-
pared to compete right off the bat once she
got to Gainesville. In just her second week
on campus, she competed in the team's sea-
son-opener against Oklahoma.
Although she didn't participate on beam
against the Sooners, Green's recent perfor-
mances has her ranked 13th nationally, av-
eraging 9.831, and her three beam titles are
tops among the Gators.
"I really wasn't expecting to come in
right away and have this much success,"
Green said. "I just expected to do my best
and hit my routines, and that's just what I've
done."
