the independent florida
theAvenuealiat
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 106 We Inform. You Decide.
Aramark leaders
talk to students
0 THE ALLIANCE PUSHED
FOR A WAGE INCREASE.
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Writer
No promises were made as
corporate representatives from
Aramark met with members of
the Student/Farmworker Alli-
ance Tuesday to discuss the treat-
ment of Immokalee workers, who
pick tomatoes for Aramark.
The members of the alliance
presented the demands of the Co-
alition of Immokalee Workers to
the Aramark representatives.
The two alliances want Ara-
mark to pay an extra penny per
pound for the Immokalee toma-
toes it purchases.
The money would be passed
directly to workers as a wage in-
crease.
The alliance also wants Ar-
amark and the Coalition of
Immokalee Workers to create a
human rights-based code of con-
duct to ensure fair treatment ofImmokalee workers.
SFA member Richard Blake
said he felt Aramark approached
the meeting as if it was meant to
encourage dialogue rather than
produce concrete outcomes or
promises.
"I think their intention was to
pacify," he said.
In an e-mail, Aramark Vice
President of Corporate Affairs
Rick Martella, who flew from
Philadelphia to speak to the alli-
ance, said he appreciated the dia-
logue he had with the students
but noted that it will take time to
work through these issues.
"I think their intention was
to pacify."
Richard Blake
SFA member
"We clearly understand and
respect the commitment of the
University of Florida SFA and
will reconnect with them directly
in the upcoming weeks to pro-
vide any updates," he said.toRcyoW
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010
Meek to visit campus
By MATT HARRINGER
Alligator Writer
Rep. Kendrick Meek is serious about
involving college students in his cam-
paign for Senate.
The Democratic congressman, who
represents Miami, will be at UF today
and has already visited UF more than
four times since announcing his candi-
dacy. The campaign rally will be in the
Reitz Union, Room 282 at 1 p.m.
Meek will speak about his vision for
the economy and job market for Flori-
da's young college graduates.
Campaign spokesman Adam Sha-ron said students can meet Meek at the
event and will have the opportunity to
ask him questions on Florida issues.
The campaign needs students to col-
lect petitions to put Meek on the bal-
lot and to register new voters, Sharon
said.
If he succeeds, Meek will be the first
candidate for Senate to
On qualify for the ballot byCampus petition in Florida.
Meek is leading the
polls in the Democratic primary for
Senate, and if he wins, he will face ei-
ther Marco Rubio or Gov. Charlie Crist
in the general election.UF ADMINISTRATION
Union approves contract
By MINCH MINCHIN
Alligator Writer
After five years of bargaining with UF ad-
ministration, the United Faculty of Florida at
UF has approved a new contract by a vote
of 491 to 4.
Increased levels of academic freedom and
more generous sabbatical policies are the
two most important aspects of the contract,
said John Biro, the president of the United
Faculty of Florida at UF.
"Faculty will now be able to speak freely
about any university policy, in or out of the
classroom," he said. "Without the fear of ret-
ribution, [professors] are completely free to
speak."
This new policy, which extends beyond
the bounds of free speech laid out in the U.S.Constitution, makes UF one of the most aca-
demically free universities in the country, he
said.
More lenient policies relating to sabbati-
cals, in which professors are paid to research
their own projects outside the university,
could attract high-quality
professors from around
the world to UF, Biro said.- The new contract,
which is more than 300
pages long, will be ratified
by the UF board of trustees
in March and will apply to
Biro about half of the univer-
sity professors.
"I think it's a great contract," said Paula
Fussell, the UF vice president for human re-
source services. "It's good for the university
as a whole."
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersToday
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 11 
'
CLASSIFIEDS 16 Sunny
CROSSWORD 19 59/34
SPORTS 21
visit www.alligator.orgBreakin' it Down
John DeLe6n breakdances on Turlington Plaza Wednesday afternoon to entice people to
come to the Hip-Hop Collective's performance Thursday night at the Orange & Brew. See
story, page 9.
0 Sophomore
point guard Erving
Walker and the
Gators will take on
Auburn tonight at
home looking to
avoid another late-
season collapse
and get into the
NCAA Tournament.
See Story, Page 21.A A
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Surgical technology open
house
Santa Fe College's Health
Sciences Annex WA-217
Today, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Faculty and current program
students provide hands-on
demonstrations of sophisticated
procedures in the state-of-the-
art operating room and training
laboratory. Requirements need-
ed for entry into the program
will also be detailed. For more
information, please contact
health sciences adviser Scott
Fortner at 352-395-5733.
Theatre Strike Force at Hillel
2020 W University Ave.
Saturday, 7 p.m.
Come out to UF Hillel on
Saturday night for a special
performance by Theatre Strike
Force, UF's premier sketch
and improve comedy troupe.
The night starts with a short
Havdalah service, followed by
the performance.
RISK cinema film screening
Sunday, 7 p.m.
Harn Museum of Art
Working exclusively in the
small gauge, Super 8mm film
format and editing entirely in
camera, Helga Fanderl has di-
rected more than 400 short films
during the last several decades.
This screening of a selection
of Fanderl's short films also
features a lecture by the artist.
Admission is $3 for students, $4
for the general public and free
for members. For more informa-
tion, visit www.harn.ufl.edu.FORECAST
TODAY
SUN NY
59/34
Cu
--
UCu
U
--
C-,FRIDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
63/36SATURDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
66/43
U=*N
C=
MI=
CO>SUNDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
64/52MONDAY
RAIN
70/53
U,
--
U,
Cu
--
(in)
C-,
Cu
--Cu
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the Emdependent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 106 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Flonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Mana
Manag
Assis
Assis
alligatorEditor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
ging Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta @alligatororg
ing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
tant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner,jmisner@a//igator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, cti//o@a//igator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
tant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
rSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Corey McCall, Amanda Milligan,
Emily Morrow, Andrew Pantazi,
Paul Runnestrand, Colin Simmons,
Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Shaun O'Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FI ND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
NATIONAL
CNN poll measures chance of Obama's re-election
By CAITLIN E. O'CONNER
Alligator Contributing Writer
A little more than a year after Barack
Obama took office, one UF student is less
than impressed with the president's perfor-
mance.
"He was a hero created by the media,
and the fact that he didn't have that much
experience is starting to show," said Rob
Foss, a UF English senior.
Foss is part of an increasing majority
dissatisfied with President Obama.
A CNN/Opinion Research poll conduct-
ed between Friday and Monday showedthat 52 percent of Americans said Obama
does not deserve re-election while 44 per-
cent said he does.
The poll also showed that Obama's job
approval rating has waned from 76 percent
in February 2009 to 49 percent this month.
The disapproval rating has more than dou-
bled, going from 23 percent in 2009 to 50
percent this month.
Stafford Jones, chairman of the Alachua
County Republican Party, said part of the
issue stems from failed campaign prom-
ises.
He said the country has yet to see Guan-
tanamo Bay close, a drastically improved
economy or the "Don't Ask, Don't Tell"policy repealed.
"He just made a whole bunch of promis-
es he could not possibly keep," Jones said.
But Jon Reiskind, the
chairman of the Alachua
County Democrats, said
it is too early to judge
Obama's presidency.
He said several factors
have contributed to the
general discontent found
obm in the polls, but the major
factor is the staggering
economy.
While he understands the frustration, he
said Americans cannot expect instant grati-fication.
"The economy is like an enormous ship,"
Reiskind said. "It takes a while to turn it
around."
Reiskind also said Americans tend to
blame the president when things aren't go-
ing well, and Congress, though also criti-
cized, is harder to hold accountable because
it is comprised of many people.
Although he understands the dissatis-
faction, Reiskind said Americans need to be
patient with both Congress and the presi-
dent.
"We don't just need to give him a
chance," he said. "We have to communicate
with him and with our Congress."
65 animals infected with distemper over last six weeks
0 THE DISEASE KILLED 600
DOGS THREE YEARS AGO.
By ASHLEY LARA MOSES
Alligator Contributing Writer
Roommates Rachael Bruce and
Danitza Dragovic are worried about
their dog, Zeus.
Dragovic, a UF health science
freshman, and Bruce, a UF anthro-
pology and English senior, can't
remember whether their 8-year-old
maltese and shih tzu mix has had
his distemper vaccination.After an increase in canine dis-
temper infection in wild animals in
Alachua County, they are planning
their next trip to the vet.
According to David Flagler, the
director of Alachua County Animal
Services, there have been 65 infect-
ed animals reported over a six week
period.
The majority, he said, were rac-
coons, and a few of the cases were
foxes.
Three years ago, a distemper
outbreak in Alachua County killed
more than 600 dogs, according to an
article in The Gainesville Sun.However, currently, there are no
reports of dogs being infected with
distemper in this county.
Distemper is a highly conta-
gious disease that can be exposed in
many ways, said Dr.
Local Catherine McManus,
NewS a veterinarian and
shelter medicine resi-
dent at UF.
An animal that is infected with
distemper can spread the disease
through its secretions, such as mu-
cus, as well as through its vomit and
feces.
McManus said the disease iscommon in animal shelter environ-
ments because many of the animals
that come into Alachua County
Animal Services haven't been vac-
cinated.
Flagler said it's important for
owners to make sure their pets are
vaccinated, and he has advice for
students on a budget.
"I encourage them to buy less
beer and vaccinate their pets," Fla-
gler said.
He said it costs more to treat an
animal that is infected with distem-
per than getting a pet vaccinated in
the first place.
WjI
iJMcManus advises students to
feed pets indoors and to keep a close
watch on them when outdoors, es-
pecially if they haven't been vacci-
nated.
According to McManus, symp-
toms of canine distemper include
runny eyes and nose, depression
and increased fatigue.
As the disease progresses, there
may be gastrointestinal symptoms,
such as vomiting and diarrhea.
If a pet owner has any questions
regarding distemper, McManus
said he or she should contact a vet-
erinarian.
Legalize it. Don't criticize it!
Pd. Pot. Adv. approved by Richard Selwach
I ~ g RichardSelwachI
www.se wachformayor2com
r m
EXAMS
(by Independent Optometrist)
W 14 Cormer of
NW 13th St.
& 39th Ave.
Near Publix
EVECARE
I EXPRESS 1
L (352)375-6133
EMPOIUlM*
Diet Friendly, Yet
Creamy & Delicious
D'Lites ice cream complements ALL diet
programs. Low-calorie and low in carbs, with
only 50 calories per serving in over 150 flavors!
More than ice cream, our stores offer a whole array of food
products and treats to help with your weight loss goals
iBUY CUPORCONEll
' GET FREE!
Regular Size Cup or Cone Only,I Toppings Extra. One per customer per I
offer. Not good with any other offer.
Expires 3/10/10
Marketplace Plaza 01 LI 1 \L! Shoppes of Williston Road
4216 NW 16th Blvd. Mon-Th u rs I k l m-9pm 5218 SW 34th St.
(next to Hollywood Video) F ri-Sat i-)1i (next to Publix)
375-4484 Sun 12-9pm 378-2969
Check our daily flavors at www.gatordlites.com
4, ALLIGATOR 0 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010
AROUND GAINESVILLE
Presentation relives
civil rights memories
J. Hunter Sizemore/ Alligator Staff
Khambria Clarke, left, Candace Ellis, center, and Marna Weston, right, discuss their experi-
ences in Mississippi at the Civic Media Center Wednesday evening.By ANDREW WYZAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Khambria Clarke had tears in her eyes
as she spoke to the crowd of more than
30 gathered at the Civic Media Center
Wednesday night.
Along with two other UF students,
Candice Ellis and Mama Weston, she
shared her experience traveling through
the Mississippi Delta to study the civil
rights movement from the people who
lived through it.
"We take for granted so much that we
have today," Clarke told the audience.
"You don't think about being treated less
than human."
The students, members of the Samuel
Proctor Oral History Program, traveled
to Sunflower County in Mississippi in the
summer of 2009 to hear the stories of un-
sung civil rights activists and average resi-"We take for granted so much
that we have today. You don't
think about being treated less
than human."
Khambria Clarke
speaker at Civic Media Center
dents of the South.
"It's only been recently that the civil
rights history in the delta has been told,"
said Paul Ortiz, director of the Samuel
Proctor Oral History Program and leader
of the trip to the delta.
Oritz and the Oral History Program are
planning another trip to the delta this sum-
mer.
The presentation showed audio and
video clips gathered during the trip, which
can be accessed on the oral history pro-
gram's Web site.
UF students express support for renewable energy fee
0 THE FEE COULD FUND
SOLAR ENERGY PROJECTS.
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Writer
Five UF students are in Tallahas-
see this morning to vouch for their
right to vote for a fee that would
support renewable energy projectson Florida college campuses.
They will join 12 other univer-
sity students from across the state to
voice their support for the renewable
energy fee before the Florida Sen-
ate's Higher Education Committee,
which is voting today on a bill that
would grant universities the ability
to implement the fee.
The fee would then need to be
approved by a student vote and the
board of trustees from each Floridapublic university.
The renewable energy fee would
not exceed $1 per credit hour and
would not be covered by Bright Fu-
tures Scholarship Program.
The programsState sponsored by the feeNews could include solar-
and wind-energy
projects to promote energy effi-
ciency, said Chris Cano, Gators for
a Sustainable Campus member andorganizer of the trip.
"Students at individual univer-
sities want to implement the small
fee," Cano said.
According to the Gators for a
Sustainable Campus Web site, the
fee would also allow universities to
buy campus power from renewable
energy providers.
In the spring 2007 UF Student
Government elections, 78 percent of
student voters said they supportedthe implementation of the fee.
UF geography junior Nicole
Motzer traveled to Tallahassee.
She said her plan is to clarify to
the committee that the fee will help
the university save money.
"It will help UF reach its goal
of carbon neutrality," Motzer said.
"Since we spend $40 million on our
utility bill, we could be spending
money on academics rather than
electricity."
Friday, Februyl9 @7PM
Stephen C. O'Conne Center
Thefirst1,000fans wilreceive
light-upnecklaces courtesy
of Gatorade
GA T htADE
receivefreeDomino'spizza!
lying Biscuit
OF StudentsrewvefreeddmssionacWfGdtorl4
conpycta t t 8heF 34-GATORe Thy s pee c a n hea-9 n-877 (T dDA my alAh Flda Rely Ser t 80-955-8771 (TDD)HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
' rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShield
of Florida
A, Inepenn Lips-seIfth0 373-0775
Form BNumb e 3 ndBlu.Sl 369d AWs2divtinu
Form Number: 18533-599SU 3669 S.W. 2nd Avenue.0
YS
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Health fair offers resources
By LYN KRAMER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students walked away with condoms,
candy and concern for their health and safe-
ty after the Student Government Health and
Safety Fair on the Reitz Union Colonnade
Wednesday.
Between 500 and 600 students stopped
by, said Alex Masi, a Unite Party senator
who represents Rawlings Hall.
The SG Health and Safety Fair made stu-
dents aware of the safety resources UF of-
fers and featured tables from the University
Police Department, GatorWell and the Stu-
dent Health Care Center. Students learned
about free bike registrations and a program
offering late-night running partners.
"There are so many great resources on
campus that students don't know about but
should know about," said Severin Walstad,
a member of the Senate Allocations Com-
mittee and a UF freshman.
Organizations that participated in the
event included the Student Health Care
Center, Student Legal Services, Shands at
UF, the UPD, GatorWell, Gator Dining Ser-vices and the Student Safety Research Col-
loquium.
"Raising awareness is always a preven-
tive measure," Masi said. "It brings the
student voice to the people who can help
them."
"I got a lot of free stuff, but I am
also much more aware now."
Wing Yu
UF freshman
Students received more than just back
scratchers, candy, pamphlets, pens, cou-
pons and condoms, Masi said.
"I got a lot of free stuff, but I am also
much more aware now," said Wing Yu, a
UF anthropology freshman.
Sarah Kunkler, a UF finance sophomore,
said it was convenient to have the fair at the
Reitz Union.
She loves being able to go into the Stu-
dent Health Care Center anytime she feels
sick and get quick and easy assistance,
Kunkler said.
"The information is right here," she said.
"It's kind of hard not to check it out."Hateful fliers distributed
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
Fliers saying "Student Alliance
party is the Nazi Party" were found
on campus bulletin boards and
apartment bus stops Wednesday
morning.
The fliers, which featured a
swastika and are attributed to a
fake group named UF for Israel,
were posted on campus bulletin
boards and apartment bus stops.
Ben Cavataro, the Student Al-
liance candidate for Student Body
president, said he thought the fli-
ers offended most people and he
has no idea who is responsible for
them.
"It's a reprehensible act of hate,
and it has no place on our campus,"
Cavataro said.
He said the Student Allianceparty will not be deterred from its
campaign efforts because of these
fliers.
"If the cowardly people who did
this act think it's going to stop us
from spreading our message, they
are very much mistaken," Cavataro
said.
Senate President Ashton Charles,
the Unite Party candidate for Stu-
dent Body president, said the Unite
Party is not re-
Student sponsible for theGovernment distribution of
the fliers, and she
was disgusted when she heard they
were being passed around.
Charles said passing around the
fliers was a disservice to students
and Gators in general.
"It's not doing anyone any good,
and it's just very upsetting that
someone would do something like
that," she said.
M2010' --
LftA CROSS E
JWWW4= W%40m~4H :100 Years of Mastering The Craft
M Engineering & Science Fair:
Grand Ballroom 9AM -4PM
Engineering Bowl: Rion Ballroom 7PM -9PM
Engineering & Science Fair Day 2:
Grand Ballroom 9AM -noon
Field Day:
North Lawn 9AM -2PM
Engineering Extravaganza:
North Lawn & Reitz Colonnade 10AM -3PM
- Meet the Deans Barbeque:
New Engineering Building Lawn noon -2:30PM
American Society of Mechanical Engineers
Swampfest 2010 Car Show:
Commuter Lot 2PM -8PM
Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers'
Goals for Tomorrow Soccer Tournament:
Flavet Field, 1OAM -5PM
All events are free and open to the public.
Free food & giveaways for UF Students!!
Sponsored by:
Chevron
,?jRRIS
Human Energy-
Fo mor ino vii htp/wwubcogeekGiddy Up Gators 5k
Saturday, February 27th
9:30-1 1:30am
(Registration starts at 8:30am)
Albert Ray Masley Park
(Old Westside Park on 34th St)
Only $7 to Pre-Register,
$10 includes a shirt
(Day of race registration:
$12 or $15 for a shirt)
Pre-register until Feb. 24 at:
sota.phhp.ufl.edu
Help provide equine-assisted
therapy to Veterans
keep it
Auto AIC
Starters
Alternators
Repair/Service
Foreign & Domestic
Free Electrical Check
with purchase
AAMAC
378-7676
508 8th Ave.
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010
Editorial
Facebook Fans
Student's precedent
protects free speech
atherine Evans deserves some recognition, but the usual
two-sentence blurb in the Darts & Laurels won't cut it.
Evans, a UF undergraduate, just helped set a legal prec-
edent.
During her senior year at a public school in Pembroke Pines,
Fla., Evans created a Facebook page to vent about her teacher,
according to an article in The Miami Herald.
In an example of the classroom authorities overstepping
their boundaries, the principal of the school suspended the hon-
ors student and forced her out of her AP classes -two months
after Evans took the page down.
Evans sought to have the records of her suspension removed
via lawsuit on the basis that the punishment was unconstitu-
tional.
Her attempt to stand up for the First Amendment, without
the prospect of an easy reward -the case was opened in 2008
-is commendable.
And U.S. Magistrate Barry Garber's acknowledgment of her
complaint is even more awesome.
Garber's ruling Friday not only cleared the road to removing
the unjust suspension from Evans' record, it also started to lift
the persistent fog of confusion surrounding law and the Inter-
net.
With so many news stories and daytime talk shows about
online bullying, it's understandable why teachers and adminis-
trators might feel the need to intervene in Facebook rants.
The chance of a student becoming depressed or commit-
ting suicide after seeing comments made on the Internet exists.
That's why the authorities pursue people who make threats on
social networking sites.
Police get involved in such crimes, not teachers or admin-
istrators, and even they aren't always sure of how to treat the
situation.
In fact, the legal approach to free speech on the Internet isn't
clear-cut because there are very few precedents to follow.
According to the magistrate's ruling, however, as long as the
comments made aren't lewd or advising illegal activity, they're
protected by the Bill of Rights.
Huzzah, freedom of speech!
The thought of losing the ability to freely criticize others may
not strike fear into the hearts of much of the UF Student Body,
but all 300 million Americans need to understand how impor-
tant the right to speak up is -whether they choose to do so on
the proverbial soapbox or on a digital platform.
Both Evans and the magistrate understood the need to pro-
tect the 200-year-old rights in the modem day, and students
should be happy.
Pupils have always complained about their teachers, and
they always will, no matter the method. Now, however, they
may be protected when making snide comments online.
But the ruling doesn't only affect students. Every American
with access a social networking Web site can take solace in the
possible security of their bitchifests.
For instance, the ruling raises questions about employers'
powers to fire employees simply over job-related complaints on
the Internet.
If the suspension of a student for a page about a teacher
could be deemed unconstitutional, what would stop an em-
ployee from dissing his boss in a status update?
Kudos to you, Katherine Evans.
But in spite of the promise of this case, friending a supervisor
or professor still probably isn't a good idea.
0l the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Ae , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
Gainesvi rle, FL 32604-2257OC olumns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions
E,4r,i~rcoo' ,
9trwt Of'
thought nothing had the ability to drag me kickingand screaming away from a television when high-
stakes international curling was on, but the substan-
tial debate surrounding the Student Government elec-
tions at UF this year managed to do the trick.
For the longest time, I thought SG elections for the
fraction of students who were deeply committed bore
a striking resemblance to the relationship I have with
curling. At specific intervals of time, we would get im-
passioned about wholly insignificant things and furious
at people we would otherwise completely ignore or at-
tempt to sleep with.
For all of my professed love for the sport of curling, I
still have absolutely no idea how one gets to handle the
vaunted broom or gingerly slide the big-stone-disc-thingy
for my beloved Belgian curling team. All I really know is
that every four years I get so dang worked up over curl-
ing that I sometimes pass out from a heady combination
of sheer unadulterated joy, virulent anger toward those
bastards who dare to face my Belgian warriors and the
luck-inducing habit of placing a celebratory plastic bag
over my head during especially close matches.
In a similar vein, nobody knows anything about what
SG actually does outside of propping up the entire high-
gloss flier industry in this part of the state. Sure, it is an
excellent outlet for ambitious, type-A personalities who
would otherwise be wasting their time stuck in some
dead-end charitable organization or church group. In
light of recent developments in electioneering at UF,
though, my preconceived notions about the entire world
of SG have been irreparably altered.
Somebody put a bunch of fliers on some cars. I am no
scholar of history, but I struggle to think of a warlord or
Reader response
Today's question: Wednesday's question:
Have you ever vented about a Are you annoyed with the SG
teacher on Facebook? flier distribution?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgH
Tommy Maple
letters@alligator orgALLIGATOR
www.aIigator.org//opinions
dictator who has even come close
to this level of wanton disregard
for the sanctity of the human con-
dition.
I know, it sounds ridiculously
over-the-top and outside the realm
of human decency -but if it hap-
pened in our sleepy, little, college
town, it could happen anywhere.
This threat is real. Maybe where your parents or grand-
parents live, some shadowy figure is crouching in the
dark right now waiting to pounce with shiny paper in
hand.
I don't use the word hero very often, but whatever
brave soul first got seriously worked up about this is the
greatest hero in American history. With this blight on our
very way of life out in the open, a healthy and vigorous
debate has taken place across the pages of this newspa-
per regarding issues that speak to the core of our shared
humanity. And fliers.
Whichever group of earnest and eager go-getters wins
next week will invariably get dressed up in grown-up
clothes and spend millions of dollars, but this most re-
cent development in modern, American politics puts to
bear the efforts of our best and brightest young scions
on some of the contemporary issues that will shape our
changing world. And fliers.
Certain that the future of our country is secure in the
hands of such promising proto-politicians may be sooth-
ing, but it doesn't come close to the sweet calm induced
by my lucky plastic bag.
Tommy Maple is an international communications gradu-
ate student. His columns appear on Thursdays.
73% YES
27% NO
88 TOTAL VOTESSt1ON0r\4Tvior~s~$ceS
ceases krn\Vir)
?ee syethc .-
OttsWez' V09~n
S-roceUS, VtC--A~ -- K ~
Column
SG flier scandal has heroes, villains
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.A
:4:%
0
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Unite Party disgusted by negative cam-
paign tactics
Earlier this afternoon I learned of the new
lows campus politics can reach at our univer-
sity. As you may know, our campus was pol-
luted today with a hateful and bitter message.
Fliers were produced containing a symbol
of intolerance that the world turned its back
to more than six decades ago. The Unite Party
does not tolerate these acts and does not stand
for such tasteless propaganda.
These fliers represent bigotry, racism and
hatred -three values that have no place in
our society.
We would appreciate it if the Holocaust
were not exploited in underground and de-
ceptive campaign tactics that turn community
members against one another for the purpose
of political gain.
The pattern we have seen in this election
cycle shows us that some people out there
think negative campaigning can result in suc-
cess at the polls on Election Day.
There are some commonalities found in
both recent flier distributions: They have been
critical of the Unite Party (whether directly or
indirectly), the fliers listed a student organiza-
tion name that does not exist and lastly, the
messages were unacceptable.
Today, we challenge our competitors and
the Student Body to hold themselves to the
highest moral standards. Negative campaign-
ing is bad campaigning. Our Student Body
comes from a variety of backgrounds, and it
is this diversity that makes our campus com-
munity so special.
In the years I have been at this university, I
have never seen something so vile and purely
disgusting take place in Student Government
elections.
I, along with my party, call upon everyone
involved in these elections to condemn this at-
tack and to show that we are, indeed, the lead-
ers of our school.I challenge the Student Body to join me as
we take a united stance against negative cam-
paign tactics and demand more from the po-
litical process on our campus.
Ben Meyers
Unite Party Spokesman
Reader calls out creator of offensive flier
to apologize
On Wednesday a hateful flier was posted in
the Turlington area on the free speech boards.
This flier equated one of the UF Student Gov-
ernment parties with the Nazi Party in Germa-
ny through the use of the swastika symbol.
Comparing the Nazi regime -which was
responsible for the outbreak of World War II
and the murder of more than 11 million civil-
ians -to a student group is offensive and in-
excusable. It trivializes the crimes of the Nazis
and inflicts emotional pain. It minimizes the
sacrifices made by Allied soldiers and the vic-
tims of the Holocaust of all backgrounds.
Simply stated, this flier is hate speech and
has no place on the UF campus. As Americans
and as Gators, we are simply too good to be
involved in this sort of behavior.
The flier is attributed to a group called
UF for Israel. To the best of my knowledge,
no such group exists on campus nor is one
registered with SG. It appears that this is just
another piece of disinformation intended to
cause pain.
I call upon the individual or individuals
who created this flier to apologize publicly. I
would be willing to meet with the author(s)
privately to discuss why this is so offensive.
As a campus that honors and respects the
best traditions of this country, I hope we can
use this as a learning opportunity about hate
speech and the power of symbols. The Gator
Nation must band together to ensure hate
speech is never tolerated.
Keith Dvorchik
Executive Director of UF HillelStudent Alliance party genuinely cares
about student involvement in SG
When Hayley Plant decided to ambush
Ben Cavataro in Wednesday's issue of the
Alligator and berate him for not knowing the
election codes, she forgot to, y'know, read the
election codes.
It's true that door-to-door campaigning is
not permitted on campus. However, door-to-
door campaigning off campus is acceptable,
provided there aren't any signs in plain view
that say "No Solicitors" or anything to that ef-
fect (in Ben's case, there obviously were not).
Fact is, the Student Alliance party remains
the only party on campus that gives a damn
about getting more people involved in Stu-
dent Government. Less than 20 percent of
students vote, and as much as everybody
loves to complain about that fact, Ben Cavata-
ro and his allies are the only people I've ever
seen genuinely try to get people involved.
Campaigning off campus is a great way to
do this, because it allows people to converse
casually and honestly without being in a rush
to get to class. And, sorry Unite, but deploy-
ing freshmen to follow us around on Turl-
ington Plaza and shower us with fake cheer
doesn't count.
I'm talking about genuine -yes, genuine
-effort to involve students in how their tu-
ition is spent. As a former senator and execu-
tive candidate -and long-time colleague of
Ben Cavataro -I can tell you that I still have
never met another person in SG who match-
es his caliber of genuine respect for others,
openness to criticism and honor.
So, Hayley, next time you run into a Stu-
dent Alliance table, ask for Ben and spend
five minutes having a conversation with
him -you'll see what I mean and probably
change your mind.
Stacey Gray
4AGStudent Alliance party's lies about Unite
should be ignored
I was surprised by Wednesday's letter
about how the Unite Party is really the Gator
Party, but perhaps I shouldn't be.
This campaign tagline has been used for
three elections in a row by the Orange and
Blue Party and its successor, but when has
that ever stopped them before?
The Orange and Blue Party and its succes-
sor, the Student Alliance party, have several
canned attacks against Unite. First, they criti-
cize the fact that it has heavy organizational
support from the Greek community, arguing
there may even be a corrupt aspect to this.
The corruption argument is put down by
the fact that Unite has led the most transpar-
ent Student Government in recent memory
and has pledged to continue to work toward
greater transparency.
Orange and Blue Party 2.0 also alleges that
Unite doesn't bring true results to students.
Such a statement completely ignores the fact
that Unite has doubled the size of the SG
computer lab, extended SNAP hours, created
a late-night study center in the Hub, installed
hand sanitizers in the Reitz Union and in-
creased awareness for student safety, among
other accomplishments. Unite's record shows
one outstanding year.
So, we are being told by Student Alliance
party that Unite is actually the Gator Party
that Unite is corrupt and Greeks are a bane to
this campus; and that Unite has not brought
tangible results to students. I also have some
news: Pigs fly, and the sun comes out at
night.
When will we stop hearing the same re-
petitive lies from the Student Alliance party?
We didn't believe it a year ago. We didn't be-
lieve it last fall. We certainly won't believe it
now.
Jillian Moore
UF Student
I D I V
-A --i
vs. Marshall 12:15 PM a
vs. East Carolina 2:30 PM
DOLLAR DOG DAY! WOT DOGS AND OTWER SELECT
CONCESSION ITEMS APRE ONLY $1.
IST00 FANS RECEIVE COMMEMOPATIVE WORLD SEIES SOFTBALL-S -
SUNDAY
VS. East Carolina 12:15 PM
FOR ThE FULL LIPTON INVITATIONAL SCHEDULE,LOG ON TO GATORZONE.COM
KATIC SEASHOLE PRESSLY STADIUM. ADMISSION 15 FREE.LCIa healthy campus community"
Happy Valentine's Day!
Roses are
red, violets are
blue, lubricant
keeps condoms
from breaking and t
it feels good too!
392-1161,ext.4281
http://www.shcc.ufl.edu/gatorwell
Lube Always, xoxo
Don't be chicken.
Stop your friends from
driving drunk. 
!I,
vs. Campbell 3:45 PM
vs. Kansas 6 PM
FIRST 500 FANS RECEIVE 2010 GATOR SOFTBALL
SCWEDULE MAGNETS COURTESY OF GATORADE!"l d
He in to create e
8, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010
ON CAMPUS
USF professor revisits WWI
By ASHLEY HEMMY
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Gary Mormino asked the crowd of about
45 in Pugh Hall Wednesday night if anyone had
served in World War II, not one person raised a
hand.
Mormino, a University of South Florida history
professor, said the generation of World War veter-
ans is fading.
One of the assignments his students have is to
scan the obituaries every Monday for the deaths
of veterans.
"It's part of remembering and forgetting,"
Mormino said.
Mormino came to UF to speak about the lasting
impact of World War II on the state of Florida. He
discussed the economy, the population, racism,
women and the growing tourism industry during
World War 11.
The screen behind him showed Florida news-
paper headlines, articles and photographs from
the 1940s.
"On the eve of World War II, 1940, Florida was
the smallest state in the American South," Morm-
ino said. "Today, we are a Sunbelt mega-state and
the fourth largest in the union."
The large number of military bases contributed
to Florida's expanding population, Mormino said.I
"Soldiers who came from the Bronx and went
to the Miami Beach base encountered palm trees
and beautiful girls, and they vowed to come back
to Florida one day," Mormino said.
Many soldiers who had worked in Florida bas-
es did return but as tourists or elderly residents.
During 1943 and 1944, UF's football season was
canceled because the male population dropped to
700.
"It's part of remembering and forget-
ting."
Gary Mormino
University of South Florida history professor
After soldiers returned, UF was overflowing
and Florida State College for Women became
Florida State University.
"There was a big change in dependence on fed-
eral money," Mormino said. "Up to that time, little
federal money went to colleges."
When the war ended and soldiers returned,
they also replaced the women in factories and en-
tered universities. The state of Florida increased its
economy, population and tourism industry.
"Florida would have been a big state if not for
World War II," Mormino said, "but it's really hard
to imagine it would have taken the same direc-
tion."Campus radio station
to air Spanish show
By SARAH GIBSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF radio station will launch
its first half-hour Spanish newscast
tonight.
Produced entirely by UF stu-
dents, "Noticias WUFT" will air
on 89.1 from 11 p.m. to 11:30 p.m.
every Thursday.
The idea of a Spanish newscast
at UF began four years ago when a
group of students produced news
podcasts in Spanish, said Amy Jo
Coffey, faculty adviser for "Noti-
cias WUTT." Several students have
continued to develop a Spanish-
only newscast since then.
"I hope that this newscast will
provide an excellent source of in-
formation for the Hispanic/Latino
community in North Central Flor-ida," said Felipe Awad, co-anchor
of "Noticias VvTUFT."
John Wright, dean of the Col-
lege of Journalism and Communi-
cations, approved the newscast for
WUFT-FM after Awad and his co-
anchor Paola Alonzo, pitched him
the idea last fall.
The target audi-
On ence of this newscastCampus is the "Spanish-de-
pendent speaker,"
Coffey said.
The first half of the 30-minute
newscast will focus on local news.
Alonzo and Awad plan to talk
about issues such as immigration
and the economy.
"We are going to be covering
the news and reporting it from a
different angle, from the Hispanics'
point of view and for the Hispanic
audience," Alonzo said.
])II]1 ([X Y)2
W ) aButler Plaza New b are
335 1232 ""332-3937
NEW WEBSITE
www.lingeriecompany. com
Butler Plaza -Next to McAllister's Deli
+N we.
C):- 5 DINNER
75 e
C im $13.95
Williston Rd 41
, I oR P~ Ir - ' 
-
E.JThe Adventures of
A section of the Alligator dedicated
to giving students tips on healthy
living and exercise!ALL YOU CAN EAT
SUSHI BUFFET.
GRAND OPENING
Sushi Buffet & Sushi Bar
LUNCH
$8.95
Deadline: Thursday, Feb. 18
Run date: Wednesday, Feb. 24
Contact the Alligator today!
352-376-44824
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 9
STUDENT LIFE
Beatboxers draw crowd
By ERIN O'DEA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Dropped cell phones and scraped elbows
were the battle scars of a takeover that hap-
pened Wednesday afternoon, but it was all
for the love of hip-hop.
Breakdancers, beatboxers and rappers rep-
resenting the Hip-Hop Collective drew wan-
dering students to the center of Turlington
Plaza during the second Turlington Takeover
hosted by the organization this semester.
The takeover was meant to promote the
Hip-Hop Collective's A Night of Hip-Hop, a
showcase occurring tonight in the Orange &
Brew.
The Turlington Takeover started at 12:15
p.m. and lasted until 1:30 p.m.
Breakdancer J.J. Richardson, a graduate
student in industrial and systems engineer-
ing, started the show.
He stopped to tell the audience of more
than 50 what hip-hop meant to him.
"This is all love," Richardson said. "It's
about you."
Patrick Wanninkhof, who was wearing
an orange jumpsuit covered in pink balloons
to promote UF's World's Largest Water Bal-
loon Fight Against Breast Cancer, played the
Boston University International Programsdrums.
Throughout the takeover, he found cre-
ative ways to make a beat for the takeover art-
ists: using an empty soda can, an overturned
trash can, a PVC pipe and the balloons on his
own jumpsuit.
"I love music, so it's fun for me," said
Wanninkhof, a UF materials science and en-
gineering sophomore.
Off to the side of the spiraling breakdanc-
ers was a small group of four beatboxers.
Valerie Panting, a UF telecommunication
sophomore and secretary of the Hip-Hop
Collective, was a part of the group.
"I love music, so it's fun for me."
Patrick Wanninkhof
UF sophomore
"We were in the zone, character rapping,
pretending we were rapping in the '80s,"
Panting said.
An onlooker at the takeover could sense
the enthusiasm of the members of the Hip-
Hop Collective.
"They are a diverse group of people, and
they all love it," said Shivani Gogna, a UF
public health and French junior. "They may
not be experts, but they love it."
STUDENT LOANS ON ANYTHING!!
-TV's e Stereo's -Jewelry 9
Musical Instruments * Tools
We buy gold & cash checks
BEST JEWELRY & LOAN
523 NW 3rd Ave. (352) 371-4367
p awn brokersGainesville-based site
competes in Atlanta
* 50 OUT OF 150 BUSINESSES
WERE CHOSEN TO COMPETE.
By CAROLINE LEWIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Adam Coelho launched the
Web site CitiSync in August 2009, he
was trying to make get-togethers in
Gainesville a little bit easier.
Now, he's hoping to apply his vi-
sion to other college towns across the
country.
The UF marketing senior intro-
duced the Web site, which provides
information about local happen-
ings and deals, to potential investors
Wednesday at Startup Riot 2010.
Startup Riot is a one-day confer-
ence in Atlanta where start-up busi-
nesses introduce their organizations to
EMPOERYOOR
BOSIHESS.
Advertise in the country slargest college newspaper.
Contact us ot [3521 376.4482. alk Oy 
'investors and compete to win prizes.
More than 150 businesses applied, and
50 were chosen to present.
While CitiSync did not win, Coelho
said he hopes to take advantage of the
networking opportunity.
"It would make everything a lot
more real," he said. "It'd be all the dif-
ference in bringing this idea to every
college student."
CitiSync was one of the few busi-
nesses selected that was started by a
college student, according to Stepha-
nie Ramirez, the marketing director
for CitiSync.
CitiSync's client TJ Goodman, co-
owner of Mother's Pub & Grill, cred-
ited the site's success to its business
approach.
"What's different about Adam is he
took the time to understand my busi-
ness," Goodman said. "What's great is
the exchange of ideas."
Smile.
W17
School Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 1 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.com
TONIGHTSaving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and Local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
ABiotest
From Nature for Utfe
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431
a11igCQAports
Tune in for the
latest Gators
sports news
and analysis
from our beat
writers and
columnists.
Check it out at
alligatorSports.org
or subscribe on iTunes.BO STON
UNIVERSITY
10, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010
OFF THE AVENUE
'Sexpert' gives advice, tips for a healthier sex life
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
For more than 20 years, Sheri
Winston brought babies into the
world.
But on Wednesday, the former
midwife-turned-sexpert, got into
hot and heavy details about how
they're made.
Speaking to about 10 people at
Wild Iris Books, Winston, an in-
structor in "wholistic" sexuality,
discussed how to enhance sexual
performance and erotic encounters.
The discussion was part of a se-
ries on various sexual topics.
"We're all connected to our sexu-
ality. It's an empowering experi-
ence," she said. "For some people,
sex is great, [but] there are always
people who could always be having
better sex."
And for those who struggle in
between the sheets, Winston offered
encouragement.
"If you don't speak French, do
you feel like you're broken?" she
asked the audience, noting how
good sex is a learned skill. "It's noth-
ing to be embarrassed about if you
haven't figured [sex] out."
According to Winston, sex in
western culture has been vilified as
something dirty and taboo.
"I don't know when it happened,but Barbie turned into a slut," she
said.
She said the concept of sex has
been reduced to surface pleasures
instead of its intended purpose of
fulfilling intrinsic human needs."Somewhere along the line, things
got really twisted," said Winston,
who attributed a misunderstanding
of human anatomy and inaccurate
information pertaining to sex. "We
lost what sex is and what it can be."The key to having good sex,
which she called the easiest path to
ecstasy, is to have a good relation-
ship with oneself.
She said keeping a positive out-
look would help ensure healthy rela-
"Wholistic" sexuality educator Sheri Winston speaks about her views of human sexuality Wednesday
night at Wild Iris Books.tionships, both friendly and sexual.
She compared good sex to play-
ing a musical instrument, citing
practice as an integral part to achiev-
ing one's sexual potential.
"Once you've mastered your
musical instrument, you can make
great music," she said.
She advised couples to utilize
subtle approaches to seduction, such
as breath, sound and movement, to
increase their sexual performance.
"Twenty years ago, I thought
multiple orgasms meant like three,"
she said. "Now when I think of mul-
tiple orgasms, I think of dozens and
dozens."
Kylie Slavik and Marcela Marti-
nez, Gainesville residents who are
partners, said the session was very
informative.
"What I liked about it was how
she emphasized how relationships
take commitment and time -it's not
just to have sex but to create an inti-
mate space," Slavik said. "She's pio-
neering new arenas of sexuality."
Winston will be giving classes
at Wild Iris Books Thursday from 7
p.m. to 9:30 p.m. and Sunday from 2
p.m. to 5 p.m. Winston will also be
hosting a class at the Birth Center of
Gainesville on Friday from 6:30 p.m.
to 9 p.m.
The cost of the classes range from
$25 to $50.
theAvenue thursday, february 18, 2010
alexander mcqueen: 1969-2010
Fashion designer
Alexander McQueen
was found dead in his
London flat last week after
hanging himself on the eve
of his mother's funeral. The
designer was best known
for his eclectic collections
and recent designs for
Lady Gaga.
Inside: how his legacy
will be remembered, a
conversation with John
Legend, Spring Break
fitness and an update on
what's next for Snooki and
The Situation.
Check out alligator.org/
theavenue for a trip to
X-Mart and the latest from
local rapper Shay-J.
page 13THIS WEEK ON TUNES
I
'4By MICHELLE PROFITS
avenue writer
For those of you who weren't tuning
into the Opening Ceremonies of the
2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver
this weekend, you missed the wildly
hyped debut of "We Are The World
25 for Haiti." This 25th anniversary
recording featured more than 80 of
today's biggest stars, including musi-
cians and actors. Showcasing the vo-
cals of everyone from Miley Cyrus and
Tony Bennett to Mary J. Blige and Lil
Wayne; the result is astounding.
Another notable recent release was
the "AT&T Team USA Soundtrack" al-
bum, created to benefit Team USA and
the U.S. Olympic Committee. High-
lighting new songs by popular artists
like Rascal Flatts, Sugarland and The
All-American Rejects, these songs are
meant to inspire both American ath-
letes and eager fans watching from
home.
Still looking for more ways to give
back? Yet another all-star song was
released last week to aid relief ef-
forts in Haiti. A remake of "Everybody
Hurts," originally by R.E.M, was orga-
nized by Simon Cowell and also fea-
tures Mariah Carey, Coldplay, Leona
Lewis, Michael Bubl6 and many more.
One hundred percent of proceeds go
directly to Haiti.
Now, go download!
library etiquette
Shhhhh.This is a library!
By GABRIELLE FALCONEIRI
avenue writer
It's that time again. Midterms are upon us,
and Gators flood Library West in desperate at-
tempts to cram a half of a semester's worth
of information into three all-night study ses-
sions.
We've noticed a few major faux pas that
plague students' "Club West" etiquette, and
we caught up with Barbara Hood, public infor-
mation officer for Smathers Libraries, for some
advice on how to fix these no-no's.
Talking: Cell phones and excessive con-
versations are the biggest disturbance in the
library, Hood said. When your phone rings
(though it should really be on silent, or at least
vibrate) step into the stairwell to have your
conversation. Also, respect the fourth floor's
designation as the "quiet floor" and don't talk
there. Save the group projects for the study
rooms or the Starbucks caf6 area.
Food: Just because Library West allows
food doesn't mean you should bring in a seven-
course meal while you study. Tryto keep things
simple, keeping in mind that your neighbormay not want to smell your triple garlic pep-
peroni pizza for the next few hours. Anything
that is going to stain the carpet or upholstery
is a no-go as well. Would you want to sit in
semi-hardened chocolate pudding remains?
We didn't think so.
There are plenty of off-campus locations
open late where you can set up camp. Karma
Cream, located on University Avenue, stays
open until midnight Monday to Thursday and
until 2 a.m. Friday and Saturday. It also offers
free Wi-Fi. They also serve a variety of good-
ies that include vegan ice cream and fair-trade
coffee. Another staple for off-campus studiers,
the campus branch of Target Copy not only
provides around-the-clock study spots but has
plenty of food options to keep you fueled into
the wee hours of the morning.
Whether you're a solitary studier or a group
project guru, carve out your niche as you cram
for next week's midterms. Just please don't in-
terrupt the other people around you to do it be-
cause we still have 300 pages of reading and
hearing the excruciating breakdown of your
Midtown-filled weekend isn't helping us focus.Fratty music scene online
By LAUREN GOLD
avenue contributing writer
RealFrat.com is the newest way for col-
lege students to get perfect playlists for all of
their music listening needs, thanks to a team
of mystery fraternity boys at UF. The creator,
Fratty McFratterson, entertains us with jam
sessions and witty words of wisdom.
Avenue: Who created RealFrat.com?
Fratty: "RealFrat.com was created by a
team of pledges under the direction of myself
and our team of fratologists. It only took one
night and a palate of copper tops to complete
[the site]. We used paddles to keep the con-
struction on pace."
A: What's the deal with the Web site? Any
downloading involved?
F: "All music is supplied from playlist.com,
which hosts all songs from other Web sites. No
downloading is involved, just knowledge of in-
ner frat life to mix the best series of songs to-
gether to maximize FPP (frat party potential)."
A: Why so secretive about your identity?
F: "Fratty McFratterson is the Frat Star that
we all strive to be. This site and his commen-tary are a compilation of lifestyles and ideas
that have been passed down for generations
and lived out by thousands. The work put
into this site is the work of many, not one."
A: Album titles like "Bitches Dance," "Let's
Bang" and "Get Big" are not your conven-
tional playlist names. Where do the inventive
titles come from?
F:"Our lives. These titles simply represent
essential parts of a day
in the life of any Frat Star.
Each playlist is expertly test-
ed corresponding to the ac-
tivity described in the title.
Our testing grounds include
house parties, study rooms,
gyms and sorority houses after hours."
A: What if you're not Greek- can you still
use the site?
F: "You don't have to be in a fraternity to be
frat. Fratty McFratterson is the Frat Star in all
of us, whether it takes a fifth of beam or a case
of beer to realize it. Wear fratty clothes, never
have an awkward moment and always stay
fratty. It's for colleges everywhere. Gainesville
is just a good base."S.
12, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010
Designer's suicide leaves questions for industry
omerican
Cafe Gardens
For over a third of a century,
the Original World Famous
Cafe Gardens has been serving
Gators with delicious food and
a large selection of beers and
wines. Located just across from
campus near the Florida Book
Store, this quaint landmark es-
tablishment with award winning
courtyard dining is perfect for
any date or gathering. For live
music schedule, call 376-2233.
Hours: Mon-Wed 11am-10pm,
Thurs-Sat 11am-1am,
Sun Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave. Join us on
Thursday late nights for "Mid-
night in the Garden" with Food
& Drink specials and DJ.
cafegardens.net
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and
Stacks. The only way to
describe the Stack is that it
is outrageously delicious! Its
uniquely different presenta-
tion -three 6 inch flour tortillas
stacked high with fresh grilled
ingredients and just the right
accent of cheese -is strangely
inviting to ones palate. Come
out and try our 1/3 lb Burgers,
steak seasoned Panchos &
Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the The Home Grown
and Homemade Black Bean
Hummus! Now serving draft and
red Stripe beers! We deliver!
Open late to serve your late
night cravings!
Sun-Wed:1am-3am. Thurs &
Sat: 11a,-4pm. 34th St. Plaza
(Sweetbay)@ 2124 SW 34th St.
672-6111
www.jdoobies.com
barbecue
David's BBQ
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, Eat-in,
Takeout, Drive-thru, Catering,
or Tailgating. Everyone loves
David's BBQ because, unlike
ordinary BBQ places, David's
cooks over a real wood fire! Eat
where the locals eat! Voted #1
BBQ in Gainesville! Approved
caterer for UF's Emerson
Alumni Hall. Mon-Sat 7am-9pm.
Sundays open at 8am. Drive
Thru until 9:30pm 7 days!
352-373-2002. Have David's
BBQ delivered by Gatorfood.com.
FREE WIFI. 5121 NW 39th Ave.
www.davidsBBQ.combreakfast
lunch
43rd Street Deli and
Breakfast House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to
for over 25 years -we probably
served your parents. Biggest
4 egg omelette, French toast,
and daily specials. Not full yet?
Have lunch with us & enjoy a
large selection of sandwiches,
the best Reuben, gyros, and
soup all at a reasonable price.
Vegetarian? Not a problem. We
have a selection that is sure to
fulfill your needs. We now offer
free WiFi! Open All day Every
day 7am-3pm. 4401 NW 25th
Place 373-2927. 3483 Williston
Rd 373-5656. Conveniently
located off 1-75
cracker
The Yearling
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog legs,
and alligator, as well as USDA
Prime beef, seafood, grits, greens
& hush puppies. Open Thursday
& Friday 5pm-1Opm, Saturday
12pm-10pm & Sunday 12pm-
8:30pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999
www.theyearlingrestaurant.com
cuban
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301
frozen treals
D'Lites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
d'licious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly without
the diet taste. We also feature a
whole array of cookies, chips, and
various grocery treats that appeal
to Atkins@, Weight Watchers@,
and other dieters. Our every day
daily specials make shopping
at D'Lites a special value!
Come weigh your options at
the Marketplace Plaza at NW
16th Blvd. and 43rd St. (next to
the Hollywood Video) or at thefrozen 1reats
Shoppers of Williston at S.W. 34th
Street and Williston Rd. (next to
Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!
Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts,
loose leaf teas, and beer, with
lots of vegan options. Now open
24 hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
blocks east of campus at 1025 W.
University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve frozen
yogurt as a healthy dessert
alternative. Our yogurt has 0%
fat and contains live and active
cultures. Choose any combination
of 8 different flavors and over 30
toppings. Everything for just 45
cents an ounce. 3841 SW Archer
Rd (next to Bento Red) Open
from noon to midnight daily!
Manuel's Vintoge
Room
This family owned restaurant is
perfect for dinner any day of the
week. Come in and check out
one of the best wine lists in town.
Ask questions and learn while
you wait for the chef to put out
nothing but goodness from the
kitchen using fresh, simple, and
local ingredients. Try the Early
Dinner Sunday, Tuesday-Thurs-
day 5-7pm. $3 wines/$1 0 bottles.
$10 Menu. Ask about our Monday
Wine Dinners and private parties
for lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
St. (352)375-7372
ndion 6
vegetarian
Green Mango
The best Indian food in Gaines-
ville. Serving Gainesville since
1991. The best Samosas in
Florida. Offering many vegan
dishes. We are specialized in
catering any group size. Delivery
available-free delivery on any
purchase over $25! Open 7 days
Mon-Sat 11:30am-9pm, Sunday
1 pm-8pm. Call 352-505-6200.
7625 W Newberry Rd
jamaicon
Caribbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
and oxtail. Opened Mon thru
Thurs 11 am-7:30pm, Fri & Sat
11am-11:45pm
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
352-374-8111japoanese
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a hip,
trendy atmosphere. Two great
locations with outside eating.
Open every day for carry-out
or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.
keywest
Cabana Cove
Keg West Grille
Now offering a new bistro
inspired menu.
Open for lunch and dinner.
Full martini and mojito bar.
Voted nicest outdoor dining.
COUPON -DATE NIGHT- COUPON
Choose 1 appetizer, 2 entrees, a
bottle of wine, and share a slice
of Key Lime Pie.
All for only $39.99
2410 NW 43rd Street
Gainesville
352-377-3278
Please visit us online at
www.cabanacove.net for
additional savings and coupons.
Green Plantains
The best MoFongo, churrasco,
& chofan in town. $5 To-Go
Dinners. Mon-Sat from 4pm.
Don't miss out $4.95 dinner +
soda on Thursday, student night
from 4pm-1Opm. Visit us at
5150 SW 34th Street at the new
Publix Shopping Center 7 days
a week. We cater. Check us out
on Gatorfood.com
352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.com
local a*organicI
THE JONES
Gainesville's own independently
owned community restaurant
dedicated to bringing sustain-
able, local, and organic food
to the table. Oh, and it's really
yummy. Herbivores, carnivores,
& omnivores welcome! NOW
SERVING DINNER EVERY
NIGHT! New hours: open every
day 8am-1Opm. Check out our
facebook page for specials and
events. 401 NE 23rd Avenue.
352.373.6777ocal
organ c
Mildred's
Big Citq Food
Eat Gainesville's Best Food at
Mildred's. We support LOCAL
and SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh
Dishes Made From Scratch!
OPEN SUNDAYS!
COVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371-1711
MildredsBigCityFood.com
New Deal Cofe
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burgers! This 12oz.
Goliath is Naturally Aged and
Fresh Ground. MONSTROUS
desserts. HUGE Martini's. $5
glasses of wine and 20 wines
under $20! Mon-Thurs. 11am-
10pm
Fri & Sat. 11am-11pm
371-4418
newdealcafegainesville.com
Located next door to Mildred's.
Keepin' it fresh -Keepin' it real!
mediterranean
Ti Amol
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine
agrees, "[the chef] adds visual
flair to every dish to make it as
good-looking as it is flavorful."
NEW Happy Hour Specials!
Every day from 4pm-7pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices & terrific
service.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.com
W 12SE 2nd Ave. 378-6307
me/\ican
K
UBoca Fiesta
Best Margaritas in Town!
Fresh-squeezed + all natural!
Tasty tacos, burritos, nachos!
Cheap beer, full bar, open late!
Now serving brunch!
232 SE 1st St Downtown
336-TACO!neighborhood",
bar8grl
Faroh's on the
Avenue
Farah's on the Avenue
now celebrating 30 years
in Gainesville! Located on
University Avenue, between
Modern Age and Bank of
America, just minutes from UF.
Farah's is newly remodeled and
offers a cozy, fun atmosphere
with a fireplace, the area's
largest indoor atrium and an
open air patio. Farah's also
boasts a full bar and seven new
flat screen TVs airing a variety
of sports programming. The
extensive menu features award-
winning wings and burgers as
well as vegetarian and vegan
fare. Perfect for private events
or casual dining. Now offering
"smoke till you choke" hookah
specials on Friday and Saturday
and drink specials all week
long, including $1.50 Pabst, $5
pitchers, $2 wells.
Hours: MO & TU 11am-1Opm,
WE & TH 11am-12am,
FR & SAT 11am-2am.
1120 W. University Ave. 378-5179.
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta, & desserts. All you
can eat buffet available!
Outdoor dining. Visit www.
newyorkpizzaplus.com for
coupons. We Deliver!
490 NE 23rd Ave.
376-3444
v e getarion
Book Lover's Cafe
U
UVegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade, meals,
sandwiches, soups, home-baked
desserts. Brunch Weekends.
Specials: Cupcake Mon.,
Southern Cooking Tues., Greek
Wed 6pm, Ethiopian Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 1Oam-8pm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090ro L J
Iover and do what he did, or should his
line be put to rest with memories of its
greatnessbeing the only remains?
To understand this question, it's
important to know what McQueen did
for the world of fashion and imagina-
tions. The Alexander McQueen brand
is responsible for Lady Gaga's shoes
in the "Bad Romance" video; for a
line of clothing at Target and a line
of Puma sneakers; for fashion shows
with wolves, fire, robots and ice rinks;
for making bustersr" and initiating
the low-rise pants movement in the'90s; and for causing controversy with
stunts like his 1995 collection dedicat-
ed to the highland rapes by showing
bruisedand bloody models.bMcQueen
was the Tim Burton of the fashion in-
dustry -one of a kind -making him
hard to replace and hard to live with-
out.
"There is something sinister, some-
thing quite biographical about what
I do -but that part is for me. It's my
personal business," McQueen said
in an interview with Sarah
Associated Press
Alexander McQueen's designs stood out to all with sharp silhouettes using bright patterns and cutting-edge innovations McQueen
was found dead of asphyxiation and hanging on Feb 11, just weeks before he was supposed to show at Paris fashion week
C e
** 1
eli
6
S /
S
S --
SSpotted
Tiger Woods jogging in Orlando
sans wedding ring Woods is hosting
a press conference Friday in Ponte
Vedra Beach at the PGA Tour head-
quarters to issue an assumed publicapology surrounding his adultery and
to discuss his future in golf, according
to a statement issued by his agent
Aegan Fox to be a Mommy?
The star told W Magazine, "No-
one believes me when I talk about
this, but I'm really maternal I worry
that because I've always wanted kids
so much, as the world goes some-
times, I won't be able to have them -
even though I would be able to provide
them with such an amazing environ-
ment"
Shore Thing
Jersey Shore" star Nicole
"Snooki" Polizzi is penning a book,
according to smokinggun com But
not only will she recount her real-
ity TV tales, she also filed with the
government to get her nickname
trademarked
0 0 0 0 00 00 0 0By ASHLEY McCREDIE
avenue writer
Lee Alexander McQueen was more
than a fashion designer. He was an
artist who used the humanbody and
fabrics as his canvas and treated fash-
ion shows as theatrical performances.
As head designer of the Alexander Mc-
Queen brand, he brought fantasy, ab-
normality, romance and darkness to
the fashion world. Now, after his death
on Feb. 11, the question is, what will
happen to his brand? Can anyone take
L@( (o o d~ o@
g gu  b @M,sexoov
\
ITHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010*4ALLIGATOR, 13
Mower. "I think there is a lot of ro-
mance, melancholy. There's a sad-
ness to it, but there's a romance in
sadness. I suppose I am a very melan-
choly person."
With the amount of his personality
that he puts in his clothes, and their
mentioned biographical aspect, I don't
think the brand should move forward.
But continuing design and production
without the chief designer has been
done over and over and has led to
great things.
Gabriel "Coco" Chanel, former
chief designer of Chanel, died in 1971.
Although her fashion house didn't
make great strides for the following 20
years, it came back with the hiring of
Karl Lagerfeld in 1981. Lagerfeld has
kept the brand fashion-savvy while not
strayingfar from Coco's original look.
When Christian Dior passed in
1957, his house considered shutting
down, but because it was a large rev-
enue-maker for France many people
wouldn't let this happen. Yves Saint
Laurent was the original replacement
for Dior and to this day the label is still
wonderful and growing.
One of the most recent losses for
the fashion industry was Yves Saint
Laurentin 2008. Previousto his death,
the couture house YSL had been shut
down, but the brand still continues
through Gucci Group.
With all these success stories, may-
be McQueen's brand will live on and
a designer will step up and continue
making his magic.
International-renowned fashion
photographer Scott Schuman, also
known for his blog, the Sartorialist,
wrote about McQueen the day after his
death posing a similar question. Hav-
ing received 205 comments at press
time, it's obvious that fashionistas ev-
erywhere have an opinion.
No matter what happens, McQueen
has made his mark, and it will never go
away.
h CON Y@u
14, ALLIGATOR + THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010
rtness d ot
Crash diets, over-exerc is ing won't get you a beach bod
By ALLISON BANKO
avenue writer
We hate to burstyour fried-chicken-
eating bubble, but Spring Break is a
little less than three weeks away, and
it is taking no prisoners. It will soon be
time to show your friends from home
that your college's football team is not
only betterthan theirs is, butyour body
is also way more bangin'.
Unfortunately, followingthe golden
health rules of eating veggies and bal-
ancing calories have been replaced by
late-night ice cream stints and beer
chugging, thus forcing you to take the
route of crash dieting and over-exercis-
ing to get to that perfect body. Wrong!Stop maxing out your weight at the
gym and eating nothing but celery and
prune juice. The Avenue sat down with
Meaghan O'Dwyer, a personal trainer
certified by Aerobics and Fitness As-
sociation of America and American
Council on Excercise to talk spring
break fitness.
What are the dangers of crash diet-
ing?
Crash diets are counterproductive.
You aren't fueling your body prop-
erly so you are more prone to get ex-
hausted. You aren't getting the proper
energy needed to complete effective
exercises.
What is the biggest fitness myth
out there?People think that they can "spot re-
duce," which is trying to minimize just
one area of the body such as love han-
dles or a stomach pooch. Unfortunate-
ly, where you deposit fat is a matter of
genetics, and exercise has total body
effects -notjust spot treatment.
What are some "go-to" exercises
that are both effective and efficient?
A burpee is an exercise that is the
best "bang for your buck." It works
multiple muscle groups and can be
modified to make it harder or easier.
1. Stand up. 2. Go down into a
plank position. 3. Do a push-up. 4.
Jump back up to a standing position.
Make this exercise easier by p/ac-
ing your knees on the ground duringthe push-up.
Make this exercise more difficult by
lifting one leg off of the ground during
the push-up.
A lunge with an oblique twist also
works several areas. You can easily
use a soup can as a weight for extra
core work.
1. Lunge one foot forward. 2. Twist
your upper body to one side with a
weight or can in hand. 3. Repeat for
the other side.
What are some easy ways to incor-
porate fitness on a daily basis?
Cut down on the amount of driving
that you do. Instead, substitute walk-
ingand cyclingto get around. Because
of the cold weather, doingsmall spurtsof exercise outside duringthe day is re-
alistic. You won't have to change out-
fits because of being too hot or sticky,
so fitting in basic exercises in between
classes is very doable.
We at the Avenue think standard
crunches are a joke. A better way to
get a rock hard stomach is to target
your obliques and abdominals by us-
ing a medicine ball.
1. Start lying on the ground with a
medicinal ball. 2. Take your knees off
the ground so that they form a 90-de-
gree angle. 3. Keepingyour legs at the
angle, sit up into a V position and twist
the medicine ball from side to side
keeping your abdominals engaged
and back straight.
13th Annual '
April 10, 2010 at 8 a.m.
Behind North Florida
Regional Medical Center
Benefiting the student-run Equal
Access Clinic of Gainesville which
provides free healthcare to
underprivileged populations.
For more info:
Call Stephanie Mazariegos at
(813) 484-8031 or go to
ufpremed.org/easc
Q Equal Access Chnic
Donate Teddies to
Cancer Patients
Donate new or nearly new
teddy bears to American Cancer
Society's Bears
for CaresFULL BAR OPEN LATE
BREAKFAST SERVED ALL DAYI
rMardi Gras Mania!
Friday Night 9:00 pm -Close
Mardi Gras Themed Food & Drinks
Bourbon Street Teeny Weeny
Bikini Contest
-Drink Specials
including our "Flamin Hurricane"
SSounds by DJ Curbcut
Face Painting
-Prizes
(352) 505-0224
1124 W University Ave H MQH
WI 5tEU
admission tickets
Ome available!
Cl Afl idS
al r3.7FMJverAyimng kr ihe H
in ihe AiE & br
L
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010 +ALLIGATOR, 15
Chatroulette takes Web by storm
By Amelia Harnish
avenue writer
Connected, feel free to talk now. Anticipation, hilar-
ity, disappointment. Next. Disgust. Next. Repeat.
Welcome to the roller coaster that is Chatroulette,
the best, and arguably weirdest, thing to come out of
the Internet in a while.
You simply sign on, and the site connects you to a
random video-chat partner. Click "next" when you get
bored or creeped out, and you're instantly connected
with someone else.
After work last Friday, I came home to my roommates
on the couch, Macbooks in laps the way I left them. Ex-
cept they were wearing scarves as turbans, giant sun-
glasses and way too much makeup, giggling like kinder-
gartners and screeching, "Ew, next!"
Intrigued, I joined them and soon I was dressed like
Lady GaGa chatting with people from Chicago to Mos-
cow, Chile to Connecticut. About every fourth next is a
shot of someone's member, and there's of course the"show tits" requests, but the raunchiness is part of
what makes Chatroulette so much fun.
There's just no telling what "next" will bring -one
chatter was doing what looked like the dirty with a
stuffed raccoon, one was dressed in a full-on furry suit
-but most people were like us, just bored.
We met a Naval Academy midshipman who was
chatting on duty, a redheaded computer engineering
major from Indiana and a man in China who spoke little
English and couldn't, for the life of him, figure out what
"fart" meant. We even met some fellow Gators whose
dingy walls and shoddy furniture we recognized as Raw-
lings dorm.
Like LOLcats and Texts from Last Night, Chatroulette
is a great way to waste time. But there's more to this lat-
est novelty because it shows us humanity in its oddest,
most unfiltered moments. We're thrust randomly into
face-to-face conversation with a stranger, in a setting
stripped of any rules of social interaction, which gives
us the ability to connect with others, to anonymously
act like a fool and to do so without leaving home. It's
everything we love about the Internet.
You may still be weary, but trust me, you'll convert.
Don't expect to make lifelong friends on Chatroulette,
but do take advantage of this opportunity to be abso-
lutely ridiculous.
Here's how:
Dress up. Wigs, fake eyelashes, sunglasses and
scarves are necessary accessories for success in the
realm of Chatroulette. The better the costume, the bet-
ter the reaction, and the easier it will be to start a con-
versation with a faraway stranger.
Make things up. We're all on Chatroulette for the
same reason: to be entertained. Exaggerating, lying and
acting like someone you're not is all part of the game.
Think of this as your show.
Have a gimmick. Ask your partner what his or her fa-
vorite song is and ask them to dance with you to it. Get
out Trivial Pursuit or Balderdash and ask them to play.
Give everyone a chance. Even if your partner isn't
dressed up or he or she looks totally boring, don't
"next" them right away. When there are none of the
regular boundaries, you'd be surprised what someone
may have to say.
Chat in groups. This is the perfect activity for room-
mate bonding. It's more fun to hassle and tease fellow
chatters when you have someone to laugh with. Plus,
for whatever reason, we got "nexted" fewer times when
we chatted together.
And lastly, fear not the masturbators. "Next" that
anonymous penis filling the screen and move on to your
next Chatroulette adventure -unless, of course, you're
into that kind of thing.3K fill O'Dome
for John Legend
By JOEY FLECHAS
avenue writer
Just before 8:30 p.m. Wednesday, John Legend sat behind a
piano in the O'Connell Center and sang a quiet rendition of Bob
Marley's "Redemption Song."
Fansfilled the O'Connell Center to see the six-time Grammy award
winner perform and speak. The show was sponsored by Black His-
tory Month, Student Government Productions and Accent. Legend
was paid $90,000 to speak, accordingto the SG Finance records.
Members from Gators United for Haiti passed out fliers and col-
lected donations at the event. "It was great to speak with [John} and
listen to his enlightening views on the need for educational reform,"
said Aaron Crespin, SGP chairman.
Legend was grateful for the opportunity to speak, noting his ex-
citement over speaking to students.
"I love visiting universities because I see so much potential in the
room," Legend said.
For more on John Legend, visit alligator org
John Legend waves to about 3,000 fans after playing for the crowd and
speaking on charity and education Wednesday night He was paid $90,000
Islam Awareness Month prese
Pulitzer Prize Winning Reporter
Andrea Elliott
of the New York Times
in the US: B~Lv .it"Muslims ion and Integration
-Assimlilatlo,Rejection, (oropn7m
Thursday, Feb. 18th @ 7:30pm (doors o
Reitz Union, Rion Ballroom
ee and open to e public
fre t IIDo you have what
ittakesto bea
Tailgate Champion?
Register to play in Phi
Mu's Tailgate Invitational
at phimutailgate-com
TONS of free food
for participants, and
amazing auction items
from your favorite
places in Gainesville.
Norman Field
February 21, 2010saIb rnon Camps
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
INCLUDES EVERYTHING
4/4's & 2/2s from $399 to $509
24hr Fitness*4 BUS LINES
DJ by the pool on weekends
GainesvillePlace.com*352-271-3131
4-21-71-1
Crmssiiqj
FULLY LOADED @ $399
Individual w/free roommate matching
Cable, Internet and utilities
Pick New 42" TV or Sofa Set
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, University Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1
REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2 $665 *deluxe 2/2 $699
3/3 $639%/4 $539 *All prices are all inclusive
*Close to UF* EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST Townhouse near UF,
Shands, shopping; easy access. 2BR/2.5BA;
great for student/family. Only $750/mo;
LEASE/BUY OPTION -OWNER FINANCED.
Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432 3-3-
09-75-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. 239-250-6149 2-26-10-35-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Unit. $450 ea. W/D.
Property has clubhouse, fitness and busi-
ness/computer ctr. Utilities incl. On bus
route. Windsor Park.
305-788-5681/Windsor515@gmail.com.
2-26-10-28-1LUXURY 2STORY TOWNHS. 2B/2.5Ba
FULLY FURN. 2 min to UF, Great bus routes
& parking, Pool/gym, Free wifi, All utils incl.
Both rooms avail June 1st or later, Individual
Leases $540/$520 Martha 786 246-3049
3-5-29-1
4BR/4BA, large living, next to bus stop, fairly
new condo. $399/mo each room. Close to
shopping, school & library. Call 941-232-
1960 3-3-10-20-1
4/4 COUNTRYSIDE APTS. Spacious 4 bed-
room close to UF! Close to major shopping
areas and located on 3 bus routes that go to
center of UF. Every room has full bathroom
& large walk-in closets. Entire place is fur-
nished. High efficiency W/D. Rent is $400/
room/month. Utilities included! SD $200.
Available June or August. Call (305) 799-
7042 3-25-30-1
$370-4/4 University Terrace Condo available
starting summer/fall. ALL utilities included,
W/D in unit, on routes 12 and 35, ten minutes
to campus by bus! $250 deposit, individual
lease. Call Anu at 352.262.0628. 2-26-10-
13-1
$370-4/4 Countryside condo for rent starting
immediately/summer/fall. ALL utilities includ-
ed, on bus routes 9 and 35, individual leases.
Call Anu at 352.262.0628. 2-26-10-13-1
IMMEDIATE/SUMMER AVAILABILITY
2,3 and 4 bedroom suites
STARTING @ 349
All inclusive, fully furnished
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-10-30-1
Hampton Oaks Apartments
Unfurnished TH $749
Furnished ind. $538
$500 Visa gift card with ad
124 SW 62nd st -(352) 333-8643
leasing@siverwingproperties.com
2-26-10-11-1
1BR/1BA. $850/mo everything included. 1
block from campus. Covered parking. Call for
details 724-974-9591. 2-25-10-10-1
3bed/2bath condo with W/D, pool &club-
house $1250/mon close to UF and on bus
route. Will consider seperate leases. 727-
463-0560 2-19-10-5-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
2/2*3/3*4/4
Experience the Good Life
Text "Enclave" to 47464
4-21-09-71-1
Countryside 4/4 $1600 GREAT CONDITION
Great bus rts. 9&35, poolside, balcony, tiles,
w/d, walk-in closet, 42" LCD, gate w/buzzer
incl. utilities w/cap, Newly Renovated. Avail.
Fall-lyr lease, Call Patel 941-518-4058
2-23-10-5-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901 4-21-
10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2LIVE THE DOWNTOWN LIFE
Steps from clubs-blocks to UF
Studios, 1/1's, 2/2's & 3/3's
The best location.GUARANTEED
Reserve NOW for fall! 338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
AFFORDABLE RATES! QUIET COMMUNITY!
www.frederickgardens.com
1 BR/1 BA $469 * 2BR/1 BA $569
Great Move-In Fee Specials!
Adopted pets live free!! 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Fet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOWor FALL 2010.
2/2 from $999 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-21, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$699 2/2-$799 3/2-$899
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464
4-21-71-2
*THE POLOSO
Already have your roommates?
ALL utilities Included
2's: From $479/person; 3's: From $399/person
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 *aWaive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75 SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 4-21-
71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*ww.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255W
4-21-09-71-2
SORORITY ROW 2BR
2BR/2.5BA for $1199
W/D & utils included. We <3 pets!
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
That's what She Said!
"I LOVE Hidden Lake because.
Cable & internet are Included,
roommate matching is available,
furniture & utility packages are available,
I'm just 1.5 miles to UF & midtown,
there's FREE tanning & a 24-hr gym,
a designer pool AND pets are welcome!
Come see for yourself!
call 374-3866 for a tour or text
HIDDENLAKE to 47464 OR.
Next time you're on facebook,
creep on over to Hidden Lake's page
to see floor plans, pics & more!
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $505 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 26 S 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$394 ALL INCLUSIVE
Upscale Student Living
TV IN YOUR APT!*Ask how
Bus line through the Complex!
GainesvillePlace.com*352-271-3131
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
1BRI 1 Mo free 2BR 2 Mo free
if everyone is full time undergrad at UF.
3 Mo free if full time grad at UF.
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/ Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$600 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 17
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For RentF nfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 2-19-10-75-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -WE'VE GOT IT ALL!
1/1 from $589 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning * Fitness Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis*1 mile to UF*Huge Laundry Facilities
377-7401 www.biketouf.com
4-21-09-71-2
BLOCKS TO UF
Available August 2010. Now showing
multiple houses. 2BR/2BA, 3BR/2BA,
4BR/3BA, 5BR/3BA. www.dalyproperties.
com or call Carol 359-3341 2-26-10-43-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $540;
1BR $465. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $490;
2BR $590 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 2-26-10-35-2
One Block to UF:2/2.5 bath townhouse. W/D,
Dishwasher, Garbage Disposal, wood floors,
ceiling fans, GUARANTEED Parking call
Todd at 514-4915, VERY Nice townhouse
2-26-10-33-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1st Nice large
4BR/2BA house. Big bedrooms, big living rm.
W/D provided, game rm $1425/mo. 2100 NW
8th Court. Call for diretions. Pets ok, fenced
yard. Other houses available 352-339-2342
2-19-10-33-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Cal 376-1111
4-21-65-2
JUULa , ;dd m.P* One Month Free and $40 Moves you Inf
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $499 2/1 $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/1 from $599 2/2 from $699
Additional $200 off next month
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Sunrise Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $509 Additional $200 off the next month.
NO APP FEE. Near UF, Shands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 $599
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Villas at Ashton Square
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/2 $719 3/2 $849
Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Summer Place Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $519
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Sundowne Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Studio $469 1/1 $519
Walk to Butler Plaza and Regal Cinemas
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
e$ e atdo lnto III i o if* One Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Gator Village Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1/1 $489
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Walk to UF. Openings in Feb, May & Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 0 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 0 studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
2-26-10-32-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
3-18-10-40-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
GOT ROACHES?
Buy Harris Famous Roach Tablets.
Guaranteed to kill. Available at: Zells
Hardware, 3727 West University 3-17-10-
35-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
I, %g ii
Avai ab e1rm ommere a News oeMove in Special: No Security Deposit
2/2 Condo with washer/dryer, screened-
in porch, newer condo, near UF. Shands,
located off 34th & Archer Rd. 2 units
available $750/mo. Call 317-5060 215-5996
3-1-10-27-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Large 4BR/2BA house,
Wash/dry provided, privacy fenced, pets ok,
full sized hot tub on back screened porch,
dishwasher, carport, $1600/mo. 3413 NW
8th Ave 352-339-2342 2-19-10-15-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. 3BR/1BA house. Nice.
Nine blocks from campus, wash/dry pro-
vided, cent H/AC fenced private backyard,
hardwood floors, detached garage. $1125/
mo. 924 NW 9th Ave. 352-339-2342 2-19-
10-15-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Clean modern 4BR/2BA
house. fenced backyard, pets ok, fireplace,
wash/dry provided, wooded private big yard.
$1425/mo, central heat/air. 2606 NW 34th
Street. 352-339-2342 2-19-10-15-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Clean nice 4BR/2BA
house, privacy fenced backyard, pets ok,
hardwood floors, fireplace, plenty of parking,
wash/dry provided, dishwasher, cent heat/air
$1400/mo 830 NW 16th Ave 352-339-2342
2-19-10-15-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 3-31-37-2
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 3 bd/ 2 ba
Completely Remodeled
W/D inc. Spiral Staircase
Walk to Class, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
*Walk to Class & Stadium*
2/1, W/D, Granite Countertops
Hardwood Floors & Fireplace
Huge Bedrooms,Covered parking
$1300/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Large 5 Bedrm House**
1 full & 3-1/2 baths
Plant Atriums, Unique floorplan, W/D
Plenty of Parking, 8 blocks N of UF
$2,500/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Walk to UF/Sorority Row 4bd/4.5ba
3 stories w/ 4 master suites. w/d incl.
Near corner of SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
2BD 1 BA WALK TO UF
Charming Quad near AGH
1005 SW 3rd Ave
Hardwood floors & parking
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
18, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010
For Rent For Rent U ublasesunfurnished unfurnished
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
NEWLY REMODELED
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
2-26-18-2
$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1BA
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands.
W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500sec., $495/
month. 3120 SW 26th Way Unit A. 562-2782
or 514-6869 if interested. 3-16-25-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $700/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220.
2-26-18-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home. Shady lot.
From $300 -$450/mo incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887 3-2-20-2
1 BR apt. for rent off Tower Rd. $385/mo. We
accept Section 8. We will pay you $500 cash
back for 1 year lease on Section 8. 352-498-
3035 3-2-10-20-2
705 NW 10th Avenue <9Blks from UF
3BR/1 BA, 8rooms + 400 sq.ft.porch, Central
A/C, W/D, $1,250 + util. Avail. Aug. 275-
1259, ATucker458@aol.com 3-5-10-22-2
**MUST SEE -IN-LAW SUITE**
1BR full BA, living room, dining room, full
kitchen. w/cable & W/D. Inc all utils. Near
Haile. Quiet. $750/mo. Call 352-367-0372
3-5-1-21-2
10houses.com for more info
2 & 3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$840 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
3-5-1 0-20-2
WALK ONE BLOCK TO CAMPUS!
1, 2, 3, and 4 BR units available now and
for Fall 2010. Locations between SW 1st
ave, SW 5th ave & SW 12th St. Call Kinetic
Properties at 352-337-9600 (no dogs please)
3-19-10-25-2
4Br/3Ba Large Home w/ 2 car gar, 8 min from
UF, large fenced yard, dogs ok. Exquisite
oaks & landscaping, wood & tile floors, new
appliances. $1,600/mo. 352466-0358. Avail
summer or Aug. 3120 NW 31st Blvd. 3-5-
10-20-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 2-19-
10-10-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 2-22-
10-10-2
Available now. HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo. All
4BR/2BA $1100/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183
2-23-10-10-2
Female roommate pref for furn/unfurn
lbr/lba in a 2br/2.5ba townhouse in quiet
SW neighborhood near UF & Shands. AVAIL
NOW, M-to-M lease, $450/month & $250
refundable deposit. Call Ann 352-870-7414
2-26-10-13-2
Baxter Cottage 2 blks to UF campus, 1013
SW 4 Ave 2BR/1 BA, Bright, clean, complete-
ly remodeled, 500 sq ft, Cent AC/Ht,wood
firs, DW, W/D, NS, NPets. $500+util. Lease
runs thru 7/1/10 ATucker458@aol.com 3-5-
10-18-2
Lakefront House/5 Acres/Quiet
2BR/2BA/FI Rm w/pri ent/Lg Kit
LR w/Fire PI/Washer Dryer/2-car
Carport/Interlachen $1500./mo
813-473-3713 swellgirl@gmail.com 2-26-
10-13-2
$650, 2 bdrms, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet
school & campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furnished; Parking; 352
376 0080; 352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
3-5-10-17-2
Beautiful 3/3, close to schooldir. on bus!
Brand new appl, paint, bedding, remdld
bthrms, Frnt bldng, upstrs. $1250/mo.
bdduf86@comcast.net
3-4-10-14-1
2BR/2.5BA townhouse condo, 1 mi from
UF on bus route. Inc W/D, community club-
house, pool & fitness center. Wired for inter-
net & security sys. $878/mo. Avail 5/1 or 8/1.
Call/text 332-8841 lindalu gatorhomescom
3-1-10-10-2
7 Blks UF , 4 bed 3 bath, 2 masters, POOL
HOT TUB, 2500 sq ft, 2 porches, 5 car
parking, responsible students, professionals
only, will leave plasma on wall, $2375 a
month starting May , Jordan 352-222-0211
2-22-10-5-2
OTHE POLOSO
"You want it, We got it!"
#1 in Amenities
2/2's: From $799; 3/3's: From $979
Includes FREE Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-42-2
NW -Appletree, Contemporary Home.
3BR/2BA, 2 car garage, sunroom, cul-de-sac
st. 1700 sq ft. NICE $995/mo. Irene Larsson
Owner/Realtor 352-373-2605, 352-538-1218
3-1-10-10-2
NW -Home 3BR/2BA, 2 car carport, large
family room, fenced yard, extra storage,
W/D. $980/mo. Irene Larsson Mgmt Service
352-373-2605 3-1-10-10-2
Amazing 4/4 house Fall-walk to UF or Law
Sch.Univ.& NW 28 St-on bus line-Huge bed-
rms-new appl.& paint-c/air-pets ok/fenced
yd/ Ig home-$2195-can email pics-954-270-
4000 3-15-10-14-2
2BR HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area. Wood floors, new kitchen
vinyl, Cent H/AC, DW, fenced yard, wood
deck, parking, $1080/mo. Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 3-17-
10-15-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority
Row/Norman Hall area. W/D, ice maker, ce-
ramic tile. Cent H/AC, DW, parking, fenced
yard. $1545/mo. Pets extra? Avail Aug 16. 1
yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 3-17-10-15-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area, remodeled baths, new:
stove, DW, disposal & AC, W/D, wd firs. cent
H/AC, parking. $2400/mo Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg
3-17-10-15-2DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $400/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished +
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 2-24-10-16-3
Arlington Square 207 SE 2nd Place.
Downtown near the Hipp. on bus routes.
2BR/2bath townhome. Available immediate-
ly. $650.00. Lease expires 7-30-10. 863-258-
6350 2-18-10-5-3
Summer Sublease
2 Blocks from campus
Windsor Hall
$300 per month, all utilities included
fully furnished
407-314-0535 2-10-4-3
Summer sublease:1 suite available in
3BR/3BA for 3 month lease(May-
July),Lexington Crossing.Female only.Fully
furnished with W/D.On bus routes
9,34,36.$450/month all inclusive.Contact
Ms.Shao at 352-870-0264 or ywshao@ufl.edu
2-26-10-7-3
1BR in 4BR @ Courtyards 1231 sw 3rd ave,
1 block from uf! female only, furnished, build.
A w/pool. $437/month all inclusive. Avail:May
1st, lease ends: Aug. 10th call 239-910-5800
or e-mail bbb505@ufl.edu 2-24-5-3
356/Month!
Furnished room w/private bath avialable now
till Aug. Located at Gateway at Gainesville
next to 1-75 and Archer. 352-871-5952
2-24-10-5-3Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
2-26-10-20-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsNVA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$350/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220.
2-26-18-4
Female seeks roommate for new 3/2 home
in clean, quiet SW neighborhood. $450 incl
all utils. No pets, no smoking. 352-641-6166.
Furnished, 1 acre fenced yard, W/D, DW,
central H/AC. Available immediately. 3-2-
5-4
Looking for roommate to share 2/2 at
Lakewood Villas. $525 per month with inter-
net/full digital cable/utilities included. On bus
route. 850-585-4405. 3-5-10-13-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
OF eRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad -
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $299 -$260
+ $50 utils charge/mo incl elec, cable tv, in-
ternet, pool, laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave.
378-4626 4-21-09-71-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
2-26-10-28-4
Female seeks roommate for 4/2.5 town-
house, cricket club, all included, no pets,
$400 954-557-4769 3-4-10-30-4
IVE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Manufactured Homes. Won't Last
3/2 -Great Community
Owner Financing
$650.00/mo
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes
3 and 2 beds avail/low down/low monthly
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes 2 & 3 bdr's
From $599.00/month
Owner Financing
Low down
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes. Move In Ready
3/2 Adorable
From $99.00/mo
Westside/owner finance
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured homes.
OWNER FINANCING
3 & 2 bedrooms avail
Great Locations
Call 352.378.4411 today! 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes. Up to $8K tax credit
For 1st time home buyers
3 & 2 bdrs avail
WE FINANCE
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
OPEN HOUSE EVERY SATURDAY
MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITIES
GREAT HOMES, GREAT PRICES
WE FINANCE, LOW DOWN,
LOW MONTHLY 904-400-0421,SUSAN
2-26-10-20-5
Manufactured Home Communities-
Jacksonville Use your tax refund
Get a 42" TV with purchase
Limited offer, call for details
904-400-0421 Susan 2-26-10-20-5
4BR/4BA fairly new condo for sale. Ideal for
students or family. Within 2 miles of every-
thing: school, shopping, library. Quick sale.
$139,000. University Terrace on 34th St. Call
941-232-1960 3-3-10-20-5
3BR/3BA, 4171 sq ft, heating & A/C, 3-car
garage, 20'x40' screened pool, small office,
sauna hottub, 1 1/4 acres. 1410 NW 110th
Terr, $422,500. 352-332-1050 2-22-10-10-
S
'nipp-- o
C-
4C, ,
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
V Real Estate Furnishings Furnishings Motorcycles, Mopeds Autos
Campus Edge / Somerest VillageWalk to
Shands/VA/class 2units, 2bd/2ba vault-
ed ceilings 2nd/3rd floor w/d in unit,best
locations parking. $8,000 tax credit.
$164,900/$132,900. Move in Ready 954-
439-2301 stedel@bellsouth.net 4-21-10-
41-5
F Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
C"BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
MOVING MUST SELL- CHEAP! Full Sealy
Posturepedic & twin orthopedic beds, desk,
coffee table, kitchen table & chairs, 2 La-Z-
Boy chairs, 2 end tables, 2 card tables, small
bookshelf. David 375-3744 before Feb 27th
2-26-10-7-6
-computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
CERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECHO
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
2-26-10-34-7GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
Gator Mobile Scooter Repair
Stop waiting weeks before getting your
scooter back. Call Gator Mobile Scooter
Repair and ride today.Specializing in On-site
scooter repair and diagnostics. Guaranteed
lowest prices in all of Gainesville. Free oil
change/inspection with this AD.Call Tony at
(305)989-0824or(305)563-4359. 3-1-14-11
2008 Johnny Pag fx3, 1900 miles, black
looks new, 300 cc, $1650. 2007 Dirtbike
SUZUKI drz125 black yellow runs great,
$975 email for pictures jssaxa@gmail.com
352-222-0211 2-22-10-5-11
5IIIAutos
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS 0
ORunning or not!@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
Over 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy6Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
-,uPOWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? F Bicycles On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 4-21-71-12
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted WE BUY JUNK CARSseat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-2171-ny12 l .(5) 8-90
11C JFor SaleUI BUY CARS & TRUCKS
4CU
M4I C,,
42U2
=C'r
m 6_tIva
JVI*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
W Motorcycles, MopedS
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Aye, Ste D, 336-1271
ww.NS4L.com4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
**Www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11ClAntime 352-339-5158
2-26-09-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Chevy Camero $999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
96 Chevy Blazer $1999 cash
97 Plymouth Voyager $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699 cash
94 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Kia Sephia $999
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1999
97 Olds Delta 88 $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
98 Ford Explorer $1900
97 Mits Diamonte $1999
98 Ford Contour $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
94 Nissan Altima $1999
98 Pontiac Transport $1999
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Chevy Malibu $1999
95 Chrysler LHS $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-1296 Honda Accord $2500
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
02 Kia Rio $3900
03 Buick Century $4900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k, $8999CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k, $6999 CASH
2000 Ford Mustang, 111k, $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Ford Escape, 95k, $6999 CASH
2000 GMC Sierra, 166k, $5999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k, $5999 CASH
2007 lsuzu Trooper290 Truck, 46k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Dodge Stratus, 78k, $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
INSTANT CASH
FOR ALMOST ANY CAR OR TRUCK,
Wrecked or running. Any condition.
Highest dollar paid.
386-365-1855 2-22-10-10-12
OF ZWanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948. 2-25-10-72-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 2-25-
10-72-13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SOOSOPERATION CATNIPOOSO
Many needs and opportunities can be found
at www.nmhp.net. Feral cat capture, spay-
ing, volunteering, office work earn Disney
Tix, etc. Email: operationcatnip@nmhp.net
2-19-7-13
LEGITIMATE INDEPENDENT FILM PROJECT
seeking 3 singer/songwriter producers.
$1200 investment guarantees live video
performance of one 4-minute or less song.
Professionally filmed on location at popular
local nightclub. You will be in the film
Call 386-454-7170, 352-316-5460,
etrip@windstream.net 2-19-5-13
20, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010
Wanted Help Wanted Help Wanted Services Entainment
OPERATION CATNIP
Many needs and opportunities can be found
at www.nmhp.net. Feral cat capture, spay-
ing, volunteering, office work earn Disney
Tix, etc. Email: operationcatnip@nmhp.net
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
LATE NIGHT DRIVERS
$15-$17/hr 10pm -4am.
Apply @ gatordominos.com 4-21-10-60-14BARTENDER OPENINGS
Earn $150-250/day. No experience required.
Will train. Call now 352-678-5246 2-26-10-
20-14
No jobs available, but we buy LPs, CDs &
DVDs. (And we sell them, too!)
Hear Again Music and Movies
201 SE 2nd Ave. (Suite 105), 32601
352-373-1800
2-26-19-14
Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have a fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
Bartender
Meet new people work in an exciting
environment. Take home cash tips after
each shift. No experience necessary training
available. Call (877) 568-7296
2-19-10-12-14
Computer consultant positions available
in faculty lab. Applicants must be familiar
with Windows and Microsoft Office applica-
tions, Photoshop & Dreamweaver. Friendly
and helpful attitude essential. Pay starts at
$9.00 per hour. Online application:
www.citt.ufl.edu/employment.php 2-19-10-
10-14
OSOATTENTION SMOKERS!OS
SODo you want to quit smoking?@@
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking
cessation study. You may be compensated.
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic 328-6603 or
email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com 2-22-
10-14
SERVERS
Exp in full service. Apply in person between 2
& 5 NAPOLATANO'S 606 NW 75th St. 2-1-
10-4-14
Photography Assist PT
Skills: Advanced Photoshop, professional,
organized, fun, attentive to detail. No wall-
flowers. Interest in Photography +. Must be
OK with AODA. Call Today: 352-283-8196
2-23-10-14
PT Hibachi Chef & Server Wanted Asian fast
paced full service restaurant looking for ex-
pprofessional Hibachi Chefs & strong ser-
vers. Strict business oriented environment.
Responsible, disciplined team players only!
Fax resume to 352-337-0036. 2-24-10-
10-14
Female homework Coach need for high
school student twice a week. Please call
352-226-8653 2-19-10-5-14
OFFICE WORKER- Must be able to work fall
and spring. Average 15-20 hours per week
for in-home office. Must have transportation,
be reliable, honest, and a HARD WORKER.
Must have office experience. Pay is $7.25/hr.
Email: fratmgmt@gmail.com a cover letter
and resume. We will email you a complete
job description. 2-19-10-5-14
City of Gainesville/GRU is
seeking a student with event
planning exp. for a paid internship
opportunity. If interested, apply
today at www.cityofgainesville.jobs
2-26-10-10-14
Dental Office seeks qualified personnel.
Work ethic nec. Desire to help disadvan-
taged children a must. Prefer CDA- 4 day
work week/ 40 hr avail -Competitive Wage.
Fax resume only to 352-375-4268 c/o Staff-D
2-19-10-5-14
Autism-Great Work Opportunity for reliable
motivated individual to acquire knowledge 
&
intervention skills working with autistic young
man in home & community setting. Req
BA-Psy, Sp Ed, ABA exp and/or non-verbal
communication skills. Hours TBA, competi-
tive wage.Fax resume to 352-375-4268 c/o
Staff-A. 2-19-5-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Evenings &
weekends. Fax resume to 373-2230 3-1-
2-23-10-20-14 10-10-14Now hiring -Waitstaff & Host(esse)s with ex-
prience. No calls. Apply: LaFiesta 7038 NW
10th Pl. (behind Red Lobster) or 9513 NW
39th Ave between 2 & 4pm in person. 3-2-
10-10-14
MACRO-ECONOMICS TEACHER
IMMEDIATE OPENING
www.tutoringzone.com apply if you are well
versed in other classes. We only hire the
smartest and the funniest. Must be able to
entertain a group of 300 people while teach-
ing the course in a fun way. Experience in
macro is critical.If you are confident, funny,
charismatic email larina@tutoringzone.com
2-23-10-5-14
Looking for great experience to excell in your
career? Exactech, Inc is a medical device
company in Gainesville, FL. We are looking
for a part-time intern to start immediately, on
our human resources team. Job responsibi-
lites would include screening resumes, as-
sisting with new employee orientation, greet-
ing candidates for interviews and providing
with Exactech information, sourcing candi-
dates, posting jobs, and evaluating recruiting
trends and research. Please submit cover
letter and resume to human.resources@
exac.com 2-25-10-7-14
Marketing Assistant, P/T.
Assists with marketing and PR
for O'Connell Center. If
interested send e-mail
to musson@ufl.edu 2-25-7-14MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-
15
JOSH'S TUTORING
Math, Biology, Chemistry, Spanish
$20/hr, group rates available
Flexible schedule, references upon request
(352) 682-3014 2-23-5-15
FHealth Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
WJ Z IRides
Sun Country Summer Job Fair! Tues. Feb. Grieving the loss of someone? Ams
23 7-8:30 pm at the West gym. National Students of AMF
Join our Facebook group: 
-
Bring applications for Summer Camp, "Gator Students of AMF"
Aquatics, Gymnastics, Cheer, Rockwall, TalkAboutLoss.org 4-21-43-16 GMG TRANSPORT
Tumbling, Dance Cleaning/Maintenance, FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Office, Driving & more. Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Applications at suncountrysports.com. Personals Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Contact hr@suncountrysports.com for info. -Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
2-23-10-5-14 HIV ANTIBODY TESTING charge pay by phone or online- $35 C/W
11EV $45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
Alachua County Health Dept. Call 4-21-71-23
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15*Family C-,HiropraCtic*Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
WJlConnections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
EM NKilPetS
Furry, feathery, scaly .no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
Midwest Feed and Farm Pet Adoptathon
Sat Feb 20th 1 Oam-5pm Dogs, Cats, Horses,
Rabbits, Guinea Pigs. Low Cost Vaccines,
Feed Vendors, Pet Trainers Live D.J, Food
Fun for all ages 17010 W. Newberry Rd.
(352) 472-6050 2-19-5-24
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
UOGANIZA IN HU1iAVING4 AIN E-VE-NTI
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersGator Tail Dancers
Entertainment
352/672/1892
Sports
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
UF looks to avoid late-season letdown
0 THE GATORS WILL TAKE ON AUBURN TONIGHT
AT 7 IN THE O'CONNELL CENTER.
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
Florida has its back against the wall.
With six regular-season games remaining and its post-
season fate hanging in the balance, UF (17-8, 6-4 South-
eastern Conference) will start the most crucial stretch of
the season with a matchup against Auburn (12-13, 3-7
SEC) tonight at 7 in the O'Connell Center.
"We all know that this is a key moment, and the sea-
son is on the line, basically, with these upcoming games,"
sophomore point guard Erving Walker said. "There's def-
initely more pressure."
The Gators will ease into the six-game stretch against
the Tigers, one of three teams in the SEC with a sub-500
overall record. Auburn's three conference wins have come
against teams with a combined 7-25 record in league play
-Alabama, Georgia and LSU.
UF will have to move on from tonight's game quickly
to play at Ole Miss at noon on Saturday in Oxford, Miss.,
then travel back to Gainesville for a crucial Tuesday night
showdown with Tennessee.
The jam-packed schedule has put a lot of pressure on
UF coach Billy Donovan to prepare his team -a task
made all the more difficult by the Gators' limited rota-
tion.
"Our total focus is on Auburn, but at the same time, as
a coaching staff, you're looking at the physical part down
the road -getting prepared for Ole Miss, getting pre-
pared for Tennessee," Donovan said. "That's a challenge
probably for every coach dealing with depth issues."
After winning back-to-back national championships,
UF has struggled to finish the regular season strong. The
Gators are 9-14 in February and March since 2008, includ-
ing a 2-2 record this month that has skeptics wondering if -
UF is destined for another late-season collapse. Harrison Diamond Alligator Staff
junior forward Chandler Parsons doesn't think so Hrio imn/Afiao tf
"We've got some veterans who have been through this UF point guard Erving Walker and the Gators will kick off a
SEE HOOPS PAGE 23 packed week of critical games against Auburn tonight at 7.
Gators use old connections for new hires
UF introduces four assistants
By MIKE McCALL
Alligator Staff Writer
mmccall@a Iligator org
With the Florida coaching staff in
disarray, Urban Meyer and interim
head coach Steve Addazio turned to
old friends to steady the boat.
To replace the four assistants gone
from last year's team, the Gators
brought in Teryl Austin (defensive
coordinator), Stan Drayton (running
backs), Zach Azzanni (receivers) and
D.J. Durkin, four coaches who have
served with Meyer or Addazio in the
past.And they will be counted on to keep
things running smoothly while Meyer
is on his indefinite leave of absence.
"We all know each other, and
we're cut from the same cloth
with the way we approach our
kids, football and our families."
Stan Drayton
UF running backs coach
"We're a small fraternity of people
who have crossed paths," Drayton said.
"There's a bloodline somewhere along
the way where these guys have workedwith each other before.
"We all know each other, and we're
cut from the same cloth with the way
we approach our kids, football and our
families."
Durkin and Azzanni served under
Meyer at Bowling Green, and Austin
worked alongside Addazio at Syracuse
more than 10 years ago.
That connection led to Austin taking
over for George Edwards, who left UF
for the Buffalo Bills just three weeks af-
ter accepting the Gators' defensive co-
ordinator job.
Austin joked about his predeces-
sor's brief tenure at a press conference
Wednesday, saying, "Yeah, I've got to
SEE FOOT, PAGE 23
alligatorSports Podcast
U Bobby Callovi, Mike McCall and
Tyler Jett join host Adam Berry to
discuss UF's new assistant coaches
and preview the upcoming baseball
season. Check it out on iTunes.Florida-Georgia
meet will be
one to watch
have covered a bunch of really excit-
ing games in the three years I have
worked for the Alligator, but still one
of the most exciting events I attended as a
journalist was the Florida-Georgia gym-
nastics meet my first semester covering a
team in 2008.
The Bulldogs return to the O'Connell
Center for the first time since then on Fri-
day, and I suggest you don't miss it.
Even though you might know nothing
about gymnastics, or for that matter even
care about the sport, it won't matter.
When I covered it, the sport was still
new to me, and I had no clue why people
got the scores they did, but I was enter-
tained from start to finish.
The teams were Nos. 1 and 2 entering
the competition, it was being aired on
ESPN2 and neither
team disappointed.
It was not either
team's best perfor-
mance that season,
but in a sport in
Bobby Callovi which the teams are
Bobby's World never even on the
bcallovi@alligator org same apparatus, it
produced as close of
a finish as there can
be in gymnastics.
Florida was forced to count a fall on
the uneven bars, and with how well
Georgia was performing, there seemed to
be little hope for the Gators.
With just one gymnast remaining
to compete on the balance beam for the
Bulldogs, all former Olympian Courtney
McCool had to do was not fall.
Of course, she fell, sending the record-
setting crowd of 10,855 into a frenzy,
which caused the Gators to try to calm
the fans -because apparently cheering
when someone falls is a no-no, for future
reference -and setting the scene for
Amanda Castillo on the floor.
The eventual All-American in the
event came up just short of the 9.9 score
she needed to tie the Bulldogs, finishing
with a 9.875.
The meet ended with the Gators losing
by .025 -the smallest margin to lose by.
SEE BOBBY, PAGE 23
alligatorSports.org
U UF's women's basketball team will be in
action tonight at 7, facing No. 16 Kentucky
in Lexington. It will be the thrid-straight
game against a ranked opponent for the
Gators. For full coverage, check it out online.TEEING OFF WITH MIKE McCALL
E Tiger Woods will make a statement about his past conduct and future plans in
my hometown of Ponte Vedra Beach on Friday. I hear he's going to list all of his
mistresses in the form of a song, patterned after Petey Pablo's "Freek-a-Leek."
.Donte Stallworth is back in the NFL after missing a year for a vehicular homi-
cide charge and says he can run a 4.3. Good, run instead of driving from now on.
22, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010
Brombacher, DeFelice lead Gators to first home win
* THE JUNIOR CATCHER HIT
TWO HOMER VS. DOLPHINS.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Writer
After a weekend in which the
offense and defense took turns
carrying the load, the Gators were
able to finally put it all together
with a 6-1 win over Jacksonville
in their home opener.
Battery mates Stephanie Bro-
mbacher and Tiffany DeFelice led
the way for UF (4-1).
Brombacher got the complete-
game win, allowing only one run
on two hits while striking out
nine, including the first four bat-
ters for the Dolphins (4-1).
After struggling late in games
over the weekend, Brombacher
retired the opposition in order
from the fifth inning on Wednes-
day, striking out four in the pro-
cess.
"I stayed a little bit more men-
tally focused, especially in the
late innings, to just go out there
and pitch my game instead of get-
ting juiced up and trying to throw
the ball harder because that's not
what I do," Brombacher said.
While Brombacher's mental
focus certainly played a role, her
physical stamina was just as im-
pressive.Despite throwing 109 pitches
in the game, she was as sharp in
the final frame, throwing nine of
her 12 pitches for strikes.
"Anytime you're going
through some struggles in late
innings, it's mostly fatigue, and
fatigue then mentally fatigues
you, too, so I thought she did a
good job coming out strong and
finishing really well," UF coach
Tim Walton said.
DeFelice got the scoring start-
ed in the second inning for the
Gators with a two-run home run
off the left-field foul pole and lat-
er added a solo shot off the score-
board to start the fourth.
The junior catcher's 3-for-3
night really got her season on
track after she went only 2 for
12 in the team's season-opening
tournament.
"I think it was just a lot of
frustration coming out from last
weekend so it was nice I had a
good day. I felt good today," De-
Felice said.
The Gators added a pair of
runs in the bottom of the third
with an RBI single from senior
Francesca Enea, who scored three
pitches later on a double by ju-
nior Kelsey Bruder.
Enea's RBI was her team-lead-
ing 11th, while Bruder's moved
her into second on the team with
four.UF also added an insurance
run in the bottom of the sixth, as
freshman Brittany Walker got her
career at home started on a goodnote with a sacrifice fly to right in which it struggled the most on
that scored pinch runner Lauren opening weekend, leaving only
Heil. four runners on base in Wednes-
Florida improved in the area day's win.
-
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF catcher Tiffany DeFelice runs to home plate as her teammates gather to celebrate her first home run
of the Gators' 6-1 win against Jacksonville at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium on Wednesday night.
Rainey may play receiver, running back
FOOTBALL, from page 21
go," and turning away from the
lectern as soon as Edwards' name
was brought up.
Austin and Durkin still don't
have clearly defined roles, as
which positions they handle will
depend on Florida's hiring of
graduate assistants.
Durkin said he will be in-
volved with coaching the special
teams for the Gators, a sign that
Meyer will likely lessen his du-
ties this season, like Meyer said
he would.
Drayton is the team's new re-
cruiting coordinator, and he said
Dade County and the Orlando
area will be his main regions of
focus.
Drayton has the strongest
ties to the Gators' program, as
he held the same position at UF
from 2005-07 before leaving for
Tennessee, then spending a year
at Syracuse.
His departure was less than
amicable.
Heading to a Southeastern
Conference rival didn't sit well
with Meyer, and Drayton later
complained about the way run-
ning backs were used in Meyer's
offense.
Drayton said he and Meyer
patched things up, but the phone
call offering his old job wasn't ex-
pected.
"I would be lying to you if I
said I wasn't surprised," Drayton
said. "But we're grown men. All
that stuff was really blown out of
proportion. The respect we had
for each other was never compro-
mised."
Drayton's return likely means
more playing time for running
back Emmanuel Moody, who
transferred to UF from USC
in large part to work with the
coach.
Drayton praised Moody on
Wednesday for the more physical
style he showed last season.Alligator File Photo
Stan Drayton returned to coach running backs at UF after leaving the
Gators for Tennessee and Syracuse for a year each.
The running backs coach
added that Chris Rainey will
split time between running back
and receiver, taking over the role
Percy Harvin played in Florida's
offense."How can you not take advan-
tage of what Chris Rainey can do
all over the field? We're definitely
going to tap into that," Drayton
said.BOBBY, from page 21
like that one, but this meet was just
one in a recent trend of close meets
between Florida and the five-time
defending national champion.
Excluding last year's meet, the
last five dual meets between the
two have been decided by .5 points
or less, including a tie in 2007.
This year's is setting up to be
another close matchup. The Gators
are ranked No. 4 while the Bull-
dogs are No. 7. The two teams are
averaging total scores within .2 of
each other.
This could also be Florida's best
chance to win since its victory in
2005, which was the only time the
Gators beat the Bulldogs in a dual
meet during Rhonda Faehn's ca-
reer as UF's coach.Courtney Kupets, who is
NCAA's all-time leader in indi-
vidual titles with nine despite only
competing in the NCAA Cham-
pionships three times due to an
injury her junior season, finally
graduated.
Georgia's longtime coach Su-
zanne Yoculan retired after last
season. She racked up 10 national
championships in her 26 years at
the school.
And the Bulldogs enter the
meet with their lowest ranking
since 2005, when they were also
No. 7.
No matter the result, though, it
is sure to be another exciting com-
petition between two perennial
national-title contenders.
Just remember: If someone falls,
don't cheer.
Mac's Auto Repair Shop
635 NW 1 3th Street #8
(352) 375-3334
Come In And Get Your Vehicle Checked
Out By ASE Certified Technicians
We wifl match or beat any wVitten estimate for repair
Monday -Friday 7am-5pm
Saturday -8am-12pm
---"
10% OFF
with ad on service work
MV 79901THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 23
Top-tier SEC teams await
HOOPS, from page 21
before," Parsons said. "You guys might be thinking, 'Here
we go again. It's the same thing as the last two years,' but
we're a much better team. We're more focused, we've been
through it and we have goals that we want to reach."
The obvious goal for the Gators is a return to the NCAA
Tournament, but in order to get there, they will have to do
something they've been unable to do the past few years:
beat top-tier SEC teams in the final weeks of the season.
Many of the squads UF fell to in 2008 and 2009 were
eventual Tournament teams. But Parsons
recognized his team's need to separate
itself from the rest of the bubble teams
if UF wants to avoid a third-straight Na-
Men's tional Invitation Tournament bid.
Basketball "The last two years, it's not like we
were playing slouch teams," Parsons
said. "We were playing good teams that
went to the NCAA Tournament. The biggest thing for us
this year is to find a way to win some of those games so
we can be one of those teams."
While wins against ranked conference opponents like
Tennessee (Tuesday), Vanderbilt (March 2) and Kentucky
(March 7) will boost their chances of making the Tourna-
ment, the Gators can improve their odds by winning the
games they need to -starting tonight.
"Everything's crucial now," Parsons said. "We've got
to see what we're made of."
Lose 15-20 lbs by Spring Break
Alliance
Permanent Weight Loss Program
Healthy lifestyle alterations
developed for your
individual needs by
Physicians & Medical Practitioners
Appetite Suppression Medication
No special foods or starvation -
We show you how to be healthy
and lose weight at the same time.
ALL Medications and Injections included.
Call Donna at (352) 337-3961
for information & appointments
www.AllianceWeightLoss.comL --m
24, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2010
UF BASEBALL
Toledo ready for return
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Staff Writer
a chi ang@a Iligator org
Just one year ago, Tommy Toledo was
dealing with the disappointment of missing
the entire 2009 season.
But in Friday's season-opener, the red-
shirt sophomore will get the start for No. 7
Florida.
After undergoing surgery on his right
shoulder for a torn labrum in October 2008,
Toledo was forced to sit out and redshirt.
"It was rough because that was the first
time I really had to sit out and not play," To-
ledo said.
There was a point late in the season where
he could have come back, but Toledo and the
team decided against it.
"I started heating it up a little bit and feel-
ing good again, but I just rested it and took it
easy," he said. "There was no point in wast-
ing a redshirt."
Instead, Toledo listened to the doctor's or-
ders and used the time to learn from the dug-
out. UF coach Kevin O'Sullivan looked at the
time off as an opportunity to teach him the
intricacies of pitching, like the importance of
first-pitch strikes and keeping the ball low in
the strike zone.
"I remember back in high school, I just
went out there and just threw," Toledo said.
"Now, I understand the game a lot more."
He also followed the rehab schedule with-
out taking any shortcuts, which took approxi-
mately 14-16 months in length.
Athletic trainer John Barrett set up a plan
consisting of four phases for Toledo.
First, he worked on improving the range of
motion in his shoulder, then came a strength-ening program, followed by some condition-
ing and finally a throwing program.
But mentally, Barrett wasn't sure if Toledo
was ready at first.
"Sometimes it takes even longer from a
mental aspect, that the athlete believes that
they're back to where they were beforehand,"
Barrett said. " But I think mentally he is ready
to go. I think he's seen glimpses of the way he
wants to throw and the way that he knows
he's capable of throwing."
Toledo started feeling like himself again
when he returned to Gainesville fresh off of
Christmas break.
In spring practice, he
has thrown as fast as 93
mph and stayed on the
same pitch count as the
others pitchers throughout
their scrimmages.
"I feel just as good as
I did when I came in my
Toledo freshman year," Toledo
said.
Not all is back to normal, however.
He has noticed it takes 10 minutes longer
to warm up his arm.
"I just have to do some more running and
arm stretching right before and after and take
care of my arm a little bit more," he said.
"Definitely, it's in the back of my mind."
Toledo won't have much time to think
about the shoulder, though.
He will be able to finally put all of the in-
jury concerns behind him on Friday.
"I didn't want to have him sit the whole
weekend just watching the other guys go
out there," O'Sullivan said. "I just wanted to
throw him right in the mix. He is certainly
good enough, so we'll see what he can do."UF tied for first at SECs
By MATT RUBIN
Alligator Writer
After the first day of the 2010 South-
easternConference Championship Meet,
the Florida swimming and diving teams
are tied for first place.
The women's team is currently tied
with Georgia at 95 points. On the men's
side, the Gators are tied with Auburn at
100 points.
"This is obviously going to be a very,
very close conference meet," coach
Gregg Troy said. "There are a bunch of
great teams with a bunch of good swim-
mers swimming fast times."
After posting the fourth-best score in
the women's 1-meter diving preliminary
round, it seemed senior Kara Salamone
saved her best for last, as she posted a
326.70. More than six points ahead of the
second-place finisher, Salamone became
the first Florida diving one-meter cham-
pion since 2000.
"It's absolutely awesome to win this
event. I've been diving five years, and
to go out on a high note is awesome.
There's been so much preparation and
a lot of hard work, good times and bad
times, even tears," Salamone said. "I re-
ally credit everything to (diving) coach
Donnie (Craine). He's made me into
everything I am as a diver today, and I
couldn't have done it without him."
In the men's 3-meter diving finals,
sophomores Colin Bell and AnthonyLewark placed fifth and seventh, respec-
tively. These finishes helped the men's
team gain crucial points.
"It was an awesome way to start our
night," Craine said. "We had nearly a
perfect day on the boards, and I couldn't
be more proud of our group of divers."
In the 200-yard medley relay, the
Florida women came in third while the
men came in second. The men's relay
team of Omar Pinzon, Conor Dwyer,
Shaune Fraser and Roberto Gomez fin-
ished with an NCAA automatic-qualify-
ing time of 1:25.10.
In the 800-yard freestyle relay, the
Gators women fin-
ished second as the
men placed first.
Shaune Fraser, Brett
Swimming g Fraser, Sebastien
RousseauandDwyer
met another NCAA
automatic-qualifying time, setting a new
Florida and Southeastern Conference
record with a time of 6:15.91. The relay
team finished more than seven seconds
ahead of the second-place team.
"Our men's 800-free relay is the fast-
est in the country right now, and the
women's 200-medley relay is the third-
fastest behind the two that took first and
second tonight," Troy said. "We wish we
could have been a little bit faster in the
shorter relays, but overall we're pleased.
This is only day one of a four-day meet.
We have three days left, and we need to
stay focused and race hard."
Building a Healthy Foundation for the Gator Nation
The Student Health Care Center's licensed and
board-certified medical professionals are available 24/7.
UF students can use our personalized services:
m Primary Care
" Acute Care &Trauma Clinic
" Psychiatry Services
" Physical Therapy
" Sports Medicine
" Women's Clinic
" Travel Clinic
" Allergy Injection Clinic* Dermatology Clinic
* Mole Screenings
" Massage Therapy
* Immunizations
* Full-Service Pharmacy
* Clinical Laboratory
* Radiology & EKG
" Nutrition Services
Phone first to make an appointment:
(352) 392-1161
UF I Student Health Care Center
