the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 144 We Inform. You Decide.S 7 RcyoW
TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010
Video shows events surrounding shooting
Beanbag, rifle shots occur within 5 seconds
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Staff Writer
Kofi Adu-Brempong's story has
been told through the shouts of pro-
testers and the text of police reports.
Six students heard and saw
a different side of the story at a
Gainesville house Monday night as
they watched a video taken by Adu-
Brempong's neighbor on the night
of the March 2 shooting.
The video, which is about 10
minutes long, includes the sounds
of the beanbag rounds and gunshots
fired at Adu-Brempong and showsthe five police officers breaking into
Adu-Brempong's apartment.
The neighbor who created the
film, who wishes to remain anony-
mous, began filming upon hearing
police say they were going to gas
Adu-Brempong's apartment.
The video footage shows Profes-
sor Peter Waylen, Adu-Brempong's
adviser, trying to talk with Adu-
Brempong through a window.
It also shows the officers trying
to converse with Adu-Brempong
through the window and asking
him to open the door. Waylen is
seen and heard asking the officersfor more time.
An officer breaks down Adu-
Brempong's door while three of-
ficers with guns pose outside the
door. The officers enter Adu-Brem-
pong's apartment, and Adu-Brem-
pong says, "I'm OK."
The sounds of three beanbag
rounds and two assault
Special rifles follow. About
Report 52 seconds elapses be-
tween the time the first
officer enters and the time the last
shot was fired. All five shots were
fired in five seconds.
Viewers cannot see Adu-Brem-pong being shot, but they do see
they officers entering with guns and
hear the shots fired.
"I hope that he's not dead," the
neighbor said in the silence follow-
ing the firing of the shots.
Officer Keith Smith ran from the
apartment following the shots. Oth-
er officers called him back.
Dave Schneider, an organizer of
the shooting protests who was pres-
ent at the screening, saw the video
for the first time Monday.
"If you can imagine the most
disturbing movie you've ever seen,
it's probably like on that level," Sch-
neider said.
He said all six students present at
Monday's gathering worked to editthe video and add explanatory cap-
tions so it could be posted online.
"Our objective is that everyone
knows this story by the end of the
week or by the end of the month or
whatever," Schneider said.
Adu-Brempong, a geography
Ph.D. candidate from Ghana, was
shot by UPD Officer Keith Smith in
his Corry Village apartment.
Florida Department of Law En-
forcement spokesman Mike Morri-
son couldn't say whether the video
had much of an impact on the final
report, which was completed Thurs-
day but not released.
Alligator reporters viewed the video
Monday evening. Alligator staff writer
Katherine Bein contributed.
STUDENT ACTIVISM
500 march in favor
of workers' rights
By MELINDA CARSTENSEN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Holding signs with slogans
like "We Want Justice," a crowd
of about 500 people, including
about 25 UF students, marched
this weekend from Tampa to
Lakeland in support of better
wages and working conditions for
Florida tomato pickers.
The Farmworker Freedom
March, which took place Friday
through Sunday, was an effort
led by the Coalition of Immokalee
Workers (CIW) to demand Publix
Super Markets Inc. join a partner-
ship among farmworkers, Florida
tomato growers and eight other
food corporations to end farm la-
bor abuse.
The CIW, a group that lobbies
food corporations to improve the
wages and working conditions for
workers in Immokalee, has been
pressuring Publix to sign a work-
er contract since 2007.
The agreement would require
the company to only sell tomatoes
picked at places where a worker
code of conduct exists and would
give workers a penny-per-pound
increase in their wages, said CIW"People are going to keep
questioning [Publix] if
they refuse to work with
the CIW. It doesn't make
sense. With the refusal,
they are helping to perpe-
trate the abuses."
Gerardo Reyes
CIW member
member Gerardo Reyes.
"People are going to keep ques-
tioning [Publix] if they refuse to
work with the CIW," Reyes said.
"It doesn't make sense. With the
refusal, they are helping to perpe-
trate the abuses."
When the marchers arrived at
the Publix headquarters in Lake-
land, they were met by company
representatives and some coun-
ter-protesters.
Dwaine Stevens, a spokesman
for Publix, said in an e-mail that
the march revolved around a dis-
pute between suppliers and their
employees and does not involve
Publix.
SEE FARM, PAGE 8
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersSteven H. Keys/ Alligator Staff
Robot Rock
Engineering student Tim Philipp shows his robot, Seeker, a red light representing an alien.
Seeker is programmed to shoot the "alien" with a laser beam. There were an array of stu-
dent-built robots in New Engineering Building Monday afternoon. See Story, Page 5.
U UF freshman
Brittany Walker and
the No. 3 Gators
will try to shore up
their defensive mis-
cues as they host
FlU tonight. They
have committed 23
errors in the last 15
games.
See Story, Page 17.To-day
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
11
13
17Thunder
storms
78/55
visit www.alligator.org
2, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Justice for Kofi rally
Today, 3:30 p.m.
Plaza of the Americas
The Coalition for Justice
Against Police Brutality will be
holding a third rally on the Plaza
of the Americas demanding jus-
tice for Kofi Adu-Brempong, the
graduate student who was shot
in the face by University Police
before Spring Break.
The coalition demands
that all charges against Adu-
Brempong be dropped imme-
diately and that State Attorney
Bill Cervone issues a grand jury
to investigate the shooting.
If you can't make it at
3:30 p.m., meet the coalition
at Cervone's office at 120 E.
University Ave. around 4:30
p.m.
Check out the event on
Facebook, and join the fight to
get justice for Adu-Brempong.
Earth Day on the Plaza
Wednesday, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Plaza of the Americas
Come out to Plaza of the
Americas to celebrate the 40th
anniversary of Earth Day.
The event features sustain-
able activities, a wide variety of
student groups, a panel on cre-
ating sustainable jobs at 11 a.m.
and President Bernie Machen's
State of Sustainability at UF ad-
dress at 1 p.m.
Don't forget to bring a T-shirt
to donate to get a discount on
this year's Earth Day T-shirt.
GCF graduation celebration
Friday, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Grace UMC Building B, 9325 W.
Newberry Road
All graduate and professionalCopyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
school students and their fami-
lies are invited to the last large
group meeting of Graduate
Christian Fellowship of the
year.
To celebrate the end of an-
other academic year, we will
provide all who come with a
free barbecue dinner in a re-
laxed, friendly environment.
See our Facebook group, GCF
at University of Florida, for
more details.
Floridance presents "Dancin'
In the Rain"
Sunday, 2 p.m.
Phillips Center for the
Performing Arts
The student-run dance
company will be having its
spring showcase of dance per-
formances.
This year's event is rais-
ing awareness and benefiting
Camp Kesem. It is free and
open to the public.
RUB Entertainment pres-
ents: The Walkmen featuring
Brewster Baker and Coffee
Project
Thursday, 8 p.m.
Reitz Union Rion Ballroom
This is it. Join RUB for our
last big concert for the semes-
ter featuring The Walkmen for
free.
They were featured at
this year's SXSW Festival in
Austin, Texas and will also beperforming at Lollapalooza.
Brewster Baker and Coffee
Project will be opening the con-
cert.
For more info, become a fan
of RUB on Facebook.
Converse and Hibbett Sports
"Sneakers are Money" sweep-
stakes
UF students have five days
left to enter the sweepstakes.
To enter, students just have
to text "Hibbett" to 444333 for
a chance to win a $2,000 shop-
ping spree at Hibbett Sports.
This sweepstakes is ending
Friday, so be sure to send your
text in.
Got something going on?
And want to see it in this
space? Send an e-mail with
"What's Happening" in the
subject line to efuggetta@alliga-
tor.org. Please model your sub-
missions after the events listed
above. Improperly formatted
"What's Happening" submis-
sions may not appear in the pa-
per. News releases will not ap-
pear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.orga the independent florida
Not official
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 144 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligatororg
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors Ja red M isner, jmisner@alligator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, cti//o@a//igator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Holly Kane, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
Andrew Pantazi, Paul Runnestrand,
Colin Simmons, Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor,
Retail Advertising Manager
Advertising Office Manager
Advertising Assistant
Intern Coordinator
Display Advertising Clerks
Sales Representativessoconnor@alligator.org
Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Melissa Bell
Sara Ingebretsen
Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, ADVERTISEMENT, 3
UF Voices
Fusing disease
research
"So you do
research on diseases
-when did you
become a medi-
cal doctor?" is a
question I regularly
hear. I'm actually
a geographer. In
the past, medical
doctors were nearly
the only ones doing Andrew Tatem
disease research,
but recently things have been changi
Today, disease-related research projec
need skills that are found across camp
This was illustrated by a recent pro
exploring malaria elimination on Zan-
zibar. We needed medical doctors and
biologists to obtain malaria and mos-
quito data, geographers and statisticia
to map disease risk, climatologists to
address seasonal risk, sociologists to he
quantify human travel, mathematician
and computer scientists to model malt
transmission, economists to estimated
costs of eliminating malaria, and lawy
to explore plan implementation.
Just a snapshot of the skills needed
this shows why UF's Emerging Patho
gens Institute (www.epi.ufl.edu) has
been established. By fusing discipline
EPI will develop outreach, education
and research capabilities designed to
preserve Florida's health and econom
and to prevent or contain new and re
emerging diseases.
Andrew Ta
Assistant Profe
Emerging Pathogens Instit
Department of Geogra
myUFL gets upgrade
Work has begun to upgrade the my
financial systems. The project is sched
uled for completion in March 2011.
The myUFL system provides
faculty, staff and students with
around-the-clock access to online
business applications, and has an
average of 14,000 daily visits.
UF to be tobacco-free
To promote the health and
well-being of faculty, staff, and stu-
dents, the University of Florida will b
going tobacco-free effective July 1. Th
of cigarettes or other tobacco product
UF buildings, parking lots, or in vehic
in these areas, will be prohibited.
A number of programs have been o
to assist employees, students and their
lies in kicking the habit prior to July 1.
more information, call 352-392-5787.
Final spring edition today
This is InsideUF's final print editio
the semester. The biweekly publication
resume during fall semester. Visit wwN
insideuf.ufl.edu for daily campus new
UNIVERSITY oUFdFLOrIn
The Foundation for The Gator Natm4;a
ng.
tis
us.
jectThe UF RAD course includes opportunities for women to practice resistance moves.
RAD teaches safety strategies
"No, don't touch me! Get back. Stay away!" one woman loudly screamed.
ns It's not typical classroom sounds, but this is no ordinary class. Approximately 20 women -
University of Florida employees and students -watch as one woman fights her attackers.
hp Two specially trained male University Police Department officers and a
s.i female class leader serve as "attackers" in this Rape Aggression Defense class.
aria RAD is a national organization that teaches defensive options to
es women and children. RAD includes a workbook, lecture, discussions andirs opportunity to practice resistance moves. Annually, there
"I was surprised at how empowering the class is," UF employee and are more than 100
class attendee Shannon Cheek said. "Women walk away with a lot of reported rapes in
confidence." Gainesville.*
s, According to Jeff Lamb, UPD officer and coordinator of the UF RAD
program, promoting safe thinking and behavior is essential.
"I want women to learn that they do not have to be polite or remain in a
y, situation where they are uncomfortable," Lamb said.
For several volunteers, the class is a labor of love. Officer Scott Summers regularly puts on a hot,
heavy safety suit on days off work from UPD, and encourages women to scream and hir him. Tina
tem Lamb and Joy Noll, certified RAD instructors, use vacation time from their jobs as UF financial aid
issor coordinators to instruct other women.
ute, Tina Lamb assists her husband, Jeff, in the lecture and serves as an "attacker." Noll wears a
phy whistle and ensures that safety standards are constantly upheld.
UF RAD classes are free for students and employees. Employees may attend during work hours,
with supervisor approval. Basic Physical Defense, a prerequisite for advanced courses, will be offered
on April 21, 22 and 23, from 1 to 5 p.m. Employees may register at myUFL. For more information
on adult classes, visit http://www.police.ufl.edu/pdf files/RAD%20Brochure%202007.
pdf.
For information on RADkids, a personal empowerment safety course, visit
www.radkids.org or e-mail Officer James Thomas, thomasjl@ufl.edu.
By Susan Stewart
*source: https://www.gainesvillepd.org/index.php/public-information/uniform-crime-reports
Last year
2million+reports UF Calendar
were generated
e
e use
s in
les
offered
fami-
For
n of
n will
S.
ionApril A1by myUFL. Spring classes end.
April 22-23
Reading days. No classes.
April 24, 26-30
UF Speech and Hearing Clinic Free Screenings, 11:30 a.m.-i p.m., 1405
NW 13th St., Suites B and C.
April 29-30, May 1-2
Commencement.
May 6
Summer B advanced registration, continued through June 24.
May 10
Summer A/C classes begin.
June 25
Summer B regular registration begins.
Recurring Events
Weekend tours, 11 a.m., every Saturday, and docent-led tours, 2 p.m.,
every Saturday and Sunday, Harn Museum of Art.
This is a sampling of events from the electronic UF calendar
For more event details, or to submit an event to the calendar, click
"UF Calendar" at www.insideuf.ufl.edu.Your
campus
news
source
Produced by the
University Relations Office
for faculty, staff and students
Editor -Susan Stewart
April 20, 2010
Biomedical Sciences Building
to be dedicated
The new Biomedical Sciences Building dedication and
academic program will be held on May 11.
The building is a $75 million, 16o,000 square-foot inter-
disciplinary facility that houses researchers affiliated with the
College of Medicine, College of Public Health and Health
Professions, and the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, as well
as the research and administrative operations of the College of
Engineering's J. Crayton Pruitt Family Department of Bio-
medical Engineering.
Guest speakers will make
presentations from 12:15
to 1:45 p.m. at the Health
Professions, Nursing and
Pharmacy Auditorium. The
dedication will be 2 to 3 p.m.
at the Biomedical Sciences
Building, 1275 Center Drive.
View these stories and more at www.insideuf.ufl.edu. Follow us on Twitter.
4, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010
Ed Woods wades shoulder-deep in the swamp in Clewiston, Fla.LOCAL
Local 'swamp man
to appear on TV
By CAROLINE LEWIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
A local man wants to reintro-
duce UF students to the swamp -
the Everglades, not the stadium.
Ed Woods, park director at Bil-
lie Swamp Safari in Clewiston,
Fla., will be the star of a new show
on National Geographic Wild,
"Swamp Men," which premieres
May 3 at 10 p.m.
Woods was born and raised in
Green Swamp and is passionate
about preserving wildlife.
"People could learn a lot from
watching the show," she said.
Woods lives near the Ichetuknee
River about 40 minutes north of
Gainesville. He spends most of his
time working in the Everglades,
managing the park while inform-
ing guests about natural Florida.
The show documents everyday
life of the staff at the swamp, said
Cindi Malin, the director of mar-
keting at Billie Swamp Safari.
"We have alligators that can
show up anywhere," she said. "Wehave panthers and bears that roam
wild, and you never know when
they have to go out and rescue
one.
"If UF is representing the
alligator, then you should
really watch our show and
learn what the alligator is
all about."
Ed Woods
Billie Swamp Safari park director
The park is home to the majority
of the 80 to 90 endangered Florida
panthers in the wild, Woods said,
and there are about 15,000 crea-
tures in the park.
Woods said students and Gators
fans should watch the show or
visit the park if they want to know
more about what their mascot rep-
resents.
"You all have a stadium you
call the Swamp," he said. "If you
really want to know what a swamp
is about, come out here, and we'll
show you.
Paynes Prairie alligators to get frisky in mid-to-late April
0 ALLIGATOR MATING SEASON
BEGINS IN MID TO LATE APRIL.
BY JENNY WILKINSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Gator Nation is getting frisky, but this
time it's not just the students.
Alligator mating season begins in mid to
late April, and Paynes Prairie workers are
hearing the bellows of males in the mood."When somebody's trying to start a lawn
mower and it won't start, that's what a large
male gator sounds like when it starts bellow-
ing," said Jan Powell, a volunteer at the Paynes
Prairie Visitor Center.
Powell, who has been working at the prai-
rie center for nine years, said alligators will
travel from one body of water to another to
find a mate during the warmer months. Pow-
ell said it is impossible for park rangers to keep
tabs on every animal during mating season be-
cause Paynes Prairie covers more than 21,000acres of freshwater marsh.
She said although rangers typically leave
alligator nests alone, trails have been closed off
to visitors for safety reasons in the past. While
an attack has never happened,
Local Powell said 99 percent of the
News time an interaction between a
human and an alligators occurs,
the human was doing something stupid.
Max A. Nickerson, the curator of the Divi-
sion of Herpetology at the Florida Museum of
Natural History, does not perceive the seasonto be a threat to people on campus either.
"I haven't seen any gators large enough re-
cently to be of mating age," he said.
Nickerson said male gators reach mating
maturity when they grow longer than 6 feet,
and the ones he's seen on campus were only
about 4 feet. In addition, Nickerson believes
precautions have been taken in the past few
years to ensure the safety of people and their
pets on campus.
Alligators aren't typically a problem to hu-
mans unless there is food around, he said.
EXAMS
(by Independent Optometrist)'M' Comer oI NW 13th St.I
& 39th Ave.
I -Near Publix
I EXPRESS 1
(352)375-6133Coming
Homeforthe
SummerIf you are going to
be in South Florida
for the summer, earn
credits at FAU.
e Pick up credits that transfer back to UF
School Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 1 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.comearthSday
S2010
Pazof7 t ericas
Api 21t 0 am -3 pm
1 amn Waee- Panel
1 pm Dr. Machen's Speech
Bring a clothing donation for a
discount onlyour earth day shirt!
TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
ON CAMPUS
Engineering students showcase robots on plaza
By MELINDA CARSTENSEN Eric M. Schwartz, the associate direc-
Alligator Contributing Writer tor of UF's Machine Intelligence laboratory
who helped students with their projects
Forget Optimus Prime. this year, said the class is different because
Fourteen UF engineering students it offers students hands-on experience.
proved Monday afternoon that their origi- The robot project has been assigned to
nal self-made and designed robots could the class since 1993, and the robot showcase
perform real-world tasks such as putting has been held since 1997, Schwartz said.
out fire, taking out the trash and keeping "I just thought, the world has to see
pets entertained. this," he said.
A crowd of about 40 UF students and fac- On average, each robot cost about $250
ulty stood in the New Engineering Building to construct. But the College of Engineering
to watch as students presented their robots, supplied students with connectors, wires,
which acted independently. LEDs and LCDs -things every robot needs
The robots were the final projects of stu- in order to run, Schwartz said.
dents in UF's Intelligent Machines Design The robots had to be able to move
Laboratory. around, act independently and perform aspecific task, he said.
Although students had to follow these
requirements, UF computer engineering
senior Matt Shockley said they were given
complete freedom in how they chose to de-
sign their robots.
"You look around, and [the robots]
are all different, and that's great."
Matt Shockley
UF computer engineering senior
Shockley, who designed OMNI, an om-
ni-directional, autonomous robot that uses
infrared sensors to detect and move toward
specific colors, said the class doesn't com-pare to any other he's taken because it's
about being creative.
"You look around, and [the robots] are
all different, and that's great," Shockley
said.
Students presented the SubjuGator, a
13-year-old submarine project by UF's Ma-
chine Intelligence Laboratory, along with a
solar-powered robot car designed by UF's
Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engi-
neers.
The solar car, which took second place at
the 2010 Institute of Electrical and Electron-
ic Engineers SoutheastCon hardware com-
petition in Charlotte, N.C., took students
nine months to make, said John Phillips, a
UF freshman who is not in the IMDL class.
Local officials, educators react to failed Senate Bill 6
0 GOV. CRIST VETOED IT.
By SAMANTHA DELGADO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Some Alachua County teachers
are cheering Gov. Charlie Crist's
decision to veto the hotly contested
Senate Bill 6 last week.
According to Dan Boyd, super-
intendent of Alachua County public
schools, the bill would have greatly
demoralized teachers, which wouldhave been something the county
would not have been prepared to
deal with.
Supporters of Senate Bill 6 want-
ed teachers' salaries to be based on
student performances on standard-
ized testing, such as the FCAT. The
percentage of a teacher's students
who passed would determine
whether that teacher is performing
at a high enough standard.
Boyd said the legislature gave
teachers no input in the bill and
would have been an added expenseat the end of the school year, when
teachers have to develop courses
and lesson plans for the following
school year.
Boyd added Crist's decision
made him a "goodState Floridian."
News "I would hope I
would have the cour-
age to do what the governor did,"
Boyd said.
Although Crist listened to pleas
from the majority in Alachua Coun-
ty and the rest of Florida, Democrat-ic officials are weary to say whether
this single decision will attract vot-
ers to the still-Republican governor,
who is quickly losing ground to his
U.S. Senate competitor, former Flor-
ida House Speaker Marco Rubio.
"I think he will be more attrac-
tive than the other Republican, but
he is still a Republican. And that
means something," said Jon Reis-
kind, Alachua County Democratic
Party chairman.
Stafford Jones, chairman of the
Alachua County Republican Party,said there was a mixed reaction
from the veto among party mem-
bers, and it's hard to tell how much
it will affect Crist in the upcoming
election.
Jones said there could be a pos-
sibility that Republicans will try to
get the bill passed next year.
Jones, although noting the bill's
unpopular qualities of linking
teacher pay to student performance
on standardized tests, stressed that
some people still supported the
bill.
ATTENTION ALLIGATOR
ADVERTISERS
The Alligator will not be publishing
from Thursday, April 22th through
Monday, May 10th.
The Deadline for
Tuesday, May 11th is:
Friday, May 6th by 4:00pm
for both Display and Classified Advertising.
Display Classifieds
376.4482 373.3463 alligator
6, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010
Editorial
Not Lovin' it
McDonald's should alter
way it confines chickensS eventy-two square inches.
It's an area smaller than a standard sheet of computer
paper, and it's the area McDonald's gives to its egg-laying
hens that produce the millions of eggs the multinational Mc-
Muffin goliath uses every day in its breakfasts.
Following repeated pleas from The Humane Society of the
United States to expand the number of hens raised outside of
these confined, dank cages that do not allow the birds to spread
their wings or even walk around by only 5 percent, McDonald's
wasn't loving ' it" or any other proposal the society offered, as
the Big Mac daddy of all restaurant fame rejected the society's
pleas last week.
And it again rejected People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animal's pleas to follow in the footsteps of other fast-food gi-
ants, including Burger King, Wendy's, Hardee's, Quizno's and
Denny's, by altering the way chickens are confined and slaugh-
tered to fit a more humane model.
It might be just us, but our favorite ginger clown, besides
Bozo of course (remember his TV show in elementary school?),
seems to be looking more like Stephen King's Pennywise from
"It" than the smiling, yellow-jumpsuit-wearing, McGriddle-
devouring clown we've all been ingrained to love.
And for the company that just posted fourth quarter prof-
its of $1.2 billion in January, we don't think a 14 cent increase
per egg by making the eggs "cage-free" would break anyone's
bank.
We're not asking any of you to go out and protest under the
golden arches or immediately become a vegan, although sev-
eral of us are vegetarians and one of us is already a vegan, but
we would like you to think about those 72 inches before you
chow down on your next McMuffin.
Because the chickens sure aren't lovin' it.
Bad Apple
It always seems like such a
weird twist of fate when
a product designed with
a certain type of person in
mind is rejected by its own
target audience.
The iPad is coming close
to this scenario.
Apple's new product,
which was marketed to stu-
dents of higher education,
specifically for its portability
and ability to store e-books,
has been having some trou-
ble with certain colleges.
George Washington,
Princeton, and Cornell uni-
versities are all expressing
doubts about whether the
iPad can be accepted on
campus due to "network
compatibility issues."
George Washington Uni-
versity has even issued a
statement saying that the
iPad may not be compat-
ible with the on-campus
network until next spring.
Apple should have some se-rious worries for its new toy,
right?
It doesn't seem so. Teresa
Brewer, an Apple spokes-
woman, said she wasn't
familiar with the schools'
problems. More than 500,000
iPads have already been
sold.
We aren't denying the
iPad is cool, the screen is
crystal-clear or that we've
wandered over to play with
the display model at Best
Buy. Still, one shouldn't be
surprised to find compat-
ibility issues in adopting a
new technology the second
it comes out because the
rest of us are still struggling
to catch up. It's OK to not
always have the new, best
thing right away.
As for UF, students have
had problems adding the
standard university e-mail to
the device as well. Perhaps
this problem doesn't just fall
to "some other university."
01 the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University A , or send them to PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions
Monday's question:
Should Ben Roethlisberger go
to jail?ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org//opinions
u t aot wov-Nd i tn
0 $'Wir1  v)Ytv@fv
Column
Columnist looks back on college years
t's my final column. Fun!
OK, maybe not. People who are going through tran-
sitional times who are tasked with writing a final col-
umn usually make it sound like a graduation speech. And
as narcissistic as thinking your writing is so damn witty and
insightful and awesome enough to warrant it being shoved
into newsprint every week, it requires an even greater sense
of self-absorption to think you've got wisdom that needs to
be speechified.
Bad news? I've got a double-whammy of "transitional
times" happening: I'm turning 22 Saturday, and I'm gradu-
ating April 30.
Good news? I'm all too aware that I've got actually very
little wisdom to dispense, so there's little danger of that
happening.
Part of the reason why this whole "I'm 22, and I'm
graduating from college" thing isn't sitting well with me
is because I remember thinking that I'd have a lot more
stuff figured out by now. As it stands, I have not gotten mycrap together in any substantive way. I still get heartbroken
more easily than I'd like to admit. I'm still utterly terrified
of the future. And I still get really, immaturely excited over
things like hot cocoa at 3 a.m.
To be honest, I don't think any of that is going to change.
If, after 22 years of living with four years of college, all that
is still there, then I think I'm pretty much stuck with it.
What I can do, maybe, is put it in context: I can realize that
a broken heart means that something in my life was worth
caring deeply for, and that's worth celebrating. I can realize
that being terrified of the future is a universal experience,
and it provides a pretty compelling reason for all of us to be
there for each other when we can. And I can realize that tiny
little moments can be the most meaningful, especially when
they're shared -because really, 3 a.m. hot cocoa kicks ass.
I think I was under the impression that knowledge and
experience are supposed to inure me against hurt, fear or
frustration, but that just hasn't been the case. All knowl-
Reader response
Today's question:
Are you going to be here over the
summer?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgedge and experience has done for me
is help put that hurt, fear or frustra-
tion in context.
Not so that it's any less painful
or scary or frustrating, but so that, at
least for a moment, I can take a breath
Joe Dellosa and remember that things have a ten-
Ietters@alligator org dency to be OK.
Four years of college later, and I
thought I'd have more of this figured
out. But I think I'm alright with what I've got.
And hopefully this isn't too self-indulgent, but I will do
one graduation speechy thing: a handful of thanks.
To the Alligator: Ana Goni-Lessan, an amazingly talent-
ed photographer who was the first person ever to say some-
thing kind about a column; Allie Conti, the opinions editor
when I first started writing the column; and everybody at
the Alligator copy desk who's saved me from sounding too
dumb -which, believe me, is no small feat.
Thanks to my friends who have been really supportive
of this column, especially those who were totally into the
idea of hijacking the Tuesday column and turning it into
a weekly mini-essay about love and empathy. (Who needs
politics when we've got hugs?) In particular, thanks to my
awesome colleagues at 88 Advertising, and my roommate,
who's served as kind of a one-person focus group for the
past two semesters.
And, not to sound too dorky, but thanks so much to ev-
erybody who's told me they like the column. I really do ap-
preciate the Facebook messages, and it really does make me
all smiley when someone stops to say hi around campus.
It means a lot. (Also, I'm sorry for being awkward in real
life.)
It's been a lot of fun writing for you all. Thanks, every-
body.
Joe Dellosa is an advertising senior. His columns appear on
Tuesdays.
54% YES
46% NO
65 TOTAL VOTESThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Letters to the Editor
Christianity based on love, not hate Reader congratulates Westboro baptist
Just as radical Muslims give the Islamic re- Church counter-protesters
ligion a bad reputation throughout the world, Bravo to the counter-protesters of the West-
Westboro Baptist Church and other hate- boro Baptist Church protesters. A confronta-
spewing Christians do the same for Christi- tion such as this could have turned violent,
anity in this town. I hope these people learn but Gainesville residents showed these people
something soon. The Christian faithis based on how the city really feels about ignorance and
the love of Jesus Christ -a love that is present intolerance. We laugh at it. By dancing, sing-
to inspire those who are not believers and to ing and making fun of the situation, residents
change their lives for the better if needed. The let the Westboro Baptist Church members
hate-filled protests and direct condemnation know that their claims are so idiotic that they
of people will only serve to turn them away do not deserve to be taken seriously. It is un-
from the Christian religion. It is sad to see this fortunate that so much hate and discontent is
small subset of Christians garner so much at- spread in the name of God, but the beauty of
tention and give the religion such a bad repu- our country is that they have the right to do
tation. The Christian population is filled with so in the same way others have the right to
compassionate people who know the religion choose their partner regardless of gender. It
is meant to heal, not hurt. boggles my mind how these people claim God
Ben King hates homosexuals. Isn't the god whom the
Alligator reader followers of Westboro Baptist Church speak
of the creator of everything, all-knowing and
U U U ever-present? If so, their God created gay peo-ple willingly and knowingly. Fortunately, the
members of our community are smart enough
to recognize a circus act when they see one,
and everybody enjoys a day at the circus.
Lucas Toro
UFjunior
Reader misunderstands health care bill
Alligator reader Ann Sanchez is an idiot.
First, the health care bill does not provide
blanket health care for illegal immigrants, as
they are treated much as before. Yes, some
people will pay more in taxes, but we will
pay less in health care costs as a whole due to
more preventative care. Malpractice reform
would save about $54 billion over 10 years,
which is significant but not huge considering
we spend more than $2 trillion on health care
each year. There is nothing in the bill stating
that all specialties have to be paid the same.TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
This is not even true in the U.K., where they
have real socialized medicine. Unlike Sanchez
claims, it is not common knowledge that doc-
tors leave medical school with half a million
dollars in debt because they leave with an av-
erage of $156,000, which is still a big number,
but there are few professions where you are
guaranteed to make six figures for the rest of
your life. And finally, medical residents do not
make $30,000 per year; they usually make up-
wards of $45,000 per year -50 percent more
than $30,000, according to my rough math.
They're not living the high life, but it's not bad
considering the significant pay raise at the end
of their 3- to 7-year residency. It's OK to have
opinions and to print those opinions, but it's
just a waste of ink if the people expressing
those views refuse to read books or use the In-
ternet, and instead they base their elementary
opinions on e-mails forwarded by grandma.
Brandon Sack
3rd year PhD Candidate in Biomedical Sciences
Guest column
Columnist bids farewell to college experiences, memories
ince I graduate in about a week and a half, I think now Will Penman a loud display. Farewell to chalk adver-
is a nnd lime to say gocbvn Some thinos you sav tisements.
goodbye to are things we'll all need to say goodbye to.
Farewell, increasing tuition. Some things you say goodbye
to are special to my class. Farewell, Tim Tebow. And some
things are more personal goodbyes. Farewell, Professor
Shoaf. This is a mix of all of those.
I bid farewell to tests, quizzes, projects, papers, assign-
ments, assessments and homework. Farewell to grades. Fare-
well to late night study-Starbucks, debates over which library
is the best and those people who accidentally sing every few
minutes while listening to their music.
Farewell to sunny afternoons hammocking on Plaza of the
Americas. Farewell to mandatory $4 donations. Farewell to
never meeting at the French fries despite what they told us at
Preview. Farewell to Friday Foursquare and Turlington preach-
ers, and freshmen who haven't learned that logic and reason-
ing sometimes don't change people's minds but do make forSpeaking Out Farewell, spring allergies. This
season was especially bad, and I don't
feel like I'm exaggerating at all now to tell people that I'm al-
lergic to Gainesville.
Farewell, awesome Gator sports. I was here for the bas-
ketball-football double national championship win. Our track
team seems to be pretty ballin'. We have great softball, soccer,
volleyball and swimming and diving teams. Even our club ul-
timate frisbee team won a national championship a few years
ago. Farewell, Gators.
Farewell, Fail Girl, Triangle Face, Salad Fingers -all the
people we've given nicknames to who haven't known it. Fare-
well to the conspicuous people on campus; student athletes
with enough gear to clothe an African village; James the girl;
my friend Patrick who rocks cerebral palsy like a champion;
that really tall Indian girl; anyone in a sorority jacket.
Farewell, dorms, crappy roommates, incredible room-mates. Farewell, $200 rent, space heaters in the winter, and a
kitchen small enough to cook and clean at the same time if I
was that talented. Farewell to eating out like every day (I blame
it on my small kitchen). Farewell to $2 burgers at Mother's on
Wednesday evening, free Ben and Jerry's once a year, coupon
books I always take and never use, and incessant Facebook in-
vites to attend fundraisers at the Gelato Company.
Farewell to staying up way too late and then trying to go
to church in the morning. Farewell to free post-church college
luncheons. One time I went to a free lunch for a church I hadn't
even attended. (Talk about awkward turtle when they asked
what I thought of the sermon.) Farewell to the best student or-
ganization ever, RUF.
Farewell to the college lifestyle. I finally attended the
Great Underwear Dash this semester, but never did paint the
34th Street wall. I'm graduating with honors but haven't been
published. I made great friends and expect to make more. I'll
see you on the other side. Farewell.
Will Penman is an English senior. His column appears weekly.
2For Tuesday 81.50 Pabst Pints
2 for I Any Farah's $5 Pabst Pitchers
Famous. rgers $2 Well Drinks
. ALL DAY EVERY DAYWednesdaN latsrens oralyssports
00 Wings 362-378-5179... 1 1 20 W , Liniversity Ave,
8, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010
Max Reed / Alligator
Pissed about Parking
Students from the Social Problems class, SYG 2010, protested parking problems at UF during
a march Monday afternoon from Turlington Plaza to t Plaza of the Americas. About 30 students
joined the march, an optional class assignment that served as a way for students to show their
dislike for the high costs associated with parking mishaps.
"We basically want to alleviate the main parking problems: ticketing, booting and impoundment,"
said Shelby Webb, a sophomore.
Copyrighted Material
SyndicatedContent
Available from Commercial News Providers
Facebook users seek privacy
0 SOME USE THEIR MIDDLE NAMES.
By PAIGE LACY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Joseph File is his real name, but his Facebook
profile reads Joseph Carmen.
File, a Gainesville resident, said he changed
his profile name and tightened his privacy set-
tings when he began searching for a job.
"I want to keep my personal life separate from
work life," File said.
A recent survey commissioned by Microsoft
found that 70 percent of recruiters and hiring
managers in the United States have rejected an
applicant based on information they found on-
line. Facebook users are responding by hiding
profiles from employers by removing their last
name in place of a middle name.
"I don't want a potential employer judging mebased on my Facebook." File said. "I should be
able to win an employer over in person."
Trimaine Sheffield, a career ambassador for
the UF Career Resource Center, said cleaning up
an online identity is one of the first steps to have a
chance in the professional world.
"The easiest thing to do is take off some of the
bad content," Sheffield said. "ou don't have to
share with everyone."
Keith Blanchard, Boys and Girls Club of Ala-
chua County director, said that, along with a
criminal background check, he also checks Face-
book profiles of potential employees.
"I always ask for permission before checking a
Facebook profile," Blanchard said. "I've been do-
ing background checks for 10 years, and it's a red
flag if someone says no.
Blanchard said he doesn't really look at pic-
tures or wall posts. If the background check was
clean, Facebook is just an additional tool to get
another glimpse of the person.Others have signed the bill
FARM, from page 1
"We seek to serve as a role
model to other companies and
suppliers on how to maintain
a great place to work," Stevens
wrote. "Each store carries more
than 35,000 different products.
Tomatoes are a small part of the
product mix."
Stevens wrote that the price of
tomatoes is set by the grower or
packer, not Publix.
He attributed the problems in
the tomato industry to a lack of
laws enforcing minimum wages
and safe working conditions.
Other companies, including
UF's food provider, Aramark,
have signed an agreement with
the CIW, said Richard Blake, a UF
sophomore and a Student/Farm-
worker Alliance member.
"Aramark dragged their feet,
but at least they were willing to
meet with us," Blake said. "Publixseems to be a little different."
UF political science junior Di-
ana Moreno, who is also a mem-
ber of the UF Student/Farmwork-
er Alliance, said she marched in
support not only of tomato pick-
ers but also of a human rights
campaign.
"I think people really need to
realize who is at the bottom of
the food industry chain, which
is farmworkers," Moreno said.
"A lot of the food
Student that we eat comes
Activism from [tomato pick-
ers], but they don't
see a lot of the profits that Publix
does."
From here on out, Moreno said,
the CIW's campaign will only es-
calate.
"We're probably going to send
letters and maybe start boycott
campaigns to pressure Publix,"
she said. "The CIW is going to
build a coalition throughout the
southeastern part of the U.S."
TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 9
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content,
am"
Available from'Commercial News Providers
Free diagnosticms
(352) 374-2984
Butler Plaza Newberry Square 1015 W. University Ave.
-3 2112 2nd Floor
Special Summer
package for students:
~ ~&a~orincludes move-out,
storage, and move
MOViNG & STOR AGE back in the fall
352-374-4791
Relax. Let Gator Move you.
Log on for a free quote at www.gatormoving.com TUESDAY Lg oru o oom
vs. FIU @ 4 PM (DH0 CHILD
T *1 ENRICHMENT
* CENTERPressiy S4i'tadium. 
,We offer care for Infants -VPKAdMIss is = REEV.
sR, FRANCESCA ENEA
UA at 800 34-GATOR he peecandheang mpaired at Gainesville
a theFlodReayServ 800-955-8H 0
Eco-Healthy
10, ADVERTISEMENT, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010
ADVERTISING
CLASS TAKES
ON LAW FIR\
AS CLIFF
A local college a
taking on the lav
law firm! The cr
ing their semeF
lawyers get moro
"We just
Fats. "We really
help around here. A -
look forward to see
and work, then c
legal speak and jarg
change things that J
basically trying to v,
it's either not fur,
interesting in arr "
of ide
edits
loomed
w
cc
ab
ab'
lib(
IT,
HI
ST
OR
AT
RAment. Once I heard him say 'amici' I
knew he wasn't mad at us or anything,
so I just stuck with we I remem-((f(. '9grill, cooz
the whole
to be helpies, Chinese horseshoes. Apparently, Money is always
shebang! They're supposed better than books.
ing ushere. not urillini' "It's not really a shock," Sherrif
Steven Kimbo stated at the press
onference. "I don't know of many
ooks that people would prefer over
straight cash money. Maybe a stack of
O @ inappropriate magazines or
something, but not textbooks."
The Money mascot was released
b on evidence proving it was
ri hile Book was thinking of
6 year-old b loset for the rest of its life
the students ' be forgotten and never
htI wa so
int _#
-nding
how
The
e'- GREEK
dto SYSTEM
ilgate
Rlafter sub g
as, thr ias
an s, wh 0
d-
C)
WE
TH]
F TO MSGME (67463) F OF'
TEXT "UFLVIP To M AS 'WHEN C 0
GE 10 EXTRA' CASH BACK W LZ
GET E T EXTBOOKS = GUAIyoUj SELL seizedd YO - --promote
.-. --. ~off-campus bookst
.iiigrieice, Danny rmt
managed to tell the waiter that he and involving its coun
P11I!1 ILLA his friends wanted one very much mascot.
RIESTAt- good pizzas on the large. It was Police reports indicate Money
exactly what they received, much to became agitj when
NT everyone's surprise.
"It was a g
added. "Professorc
been proud of me. k ,o S A
say would've been f
Professore Va(
comment. c Tl 4Se
.ocsRUNNING OUT
F LETTER
OMBINA-
3UY BAC
RANTEThe news certainly left the Greek
System in a state of turmoil, as rumors
began to fly immediately. Some
suggested a move to a 4-letter system,
while others questioned why it always
had to be Greek. "I think English is a
pretty good language," said Debra
Boomgarden. "I mean, this is the
United States, not a foreign domestic
country."
AREA
SENIOR GET-
TING REALLY
GOOD AT
WRITING AN-
SWERS ON
TINY SCRAPS
OF PAPER
Sixth-year senior Craig McGrott may
h"' " "- lot of things, but he's
when it comes to
on tony pieces ofK y known as crib
according to the
ran on Facebook last
rybody's different,"
yesterday. "Some
mart. Others are just
handwriting. That's
cheat and not get
E DCraig 'CribSheet'
the
N'nials
,no
What began as a typical dining-out
experience quickly turned into a scary
situation yesterday when sophomore
Danny Rivers and his friends realized
that the Italian restaurant that they had
chosen for lunch. was completely
Italian-speaking.
Looking for something more
authentic than local favorite Pizza
Barn, the group had decided to
out and try a new place.
"I swear it was the
moment of my life," Karl
friend of Danny's, recalled
like we time-warped into
something. The waiter came
started talking in Italian! Um
had no idea what to do."
Fortunately for the gro
Rivers did.
"I've been taking Italia
semester," Danny explained,
pretty comfortable in thatFACULTY
FOUND TA
GATING
BEFORE BIG
EXAM.cided
,.hing.
JIm
ihis
,aper
;0 V renting
iting cars an renting
)ks. "Once d out I
textbooks, I ike, duh,
nature "
Mick has- aad much
's determi' o find a way.
.is currently negotiating
ements for food, tuition,
ages and toiletries. "If I
ill that, I'm pretty certain I
ver need a real job." And if
'11 probably rent a guy to do
too.",on**) 10")
V",
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
*3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
1 MONTH FREE!
Immediate availability
All Inclusive Student Living from $399
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-1
J 7
*Rates @ $379*
All inclusive & Fully Furnished
Or Get a New iPad!
TV or new sofa package
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
373-9009
4-21-10-74-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR, Fully Furn + All
Utils. Incl. 352-219-2879 or
www.CampusWalkUF.com 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND PROPERTIES
Sun Bay / Sun Key
1 or 2 Bedroom
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
$499/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Upgrades or Furniture extra
While they last or until 4-30-10!
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-1
Luxury Apartment Homes
Define the Good Life
2/2*4/4* All inclusive
Direct Bus Route to Campus
EnclaveUF.com * 376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
*$200 VISA GIFTCARDO
Townhouse & apts accross the street from UF
all-inclusive & fully furnished from $479/BR.
Sign this week & get a $200 visa giftcard!
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. 239-250-6149 5-11-10-79-1*Move in Today*
Rates ( $299!
2,3 & 4 bedroom suites
All inclusive & Fully Furnished
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
373-9009
4-21-10-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
2/2*3/3*4/4
Experience the Good Life
Text "Enclave" to 47464
4-21-09-71-1
REDUCED 1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $300/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished +
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 4-21-10-51-1
2 Blocks to UF $300/mo
Furnished bedroom in 4BD condo.
Rent includes utils, cable TV & internet.
378-4626 / 262-4290 8-16-10-25-1
$339 rm/mo all utils incl. 4BR/2BA Condo
at University Commons furnished W/D/TV/
Cable/Parking. Immediatley avl. summer/fall
Great Place Great Price 239.253.8701 or
email at: tom@moorelandscape.com 8-16-
10-36-1
4-4 condo will rent monthy, quarterly or
yearly. $500/month/room includes: washer-
dryer, dishwasher, private bathroom/bed-
room, walk-in closet, utilities, cable, wireless
internet, pool, gym, volleyball and basketball
courts. Living, dining and kitchen have wood-
en floors, bedrooms have nice clean carpets.
Bus services every 5-10 minutes. 352-213-
7059 5-20-10-30-1
3BE/3BA clean and quiet condo for rent. All
utilities included. $400/room or $1000/apt. 1
mile from UF. 2 bus routes available. Must
see!! Call Dory 954-816-1468. 4-20-10-15-
1
ROOM FOR RENT Lg master suite in new
home, 15 min to VA, Shands & UF. NS, pro-
fessional only. Util, cable TV, garage & wire-
less internet incl.Kitchen & laundry access.
$500/mo. 352-219-3410 4-21-10-15-1
Townhome for rent.
Spacious 2 x 2.5 in Grantwood, a gated com-
munity. 5 minutes from campus. Contact
Eddie at 954-699-3665 for more information,
or to arrange a viewing. 5-25-10-19-1
4/4 Countryside Condo private bed/bathincl
utilities, wd,cable,wireless int,pool,gated
workout room, great bus rte,$400/mth all
in.Jeff @904-612-3944, will consider semes-
ter lease. 8-5-10-40-1
Spacious 4/4 fully furn condo in SW G'ville 5
mins to UF! Indiv. leases, $375/rm/mo. 3 bus
rtes, close to shopping/food areas. Utils ind
up to $200/mo. $200 SD. Avail. immediately/
summer/fall. 352-262-0628 anu87@ufl.edu
4-21-10-14-1
3BR/3BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room + utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Bball, pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd FIr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, Sebastian 352-874-8905 4-21-
10-12-1
Female roommates needed for 3/3, own bed/
bath, furnished, Windsor Park, close to UF
on bus stop, pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $335,
1/3 utilities; looking for a clean and studious
roommates, 407-361-1154. 4-21-10-11-1
4BR/4BA furn. Countryside Apt. 2nd fIr, pool
view, inc cable, wi-fi internet, and std utilities.
All brms. avail in Aug. $395/BR/mo. flexible
terms avail. Call Chris at 941-726-2204 or
email raginriv@ufl.edu 4-21-10-8-1share 2BD/2BD
w/male student
near UF $350
954 224-1542 4-20-10-5-1
SUBLEASE MAY-JUNE-JULY.
NEWCOMPLEX 6 BLOCKS FROM
CAMPUS (<10 MIN WALK TO LIB W)
EMPTY FULLY FURNISHED 4/4 IND
ROOM LEASE 2ND FLR O'LOOKING
POOL W BALCONY $450 NEGOTIABLE
CONTACT lbrooks.08.12@ufl.edu
4-20-10-5-1
4/4 Apt, walk to campus!
$500/month all inclusive
private baths, great location
Oxford Terrace
call 561-306-3852 4-21-10-5-1
Jefferson 2nd Ave. Aug 2010-July 2011. 1
bed w/private bath in all inclusive furnished
2bed/2bath apt. Walk to UF and Downtown.
Reduced rent $595/month w/free parking
garage. Contact Alex 954-558-1918 4-21-
10-3-1
$299 Fully Furnished condo 10min to UF!
4BR/4BA spacious bedrooms & living area,
W/D in unit, great kitchen w/ appliances,
great bus rts.12 & 35 ten min to UF and
shopping/food.Discount for quick signing.
Lease starts fall. Call(941)232-1960
6-17-10-15-1
4bd/4ba in Countryside Condos. $350/
mo. Avail 08/01.Great locationvery clean!
Furnished,wireless+util incld,porch,lst
floor,2 min from UF,washer/dryer,bball
courtpoolhot tub.kokonut@ufl.edu 6-3-
10-1
For RentF unfurnished
WALK TO UF
3/2 House in Golfview Estates; a quiet com-
munity by the Law School, Athletic Fields,
and Golf Course. Available Aug 1.
*** $1475 mo.*** Call Craig 305-788-4103
4-21-10-7-2
Colonial Oaks, SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse,
two screened porches, pet friendly, avail
now, $600 edbaurmanagement.com 352-
375-7104 4-21-10-7-2
Affordable, SW 2br, with new ceramic
tile & carpet, fireplace, ready now, $495
Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104
4-21-10-7-2
Greenleaf, SW spacious townhouse, 2br,
2ba, loft room extra, vaulted ceiling, patio
and fenced yard, avail May, $700 edbaur-
management.com 352-375-7104 4-21-10-
7-2
Treehouse condo, 2br, 2ba, new carpet, vi-
nyl, paddle fans, remodeled baths, on bus
line, pools & weight rm, avail now, $600 ed-
baurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 4-21-
10-7-2
Cypress Pointe condo, 3br, 2ba off SW 62
Blvd, newer appliances, fresh paint, pool,
avail now, $725 edbaurmanagement.com
352-375-7104 4-21-10-7-2
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901 4-21-
10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
Now Available Downtown!
Luxury 1, 2, and 3 Bedrooms
Alarm*Walk-in Closet*Pets OK
Stay Out Late & Walk Home!
Call today-don't wait! 338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
1 BR/1 BA $459-469 * 2BRI1 BA $539
Special prices will not last long!
Quite community close to everything.
www.frederickgardens.com
Adopted pets live free!! 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 8-16-10-25-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 8-16-10-25-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOWor FALL 2010.
2/2 from $999 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 8-16-10-25-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$709 2/2-$809 3/2-$909
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-71-2
*More Play, Less Work@
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
BRING IN THIS AD FOR $0 MOVE IN FEES!
2/2s: From $799; 3/3s: From $959
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
Your Own Personal Trainer!
1 Bed-$599*2Bed-$729
4Bed-$949*A schools!
Beautiful Townhomes
Walk-in Closets*332-7401
4-21-71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Museum Walk
All Inclusive Roommate Matching -$439
3/3 Flats 2/2 Townhomes & UF LOCATION!
#117 Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave MuseumWalk.com
Call for Specials!*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
2BR/1 BA from $338/person
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
We <3 pets! Wood floors avail!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $635. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
12, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $515 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$369
INCLUDES UTILITIES
1 month FREE, Move In TODAY!
24hr Amenities & Valet Trash!
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SUN KEY
2.1 or 1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
From $499/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Upgrades or Furniture extra
While they last or until 4-30-10!
Check out our unbelieveable
Band Width 30x10
352.376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 8-16-
10-25-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO UF -AVAIL NOW & FALL!
*1BR $460- $495
* 2BR $485- $600
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -YOUR NEW HOME!
Unique LOFT floor plan only $595!
1/1 from $625 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning* Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis * 1 mile to UF
377-7401 * www.boardwalkapt.com
4-21-09-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $649
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 5-11-10-79-2
** Across From UF
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-21-65-2
*One Month Free
Receive additional Month Free
w/ 48hr Look and Lease!
Pine Rush Villas
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1 bedroom from *$457
2 bedroom from *$558
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free
Receive additional Month Free
w/ 48hr Look and Lease!
Homestead Apts
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 bedroom 1 bath from *$549
2 bedroom 2 bath from *$641
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free
Receive additional Month Free
w/ 48hr Look and Lease!
Courtney Greens
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 *$525
Near Oaks Mall Near UF and Butler Plaza
Cyber Cafe and 24hr Fitness Center
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
5-11-10-64-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-24 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 2 bd/ 1 ba
Hardwood floors, must see
$900/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Great Parking! Walk to UF! 4BD/4.5 BA
Located near SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St.
Call today to view @ 352.373.7578
Union Properties www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
NEWLY REMODELED 1BRs
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@T HE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio-
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
6-29-64-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 5-11-
10-48-2*'OLO S
OResort Lifestyle*
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
ALL INCLUSIVE PRICING!
2's: From $546/person; 3's: From $451/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-42-2
2BR HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area. Wood firs, new kitchen
vinyl, Cent H/AC, DW, fenced yard, wood
deck, parking, $975/mo. Pets ok Avail Aug
16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 Iv mssg 5-27-
10-46-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority
Row/Norman Hall area. W/D, ice maker,
ceramic tile. Cent H/AC, DW, parking,
fenced yard. $1485/mo. Pets ok. Avail Aug
16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 Iv mssg 5-27-
10-46-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area, remodeled baths, new:
stove, DW, disposal & AC, W/D, wd firs. cent
H/AC, parking. $2400/mo Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg
4-21-10-40-2
Houses Available for Fall!
2631 NW 1st Ave -$1845
402 NW 36th -$1425
315 NW 17th St. -$875
4 NW 25th St -$1499
717 NW 34th St -$1320
FREE UF Parking!
352.371.7777
4-21-71-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $650/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220. (leave
a voicemail) 4-21-32-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 5-11-10-114-2
$600, 2BR, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet school
& campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furn; Parking; 352 376
0080;352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-27-2
For a Limited Time Only! 1BR/1BA seperate
dining rm, Ig living rm, walk in closet, cent
H/AC, full kitchen, full bath. H20 & sewer
incl. Free pest control. Close to Oaks Mall,
Archer Rd & UF. $395/mo. 2 & 3 BDs avail
in several locations, dif floor plans. 215-7780
6-17-10-38-2
Walk to UF. Openings in April -Aug.
*2BR/2.5BA $800-850 @2BR/1 BA $420-450
@1BR/1BA $500-585 *studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
5-11-10-27-2
Available Immediately! Small 1/1
Efficiency apt. W/D avail, new paint & carpet.
10 min walk to UF. Perfect for international/
graduate students! $500/mo + utils. 284-0979
4-21-10-26-2
10houses.com
3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$1000 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
5-11-10-26-2
OFREAKS!! DOWNTOWN 414 SE 2nd St
2BR/1 BA DUPLEX apt w/loft, central heat,
window air, off-street parking, $620/mo,
SALSO: Studio/garage apt. $420/mo.
Call 352-373-6551 5-20-29-2SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
2.1 1/2 Bath Townhomes
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
$699/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
While they last or until 4-30-10!
Check out our unbelievable
Band Width 30x10
352.376.6720 or 352.376.7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-25-2
SUN BAY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
From $499/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Upgrades or Furniture extra
While they last or until 4-30-10!
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-25-2
FREE MONTHS RENT 1BDs
1114 SW 7th Ave $650/mo
Spacious loft style, parking onsite.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-24-2
Upscale Living without the Price!
2/2s @ $550, 3/3s @ 459
Know your roommates? As low as $383/each!
Villas w/ fenced yards available-we love pets!
Ask how to get $100 off per month for a year!
www.hiddenlakeuf.com or 352-374-3866
4-21-10-25-2
3bed/2bath Creeks Edge condo -just off NW
13th St. W/D, pool & clubhouse. Close to UF
and on bus route. Available August. Seeking
roommates $395/mo/ea. 727-463-0560
6-29-10-35-2
ARLINGTON SQUARE (2b/2ba) -$799/Mo,
Luxury Downtown APT, access to main RTS,
NO short-term. Avail 4/21/10, Call Sean,
239-410-1603 5-13-22-2
***HOUSE 4BR/2BA***
Available 8/1. Lovely, remodeled. W/D. Bike
to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. $1 100/mo.
373-1558, 246-8645, or 256-8370 5-11-10-
19-2
House,4BR,3BA,LR,FR,recently renovated.
2 Masters w/pvt bth. fenced in back yard.
garage. Off 34th. tander@bellsouth.net 954-
340-2732 5-13-10-20-2
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2
BR vintage apts. near UF & downtown. All
have wood floors, fans, & blinds. Pets pos-
sible. Rent from $575-$950/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com, 352-338-7670
5-11-10-7-2
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean 2 & 3
BR homes near UF. Some wood floors, all
with CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds, & lawn up-
keep. Rent @ $790-$1275/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com, 352-338-7670
5-11-10-17-2
2 Br Houses near 13th St. Walmart:
Beautiful vintage charmer 2ba $950
available now. Available May:
Pet Heaven, fenced yard 1ba $675
Call owner/agent 352-328-7474. 4-21-10-
16-2
TOP QUALITY -GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to cam-
pus -on N & E sides. Year lease, beginning
summer or fall. K & M Properties. 372-1509
4-21-10-15-2
JACKSON SQUARE CONDO -Annual
rental beginning 8/1/10. Immaculate, new,
2BR/2BA, 1 blk from UF. W/D in unit, un-
dercover parking. Call owner for details 561-
912-0190. $750/mo/room. 4-21-10-15-2
4BD/3BA HOUSE NEAR UF!
W/D, Central AC, Wood Floors. 3514 NW
7th Place. Available Aug. 1st. Call Manny at
352-317-4408 4-21-10-14-2
4BD/2BA HOUSE NEAR UF!
W/D, Available Aug. 1st. 610 NW 34th
Terrace. Call Manny at 352-317-4408 4-21-
10-14-2
TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 13
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
*WANT IT ALL?@
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
FURNITURE NOW INCLUDED!
ALL INCLUSIVE rates beginning at
2/2-$546/person, 3/3-$451/person
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-14-2
Beautiful Northwood Pool Home with large
1/2 acre lot. 3 bed, 2 bath has plenty of room
for summer fun while swimming or hanging
out in the hot tub. Washer Dryer included
with full 2 car garage and lots of storage.
Pets OK, call Jeffrey for more information.
352-246-5801 5-11-10-14-2
Spacious 1 BR apt for rent.
1 BR/1 BA apt near Oaks Mall.
Walk to mall, restaurant and coffee shops.
New appliances. Call 352-258-4695 4-21-
10-13-2
Homes Avail for Fall! Pets welcome!
Minutes to UF and Santa Fe.
4/2 3321 and 3236 NW 30 PL $1200/mon
4/2 5402 NW 25th PL $1200
Call April 352-514-1441 for more info! 4-21-
10-13-2
I2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home.
Shady lot. From $300 -$450/mo
FIRST MONTH HALF PRICE incl water.
No pets. 4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887
5-11-10-13-2
AVAILABLE NOW & AUGUST
*2BR/1 BA fenced bkyd, cent H/AC $745/mo
*3BR/2BA fenced backyard. $1025/mo.
Gore-Rabell Real Estate 378-1387.
www.gore-rabell.com 4-21-10-13-2
APTS and HOMES for rent near UF!
Avail Summer and Fall, visit our website at
merrillmanagement.net or
Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494 x10
4-21-10-13-2
1BR 1BA Apt Grad II Apts
New carpet, paint. Avail Now
Or Fall 1236 Sw 4th Ave $540/mo
Central H &Air, Laundry Fac.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494
4-21-10-13-2
I(A PLAN TESTPREPAND Register I today!ADMISSIONS 1-800-KAP-TEST or kaptest.com/learnaboutlaw
Copyrighted Material
40
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
I.II
II
rr
-In
I2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue. St. Croix Apts
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
2BR 1BA, Wood Floors, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 or tazzie2l@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR or 2BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425-$550/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
8-16-10-37-2
Lovely 2 BE/21/2BA. NW 43rd Ave. Garage.
All appliances, W/D, internet,security, cable
included. Prefer quiet, stable residents. $999/
mo. Available June 1st. Long term lease
available. Ph. 941-776-1767. 5-20-10-15-2
Barn Eff Apt, Rural Living Jonesville
Pets Welcome, Avail Now, 15 Ac prop
$400 mo+util, TV, Wash/Dry Inc
Stalls also avail, 954-292-2244 4-20-10-
10-2
***STUDENTS****
1,2,3,&4 bedroom Houses and Apartments
available for fall. Pets arranged. All near
campus. Call 371-3260 or 870-2760 4-21-
10-11-2
WOODS EDGE SOUTH- 2BR/2.5BA
Recently constructed townhomes, located
off of 34th St. Spacious living room and wide
kitchen area. Bay windows for breakfast
nook. Double master suites and large clos-
ets. Screened back porch. W/D, next to bus
stop, close to UF.
$550/mo/rm + utilities.
Call (305)799-7042 5-18-14-2
1 Bedroom/1 Bath Apartment for Rent.
$535. Available Immediately. Downstairs
Unit. Country Club Atmosphere. Towne
Parc Apartments, 2930 SW 23rd Terrace,
Gainesville. Cell: 217-553-6045. 5-11-10-
12-2
3BR/3BA Condo across st. from campus
on corner of Archer and 13th with all tile
floors and all appliances. $1500/month or
individual leases. Available summer 2010
call 989-980-2807 4-21-10-10-2
4Br/3Ba Large Home w/ 2 car gar, 8 min from
UF, large fenced yard, dogs ok. Exquisite
oaks & landscaping, wood & tile floors, new
appliances. $1,600/mo. 352-466-0358. Avail
summer or Aug. 3120 NW 31st Blvd. 4-21-
10-10-2
Need creative/ open minded people for this
3 bedroom 2 bath house .you'll love this
property in itself close to all Hospital and
Musemum Rd $799/m Avail. April sq 1100
Contact Navyblueshirt@hotmail.com 4-21-
10-9-2
WALK TO UF -NW 6th Ave
3br/2ba adorable home, prvt bkyd,
Ig bdrms, new crpt, appl, a/c, w/d,
pvd drive, lawn/garb/pest i.
$1650/mo avail aug 941-544-2427 5-11-
10-10-2
Townhouse Rental 4/2.5. Gated, clubouse,
Cricket Club -near Newberry & 1-75. $1200/
mo, 954-557-4769, baezwpa@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-9-2
POOL HOUSE
4BR/3BA @ 2816 W. University Ave. 1 mile
to UF. Avail for fall. $1700/mo. 327-2931 or
376-6183 5-11-10-10-2Whispering Pines for fall: 2br/2ba with spa-
cious kitchens, breakfast bar, ceramic tile,
paddle fans, across from bus stop, especially
nice for grad students, includes monitored
alarm system, $840 edbaurmanagement.
com 352-375-7104 4-21-10-9-2
Affordable condo-Shellrock Villas, 2br/1.5ba
townhouse, paddle fans, walk-in closet, con-
venient to Oaks Mall/UF, avail May, $545
edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104
4-21-10-9-2
Beautiful Charleston Place, 3br/2.5 ba, simu-
lated wood floors, carpeted bedrooms, wash-
er, dryer, fully equipped kitchen, screened
porch, community pool, avail May, $1100
edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104
4-21-10-9-2
HOMES FOR RENT -CLOSE TO UF
3/2 630 NW 34th Terr. $1150/mo Pets ok
3/2 631 NW 36th St $1250/mo Pets ok
3/2 3404 NW 7th PI $1250/mo Pets ok
4/2 621 NW 35th St. $1250/mo Pets ok
Call Mike 352-665-7316 4-21-10-8-2
Cute studio for rent in the Duckpond area.
Monthly rent $395 incl elec & water. Sec
$450. Ideal for one person & possibly a small
pet. Call 352-371-3473 leave message.
5-27-10-14-2
Townhouse for rent 2BR/1.5BA w/ W/D hook-
ups. French doors open to private patio.
Remodeled kitchen & bathrooms. Monthly
rent $675. Sec $700. Pets ok. 4007 SW 26th
Terr. Apt B. Call 352-371-3473 leave mssg
5-27-10-14-2.
**4/3 18 NW36th St.** Close to campusall
appliances,W/D, cent, heat/air Avail. Aug.1
$1350 333-9874 5-11-10-9-2
*3401 NW 7th Place* 3/2 liv,din,fam rms.All
appliances W/D close to campus, large yd.
small pets ok avail Aug.1 $1325 333-9874
5-11-10-9-2
**4/2 3962 W University Ave.**close to cam-
pus, all appliances, W/D, hot tub, fire place,
screened porch, avail. Aug,1 $1375, 333-
9874 5-11-10-9-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**Near GHFC vaulted
ceilings, all appliances, W/D, garage, small
pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1250 333-9874
5-11-10-9-2
**4/2 919 NW 10th Ave.**Close to campus,all
appliances,W/D,Cent.heat&air.Avil.Aug.1
$1375 333-9874 5-11-10-9-2
2 BLOCKS TO STADIUM
1913 NW 2ND AVE,
1BR/1 BA, freshly painted $600
1813 NW 2ND AVE
1BR new paint & flooring $475,
1BR wd floors, fireplace $525
No pets. Call 352-335-4790 or 352-214-3369
4-21-8-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered.
Rent $695/mo Phone (352) 359-8311
6-29-10-19-2
Available now. HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo. All
4BR/2BA $1100/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183
4-21-10-6-2
3/3 Townhouse, 2 min. from UF/Shands
w/ Washer & Dryer, Pool, furnished or not at
same price, incl. UNLIMITED water, on Bus
13 route. Call 727-386-6426. 4-20-5-2
FOR RENT
3, 4, 5, & 6 BD Houses
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424 4-21-10-5-2
CAMPUS EDGE
2/2 walking distance to UF, on bus route,
vaulted ceilings, gym, pool, W/D in unit.
$550, tv and internet incl. avail June '10. 901-
581-0135 or 901-237-1157 6-29-21-2
3BR/3BA House, Close to UF/Shands.
Newly remodeled in 2009. W/D, fenced back
yard, lawn maintence, pest control included
in rent. Grad students preferred. Available
August 5th, $1375/month. 352-246-5958.
5-20-10-10-2Walk to UF 4/2 apt $295/room 1 year leases
start 8/16/10 No Pets
1740 NW 3rd PL Call 352-231-3002
4-21-10-6-2
Downsizing? Quiet 1 BR apt, 700+ sq ft, resi-
dental neighborhood, huge LR, patio, own
entrance & carport. $850 includes utilities,
NW 14th Ave & 20th St. 352-395-6250 or
332-1429 Kathy. 4-21-10-5-2
2 BR, 2.5 BA Townhouse. End Unit. $800
In secluded Brighton Park 1 block off SW
34th St. Near Publix and on bus lines. 1-2
miles to UF. Very well maintained unit. Non-
smokers only. 214-3820 4-21-10-5-2
Two blocks from UF Stadium
2 Bed 1 Bath, 1 Bed 1 Bath,
and Studio. Available August 1
352-377-2930 4-21-10-5-2
3 Male college students to share 4BR/4BA
Countryside condo, W/D, cable, hi-speed in-
ternet, 1st stop on UF bus rte. Utils included.
$450/mo. 863-634-1893. Available immedi-
ately. 4-21-10-5-2
Nice 2br, 2ba, W/D, tile / HW floors, Fenced,
yard, front parking; screened front deck.
Need a nice place to live in Gainesville at a
reasonable price. call! 407-433-1443. 5-18-
10-7-2
$525 for lbr/lba apt; near campus; spa-
cious; private patio; very quiet; greenspace;
cats allowed; prefer mature person or grad
student; 1807 NW 10th Street. (352) 376
0080; (352) 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
8-23-10-30-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
$579 mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
While they last or until 4-30-10!
Check out our unbelievable
Band Width 30x10
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-4-2
SUN BAY
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
from $499 mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
While they last or until 4-30-10!
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-4-2
SUN KEY
1.1 or 2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
$499/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Upgrades or Furniture extra
While they last or until 4-30-10!
Check our our unbelievable
Band Width 30x10
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-4-2
2 STORY TOWNHOUSE 1588 SQ FT
2BR/2BA, close to UF, across from GHFC
(5031 NW 1st Place) on bus rte, tennis, pool,
clubhouse. $975/mo Avail May 20th. Call
352-870-6906 5-11-10-5-2
$1175 / BRAND NEW CONDO. WALK TO
UF / SHANDS 2BR/2BA unit available July
1st. Approx 1100 sq ft. Campus View South
Condos 1185 SW 9th Rd. W/D, parking incl.
352-337-1760. 5-11-10-5-2
3/3 for $329 plus utilities in The Polos. Need
someone to take over lease for Fall 2010.
Roommates are very nice. Walk-in closet,
W/D, 3 pools, 2 hot tubs, volleyball, racquet-
ball, tennis courts. Pet friendly. 813-601-3249.
4-21-10-3-2
Available August: Cute & Clean Vintage
4bd/2.5ba behind Applebee's. Bike to UF! Wd
firs, CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds. Huge rooms!
907 NW 11th Ave. $1650/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com 352-338-7670
5-11-10-4-2
3/2 house in Valwood
$900, avail 7/1/10
call Carolyn Quinones
C21 Classic Prop 352-331-2100x107
email:CarolynQC21@aol.com 5-11-10-3-2= p-p
14, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010
For RentO FfrRe7 Subleases Roommates Real Estate Compunfurnished ULIaa
Victoria Station 2/2.5
$800 avail 7/1/10
call Carolyn Quinones
C21 Classic Prop 352-331-2100x107
email:CarolynQC21@aol.com 5-11-10-3-2
Walk to UF, lots of free
parking, 1/1 $550 avail 8/1/10
call Carolyn Quinones
C21 Classic Prop 352-331-2100x107
email:CarolynQC21@aol.com 5-11-10-3-2
2/1 $575 avail 8/1/10, conv to
UF or SFC downtown campus
call Carolyn Quinones
C21 Classic Prop 352-331-2100x107
email:CarolynQC21@aol.com 5-11-10-3-2
Casablanca 3/2.5 $800 avail now
call Carolyn Quinones
C21 Classic Prop 352-331-2100x107
email:CarolynQC21@aol.com 5-11-10-3-2
BROOKWOOD TERRACE APARTMENTS
2601 NW 23rd Ave
Best value in Gainesville
1044 sq ft 2 bedroom townhomes
$700 per month 352-378-9052 4-20-10-1-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD $470/mo 562-2824 5-11-
10-3-2
-subleases
$429.4br/4ba. FullyFurnishedw/TV.Washer/
Dryer.Screened in balcony.May-Aug. w/ Aug
rent paid. 2 direct routes to campus. Cabana
Beach. $100 cash to sign. Lisa 407-808-
8607 4-21-6-3
$425 1Br/1Ba in 3Br/3Ba townhouse at the
Woodlands. All Inclusive. Available May,
June, July. Price is negotiable. No reason-
able offer will be turned down! Contact
Tiffany,(561)452-3103 or tperini@ufl.edu
4-20-5-3
Summer at Courtyards Apts for only $450 a
month! 1 BR in a 4BR apt. Townhouse, across
street from Business School! Furnished,
all-inclusive utilities. h.orourke@ufl.edu
4-21-6-3
CABANA BEACH. $300/mo(price negotiable-
->I pay over $500). May-Aug(anytime). First
floor, 2br/2br. On Bus Route 21. Beautiful
pool! Nice people. Phone at 352-318-1014.
Email at jsmyth@ufl.edu. 4-21-5-3
2 BLOCKS to UF stadium
1BR/1BTH avail. in a 2/2. $595/MO all inclu-
sive. Furnished with style! Available summer.
Call Sarah 5742618021 4-20-10-4-3
Summer Sublease! 1BR/1 bath, University
House(NW13th and 7ave)-walking distance
from campus, pool, great roommates! $595/
month utilities/parking included, available
Summer A. 321-960-5255 4-21-10-5-3
SUBLEASE Aug 1 for the whole year @ The
ESTATES. 2/2 fully furnished, great pool,
both rooms available. e-mail:
bryttalyssa@ufl.edu 4-20-2-3
Walk to UF and enjoy your privacy! Suite for
summer sublease at College Manor Suites.
Rent incl. utilities. No reasonable offer re-
fused. Call 850-298-8427 or email
abenaa7l@hotmail.com 4-21-10-3-3
SUMMER SUBLEASE ON UNIVERSITY
May -August, $450/month o.b.o., Only 1
Bedroom available, Includes cable and utili-
ties, Furnished if desired,
House located at 3026 West University
Please call 727-744-4197 4-20-2-3
CANOPY APT SUMMER SUBLEASE
Female wanted
1rm in 4br w/ prv bath
Brand New, great bus access
$565/month
863-676-5907 5-18-10-5-3*****University Park Studios Apartment******
1 BR/1 BA $575 per month (usual rate $665)
Sublease for Fall starting August
Luxury bathroom, pet friendly, free park-
ing, pool access, no roommates, WALKING
DISTANCE TO CAMPUS
Call (352) 871-8725 or email at rkeels@ufl.edu
4-21-2-3
OFRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES
IN FURN 4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF.
$290/mo incl elec, cable tv, internet, pool,
laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626
5-11-10-25-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
5-11-10-62-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsVA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$325/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220
(leave a voicemail.) 4-21-32-4.
$400/mo Room for Rent plus elec, Rockwood
Villas TH, pvt bath, on bus route, w/d, free
internet, non-smoking, female only. Avail
Immed & Fall. 1st Mth Free w lyr lease.
ktellmann@ufl.edu/904-874-6877. 7-13-
10-45-4
Seeking roommates for 3 bed/ 2 ba quiet
condo at Creeks Edge. New flooring, recent
remodel,upstairs unit, washer/dryer, on bus-
line to campus, partial furnished. Available
Aug 1st. $395/mo. 727-463-0560 5-11-10-
28-4
Responsible and Clean Rommate needed
Asking $600, spacious room w/ private bath.
Fully furnished, 5 minutes from campus, ac-
cess to bus routes 9 & 35. Contact Eddie at
954-699-3665 for details or a viewing. 4-21-
10-14-4
Grad student looking for roommates for 4
bed/4 bath condo at University Terrace.
$400/room/month, incl. cable, internet, util.
On 2 bus routes, fully furnished. Tidiness
preferred. 352-575-0731 anu87@ufl.edu
4-21-10-22-4
Need FEMALE roommate! All-inclusive, fully-
furnished 1BR/1BA available in a 3BR/3BA
apt @ Windsor Park. Bus routes 9,34,35,36.
Contact me for RATES and INCENTIVES:
aptinfo4u@yahoo.com 4-21-13-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $350/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
4-21-10-11-4
3 Roommates needed for a 4/2 newly pur-
chased house (2400 sq ft) , Backyard, large
kitchen large patio. Fully furnished besides
bedrooms. 5min from UF. $499 including
utilities. Move in -May 15. call Shaun at 904-
838-8412 4-21-10-11-4
DUCKPOND -BIKE TO UF
Serious student/foreign grad. Fully furn small
room in quiet house. Close to downtown, on
bus line. Utils incl. $90/week. 352-514-3409
4-21-10-11-4Clean and responsible roommate wanted!
4/2 new 1900SF house. Convenient location
for both UF and SFC. Pool, basketball, grill.
$475/month. Utilities included. Available
Aug 15th. Call Erik @ 954-937-9491
4-21-10-9-4
ROOMATE WANTED FOR 954 sq ft
LOOKING GLASS APARTMENT: 2/2 next to
campus and midtown for 588/ MO. Includes
equipped kitchen, washer and dryer, park-
ing and internet. For more information
call 561-310-3417 4-20-5-4
Responsible, Clean, Student roommate
needed. Windsor Park Condo, Bus routes
34, 9 and 36. Furnished, new carpet and
appliances; Ground floor, fitness cen-
ter, pool, tennis courts, etc. $400/month,
(904) 370-4392 4-20-10-5-4
Grad student looking for female room-
mates in fully furnished 4bed/4bath condo at
Countryside. $475/month. Inc. cable/inter-
net, utilities, W/D. On 2 bus routes. Contact
Megan 727-542-8155. 4-21-10-5-4
Need 2 female roommates for a 4bed/4bath
at Countryside. Indiv. leases. Furnished, ca-
ble, util, internet, wash/dry included. Access
to pool, gym and bus routes 9, 35, and 36.
$425 per month. Call (786)385-2839 4-21-
5-4
Roommate needed, Furnished house in
Duck Pond, 1.5 mi.to UF, $565/mo. utilities
included 561-715-0712 6-1-10-10-4
1 female roommate needed. Move in now.
Poolside 1/1 in 4/4 at Countryside. $425/mo./
OBO. Internet, W/D, great deal and location.
Call 386-676-9703 or nukkenl@aol.com
5-11-10-2-3
F Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Campus Edge / Somerest VillageWalk to
Shands/VA/class 2units, 2bd/2ba vault-
ed ceilings 2nd/3rd floor w/d in unit,best
locations parking. $8,000 tax credit.
$164,900/$132,900. Move in Ready 954-
439-2301 stedel@bellsouth.net 4-21-10-
41-5
Motivated. For sale by Owner. Must sell
beautiful 3bd/2b 1777 sf home in Cottages
of Country Way, Newberry, FL. Close to
schools. No HOA. Large lot.Asking $184,900.
(530) 613-6488 4-21-10-28-5
Westgate Manor, 85 Mobile home 14x60
2/1.5 remodeled full BA w/new toilet & vanity.
TV, bed, newer carpet, linoleum, frig, range,
nice fixtures. Vaulted ceiling, stone fireplace,
bay window, cent AC, $16.5K 617-335-1303
5-11-10-7-53/2 house in Archer. Above ground Pool.
Homes only area. No HOA. 25 minutes to
UF. Go to fsbo.com listing #136241 for more
details and pictures. $175,000 rhaynes@
hotmail.com or 407 453-4534 4-21-10-5-5
2001 2BR/2BA MOBILE HOME
in Oak Park Village. Inc appliances, 10x10
shed, awning. $11,000/OBO. 352-424-0687
5-11-10-4-5
FFurnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 8-16-10-25-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 8-16-10-25-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 8-16-10-25-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 8-16-10-25-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
8-16-25-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 8-16-10-25-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
8-16-10-25-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 8-16-
25-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 8-16-10-25-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
8-16-25-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 8-16-25-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
8-16-25-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 8-16-10-
25-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 8-16-25-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 8-16-25-6COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
2 Bicycle Racks for sale for vehicles. 1 rack
for a Jeep Wrangler to attach to rear tire
$50.00 barely used. 1 bike rack for sedan-
-trunk mounted assembly for any vehicle
$40.00.Call 352-219-3391 4-21-3-9
L For Sale
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now. Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 8-16-10-25-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie -373-5929 4-21-18-10
EPtorCyIes, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
8-16-10-25-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 8-16-10-
25-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-16-10-25-11
***Www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 8-16-10-25-11
GATORMOTO Gvilles #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
8-16-10-25-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 8-16-10-25-11
_WIIAutos
Computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
*Running or not@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
Autos Autos Wanted Help Wanted Help Wanted
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
8-16-25-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
5-27-09-124-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699
94 Chevy 1500 $999
92 Chrysler Cirrus $999
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
93 Ford F150 $1999
98 Ford Explorer $1999
96 Mits Galant $1999
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Nissan Stanza $1499
98 Pontiac Transport $1499
97 Plymouth Voyager $1999
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-1200 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2999
99 Olds Alero $2999
99 Pontiac Grand Am $2999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
99 Chrysler Sebring $2500
01 Dodge Neon $2500
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Mustang, 40k, $5500 CASH
03 Chevy Venture, 143k, $6900 CASH
05 Jeep Liberty, 105k, $6999 CASH
05 Saturn Ion, 123k, $7999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
06 Ford Taurus, 40k, $8900 CASH
0 VWJetta, 111k, $8999 CASH
05 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
05 Chevy Trailblazer, 135k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Ranger, 158k, $7999 CASH
06 Chrysler PT Criuser, 46k $9999 CASH
07 Chevy Cobalt, 24k $10,999 CASH
02 Volvo S60, 97k $8999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
1989 Jeep Wrangler
A/C, power steering, automatic 4-wheel
drive, New paint- Gator Orange, new top &
doors, new radio, asking $7900 386-322-3797
4-20-10-5-12
WIWantedP
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
1A
e
Copyrighted Material
1d dt t .y 10^ 0 nSyndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
IlkUF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-16-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948. 4-21-10-72-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 4-21-
10-72-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
the independent floridaalligator
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this summer and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org by April 23th.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
the independent floridaalligator
Daytime Advertising Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting student applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout. Will
train, but experience with Adobe InDesign,
Photoshop and Illustrator is preferred.
Friendly work environment, flexible sched-
ule, with hours between 9 am -5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave,
M-F 9 am -5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and refer-
ences. Previous applicants are
welcome to reapply
with current schedule. EOESthe independent floridaalligator
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production Department is accepting
student applications. Applicants should have
a summer availability of
Mondays and Wednesdays between
6:00 pm and 1:00 am.
Duties include page layout and design.
Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment
is expected. Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator, 1105 W
University Ave, M-F 9 am -5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are
welcome to reapply with current schedule.
EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 8-16-10-25-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 8-16-10-
25-14
Summer Jobs
*0$2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male summer camp counselors ages 18 and
up. FEYC is an over-night camp located off
of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL. The camp
runs June 14- Aug 7. Please contact Krys
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352
455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have a fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
Start securing your career today!
Join UF ARMY ROTC!
Register for MSL 1001 and 1001L
Call 392-1395 today to learn about
jobs available as an Army officer!
8-5-10-50-14
MASTER HYPNOTIST
Seeks intern w/excellent computer, internet
& interpersonal skills. Phone Richard in AM
352-949-0813 4-21-10-15-14
WINDOW BLIND INSTALLERS NEEDED
Independent contractors. Call immediately
339-4600 4-21-10-14-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable, writ-
ing skills a must, bookkeeping skills a plus.
Call Carrillo & Carrillo, PA @352-371-4000.
6-8-10-21-14STAY IN GAINESVILLE
CAREER POSITIONS
(with benefits)
MARKETING/SALES REPS
ADMIN ASST
TECH SUPPORT
ACCOUNTING EDITOR
RESEARCH ASST
SOFTWARE TESTER
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
(PT also available)
Apply online at http://www.gleim.com
4-21-10-17-14
Fun summer jobs! Earn Great Pay! City of
Gainesville Parks/Rec Dept. is now hiring for
seasonal Recreation and Aquatics positions!
Apply online at www.cityofgainesville.jobs
AA/EO/DFWP 5-11-10-12-14
Ever think about joining the Army?
Ever considered being an officer?
If you have 2-3 years left at UF you
may have an opportunity through
Army ROTC Call 392-ARMY!
5-27-10-32-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Help wanted for wait staff and hostesses.
Experience required. Apply in person be-
tween 2pm and 4pm at 7038 NW 10th place.
4-21-10-10-14
LAW STUDENT-
EXCELLENT WRITING SKILLS.
1 year+ commitment. Resume to: 626N.E.1st
Street,32601or paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14
FRENCH TUTOR-TEMPORARY-
Family visiting France in summer. Please
include salary requirement. Resume to
paulsrothstein@yahoo.com. 4-21-10-10-14
GUITAR INSTRUCTOR-
two middle school children-beginners. Prefer
home instruction. Resume to
paulsrothstein@yahoo.com. 4-21-10-10-
14
CLEANER/GARDENER-
P/T, flex- house. Thorough and conscienten-
tous. Pay competitive. Resume to:
paulsrothstein@yahoo.com 4-21-10-10-14
OFFICE ASS'T-
F/T or part-time- love numbers, passion for
organization and fitness. Eye for detail. 1
year+ commitment. Resume to: 626N.E.1st
Street,32601or paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14
POLITICAL COORDINATOR / GRASS
ROOTS ALACHUA COUNTY ELECTIONS
Resume to paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14
HOUSEKEEPING -CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available
Mon-Fri, 10am -5pm. $7.25/hr, experience
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323
for more info and interview. 4-21-10-9-14
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Full or part time. Some weekends,holidays.
Experience preferred. Apply in person
at Jonesville Animal Hospital 14145 W.
Newberry Rd. Newberry. 4-21-10-7-14
PET PARADISE RESORT
Newberry, FL. Now accepting resumes
for entry level management position.
Experienece required. Send resume to:
m c o o I i c a n @ p e t p a ra d i s e c o r p. co m
5-11-10-8-14
Sunflower Health Foods is seeking P/T
person with nutritional background for
Vitamin/Supplement sales. MUST HAVE
supplement knowledge. Apply in person
87 SW 34th St, Gainesville.
4-20-10-5-14
Build your own online business from your
laptop. Fifty year old company.
Contact John, 352-219-0871, or
John@JCantlon.com 5-27-10-11-14
BRIDAL CONSULTANT/STYLIST
Solutions Bridal
PT+ Commission
Fax Resume to:
352-374-7293
4-21-5-14[ME 1% 04M 1%
16, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010
WJ HelpWanted HelpWanted services Event Notices Tickets
CARETAKER -GREAT OPPORTUNITY for
psych, special ed or applied behavior majors
to obtain state of the art intervention skills
& knowledge working with severly autistic
young man in home & community based set-
ting. Must be motivated, reliable and make a
one year commitment. Hours TBA, compe-
tive wage. Fax resume to BH @352-375-4268
4-21-10-5-14
Now Hiring qualified women's J.O. Coach
For level 7 gymnastics team. Facility is lo-
cated in Starke. Please send resum with
references to
usagymnasticsofflorida@earthink.net 4-21-
10-5-14
BARTENDERS NEEDED
Earn $150-$250 per shift. FT/PT No experi-
ence required. Will train. Call now 352-678-
5246 x 701 5-11-10-5-14
Nanny for 10 month old baby girl needed.
Must be available from 8-5 at least 2 full
weekdays each week. Submit resume and
availability this summer and fall (if known) to
nannyingville@gmail.com. 4-21-10-4-14
Nanny needed w/ infant exp;
M-F 20 hrs btwn 9-3pm $9/hr
strong in-home refs req.
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com 4-20-
10-3-14
MWFSat NANNY NEEDED 15hrs/wk;
6:30am; May 3 to Aug 18 min; refs!
3 yr old twins + lyr old; clean dmv;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com 4-20-
10-3-14
Part Time work for potential full time income
w/ flex. hours for self-starter. Attractive com-
missions for creating membership leads for
established martial arts studio. Apply via e-
mail to schafriska@aol.com 4-21-10-3-14
The Caffeine Bar @ Ben & Jerry's is seek-
ing outgoing, motivated individuals with their
own transportation. Must thrive in a fast
paced working environment and appreciate
cleanliness and organization.
Email resumes & class schedule to:
jen@catergainesville.com 4-21-3-14
Interviewing NOW for jobs
beginning August 16th
Leave for the summer & know
you are coming back to a job!
SCHOOL BOARD OF ALACHUA COUNTY
AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM-
VARIOUS LOCATIONS-
* ENERGETIC PEOPLE TO TEACH
OUTDOOR GAMES -$10/hr -BA desired or
successful exp. working w/ children.
* CREATIVE PEOPLE TO TEACH ARTS
& CRAFTS -$10/hr -BA desired or success-
ful exp. working w/ children.
* Girl Scout Leaders, Tennis Instructors,
Dance Instructors & 4-H Leaders
Hours required -
MTThF -1:45-5:30, Wed, -12:30-5:30pm
DRUG TESTING REQUIRED -
BACKGROUND CHECK CONDUCTED -
AA/EOE
CALL 955-7766 FOR INFORMATION.
Apply online www.sbac.edu or
at Kirby Smith 620 E. University Ave. 4-21-
3-14
Seeking a Clinical Support Specialist for
Gainesville, Fl. Salary: 28-30K
Requirements
B.A. level in behavioral science
Good organizational, communication and
customer service skills
Computer literate
Responsible work habits with minimal super-
vision
Responsibilities
Interface telephonically with master level cli-
nicians to assist with referrals, with providers
setting up appointments, members providing
referrals, Follow-up calls to members ensur-
ing the referral was appropriate and Daily
data entry of all activities
Find providers in rural areas (web search)
Send or fax
HMSA -Resumes
20811 Kelly Rd
Eastpointe, MT 48021P R E M I E R
Premier Collegiate
Are you looking for a
fun and professional job?
Get paid to be a social butterfly
while working with UF Orgs.
We are HIRING IMMEDIATELY
Sales, Customer Service
and Internship positions
Submit your resume NOW to:
jobs@premiercollegiate.com
.wwpremiercollegiate.com
5-11-10-314
E X E C U T I V E
Premier Executive
Want to work in a fast paced
and exciting marketing firm?
We are HIRING IMMEDIATELY
Account Executives and
Customer Service Reps
High expectations with great opportunity!
Submit your resume NOW to:
jobs@premiercorporations.com
www.premierexecutive.com
5-11-10-3-14
Seeking a Clinical Support Specialist for July
in Gainesville, Fl. Salary: 28-30K
REQUIREMENTS
OB.A. level in behavioral science
OGood organizational, communication and
customer service skills
*Computer literate
OResponsible work habits with minimal
supervision
RESPONSIBILITIES
Interface telephonically with master level cli-
nicians to assist with referrals, with providers
setting up appointments, members providing
referrals. Follow-up calls to members ensur-
ing the referral was appropriate and Daily
data entry of all activities Find providers in
rural areas (web search)
SEND OR FAX
HMSA -Resumes
20811 Kelly Rd Eastpointe, MI 48021
586-773-0953 4-21-10-2-14
W ZServices
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 8-16-09-25-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruction;
15 minutes from UF. Charlie at 373-5929.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-
15
Local Immigration Attorney -Marriage
Green Cards/Fiance Visas/Naturalization
Matters -$295.00 Attorney Fees Plus Costs
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
6-1-45-15Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding. Owner
housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 6-3-10-
30-15
KEN GARVIN APPLIANCE SERVICE
10 YEARS EXPERIENCE 8AM-8PM 7 DAYS
LOW RATES ALL BRANDS STUDENT
SPECIAL $40 SERVICE CALL PLUS
PARTS WWW.KENGARVIN.COM 338-1708
4-21-20-15
ATTN GARDENERS!I will till your gardens for less than you can
rent a tiller! Call Chauncy Gardener 352-
214-1767. Chauncy Gardener Gardening
Service. 41 years of gardening service!
4-21-10-15
THE SALON "0" SPECIALS
2720 NW 6TH STREET.352 672 6339
HIGHLIGHTS $35 10 FOILS.
MENS CUTS: $10
GOOD TIL 05/30 5-27-10-12-15
Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
Grieving the loss of someone?
National Students of AMF
Join our Facebook group:
Gator Students of AMF
TalkAboutLoss.org 4-21-43-16
A Woman's Answer
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716 8-24-74-16FREE SPAYS FOR STRAYS!
Operation Catnip will provide free spay/
neuter, vaccines, & treatment for fleas, ear
mites, & worms to unowned, stray or feral
cats from mobile home parks in Alachua
County. Volunteers are needed to help with
trapping & transportation of cats. To volun-
teer or request spay/neuter for homeless
cats call (352)380-0940. 4-21-18-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
JUMBLE5$ student tkts, 352-375-HIPP
Monday, April 26, 6 pm
'Mistresses of many voices'
dance/theater/music performance 4-21-10-
7-22
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
W E Z_ Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
FOUND: DOG
Medium-sized, brown & white, male (intact),
corgi/beagle mix? Found Fri, 4/9 south of the
town of Archer. Very friendly. 352-529-9107
4-21-3-24
a %I .a .
Copyrighted Material
qSyndicated Content
WJ Pe3sonals 2 Available from Commercial News Providers
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
-a
*Family Chiropractic* * -me
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
8-16-25-18
S3COnnetions
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
Asian male, 70 years old, professional, slim,
tall, dark. Seeking a white feamle with fair
hair between the ages of 50-70 years old.
Write to P.O Box 1823 Keystone Heights, FL
32656 4-21-10-10-19bOO
Sports
TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Uncharacteristic defensive mistakes cost Gators
Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator Staff
UF's Brittany Walker leads the team with nine errors, many coming
at the shortstop position.Florida will host FIU today
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Writer
For the past two weeks, the
Gators have been playing with
fire.
Saturday they finally got
burned.
After executing almost flaw-
lessly in the field early in the
season, the Gators' defense has
seemingly fallen apart over the
last 14 games, culminating in a
loss to Kentucky.
The No. 3 Gators (34-5, 14-3
Southeastern Conference) will
need to get their fielding is-
sues straightened out if they
want to survive today's double-
header with FIU (29-15, 11-5 Sun
Belt Conference) at 4 p.m. in
Gainesville, and the remainder
of the rigorous conference sched-
ule.
Florida committed only 10 er-
rors in the team's first 23 games,
a number that had it leading the
nation in fielding percentage.
But from there, UF made er-
rors in 13 of it's next 15 games,
committing a total of 23 in that
span.
While the Gators were able
to use their dominant offense
and some timely pitching to pull
out wins in the majority of those
games, the defensive mishaps
caught up with them in Satur-
day's nightcap against Kentucky,when they lost 5-3.
Were it an error-free game,
Florida would have come away
with a 3-2 win.
But the Wildcats were able to
score a run in the second and two
more in the fourth on a pair of
fielding mishaps by UF, leading
to their 5-3 victory.
"We're working hard but just
not playing good defense," UF
coach Tim Walton said after the
game. "We don't strike out very
many batters so we put a lot of
pressure on the defense so we
gotta play better."
Last year, UF's fielders were
aided greatly by the presence of
Stacey Nelson, who struck out
8.76 batters per seven innings.
"We're working hard but
just not playing good de-
fe nse."
Tim Walton
UF softball coach
But this year, the onus is on
the fielders to produce the ma-
jority of the outs, as Stephanie
Brombacher is striking out 7.85
batters per seven innings, while
Ensley Gammel is striking out
just 4.58 per seven innings.
"I've never really felt more
helpless than I did today," Wal-
ton said after a weekend series
against Arkansas in which theGators committed five errors.
"We weren't very sharp on de-
fense the whole weekend, and I
felt bad more for Stephanie be-
cause she made good pitches but
we just gave away outs."
While the recent defensive
struggles have been a team ef-
fort, the shortstop spot deserves
the brunt of the blame.
The rotation of freshman Brit-
tany Walker and junior Megan
Bush at the position has been
responsible for 14 errors this sea-
son, which amounts to 42 percent
of the team's total.
Walker, who leads the team
with nine errors, has taken the
majority of the reps at the posi-
tion this year but could be re-
placed by Bush at a moment's
notice.
"How much patience I have
for Brittany Walker probably de-
pends on how much patience she
has in herself," Walton said. "She
puts a lot of pressure on herself.
It's not easy to play shortstop on
a veteran team that has high ex-
pectations, especially for a kid
who really hasn't played at this
level."
The only thing Walton knows
for sure is that things will have to
improve if the Gators are to make
a deep run in the NCAA Tourna-
ment.
"Defense wins champion-
ships," Walton said. "The offense
and all that kinda stuff is all
good, but defense wins champi-
onships."
Lessons learned in college shape columnist's journey forward
Wn big. Lose big.Four years in
Gainesville have given
me plenty of opportunities to
make mistakes, and I've made my
share. A comparison between me
on my first trip to Gainesville and
me on my way out might yield
some interesting changes.
I learned how to procrastinate.
I found out how poorly I could
manage my time. I missed dead-
lines. I bombed a test here and
there. I made poor decisions with
money. I saw what it felt like to be
incredibly lazy.
Essentially, I had a prettydamn good time.
For a guy who will admit to
having impossible expectations of
himself, I have disappointed my-
self quite a few times. It couldn't
have been healthier.
Learning how to fail is prob-
ably one of the biggest lessons I'll
be taking from UF. As Michael
Jordan said in a Nike commercial
several years ago, failure will be
why I succeed.
The best choices I have ever
made have entailed taking risks,
and that includes how I started
my path to writing this column.
Back in the fall of 2006, an e-H
Phil Kegler
Phil-ling Up the
Kegler
pkegler@aligator orgmail was
sent out on
the j-school
list-serve
by the St.
Petersburg
Times look-
ing for free-
lance writ-
ers to cover
high school
sports in
Citrus County.
The gig had its obvious down-
sides -the pay barely would cov-
er the two-hour round trip from
Gainesville to Citrus County. Thesports teams were pretty terrible,
and the assignments weren't par-
ticularly glamorous.
I was the only one who ap-
plied. I still almost didn't get the
job.
I had no experience, and even
if the assignment was small, the
St. Petersburg Times doesn't have
much work for people completely
new to journalism.
I persisted and succeeded,
thanks to a woman named Dawn
Reiss giving me a chance.
She was the contact for the job
and had told me no experience
meant no-go. I offered to do a trialrun: drive to Citrus County on my
own free will, cover a game and
write a story.
I did it and wrote the worst
piece of journalism that was prob-
ably ever created. She somehow
saw promise in it, gave me some
tips and threw me out into the
wilderness soon after to cover my
own high school games.
I made my own luck.
Give me a joke.
You're probably wondering
why my column name is different
today. Consider it my own kind
of thank you to my friends and
SEE PHIL, PAGE 18
UF BASKETBALL
0 Three-star power forward recruit
Will Yeguete committed to the
Gators on Monday, becoming UF's
third commit in its 2010 recruiting
class.alligatorSports Podcast
U Bobby Callovi and Kyle Maistri join host
Adam Berry to discuss the upcoming NFL
Draft, analyzing and predicting where every
eligible former UF player will go.
Download it on iTunes.TEEING OFF WITH KYLE MAISTRI
U Closer Eric Gagne announced Monday that he will be retiring from professional
baseball. I would have been more surprised if he would have announced that he
was still playing. Former Georgia Tech running back Jonathan Dwyer failed a
drug test at the combine. He's got to be the early favorite for Rookie of the Year,
right?-
18, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
The New
3727 W. University Ave. 0
Mon -Sat 8am -7pm
Sun 10 -5pm
378-4650
hat you need-
hen you need it!
HNDEI1T TEN IT!
NIRCHUR ENCHEGE CHM!
Wondering what to do with all your furniture and
household items when you leave for the
summer? Give your old
stuff a new home through
AlachuaExchange. com.
It's free and easy to use!
Alachua County Office
of Waste Alternatives HNGECOM
352.374.5213
Emb r aj
WanqtpWith the ETS My Credentials Vault'" service
powered by Interfolio
The letter of recommendation is a top priority for graduate and professional school applicants. Now :here's an
easier way for letter writers and applicants to simplify the entire process.
ETS and Interfolio have created the My Credentials Vaultsm service so that letter writers and applicants can
quickly and securely manage letters of recommendation. An easy-to-use, web-based tool, the My Credentials
Vault service helps streamline the entire process from initial request through delivery.
The My Credentials Vault service is FREE for letter writers.
One letter. One way. Many options. Letter writers can use any word processing software to write their confidential
letter; they can then securely upload their letter into the My Credentials Vault service. Letter writers can also
mail a hard copy of the letter if preferred. The applicant can then send that letter to multiple institutions.
A single system that helps keep everyone organized. During peak application times, requests for
letters of recommendation can really begin to pile uo. With the My Credentials Vault serv ce,
letter writers and applicants can track letters in one centralized locatior -online, anytime.
Secure and confidential. The My Credentials Vault service is a safe, secure online A plicantsheenvironment that upholds all confidentiality standards. Letter writers have access to cM u o t
any letters they upload. Applicants can track and manage their letters, but they My Credentials Vault
cannot see the content of confidential recommendations. service today for a
low annual feeStart using the My Credentials Vault service today -and simplify the process for everyone. an $19
To learn more, visit www.ets.org/mycv/uf
Copyright E 2010 by Edusational Testing Service All ights reserved ETS, the ETS logo and ISTENING LEAFNIN3 LEADING
are registered trademarks of Educational Testing Service ETS) MY CREDENTIALS VAULT is a service rark of ETS 14108
Listening. Learning. LeadingPHIL, from page 17
those who think they know humor better than I do (Yes,
those groups have near identical memberships).
You'll also notice three phrases in italics throughout this
column. These have somehow become part of my persona,
and yes, I realize they pretty much make no sense
See, if you've never met me in person, my friends like to
tease that I hate to have fun.
And I'll admit I'm a pretty conservative guy, usually
not one to push my boundaries.
I have at times decided to make choices in hopes of a
decent night's sleep and an acceptable test grade or avoid-
ed pranks that seem more like the actions of fifth-graders.
Sometimes, I take things too seriously and act like a
40-year-old. But hey, if they didn't care, they wouldn't
tease, right?
And in the end, making a difference in people's lives is
all I've ever wanted. It is one of my core mottos -mak-
ing the lives of those around me better because they knew
me.
Listen, I could get all serious and sappy, but that would
probably cause even the five of you who have made it this
far to stop.
Most of us have experienced tragedies or been close to
someone who has.
I don't need to describe how I've almost lost the two
most important people in my life. Just do yourself a favor
and live every day to the fullest.
And with that, I tip my cap to all my readers. Thanks for
coming along for the journey. If I made you love me or hate
me just once for even a few seconds, then I did my job.
Keep it real, Gainesville.
TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Right on Target
By TONI-ANN MILLER
Alligator WriterAmanda O'Leary stood on the
field and looked around while
goose bumps covered her
body at the sound of the national
anthem. She saw the stadium that
would be at capacity less than four
minutes after faceoff, she saw the
faces of supporters, and she saw
her dream come true.
O'Leary, UF's lacrosse coach,
dreamt of building a top-notch
women's program in Gainesville.
She worked with UF athletics di-
rector Jeremy Foley to get funding,
to create a facility and to gather
staff and players who were com-
mitted to her dream. When all that
was done, O'Leary stood in awe of
the turnout at UF's inaugural game
against Jacksonville.
The field was surrounded by
2,114 people who flocked to Don-
ald R. Dizney Stadium on Feb.
20 to see a team, unproven at the
Division-I level, win its inaugural
game 16-6 over the Dolphins.
Since that record-setting game,
UF has put together a solid sea-
son for a first-year program as it
garnered eight more victories and
dropped six matches. Its r6sum6 in-
cludes wins over then-No.14 Penn
State and No.17 New Hampshire,
and the Gators even jumped into
the top-20 rankings for a week.
The team put up statistics that
some more experienced teams
would trade for, and it shocked
some doubters when its core of 24
freshmen, two sophomores, one
junior and two seniors matured
in a matter of months, dealt with
adversity and played like they had
years of D-I experience under their
belts.
"I think the players have
learned a great deal, and that's
been our philosophy," O'Leary
said. "If we can go out each day
and get better, then we can really
count the season as a success, andI think we had some real successes
this season."
Young guns
With only five non-freshmen on
the roster, who combined for six
starts this season -all by Rachael
Zimmerman before her season-
ending injury -the Gators were
going to need big seasons from the
freshmen.
The athletes O'Leary gathered
knew the high expectations that
were set at Florida when they
chose to come to Gainesville to
take on the challenge.
So far, it's worked out just fine.
The freshmen flourished this
season, padding the stat sheets and
some even gaining national recog-
nition along the way.
At the helm of the march for
freshmen dominance was Ashley
Bruns.
Bruns, a 5-foot-2-inch attacker
from Ellicott City, Md., put the
first marks in UF lacrosse's history
book with four scores and four as-
sists in the first game, and has con-
tinued adding to it.
Bruns leads the Gators with 44
goals and 30 assists. She is cur-
rently third in the nation with 74
overall points and she was named
American Lacrosse Conference
Rookie of the Week three times
this season.
The freshman also was dubbed
WomensLacrosse.com and Wom-
ensLax.com Rookie of the Week on
March 23.
"It feels great," Bruns said, "but
it's not the first thing on my mind
every day."
In addition to Bruns, defender
Sam Farrell was named the Ameri-
can Lacrosse Conference Defensive
Player of the Week on April 6, and
Brittany Dashiell shared Rookie of
the Week honors on March 9.
"We did an amazing job," Bruns
said. "We showed that we can play
with the top players -the seniors,
the juniors, the sophomores whohave been doing this for years.
We surprised a lot of people, just
knowing that Florida is not a team
you just walk over."
Injuries and Inconsistencies
Freshman attacker Amanda
Wedekind, defender Rachel Smith
and midfielder HayleyKatzenberg-
er began the season on the sideline
after suffering season-ending inju-
ries last summer and fall.
The losses forced UF to con-
stantly adjust its lineup as it sought
to find the right mix of players
each game.
When O'Leary thought she had
found the right system, a midfield
substitution for offense and de-
fense, more injuries struck.
Zimmerman went down with
a torn ACL during a pre-game
warm-up before the game against
New Hampshire, and Julie Schin-
del suffered a wrist injury in prac-
tice the day before the Oregon
game.
O'Leary said she had to ask the
team to make changes with little
preparation before the games.
"It was really hard, but this
team made the adjustments," she
said. "They were accountable for
those game-day adjustments and
they worked through them, so
I give them all the credit in the
world."
In addition to the injuries the
Gators battled, there were bouts of
inconsistency throughout the sea-
son. They won the first two games,
but lost the third. They then re-
grouped and got another win, but
that was followed by two losses.
They won three more then lost
one. The trend continued as they
had another three-game winning
streak, which was followed by two
losses.
The mental turmoil that came
with doing everything right and
being on top one week, but then
making mistakes and being down
the next week forced the athletes to
lVldtt IFIPP / aM1gtatagll
The UF Lacrosse team has had an up-and-down first season, never putting together a win streak more
than three games and never losing more than two-straight matches this year.UF Lacrosse Inaugural
Season Review
Wins: 9
Longest Win Streak: 3
Best Win: 13-11 over then-No. 14 Penn State
Losses:6
Longest Losing Streak: 2
Worst Loss: 12-11 20T loss to unranked Colgate
Most Goals Scored in Game: 22 (Twice)
Most Goals Allowed in Game: 18 (North Carolina)
Fewest Goals Scored in Game: 5 (North Carolina)
Fewest Goals Allowed in Game: 3 (Three times)
Top Scorer: Ashley Bruns (44)
Top Assists: Bruns (30)
Top Goal Saver: Cara Canington (95)
Editor's note: The lacrosse team still has its season finale
against Northwestern on May 2, the American Lacrosse Con-
ference Tournament and possibly the NCAA Tournament
draw inspiration from each other.
"It was really important to
look at each other for a pump-up
speech or look at each other for
smiles when we won," goalie Cara
Canington said. "The team and the
coaches (stuck) together and (took)
those emotions -whether happy
or bad -together."
O'Leary recalled her husband's
frighteningly accurate preseason
prediction about the ups and
downs she would face this season.
"When we went into the year,
my husband was telling me,
'You're going to catch a team that
you probably shouldn't beat, and
then you are going to get beat by a
team you shouldn't get beat by,"'
O'Leary said.
UF beat No. 14 Penn State but
then fell to an unranked Colgate
the following weekend.
Chemistry
The common bonds the play-
ers share, being young and being
a part of the inaugural team, have
translated to more than just suc-
cess on the field.
Florida's staff decided to take a
more compassionate approach to
coaching, as opposed to the heavy-
handed method usually associated
with training a team of adults.
If you walk into the facility be-
fore practice, the atmosphere is
more of a family coming together
for a reunion. Players and coaches
arrive, greet each other and talk
about their day -from how they
feel to how their classes went.
"They just work so hard (that)
you probably don't even need to
yell at them half the time because
they are so hard on themselves,"
O'Leary said. "We spend so much
time together that you want to
make it a family environment,
because most of them live so far
away, and their parents are flights
away.
You want them to feel that they
are part of a family and that people
care about them."Jocelyne Sanchez/ Alligator Staff
The players have jelled and of-
ten attribute their success to their
close relationships. Canington said
playing with her teammates is like
having 20-plus best friends, and
that they manage to keep their re-
lationships drama-free.
The memories she said she'll
take from the season are those of
camaraderie. Bus rides were pri-
vate parties, with music and danc-
ing, and being greeted in airports
with the "Gator Chomp" high-
lighted her year.
Bright future
Florida's young squad proved
it has the talent to play at the Di-
vision-I level, and the players are
looking forward to what UF will be
able to do next season, after having
gotten acquainted with each other
this year.
"This year is all about finding
out what works for different play-
ers, and how to communicate and
work well with different players,"
Bruns said. "Next year, we're go-
ing to know, and we're going to
come out with fire."
Florida has already had five
midfield signees for its second
season -Anna DeGiovanni from
Flemington, N.J., Kelsey Dlugos
from Commack, N.Y., Elizabeth
Dunwoody from Oak Hill, Va.,
Krista Grabher from Fort Pierce
and Courtney Hoyes from Silver
Spring, Md.
The future, for UF, has countless
possibilities, but before it focuses
on avenging losses and improv-
ing for next season, the team will
prepare for its final regular-season
game and toughest test against the
five-time defending champions
Northwestern on May 2.
"If we win, it's going to make
the season a hundred times better,
because they have won the nation-
al championship five years," mid-
fielder Jamie Reeg said. "If we lose,
I don't think it's going to change
anything as long as we play really
well together."
20, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 2010
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
A YL 
I 
I
HIRING!
Full-Time Advertising
Sales Representatives
Join our award-winning team!
TRAINING BEGINS MAY 17th
> Month long paid sales trianing
program
> Guranteed monthly pay for the
first yearFe lg pt> Generous incentive plan including becaUse
commission 6 bonus opportunities Cf Ms Frie F b
> Competitive Benefit program h e
> Positions available in ' e
Gainesville, FL and Atlanta, GA eryones
Apply online at Naylor.com a .ook t
Click on "Join Our Team" Vaness 2
Naylor, LLC5950~o NW Ir sP
Oinesv n, FL 32607
EOE/M/F/D/V
