the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 85 We Inform. You Decide.
Former senator
talks health care
0 DASCHLE STRESSED THE
IMPORTANCE OF REFORM.
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
For former Sen. Tom Daschle,
who served as majority leader
and is an expert on health care
policy, the number one serves as
a reminder of how far the United
States has to go in its quest to re-
form the health care system.
"We're the No. 1 country in
terms of (health care) costs and
37th in outcome," Daschle said in
a speech Tuesday evening in Pugh
Hall. "We need to rise to the chal-
lenge."
Daschle spoke to a crowd of
250 and outlined the issues of the
health care debate.
He discussed topics including
the extent of the government's role
in health care reform and the coststo~CY~I!x
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010
associated with reform.
Daschle labeled the differing
viewpoints in the health care de-
bate as the "noise of democracy"
and said both sides share blame in
the failure to achieve a true biparti-
san approach to health reform.
"We're the No. 1 country
in terms of (health care)
costs and 37th in outcome.
We need to rise to the chal-
lenge."
Tom Daschle
former U.S. senator
Although health care legisla-
tion, which passed through the
House and Senate, appears to be on
the verge of becoming law, Dasch-
le was quick to point out there is
still much work to be done. Steven H. Keys / Alligator
"We're on the 30-yard line with Former Sen. Tom Daschle explains his position on national health care during a discussion about bipar-
SEE HEALTH, PAGE 10 tisan health care reform inside Pugh Hall Tuesday night.
SN
ki ii I ii Ws IfSTUDENT GOVERNMENT
Students get Reitz fee vote
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
Senators discussed giving a voice to UF
students on a potential Reitz Union fee and at
Tuesday night's Senate meeting.
The Student Senate unanimously passed
a bill that will put a question about the Reitz
Union expansion fee on the Student Govern-
ment spring election ballot.
The proposed question has two parts.
It asks students whether a fee should be im-
plemented, and, if so, whether it should cover
expansion and repairs.
Senators amended the bill to include more
information about how the fee will be used.
Unite Party Sen. Alex Masi, who represents
the Rawlings area, presented the amendment
to the original bill.
He said rephrasing the question makes it
clear for students what the fee will be going
toward."The hands-down goal of this is to help stu-
dents understand what's going on," Masi said.
The new version of the question tells vot-
ers the Reitz Union is more than 40 years old,
needs an estimated $40 million in repairs and
was originally built for only 19,000 students.
Progress Party Sen. Matt Vernon, who rep-
resents graduate students,
said the background infor-
mation is useful for voters,
and the referendum ques-
tion requires two different
parts.
Orange and Blue Part
Sen. Jon Ossip, who repre-Charles sents the Murphree Com-
mon Area, said the information about the Reitz
Union should be supplemented by information
about the additional financial burden the fee
will place on graduate students and students at
satellite campuses.
SEE SENATE, PAGE 10
To00day
2
6
12
15
17
visit www.alligator.org0 Florida men's
basketball coach
Billy Donovan has
changed his team's
practice routines
because of injuries
that have plagued
the Gators, causing
a lack of depth at
multiple positions.
See Story, Page 17.FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTSPartly
cloudy
72/50
2, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
RUB Entertainment Presents:
Comedian Reggie Flenory Jr.
Tonight, 8 p.m.
Orange and Brew
Get ready for a night of laughs
as RUB and Phi Beta Sigma pres-
ent Los Angeles comedian Reggie
Flenory Jr., winner of the 2005
Comedy Carnival Cruise Contest.
Flenory has also been featured in
Robert Townsend's "Partners in
Crime: The Next Generation."
Comedians from Phi Beta
Sigma will be opening. This event
is free. For more information, visit
union.ufl.edu/rub
UF Golden Key General Body
Meeting
Today, 7 p.m. to 8 p.m.
MAEA 3003
Free pizza if you show up
early. Come join the first meeting
of the year. Find out about serviceCopyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
and leadership opportunities,
and have fun at our social at
TCBY afterward. Unlock a better
you, with the Golden Key Inter-
national Honors Society.
"When Should we Celebrate
the Fall of Communism?"
Thursday, 11:45 a.m.
Dauer Hall 215
A talk by Padraic Kenney,
Indiana University, in the Center
for European Studies series
"From the Iron Curtain to the
EU."Got something going on?
Andwant topostitinthis space?
Send an e-mail to efuggetta@alliga-
tor.org with "What's Happening"
in the subject line. Please model
submissions after the above events.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
/
Your Spring Break
plans start now
Begin laser hair removal treatments now and you'll be sleek and smooth by spring
break or summer vacation. The healthcare team at University of Florida Plastic
Surgery has the expertise you need -for legs, underarms, bikini line or anyplace
you want to get rid of excess hair. It's part of UF Fresh Faces, a nonsurgical skin
rejuvenation program that takes a comprehensive approach to help you took -and
feet -great. Call today to learn more, or to schedule a consultation. Initial Fresh
Faces consultations are free. And hit the beach looking your best.
Park Avenue Office Complex
908 NW 57th Street, Suite D-6
352.265.8402University of Florida Plastic Surgery
UF&Shands
The University Of Florida Health System
floridaplasticsurgery. ufl.edua the Endependent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 85 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta @alligatororg
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Metro Editors J a red M isner, jmisner@al/igator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn TilIa, cti11o@a1/gator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agoni/essan@a//igator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ashley Hemmy, Amanda Milligan,
Emily Morrow, Paul Runnestrand
Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Shaun O'Connor
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Natasha Dykes, Brittany Fayne,
Stephanie Howick, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgock/in@a//igator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a memberofthe NewspaperAssociation ofAmerica, National NewspaperAssocia-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
NATIONAL
Student leaders weigh in on Obama's first year
By MATT HARRINGER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Today marks President Obama's first
year in office, and UF political groups
have differing views on how his term is
going.
Bryan Griffin, UF College Republicans
executive director, said the president's
stimulus was poorly designed.
Florida College Democrats President
Ben Cavataro disagrees.
"The administration's quick action
averted a deeper recession," Cavataro
said.
In the last year, Obama signed a $787
billion stimulus bill, managed two wars,
presided over a health care brawl, avoided
a Christmas terrorist attack and respond-
ed to one of the worst natural disasters in
the Western Hemisphere.
And all the action has cost him in the
polls. A year ago, Obama saw an ap-
proval rating of more than 60 percent on
Real Clear Politics' national polling aver-
age. Today, he has a rating lower than 50
percent.
The St. Petersburg Times' Obameter,
which tracks the president's campaign
promises, says Obama has kept 91 of
those promises, compromised on 33 and
failed on 14.
Many of those 91 fulfilled promises
deal with the stimulus bill passed in Feb-
ruary. In addition to giving states funding
to fill their budget gaps, the stimulus bill
also included funding for high-speed rail,
green-energy job training and extended
unemployment insurance.Obama also kept his promise to refo-
cus on Afghanistan when he issued an
order in February to send two additional
brigades to the country.
At the time of Obama's inauguration,
there were about 34,000 American troops
in Afghanistan. Today there are more
than double that number, according to the
Department of Defense.
Furthering his deployment of troops,
Obama announced inDecember he would
be sending an additional 30,000 soldiers to
bring the total to about 100,000 troops.
Cavataro and Griffin agreed the presi-
dent was doing a good job in Afghani-
stan, but Griffin added
he hoped the president
would fulfill all of the
war's requirements.
One major promise
made during the cam-
paign was not to raise
taxes on families mak-
Obama ing less than $250,000.
Obama compromised
on this promise when he signed an excise
cigarette tax increase to help pay for the
State Children's Health Insurance Pro-
gram.
Cavataro said this is a stretch to call
it a tax on the middle class. He said he
believes if health care reform passes, the
middle class will actually save money.
Griffin disagreed, saying the middle
class and the rich both need tax cuts.
"They're forgetting about the people
who support the entitlement programs,"
Griffin said. "People making over $250,000
need tax cuts as well."
Of the 14 campaign promises Obamahas broken, according to the St. Peters-
burg Times, one of them was broken with
the flick of a pen early in his presidency.
Obama said he would post non-emer-
gency bills on the White House Web site
for five days of public comment before
signing them, but he broke this promise
with his first piece of legislation.
The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act was
signed by the president just two days
after being passed by Congress and was
never posted on the White House Web
site as Obama promised.
Recently, Republicans have criticized
Obama for breaking his promise to tele-
vise health care negotiations on C-SPAN.
Two deals brokered with the phar-
maceutical industry and hospitals were
behind closed doors, and the House-Sen-
ate conference to merge health care bills
won't be open to the public either.
Griffin blamed Speaker of the House
Nancy Pelosi for these broken promises.
"A lot of those had to do with the way
Pelosi operates," Griffin said. "I think
Obama caved in to Pelosi and [Senate Ma-
jority Leader Harry] Reid."
Cavataro said the bill that wasn't post-
ed on the Web site wasn't very controver-
sial and pointed to some of the tough rules
on lobbyist the White House has enacted
to make government more ethical.
While it's been a busy 365 days for the
44th U.S. president, Obama still has many
promises to keep during the next three
years.
Health care legislation is stalled in
Congress, and the president has yet to
repeal the army's "Don't Ask Don't Tell"
policy or pass a major energy bill.Ben Cavataro Bryan Griffin
Pres. Fl
College
Democrats
Grade on "Te
Obama's administration
First Year 6rouget 014,.
economy
6ack from tke
6Pink."
Positives*RescLued
economy
*Started
Healtkcare
elef#c."se4
Wa' on
,A-Qtueda
*Wovkiing withkNegatives *WorkinVRep"46 cans
*So mick work
leftto CIOExecutive Dir. Fl
College
Republicans
"He fo.sook all
kis promises to
tke Democpatic
Party. Z almost
feel 6ad foe
*The president
is trying kard
*BailOt~t
handled poory
*Cae Company
Takeover
eLAnwillingness
to work with
PRep4l6licans
Max Weissler / Alligator Staff
Fusion of South Beach and the Islands
Exotic Student Living
Now leasing for FALL!
Rates as low as $334!
2 and 4 bedroom villas -modern furniture
lagoon style pool -poolside beach
poolside wireless access -fitness room
computer lab -movie lounge
billiards -beach volleyball -basketball
txt "Cabana" to 47464 for more info
1601 SW 51st Terrace Gainesville, FL 32607 352.335.2000NEI
4, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010
ON CAMPUS
Grant aims to keep civil
rights movement alive
By ERICA JOHNSON
Alligator Writer
As memories of the civil rights move-
ment begin to blur and tales of integration
fade with time, the Samuel Proctor Oral
History Program is striving to bring these
stories back into focus.
The program received a three-year,
$150,000 grant to collect and share stories of
local black residents who grew up during
the civil rights movement.
The grant was awarded by the UF Of-
fice of the Provost, and the project was de-
veloped after conversations between Paul
Ortiz, the program's director, and UF Presi-
dent Bernie Machen, according to a press
release.
Ortiz believes that as the number of
living black people who remember inte-
gration begins to dwindle, it is essential
to collect their stories before they are lost
forever, leaving only the history offered in
textbooks.
"History really matters to people as they
get older, and it isn't about facts and dates;
it's about feelings," Ortiz said.
He said the project focuses on oral his-
tories of black people who came of age
around the time of Brown vs. the Board of
Education in 1954.
"We want to see what the transition
was like in the everyday lives of blacks in
Gainesville and across the county," Ortiz
said.
He said the project's goal is to make theinformation collected in the interviews ac-
cessible to the public in the form of pod-
casts, Web sites and a book.
The podcasts can be accessed all over the
world on iTunes, with one listener in Bei-
jing, China, Ortiz said.
Transcripts from the interviews are on
the UF Digital Library Center Web site and
are already being used by students to write
term papers and reports, Ortiz said.
UF students play a huge role in the inter-
view process.
Of the 40 interviews
already conducted, two-
thirds of themwere done
by UF undergraduate
students, Ortiz said.
"They often say
things to me like, 'This
Ortiz interview changed my
life,"' he said. "They
say, 'I learned more about history in that
30-minute interview than I have in all the
textbooks I've read."'
Jason Horton, a sociology senior, was
nervous when he sat down to conduct his
first interview.
He spoke with the first black graduate of
the UF College of Nursing.
Horton said his two-hour conversation
with Evelyn Mickle helped him develop a
new appreciation for the challenges faced
by the pioneers of integration.
"Her strength and perseverance showed
me how my own struggles are so small," he
said.Cold threatens animals
I WEATHER SHOCK CAN CAUSE
ANIMALS TO FREEZE TO DEATH.
By TAYLOR DIXON
and ROBERT IMIFELD
Alligator Contributing Writers
This month's cold snap left its mark
on reptiles and bats all across Florida and
worried animal experts.
Cindi Marks, co-founder and executive
director of the Florida Bat Conservancy,
said some species of bats abundant in
Florida may not be able to withstand the
effects of the winter cold.
Jonathan Miot, assistant professor at
the Santa Fe College Teaching Zoo, said
iguanas, like other reptiles, are suffering
from cold shock.
"Due to the extraordinary cold weather
in Florida, the heat these animals are ab-
sorbing is not enough to sustain normal
metabolism," Miot said.
The slowing metabolism rate causes
reptiles to freeze. Although it is possible
for these animals to rebound from the cold
shock, sustained cold could cause them to
freeze to death, Miot said.
During extreme cold weather, the SFC
Teaching Zoo takes its animals indoors or
provides supplemental heat sources and
bedding. However, animals in the wild
aren't so lucky.
Bats essentially shut down during tor-
por, a phase similar to hibernation, begin-
ning with temperatures in the low 50s,
Marks said, and waking up from torpor tofind food consumes a lot of energy.
"There are no insects during the cold
weather, so the bats are staying in torpor
longer," Marks said.
On campus, the Brazilian free-tailed
bat is most at risk because it is a species na-
tive to more tropical climates and not used
to going into torpor for so long. The other
types of bats that live in the UF bat house
are native to the north.
"We really aren't totally sure how it
will affect these species," Marks said.
Florida bats go into torpor for a cou-
ple of weeks at a time, depending on the
temperature. The highest low in January
was 55, and the forecast
Local for the rest of January doesNews not show the lows rising
above 60, according to Ac-
cuWeather.com.
Including data from December 2009,
which did not show lows rising above 51
beginning Dec. 18, it is possible the bats
will face almost six consecutive weeks of
torpor-causing weather.
The bats in the UF bat house are doing
fine for now, said Ken Glover, pest man-
agement coordinator for UF.
"In previous times, I've had some bats
that would fall out," he said. He would
find them frozen on the ground near the
bat house.
UF sophomore Colleen Thomas said
she wants the warm weather to return
soon for her as well as the animals' sake.
"If I ever walked by the bat house and
saw a frozen bat on the ground, I would
scream," she said.
Vigil honors Martin Luther King Jr., Haitia
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Writer
The voice of soul singer Sam
Cooke filled the air as about 100
people gathered in the Reitz
Union Amphitheater Tuesday
night.
"A Change is Gonna Come"
came over the loudspeakers and
set the tone for the evening before
the commencement of the Dr.
Martin Luther King Jr. Candle-
light Vigil.
"It was a pretty diverse
turnout."
Natalia Leal
assistant director of UF Multicul-
tural and Diversity Affairs
Natalia Leal, assistant director
of UF Multicultural and Diversity
Affairs, said she was happy to see
students from all backgrounds
come together for the vigil.
"It was a pretty diverse turn-
out," she said.
The Rev. Jim Merritt of Cam-
pus Ministry Cooperative said
the event, which the cooperative
created six years ago, is a won-
derful acknowledgment of King's
message of service and unity.
Multicultural and Diversity
Affairs has coordinated the vigilMax Reed/ Alligator
Jean-Luc Adrien, Altina Fenelon and Sky Georges of Gators United for Haiti stand in a moment of silence
in remembrance of Martin Luther King Jr. and the victims of the earthquake in Haiti at the MLK 2010
Candlelight Vigil at the Reitz Union Amphitheater on Tuesday night.
for the past three years. portunity to practice what we dealing with the tragedy in Haiti.
Merritt said King's legacy is es- preach," he said. "I'm so impressed with our
pecially relevant after last week's Vice President for Student Af- students that have come forth
earthquake in Haiti and student fairs Patricia Telles-Irvin said she with courage and expression,"
efforts to help the victims. was proud of the way students she said.
"It gives us an immediate op- have acted on King's ideals in Telles-Irvin announced thatI victims
the University Athletic Associa-
tion has pledged to match up to
$50,000 of student donations to
send to the victims in Haiti.
The rest of the night featured
a performance by the University
Gospel Choir, reflections by local
children from the Boys and Girls
Club and a short video with clips
of King.
Camille Evelyn, a sophomore
English and African studies ma-
jor, recited a poem calling for
more change and a continua-
tion of Dr. King's philosophy of
peace.
She compared today's state of
affairs to putting make-up on a
wounded face, and she made no
apologies for speaking frankly
about the world's continuing
struggles with racism, poverty
and violence.
"I didn't come here to make
you comfortable," Evelyn said. "I
came here to tell you the truth."
Before a closing song, students
from Gator United for Haiti ap-
pealed to the crowd for continued
support in the relief effort.
Club Creole President Altina
Fenelon said it was people's re-
sponsibility to assist one another
in this time.
"This is not Haitian issue,"
Fenelon said. "It's a human is-
sue."
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
STUDENT LIFE
Student
groups
rally to
help Haiti
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
In the aftershocks of last week's
earthquake in Haiti, UF students
have rallied together to raise
funds and supplies to send to the
victims of the disaster.
Gators United for Haiti, a stu-
dent group originally founded in
2008 but reorganized following
the disaster, has united with UF
administrators to raise $50,000 to
send to the small, impoverished
Caribbean country.
So far, the umbrella organiza-
tion, which includes such groups
as Club Creole, Student Govern-
ment, Hope for Haiti and VISA,
has raised about $4,000.
"People started to see the
effects and then became
more willing to contribute."
Angela Pierre
public relations chairwoman for
Club Creole
Suzanne McHenry is no feather in the wind.
Every day, she rises with the sun to run with the homeless.
Every day, she's feeding her life, her career and her future.
Feed your future at www.pwc. tv
PRICEWATERHOUSE(4iPERS a
0 2010 PncewaterhouseCoopers LLP All rights reserved. "PrcewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PnicewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware limited liability partnership) or, as the context requires, the PrcewaterhouseCoopers
global network or other member firms of the network, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer.Jennifer Oxilien, public rela-
tions chairwoman for Hope for
Haiti, said the organization start-
ed collecting money, clothing and
relief supplies last Tuesday. The
group will continue collecting do-
nations throughout the week, she
said.
Angela Pierre, public relations
chairwoman for Club Creole, said
the club has raised more than $600
since last Wednesday in addition
to collecting food and clothes in
the drop zones around campus.
Pierre said as time goes on,
more students are willing to make
donations because they are more
aware of the situation in the af-
fected areas of Haiti.
"People started to see the ef-
fects and then became more will-
ing to contribute," she said.
Beth Waltrip, director for cam-
pus programs for the Reitz Union,
said Gators United for Haiti lead-
ers have been unable to decide
where to send the donations.
However, she added Gators
United for Haiti is looking to other
student organizations that want to
be involved in the relief effort to
help decide where the relief pack-
ages and funds will be sent.
Sky Georges, the president of
Gators United for Haiti, said it has
been great to see the UF commu-
nity assembling together for one
cause.
"I just thank everybody for
finding it in their hearts to serve
the Haitian community," he said.
6, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010
Editorial
Blonde Moment
'Gossip Girl' star too
self-involved
It's been one week since the earthquake hit Haiti, and
people across the campus, country and world are joining
together to provide relief for those affected.
The Editorial Board is glad to see that celebrities are joining
in the effort too. Instead of buying Patron for their entourages
or cars for their mamas, they're putting the ridiculous sums of
money they receive for doing little to no work to good use.
We weren't surprised to hear Brangelina donated $1 million
to Doctors without Borders.
But we were quite pleased when we read George Clooney
and Wyclef Jean have stepped up to host Friday's "Hope for
Haiti Now" telethon.
Not to mention the all-star list of musicians who have signed
on to perform like Justin Timberlake, Rihanna and Bruce Spring-
steen (just to name a few).
However, some celebs have more important issues on their
minds -namely Taylor Momsen (you know, the really skinny
blonde girl who wears too much eye makeup and plays Jenny
Humphrey on the CW's "Gossip Girl").
During an interview with OK! Magazine, the reporter
asked her about her thoughts on the disaster and she replied
"Um, right now I'm trying to just finish my record and getting
through the last season of 'Gossip Girl' for right now. So not so
much thinking about that."
Now, if it were any other issue, the Editorial board would
defend "Gossip Girl" to its death (we do make the whole office
suffer through watching it every Monday), but not this time.
Momsen needs to get her act together and realize there are
more important things than her record, which will most likely
result in complete failure anyway. If you're going to make us
suffer through your wannabe rock star performance, at least do
it for a good cause.
Winter Warning
With winter settingin and word of
the FDA crack-
ing down on barely visible
tanning bed warnings, the
Editorial Board is urging
students to forgo sun-kissed
bronze in favor of pasty
white -or even Gators-
themed fake orange.
We know Floridians use
the term "winter" lightly, and
we don't expect you to hiber-
nate along with the sun, but
every year, it becomes more
evident that tanning is a care-
less practice.
According to an Associat-
ed Press article, the FDA final-
ly noticed that the warnings
on tanning beds are less than
menacing and is beginning to
explore stricter regulation of
tanning studios.
We're all for the crackdown
-we've Googled "melano-
ma," and it's not pretty.
The World Health Organi-zation found that the risk of
skin cancer jumps by about 5
percent when people use tan-
ning beds in their teens and
20s. Sure, there's a chance the
data is skewed or it's all a big
conspiracy, but do you re-
ally want to take the risk? We
don't.
OK, we know most of you
are already rolling your eyes,
and that's fine. But we'll be
rolling ours when you whine
about the scar from the mole
you had removed from your
cheek.
We don't expect you to
start bathing in sunblock and
wearing veils when you leave
the apartment. We just ask
you to think about which is
more attractive: Slightly pale
legs or ones with a big nasty
scar from where doctors re-
moved cancerous flesh? We're
thinking the former. Because
looking like a vintage Coach
bag by the time you're 40 is
just not cute.
0 the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150words (about one letter-sized page) They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer showsjust cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Ae , or send them to PO Box 14257,
Gainesvi rle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org//opinions
AND SO WE TW3LES TmR-N ON THE SPOP3 ANNOJCUP.
0070bUT? f YOTO'VEE
TO TO
Column
UF should not require health insurance
fter my father lost his job in November 2008, myfamily's health insurance coverage lapsed. Al-
though he found work -and, consequently, cov-
erage for himself -in April, the rest of the family can't
join until March 2010. So, for the only year my mother
and I have ever been without insurance, we have tiptoed
through our lives, avoiding what health risks we could.
My mother rationed out her thyroid medication at the ex-
pense of her memory and happy temperament. I stockpiled
over-the-counter pain relievers and cough suppressants in
case I had to ride out an influenza storm. It never came. In-
stead, a week before fall classes started, I felt stabbing pains
in my abdomen, which a walk-in clinic doctor diagnosed as
either appendicitis or pain from a cyst. Against my will and
money-driven mentality, I went to the ER for a night and left
with a bill for $18,000 in my name. That didn't include sur-
gery. The doctors wouldn't perform any but the most imper-
ative (lifesaving) operations on someone without insurance.
Perhaps you can see how walking around campus with a
10-centimeter cyst would tune me into the rumblings of re-
quired health insurance for UF students.
While shocking to students still on their parents' plans or
with insurance through work, a chunk of the Student Body
goes without insurance each year. In fact, estimates by the
Student Health Care Center and UF surveys indicate the
number of uninsured students is somewhere between 10,000
and 15,000. Why would all of these people take the risk of
not buying health insurance, especially when the university
provides a discounted policy? Much of this 20 to 30 percent
of the Student Body is comprised of stereotypical starving
students. We just can't afford it.
With phrases like "7 percent annual increase in college
costs" flying around, I checked the math. Accounting for my
normal spending, a purchase of the comprehensive Aetna
plan offered through the school would result in a 20 to 25
percent increase in costs. Of course, this calculation appliesCynthia Despres to my own situation.
Speaking Out Faced with a spike in costs, stu-
dents on an already tight budget
would have to choose to leave the
college, take out a (second) loan or get a (second) job. These
options stink.
Beyond the payment problem, the argument for mandat-
ing health insurance is on shaky ground to begin with: Why
would medical bills cause students to drop out of college?
Yes, collectors ask for bills to be paid, and the sums inflate to
massive amounts when not negated by insurance. However,
unlike with other payments, the collectors don't demand the
bills be paid immediately. With the burden of time lifted, a
medical bill acts almost like a student loan: Most collectors
are satisfied if the patient makes plans to pay the debt.
Even if everyone can scrounge up money to pay for in-
surance, I have problems with the proposal. Although pre-
existing conditions don't affect all Gators, they cause kinks in
the argument for mandated insurance. As I know from expe-
rience, obtaining an insurance plan covering known condi-
tions can prove exhausting. My mother called around to sign
me up for a plan immediately after my hospital visit. She was
prepared to spend money we didn't have to guarantee an
operation, but while the insurance companies would readily
take the cash, they wouldn't provide funds for surgery.
If forced into health insurance, people with pre-existing
conditions -which can range from asthma and high blood
pressure to cancer and heart disease -maybe denied cover-
age for their worst medical problems.
In spite of the unanswered questions, kudos goes to Stu-
dent Body President Jordan Johnson for understanding this
predicament and the widespread impact it could have on the
Student Body. Everyone should fight for what's right for this
university. Required health insurance could make our school
more exclusive on a financial basis rather than on an academ-
ic one, and that's not what the Gator Nation stands for.
Cynthia Des pres is a jonmalism junior.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question:
Do you support mandatory
student health insurance?Tuesday's question:
Have you seen zebras on the side
of 1-75 near Ocala?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org41% YES
59% NO
181 TOTAL VOTES
Oil IA33b e frmCmea N*Prvd
I 
~I omi 1 W$ OiWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Ignoring local church is the only solution
In response to Paul Murty's column:
Thank you for your intelligent column on Fri-
day about ignoring the Dove World Outreach
Center members when they preach intoler-
antly on campus.
I agree with you completely; ignoring
them is the only way to be rid of them. I am
not a Christian, but I know the teachings of
Jesus include much about tolerance.
Besides, the word "Christian" is derived
from Christ. Thus, being Christ-like certainly
means exhibiting tolerance and inclusion.
Perhaps the Dove World Outreach Center
should look closely at the life of the founder
of their religion.
For that matter, perhaps we all should do
the same with our own beliefs.
Nora F. ZakiResponse to sex column is spot-on
Joe Dellosa, thank you for writing your
column, "Infidelity should not be normal-
ized," in Tuesday's Alligator. I agree with
you wholeheartedly.
I have always thought very strongly that
cheating on someone is the worst thing a per-
son can do to another.
The repercussions are long-lasting.
The cheated-on may have trust issues, and
the cheater may feel that they can cheat re-
peatedly, not understanding what they really
are doing.
You are spot-on when you say that it is
about respect, and to me, there is no justifi-
cation, ever, for disrespecting another person
(especially someone you care about) in this
manner.
Amanda Eilers
UF Staff
0 0 0
Guest column
France is misrepresented as having 'clean'nuclear programs
t is perhaps no accident that the nuclear
power industry chose a French word, "re-
aissance," to promote its alleged come-
back. Attached to this misapplied moniker are
a series of fallacious suggestions that nuclear
energy is "clean," "safe" and even "renew-
able." And, in keeping with its French flavor,
a key argument in the industry's propaganda
arsenal is that the U.S. should follow the "suc-
cessful" example of the French nuclear pro-
gram.
France serves as a convenient sound bite
for politicians and others advocating a nuclear
revival (hypocritically evoked by many of the
same people who insisted on "Freedom Fries"
at the start of the Iraq War). A failure to chal-
lenge this facile falsehood has cemented the
myth of a French nuclear utopia in the mindsof the public. It masks a very different reality.
France gets 80 percent of its electricity from
nuclear power. However, this alone does not
constitute a success. Rather, it results in the
production of an enormous amount of radio-
active waste that, as is the case for all other nu-
clear countries, has nowhere to go. France has
no operating geological repository for nuclear
waste. To date, therefore, it has resorted to
reprocessing, a highly contaminating chemi-
cal process that separates uranium and pluto-
nium while releasing large quantities of liquid
and aerial radioactivity into the environment.
Nuclear energy has not gained France en-
ergy independence. France imports all ura-
nium used in its 58 reactors -having aban-
doned the last of its 210 uranium mines in
2001. These latter also produced a large wasteLinda Gunter stream, including tail-
Speaking Out ings (radioactive rocks
and soils) that have
been used to pave chil-
dren's playgrounds and public parking lots.
Today, French uranium is imported largely
from Niger where Areva -which, despite
its corporate appearance, is 90 percent gov-
ernment-owned -has mined for 40 years. Its
legacy in one of the poorest countries on the
planet is one of depleted and contaminated
water, wide dispersal of radioactive dust and
discarded radioactive metals that have been
sold in local markets and used in homes. Nor
can nuclear meet all French electricity needs.
During heat waves and droughts, the French
havebeen forced to power down or close more
than a third of their nuclear plants, which relyon water sources such as rivers and lakes
for cooling. None of this has deterred Areva
or EDF from driving aggressively into new
nuclear markets, especially the U.S., where
Aerva is promoting its huge Evolutionary
Power Reactor (EPR), with seven targeted at
six U.S. sites. Since new reactors are too expen-
sive to build unless federally funded, EPRs in
the U.S. could result in American tax dollars
flowing to the French government. However,
French nuclear success overseas has proved as
elusive as it is at home. All but two of the U.S.
EPRs are now on the back burner or canceled
altogether.
Linda Gunter is co-founder of Beyond Nuclear
and specializes in researching the French nuclear
sector.
Cs I1ir, AL L ~T D 77 ' ~r J C0F 777 -EK7 R7.
,'VeLL, {ttv,, re2o j for t~e O2eer'soic2se
jAIOA'%gV\, vA'rct lzke F ist step LS?
cet yovr Res e ?rwted P d Cop e0!
we uan 0(r tha2t lt
CamPvls Cop Fulx "s Pnck!
Located on the
Ground Floor of the Reitz Unionyo A vtst hRve the resLe ov P AsT r
cJtse fiok wan~t t P Vutet
C s -Fom M JX411 ILI
N -w-
o o LAPIES NIGHT
Free Wells & Drafts @
for Ladies
5vars at &0O pm
374-4964 1762, W. Univeitvt Ave.Jiffy Lube
Signature Service'
1; Oil Change
No Coupon Needed! No expiration date to remember!
Just bring in a valid student ID to any Gainesville Jiffy Lube.
5 area locations.
For the Jiffy Lube nearest you please visit jiffylubesoutheast.com
Seestoreformoredetais.Notvalidwithanyotheroffer.Restrictionsmayapply. Jiffy Lube, the Jiffy Lube design mark
and Jiffy Lube Signature Service are registered trademarks ofJiffy Lube International, Inc
D2009 Jiffy Lube International, Inc. All rights reserved. 
.Smile.
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now AvaiLable!
Walk-ins Welcome.
ABiotest
From Nature for Lfe
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431Gerd don ad in his proved shelter
Support the Red Cross and change a life, American
starting with your own. Red Cross
Call 1-800-RED CROSS or visit redcross.org.
8, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010
ON CAMPUS
Students to tear
down wall of hate
Jamison Duncan, a history and education major, paints an insult he found offensive on a cinder block for the
Writing on the Wall Project Tuesday afternoon.By NICOLE LYNN GREINER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Bricks with statements in-
cluding "You aren't smart
enough to do that" and "Ho-
mos are sinners" were stacked
on the Reitz Union North
Lawn Tuesday.
Students decorated the
bricks as part of the Writing
on the Wall Project. Through
the project, students paint the
bricks with hurtful or offen-
sive statements and will build
a wall using the bricks Mon-
day.
On Jan. 29, students will
gather in the Plaza of the
Americas to tear down the
wall.
"We want people to think
before they say that hurtful
statement," said Cary War-
setsky, a chemical engineering
junior and the administrative
director for the Writing on the
Wall Project. "If we can makesomeone a little bit happier,
then I think we've done a good
job."
Warsetsky said students
can write whatever they want
on the bricks unless it is a
personal attack that includes
someone's name.
UF freshman Shalonda
Lewis said the project is in-
teresting because it shows the
perspectives of others.
"To me or you, 'Jew,' is not
an insult, but to other people it
could be," Lewis said.
Lewis wrote "WhoRE" on
her brick.
"I think we tend to pre-
judge others and go off what
they have on rather than who
they are," she said.
The project will continue
on the Plaza of the Americas
today and Thursday from 8
a.m. to 3 p.m. Students can
also paint bricks at the Reitz
Union North Lawn on Friday
from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Law professor: airport
body scanners legal
By ALLYSON FOX
Alligator Contributing Writer
Privacy is one thing travelers may
soon have to do without.
According to a recent USA Today/
Gallup poll following the attempted
Christmas Day bombing of Northwest
Flight 253, 78 percent of Americans sup-
port the use of new airport scanners that
create a more revealing image of the
subject than a simple X-ray.
John Stinneford, assistant professor
of law at the UF Levin College of Law,
said the new body scanners do not vio-
late the Fourth Amendment's unreason-
able search and seizure clause.
"What is reasonable depends on what
we expect," Stinneford said.
If the government shows reason for
conducting the full-body scans, travel-
ers won't be able to refuse, said Juan F.
Perea, a law professor at the UF Levin
College of Law.
"It's just something we need to get
used to," he said.Sari Koshetz, Transportation Secu-
rity Administration spokesperson, said
the new scanner's images are anony-
mous, adding that passengers' faces are
blurred.
"What is reasonable depends
on what we expect."
John Stinneford
assistant professor of law at the UF
Levin College of Law
Although Orlando International Air-
port and Gainesville Regional Airport
do not use the new scanners, Jackson-
ville International Airport has already
installed them.
Orlando is expected to install the
new technology soon, according to an
Orlando International Airport spokes-
woman.
UF freshman Henry Legett believes
the new full-body scanners are a justi-
fied precaution.
"I think it's a greater step towards
safety," Legett said.AvadaM from Commerdai o PovWos
Pierre-Louis arrested for domestic battery by strangulation
He turned himself in to local authorities Tuesday morning
By MIKE MCALL
Alligator Staff Writer
Former Florida cornerback Won-
dy Pierre-Louis turned himself in to
Gainesville authorities early Tuesday
morning and was arrested on charges of
domestic battery by strangulation, un-armed burglary, battery, kidnapping and
obstructing justice by tampering.
Pierre-Louis, who turned himself in at
2:16 a.m. according to Alachua County Jail
records, was sought by police after being
accused of pinning a girlfriend against a
countertop and choking her on Sunday
morning, when police say he entered herhome and found her with another person,
who fled the scene.
During his court appear-
Local ance, the victim spoke in
News support of Pierre-Louis, say-
ing Pierre-Louis had a key to
her apartment, according to an article by
the Gainesville Sun. The woman said he"wasn't a danger," the article said.
His bond was reduced from $185,000 to
$40,000, the article stated.
Pierre-Louis had just completed his se-
nior season with the football team and was
working toward a degree in sociology.
The turmoil comes soon after he discov-
ered that his family's home in Haiti was
destroyed during last week's earthquake.
Katherine Bein contributed to this article.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 9
LOCAL
Mayor to discuss city's future in annual address
By MELINDA CARSTENSEN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Mayor Pegeen Hanrahan will discuss
Gainesville's 2009 accomplishments and
its short-term plans for the future in the
2010 State of the City address today.
The speech, which is open to the pub-
lic, will begin at 8 a.m. at the Hippodrome
State Theatre, 25 SE Second Place.Bob Woods, city of Gainesville spokes-
man, said Hanrahan began the State of the
City address six years ago, during her first
term.
"The mayor will highlight some of this
year's successes and talk about moving to-
ward the future and the kind of Gainesville
we all want to live in," Woods said.
Hanrahan is expected to discuss top-
ics including environmental conservation,
neighborhood improvement and budgetHanrahanissues.
"This address is an un-
fettered opportunity for
the mayor to inform the
public on the city com-
mission's perspective,"
Woods said.
Those who cannot
attend can watch the
address on television on Community12,
which is on Cox Cable channel 12.A print document of the address will
also be available on the city's Web site.
Eventually, a video of the address will
stream on the city's Web site at cityof-
gainesville.org, Woods said.
"One of the great things about
Gainesville is that we have a civically en-
gaged community," Woods said. "That's
why we enjoy the standard of living that
we do."
Political groups conflict over senator's racial comments
0 SEN. REID COMMENTED
ON OBAMA IN HIS BOOK.
By ASHLEY LARA MOSES
Alligator Contributing Writer
Local experts have expressed
conflicting opinions regarding
comments Senate Majority Lead-
er Harry Reid, D-Nev., made in
"Game Change," a book about
the 2008 presidential election re-
leased Jan. 11.During the election, Reid said
President Obama "could become
the country's first black president
because he was 'light-skinned'
and had 'no Negro dialect, unless
he wanted to have one,"' accord-
ing to a New York Times article.
In a statement, Obama said he
had forgiven Reid, but Reid's
comments led some Republicans
to advocate for his resignation.
Bryan Griffin, executive direc-
tor of the Florida Federation of
College Republicans, supportsthe idea of Reid's resignation.
Griffin said he was surprised
Democrats didn't react more
strongly to the statements. He
said he thinks the
National reaction would
NewS have been differ-
ent if a Republican
had made the same comments.
"The Democrats live on a dou-
ble-standard," Griffin said.
Other Gainesville locals ex-
pressed different points of view.
Ben Cavataro, president of theFlorida College Democrats, dis-
agreed and said Reid is not rac-
ist.
Cavataro said Reid's support
from the Congressional Black
Caucus and Obama is more im-
portant than the comments.
Faye V. Harrison, professor
of African-American studies and
anthropology, agrees Reid should
not resign.
"President Obama does not
want him to resign," Harrison
said. "He's part of an alliance -a team that is important at this
time."
Shannon McNeal, president of
UF's Black Student Union, said
she would like to see Obama and
other officials use the comments
as an opportunity to hold an open
discussion about race.
She said racial stereotypes still
exist.
"For my entire life, I've gotten
comments like, 'You're so articu-
late for a young African-Ameri-
can girl,"' McNeal said.
WE P9IVER
'00 d~jbie
SUN-WED IAM-3AM 672 6111
THURS, FRI & SAT FREE WIFI
IAM-4AM NEXT TO SWEETBAY
WWW.JDOOBIES.COM 34TH ST. PLAZA
Gator CareerLink
The online job database for UF students and alumni
Find internship and job postings
Apply for on-campus interviews
Learn about info sessions and workshops
Use special features to:
Practice Interviews online
Find a professional mentor
Build a resume
Schedule an appointment
woth career advisors
There's more,
but you'll find out when
you create an account at
U Career Resource Center
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
Check it out ata TH OgDST o 'ts alligatorSports.orgor subscribe onTune in for the latest Gators sports iTunes.news and analysis from our beat --.
writers and columnists. alligatorSOO-,/ a IXIt)
C, %%,taIIveb 10
10, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010
ON CAMPUS
Employers remain optimistic despite lower turnout
By LYN KRAMER
Alligator Contributing Writer
The recession is making an
impression on this year's Spring
Career Showcase.
Fewer companies and students
attended the Spring Career Show-
case Tuesday at the O'Connell
Center than last year.
The first day of the showcase,
which gives students the chance
to interview for jobs and intern-
ships, usually attracts about 2,300
to 3,000 students, said Ja'Net
Glover, the Career Resource Cen-
ter assistant director for career
events.
About 2,000 students showed
up Tuesday, Glover said.
Glover said about 200 com-
panies are expected to attend
the two-day showcase, which is
about 20 percent fewer than the
usual turnout.
However, Glover said compa-
nies are still hiring.
Students interviewed for in-
ternships and full-time jobs with
accounting, communications,
health care, human services andretail companies, according to
the showcase Web site.
Interviews for computer sci-
ence, engineering and construc-tion jobs will take place today, viewed Tuesday.
according to the site. She said she wished the show-
Gwendolyn Smith, a senior case had more opportunities for
marketing major, was inter- marketing students.
Meriem Bendadou, a UF business administration junior, interviews with a Grant Thorton representative
at the Spring Career Showcase Tuesday in the O'Connell Center.
I GOP sen. canceled to
Senators honor Haiti victims
SENATE, from page 1 "The hands-down goal of this
"These students do not use the Reitz
Union almost ever," Ossip said.
Senators also discussed lending a
hand in Haiti.
Senate President Ashton Charles,
who represents the Unite Party and
worked to help organize Gators United
for Haiti, which is working to raise mon-
ey for Haitian relief, said the University
Athletic Association announced it will
match the group up to $50,000.is to help students under-
stand what's going on."
Alex Masi
Unite Party Senator
Senators voted unanimously to pass
a resolution honoring the victims of the
tragedy in Haiti last week.
A resolution is a piece of legislation
that expresses senators' opinion but
does not take action.HEALTH, from page 1
70 yards to go," he said.
If the bill fails to become law, Daschle
said it would take at least a decade before
Congress addresses the issue of health re-
form again.
He said the issue is something every
American should be concerned about.
"I believe American politicians respond
better when there's a crisis," he said. "I
believe everyone is trying to do the right
thing."
Bill Frist, a former Republican senator
from Tennessee and a former senate ma-
jority leader, planned to speak alongside
Daschle to offer a conservative perspective"There's a lot for finance and
statistics, but there isn't a lot out-
side basic retailing," Smith said.
But representatives from com-
panies who came to the showcase
were optimistic.
Jaclyn Rosen, a recruiter for
Naylor, a media corporation, said
students should still apply.
"We've had people come up
to us in the past with the mind-
set that we aren't hiring, but that
isn't true," Rosen said.
She also offered advice for stu-
dents interested in interviewing.
"We mainly look for people
with a lot of enthusiasm, so come
up to us smiling," she said.
Troy Hammond, finance man-
ager at Lockheed Martin, a global
security corporation, said the
company looks for students with
good GPAs.
"We want someone who is a
representative fit for our compa-
ny," Hammond said.
Students who attend the
showcase today from 9 a.m. to
3 p.m. should bring their Gator
1 ID cards and several copies of
their resumes.
travel to Haiti
on the health care debate. However, Frist, a
heart and lung transplant surgeon, decided
to travel to Haiti to help with disaster relief
efforts.
Instead, Rob Lorei, the news director of
WMNF in Tampa, interviewed Daschle,
asking questions from both
On sides of the political spectrum.
CampUS Rafael Yaniz, a political sci-
ence junior who submitted a
question to the former senator, said he was
impressed by how Daschle conducted him-
self throughout the session.
Yaniz, who admits that he doesn't line
up exactly with Daschle, admired how he
treated the subject matter seriously without
acting like a pundit.
UR VOTE
UPDATE
Pam Carpenter
Alachua County Supervisor of Elections
www.VoteAlachua.com
(352) 374-5252=3 M 1
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 11
NW 39th Ave.
NW 16th Ave.
NW Rth Ave
0)
0SW>
elk
4
'S'tI1PlaceU
NE 23rd A
Depot
Ave.
(e007
Cabana Beach
Bus Routes 20 & 21
See our ad on page 3.
X K Rocky Point
K ) 'POINT 3100 SW 35th Place
See our ad on page 20._j Woodlands ) W NDS 1055 SW 62nd Blvd.
See our ad on page 18.
Regency Oaks Regency Oaks
Apartments 3230 SW Archer Rd.
See our ad on page 20.IuIIUniversity House
725 NW 13th St.
See our ad on page 10.U
U
+j
z+zz
VP)I\AlIM Inhuarcihu At/i
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
WEDESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
$419 all inclusive 4/4
$509 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
24hr Fitness Center * 2 Pools
Now Feline Friendly352-271-
3131*GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-1
**CUT ME OUT AND SAVE BIG**
0eatinutin :.
The coupon is good for a $1200 value
Sign for a 2/2,3/3 or 4/4 for fall 2010
Furnished. All inclusive. Student suites.
$0 Signing Fees, 42" TV or New Sofas
352.373.9009 lexingtoncrossinguf.com
**CUT ME OUT AND SAVE BIG**
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$250/MO
Fully Furnished Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, Campus Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2*3/3*4/4
Rates from $386*Close to UF
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $775/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432
1-20-09-50-1
Female wanted for 4/4 condo. Furn room
w/ private bath Clean, bus rte pool workout
room. Inc utilities cable internet wash/dry
$435/mth for spr sem $300 sec dep Jeff 904-
612-3944 or weeks63@comcast.net 1-20-
09-20-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 *All-Inclusive *Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
Beautiful 3/3, close to schooldir. on bus!
Brand new appl, paint, bedding, remdld
bthrms, Frnt bldng, upstrs.
bdduf86@comcast.net
1-25-10-14-1
University Commons -Available Immediately
$299 per month -flexible lease terms
Fastest and best bus service to UF
Lots of amenities
Call Jay 704-677-2018 1-20-10-10-1
Rmmate wanted NOW to share very nice
3BR/3BA condo. Very close to UF & Santa
Fe. Fully furnished. Prv't BR/BA. Pool 
&
porch. No pets please. $550/month ALL
UTILITIES INC!! Call Talia (305)304-1703.
1-21-10-10-1
Kensington South Townhouse 2bed/2.5bath.
Furnished Downstairs. $450/month per
room including internet and alarm system.
954-598-3986. Available immediately or for
Summer/Fall 2010. 1-27-14-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4/4 indiv leases. $395/mo ind cable, inet &
util. Unfurn optional. Avail fall, or June + July.
dyeung888@embarqmail.com 239-250-6149
1-29-10-15-12BR/2BA Furnished Unit. $450 ea. W/D.
Property has clubhouse, fitness and busi-
ness/computer ctr. Utilities incl. On bus
route. Windsor Park.
305-788-5681/Windsor5l5@gmail.com.
2-26-10-28-1
For RentF unfurnished
LOW COST MOVE IN
1 BR & STUDY -$395/mo.
372-6881 or 213-3901 4-21-10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
$99 MOVES YOU IN!
1 brs from $539
2brs from $599
3brs from $750
Wtr incl.*Pet Friendly*Spacious
1 mile from UF*Shands*Downtown
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
Limited Availability-Downtown Apartments
Studios-$599*One Bedrooms*$699
Two Bedrooms-$859*Three Bedrooms-$1299
Move in NOW or Fall 2010
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
4-21-09-71-2
1 & 2's * AFFORDABLE RATES!
1 BR/1 BA $469 * 2BR/1 BA $569
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Adopted pets live free!! 2 Pools!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 Iv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOW or FALL 2010.
2/2 from $1019 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2A SPECIAL PLACE TO CALL HOME
1 BR from $585
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $755
Tanning*Fitness*Tennis*Pool*Playground
Washer/Dryer*Fireplaces*Pools
Call us for a tour! 376-2507
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$679 2/2-$779 3/2-$829
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464 for info
4-21-71-2
*POLOS
Three Bus Routes (9,34,35,36)!
1.5m to UF, Shand's, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$799 3/3-$979
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
7SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 4-21-
71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, imitation, or discrimination because of color, region, sex, handicap, family status, or national origin, or intention to make imitation, or discrimination." We wll
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising thatis know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
WEDESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 13
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*ww.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255W
4-21-09-71-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
SPYGLASS*
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$465, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
4-21-09-71-2
BRAND NEW REDUCED RATES!
i's, 2's, 3's
Inclusive Pkgs Available
* Pet Friendly!
Immediate or Fall Move In
352-374-3866
4-21-09-71-2
M 
MOST WANTEDNathaniel
Glasser
White Male
(DOB 12/20/79); 6'00",
Brown Hair,
Hazel Eyes
Wanted for:
Hit and Run and Driving
on a Suspended License
ALACHUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOPWalk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$419 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2*3/3*4/4
Rates from $386*Close to UF
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$600 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St.
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <50bs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 1-29-
10-60-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 1-22-
10-52-2
Working at Shands or VA- nice 2/1 @ Summit
House across the street. $700/mo + $200
dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 1-29-47-2
WWW.BIKETOUF .COM
1 BR from $575
2 BIR from $625
3 BR from $745
Tan ning*Fitness*Ten nis*Pool
Was her/D ryer* ets Welcome!
Call us for a tour! 377-7401
4-21-09-71-2
0 2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE
7209 SW 45th Pl. $600/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 1-20-10-
28-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 1-29-09-35-2
4viail ab10 rommI Ws Pov'ersBLOCKS TO UF
Available August 2010. Now showing
multiple houses. 2BR/2BA, 3BR/2BA,
4BR/3BA, 5BR/3BA. www.dalyproperties.
com or call Carol 359-3341 2-26-10-43-2
Move-In Now & Walk to UF
2BR $300/br * 1 BR $599 * Studio $720
Dorm style $509 Roommate Matching Avail
www.ForRentNearUF.com * 352-376-6223
4-21-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223* www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 1-29-10-20-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 1-29-10-20-2
Luxury Student Condos Close To Campus
Includes internet and utilities
From $385 per month each.
Please call us for the details.
Bristol Park Realty (352) 367-2669
1-29-09-20-2
Luxury student condos close to calmus.
Includes interent & tuilities
From $385 per month each.
Please call us for the details.
Bristol park Realty 352-367-2669 1-29-10-
20-2
$400/mo Room to rent Rockwood
Villa Condo, pvt bath, on bus
route, wd, cent h/a, cble/intrnt
some utilities, non-smoking,
female only -904.874.6877 1-20-10-10-2
$199 Move-IN Special
$500-$700 2 bed/1 bath
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or (352)505-9264 2-17-10-
30-2
Holiday Special/ Valentine's Day
NO MOVE-IN COSTS -Free Rent
(Don't Pay Anything til 2/14/10)
Please Hurry. Only A Few Units Avail!
(We speak Spanish) 352 240-9009
2-12-09-27-2
Rocky Point Apts 3100 sw 35th pl- 376-1619
Country Garden 2001 sw 16th st- 373-4500
Regency Oaks 3230 sw Archer rd 378-5766
Southwest Villas 3643 sw 20 ave 336-9000
Archer Woods 3020 sw Archer rd- 373-8727
2-12-09-27-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 1-20-
10-10-2
Cute & Clean! Vintage 1-BR with wood floors
& great front porch in quiet NW area. Walk to
Ward's, Publix & buslines, bike to downtown
& UF. Avail. NOW! $575/mo. 352-338-7670
or email shepley@cozygator.com 1-20-10-
10-2
Baxter Cottage
2 blks to UF campus, 1013 SW 4 Ave
2BR/1BA, Bright, clean, completely remod-
eled, Cent AC/Ht,wood firs, DW, W/D, NS,
NPets. $650+util. ATucker458@aol.com
1-29-10-16-2
LARGE 1BR HOUSE
Urban loft design -fully remodeled. Very
nice. Backyard, trees, downtown, big city
cracker. 316-6667. $670/mo. Available now
1-21-10-10-2Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
1BR home on a hill, 14' x 24' living room with
view, dining area seats 6, huge patio, private
entrance, carport, near UF, NW 8th Ave. All
utilities paid. $850. 352-395-6250 or 332-
1429 1-29-10-16-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile floor, W/D
in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate. 239-250-
6149, dyeung888@embarqmail.com
1-29-10-15-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
1-29-15-2
$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1.5 Bath
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands
on bus route. W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500
security, $550/month. 2640 SW 31st Place
Unit B. 562-2782 or 514-6869 if interested.
1-25-10-2
MOVE IN NOW!
Sweet studio w/large porch, deck, on creek.
Safe area. On busline. Tiled, laundry priv.
$425/mo, 1/3 utils, 1st/last/$400 sec. 352-
384-0111. 24/7 apt326@yahoo.com 1-25-
10-10-2
One Block to UF:2/2.5 bath townhouse. W/D,
Dishwasher, Garbage Disposal, wood floors,
ceiling fans, GUARANTEED Parking call
Todd at 514-4915, VERY Nice townhouse
1-29-10-13-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1st Nice large
4BR/2BA house. Big bedrooms, big living rm.
W/D provided, game rm $1425/mo. 2100 NW
8th Court. Call for diretions. Pets ok, fenced
yard. Other houses available 352-339-2342
1-26-10-10-2
Perfect 3BR for grad students or profession-
als. Close to SW Rec Center & Archer Rd
conveniences. hardwood floor, cent H/AC,
new appliances, nice yard. 2627 SW 31st
Terr. $750/mo until August. 215-7199 1-26-
10-10-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1075
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111 4-21-
65-2
One bdr apt in Historic Waldo. Quiet & clean
(great for grad-student or couple). Next to
coffee house w/free wi-fi. $575. mo (1st last
& security) 15 minute run into Gvlle. PIs call
352 378-2141 & lv msg. 1-20-10-5-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1 bdr. from $459 2bdr. from $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/1 from $619 2/2 from $729
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Sunrise Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1bdr from $469
NO APP FEE. Near UF, Schands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1 bdr. from $599
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
14, ALLIGATOR U WEDESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010
For Rent uFor RentJunll frsh unfrns ULIhoom furnished furnished FrihnsCm
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Ashton Square Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 & 3 bdrs from $719
Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Summer Place Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1bdr from $469 No rent until Jan,
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Sundowne Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Studio from $439 1 bdr from $479
Walk to Butler Plaza and Regal Cinemas
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Gator Village Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1bdr from $489
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Walk to UF. Openings in Feb, May & Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@~gmail.com
2-26-10-32-2
$300 ALL Inclusive, Utils, CableTV,
SecureWiFi, BR/Pvt. BA, W/D, Newly
Remodeled & Furnished Common Area. On
UF Bus Rte. January FREE. OPEN MINDED.
954-854-9445 1-28-10-10-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
2-11-10-20-2
4 BR/4 BR apt in Oxford Terrace 11. $545 a
month. Fall'10-Summer'li. Utilities, cable,
internet, Washer/dryer, all included. Very
close walk to campus! Call 954-608-9531 or
email geoff265@ufl.edu. 1-29-10-10-2
*2/1 Brandywine $495 sm. pet ok***
*3/2 House W/D $725 pets ok***
Near UF, Shands, VA. On bus route.
Short term ok.
AVAIL NOW 352.284.2654
1-29-10-10-2
DUCKPOND
Stone cottage studio. Small but cute. Good
sized kitchen. Blocks to downtown, restau-
rants. Available now. $475/mo. 306 NE 6th
St. 379-4952 1-29-10-10-2
DUCKPOND
2BR/1.5BA 1200 sq ft townhouse. Amazing
location. Tile floor, new countertops. Blocks
to downtown. Available now. $850/mo. 508
NE 4th Ave. 379-4952 1-29-10-10-2
roommate wanted for 1/1 w/ private bath-
room in a 2/2 house on SW side of town.
$600 includes cable, utilities, & internet! Call
352-870-5351 and speak to Jessica to see
the room! 1-21-10-3-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 1-29-10-9-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
216 SW 12th St. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 1-29-10-9-22901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst control and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 1-29-10-9-2
SORRENTO SUBDIVISION
Newer 3BR/2BA 2 car gar, split plan home.
Eat-in kitchen, living & dining rms, fireplace,
high ceiling, lanai, fenced yd, sec sys. $1300/
mo yearly lease. 813-205-0220 lv mssg. 2-1-
10-10-2
*2BR Home cent AC/heat, wood floors, 611
NW 34th Ave $625/mo + sec.
*3BR wood floors, close to UF/SFC, bus.
Flex lease $625/mo Available now
352-318-8822 1-26-10-5-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
2BR/2.5BA 1308 SW 61st St.
$595/mo. $300 sec dep.
Call 352-332-4088
2-2-10-10-2
t-subleases
DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
$300 ALL Inclusive, Utils, CableTV,
SecureWiFi, BR/Pvt. BA, W/D, Newly
Remodeled & Furnished Common Area. On
UF Bus Rte. January FREE. OPEN MINDED.
954-854-9445 1-28-10-10-3
Sublease a 1BR/1B in a fully furnished
2BR/2B apartment. $520/month Includes:
Utilities, cable, wireless internet. Willing to
pay deposit/application fee! Email valk44@
yahoo.com ASAP!! 1-22-3-3
Very nice 2bed/1 bath Apt @Sun Bay, pet-
friendly, minutes to UF/Shands, available
Mar-Dec at $655/mo (includes water bill) +
$1000 check (drops your rent to $555/mo)
+ furniture (all yours). Call 352 378 2996.
1-22-10-3-3
GRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $299/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 4-21-09-71-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail now
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 1-20-
10-42-4Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
1-20-10-17-4
1 ROOMMATE NEEDED ASAP For 4bd/3ba
House. Shared With 3 UF Dance Students.
$440 + 1/4 Utils. House Fully Furnished.
Private Bath! Car Garage. W&D Inc. Call
Jessi 813 244 1919 Ready To Move In!
1-29-10-17-4
1-2 Roommates needed for 4br/4ba $375
Fully Furn Condo. ALL UTIL Inc., Pvt. bath
walk-in closet,w/d,pool.Short ride to UF on 2
bus routes.STUDENTS ONLY, non-smoking
954-593-3063 1-21-10-7-4
Looking for one male to share 3BR/2BA
house close to campus. Common areas fur-
nished. W/D, new tile & carpet. $400/mo +
elec. 918 NW 10th Ave. Call 561-706-5378
1-20-10-5-4
$300 ALL Inclusive, Utils, CableTV,
SecureWiFi, BR/Pvt. BA, W/D, Newly
Remodeled & Furnished Common Area. On
UF Bus Rte. January FREE. OPEN MINDED.
954-854-9445 1-28-10-10-4
Share 4br, 2.Sba, 3f1 home with
2 h/m. Gorgeous view. Privacy &
space. Safe, quiet & accessible.
Huge bly, deck, frpl, prch, hdwd,
wd, d/w, gar, furn. 716.446.3588
1-22-10-5-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
2-2-10-10-4
15 Minutes to UF/SFCC 1900sf, 5/3 MH. Will
rent by room 350 up, or whole house 1400.
Mth to Mth lease. 352-301-2403 1-29-8-4
3000+sf home, nw 13th & 16th, 4/3, reno-
vated, rent whole house 1900 or by the room
500. 352-301-2403 1-26-5-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-71-
5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
NEW HOMES -3.2 MILES NORTH OF UF
US Dept of Energy, professionally energy
tested, est elec bill $80. 3 different plans,
starting at $208,900. Schackow Realty, de-
veloper 352-514-5060 or rlschack@aol.com
1-21-10-10-5
Apartment for Sale!
2 Bed/ 2 Bath furnished and upgraded
Located: CampusEdge Condos
Walking distance from Campus and Shands
Call: 1-813-810-8879 1-20-10-5-5BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
*Full $100 Queen $125 King $200*
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
OCERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECHO
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
1-29-10-14-7
Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
W For Sale
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
Discount Hookahs at www.Hookaa.com.
Value Hookahs at dirt cheap prices.
We offer wide variety of Hookahs and
Hookah Accessories at deep discounts.
Visit us @ www.Hookaa.com
2-2-10-10-10-
EctorCyIes, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
*www.B3uyMyScooter.com**
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
Coprighted haeriaI
Syndicaed Content
Available from Commercial Mews Providers
WEDESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
Etcycles, Mopeds Autos Auts Help Wanted Help Wanted
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
Discount Motorcycle Gear
www.turn2co.com. Up to 75% off original
MSRP. 904-294-8344 Turn 2 Gear 1-29-
10-26-11
S F IAutos
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
1-29-09-75-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
94 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $1499 cash
96 Kia Sephia $999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
352-338-1999
I
AVB abefom C omed NwPrv s
I
SII
-d97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1499
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
95 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900 SOLD
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
-21-71-12 2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
4-21-71-12 2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
97 BMW 3281 CONVERTIBLE MANUAL.M3
WHEELS. BRAND NEW TOP & INTERIOR.
EXCELLENT CONDITION. EVERYTHING
WORKS.$7000. 352-494-2374 1-20-10-12LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
Hair models wanted for long hair in motion
studies. Hip-length or longer only. No experi-
ence necessary. $70 to $120 and hour. Call
352 792-1824 modelslh@yahoo.com
1-29-10-42-14
tHowlGotAnA'
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 1-28-10-71-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 1-28-
10-71-13
H Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.Have a 3.6 GPA & want to ear oeetacash? We are hiring notetakers for
spring '10. Go to www.HowlGotanA.com
1-25-10-16-14
UCB
Looking for energized individuals to work part
time as an office assistant mainly for packing
online orders.
High paced environment so attention to
detail is key. Hourly pay $8.50/hr. Very
nice job environment and 10 min from
UF! Preferred bilingual English/Spanish,
but not required. Please send resumes to
universitycollegebooks@gmail.com and
make sure your contact information is in-
cluded.
Thanks 2-2-10-20-14
SAT Coordinator
Immediate full time/part time opening for
a person with SAT tutoring background
to help develop a new program at Gleim
Publications. Great opportunity and experi-
ence for a "go getter". Please send your re-
sume to hr@gleim.com or apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com 1-20-10-10-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk
elem, mid school students. 1-4 afternoons
per wk. $10/hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed
wk study req for emp. Volunteers welcome.
Contact Sally 352-384-1155, st23@cox.net
1-20-10-10-14
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14Linux Administrator
Full time career position with a success-
ful 30 year employer located in Gainesville.
Must have strong Linux/Unix background
and should be conversant with the following:
kernel compiling, network configuration, ip-
tables/ipchains, Sendmail, Procmail, MySQL
and Apache. Please apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com. 2-3-10-20-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Afternoons,
evenings & weekends. Fax resume to 373-
2230 1-20-10-10-14
LPNs & RTs NEEDED IMMEDIATELY
to work for a home health agency. Flexible
hours, great pay. Full-time & part-time avail-
able. Call 352-284-2336 or email
hcpservices@bellsouth.net 1-21-10-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable, expe-
rience a plus. Call Carrillo & Carrillo, PA @
352-371-4000. 1-22-10-10-14
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Full or part time. Some weekends,holidays.
Experience preferred. Apply in person
at Jonesville Animal Hospital 14145 W.
Newberry Rd, Newberry. 1-25-10-10-14
GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS
FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY
PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT
JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-6300
2-8-10-20-14
OSOATTENTION SMOKERS!@@
SODo you want to quit smoking?@
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking
cessation study. You may be compensated.
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic 328-6603 or
email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com 1-22-
10-14
Office Manager FT
Small Hi-tech Co
3 yr exp Word,
QuickBooks, Internet
admin@comscire.com 352-334-7299 1-26-
10-10-14
Bartenders and Wait Staff wanted at
Newberry's Backyard Bar-B-Q Restaurant.
Our friendly, high volume restaurant needs
capable, friendly, and smart employees to
deliver a great experience to our Guests.
Please apply in person. 25405 West
Newberry Rd. Newberry, FL 32669
(Across from City Hall)
1-29-10-12-14
Perry Roofing Inc is a multi-million dollar
company seeking a self-motivated, ener-
getic individual that is eager to help build
our Marketing Department from the ground
up. We've earned a reputation for excel-
lence by giving driven, motivated people the
opportunity to shine. 1-2 year of experience
in Marketing or Advertising is a plus. Submit
your resume to jocampo@perryroofing.com
1-21-5-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT for real estate office.
Approx 25 hrs/wk, afternoons and some Sat
mornings. Tasks include taking rent pay-
ments, answering phone, filing, writing let-
ters. Min 1-yr commitment expected. Starting
pay $7.50/hr. Good PT job for student.
Please send resume and cover ltr to rabell@
atlantic.net or fax to 378-2411. No phone
calls please. 4-21-10-64-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
Full time NANNY needed M-F
recent newborn exp req. $450/wk
grad students welcome;
Noah's Ark Nanny; send resume, photo,
short bio to gnv@nanoneone.com 1-29-
10-10-14
Gainesville-based travel agency
now hiring experienced sales agents.
Candidates must be outgoing, computer
proficient, and quick learners.
GREAT STUDENT JOB. GREAT PAY.
Please send your resume and availability
to bestontravelnet@gmai.com.
1-29-9-14
16, ALLIGATOR U WEDESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010
FHelp Wanted Health Services Evnotices Entertainment Rid
COUNTER HELP FOR PIZZARIA
Experience a must. PT/FT available. Call
376-3444 1-25-10-5-14
Educational group travel organizer seeking
career-oriented FT Reservations Manager
with fluency in Spanish for long-term posi-
tion. Position requires excellent organization-
al and communication skills. Please email re-
sume to: Stephanie@holbrooktravel.com
1-27-10-7-14
PART TIME WORK
Great Pay
Customer Sales/Service
Flexible Schedule
Scholarships/Internships
No experience Needed
Conditions apply,
CALL 352-371-9675
2-16-20-14
Hiring a skilled computer worker
with experience using TaxWise.
Call 376-2253 1-26-10-5-14
student wtd w/ exp in wrtng newspaper ar-
ticles to write & layout (4) shrt news-type
articles for local biz for spc advt to appr in
gvl sun. Will pay $75 & Itr of recommenda-
tion. Submit min of (3) smpls and sht bio of
qualifications/ exp to soofinc@yahoo.com
1-22-10-3-14
Help teenager with autism after school.
Help with therapies, social acitivities, home-
work, and chores after 2:30 M-F. Occasional
weekend hours for activities. Transportation
and references required, experience/train-
ing a plus. Send resume to afterschool-
care4son@gmail.com 1-29-10-8-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
STD/Pregnancy Testing
Confidential, Affordable, Fast and Easy.
www.JustGetTested .com
5% Off with Discount Code UF2010 2-3-"Swan Song", Jan 25, 7.30 pm
an hour of dance/theater/music/poetry
5$ student tkts, (352)375-HIPP
http://thehipp.org/news/events.php 1-25-
10-8-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF
Teaching Center. Monday-Thursday, 1/25-
1/28 from 5:00- 7:00 p.m. Verbal sessions
on M & W, Math on T & R. Call 392-2010 to
register and learn the room location. 1-25-
10-5-20
ATTENTION RUNNERS
Join us for the Newnan's Lake 15K Road
Race on Saturday, January 23rd starting at
the Newnan's Lake Boat Ramp at the Earl
P. Powers Park. For more information con-
tact Lloyd Clarke Sports @ 1504 NW 13th
St. 372-7836. Race begins at 8:00 am sharp.
1-22-3-20
S iEntertainment
OTyping Services
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKETFree Resume Review Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301Visit www.advanced-resumes.com 15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
1-25-5-17 4-21-09-71-21
3Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTINGSHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
WEIZPets
Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
-Lost & Found
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING FOUND KEYS
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception between bus stops across from Lexington
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks Crossing. Turned in to bus driver of RTS
4-21-10-71-21 bus route 9 1-21-3-25
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
M -services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS * *
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
1-28-15-15
Elseo's Painting-Offering to pressure-wash &
paint your house for the low price of $1500
incl materials (1500 sqft house). If you want
your house to look good call 352-642-2737
or 352-792-4745. We make lawns pretty too
1-21-10-5-15*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards
Employment Visas & Naturalization
www.ruthlaw.com (352) 335-6748
2-2-40-18
WJ1 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
QEvent Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
,,,,,,Students currently practicing Maharishi
Mahesh Yogi's Transcendental Meditation
program and who wish to start a TM club
on campus, please call Allan Byxbe at
352-338-1249.
Interested students who have not yet
started the practice and who wish to start a
club may ask about scholarships avail-
able through the David Lynch Foundation
through January 31st.
Free follow-up checking and advanced
lectures are available on a continuing basis,
as always, for those already practicing the
TM program.
There will be an introductory meeting and
lecture on Saturday, January 23rd at 1:00
PM in Dauer Hall, Room 215. Please use
the Keene Faculty Center Handicapped
entrance.
1-26-10-7-20
Sports
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Injuries cause UF to
rework practices
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF coach Billy Donovan made adjustments to his team's practices due to lack of depth caused by inju-
ries. Instead of running 5-on-5 scrimmages, the Gators can only play 4-on-4.0 GATORS CAN'T RUN FULL-
TEAM SCRIMMAGES.
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
a be rry@alIlIiga to r org
Billy Donovan has mixed up
his team's practice routine quite a
bit in the last week.
Although he made one par-
ticular change to fix a season-long
flaw, most of the adjustments
have come out of necessity.
With Florida battling injuries
and illnesses, Donovan was lucky
if he could get eight players on the
practice court last week.
"When you're down a player
or two, sometimes we really don't
have enough," Donovan said.
"Sometimes we get caught doing
three-on-three stuff. Sometimes
we do four-on-four.
"We just try to deal with,
coaching-wise, the hand that
we're dealt."
The lack of able-bodied play-
ers in practice hasn't made game
planning any easier for Donovan,
his staff or his team.
With Adam Allen likely out for
the season after suffering another
left knee injury and Kenny Kadjiout indefinitely with a herniated
disc, any other injuries to key
players have proven more costly
this season than they would have
in the past.
So when senior forward Dan
Werner came down with the flu
last week, it affected more than
just UF's starting lineup Satur-
day.
Junior forward Chandler Par-
sons, who started the game in
Werner's spot, was forced to prac-
tice at power forward even though
he plays almost exclusively on the
perimeter.
"The difficulty in doing that
is that Chandler in games is not
playing at the power forward
spot," Donovan said. "Sometimes
in practice, we're getting caught
playing guys in positions they're
not even playing in games.
With fewer available players,
the Gators' reserves have had to
take on increased roles in practice.
Walk-on guard Kyle McClanahan
was asked to mimic LSU guard Bo
Spencer in practice last week, and
sophomore guard Ray Shipman
had to impersonate LSU forward
Tasmin Mitchell.
The 6-foot-5, 210-pound Ship-
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 19
Butler leads tight-knit staff
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@a lIigator org
Amanda Butler referred to the UF wom-
en's basketball program as a family.
It's not hard to see why given the fact
that Butler has worked with all of her as-
sistants at stops prior to Gainesville.
"We are together all the time," Butler
said of her coaching staff. "We take care
of each other, disagree like family, and at
the end of the day, we all have a common
goal and a common purpose. It's a group
of people that I'm very privileged to work
with."
When Butler returned to her alma mat-
er to fill the head coaching position, she
brought members from her coaching staff
at UNC Charlotte that guided the school to
a share of the 2006 Atlantic 10 Conference
regular-season championship.Coaches Brenda Mock Kirkpatrick, Da-
vid Lowery and Butler's assistant Janna
Magette all made the trip to Gainesville.
But the young staff led by the young-
est coach in the Southeastern Conference
needed some experience.
Butler brought in Su-
sie Gardner, whom But-
ler had been an assistant
under at Austin Peay, to
round out her staff.
In her time there as a
budding assistant coach,
Butler noticed Gardner's
Butler attention to detail and
organization. The two built a trust factor in-
herent with success -an Ohio Valley Con-
ference Tournament title in 2001 -that
made Gardner an easy choice to complete
Butler's staff.
SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 19Mackin controls team's fate
t the beginning of the season, I 7 d ] play he set against
would have pegged "He Ain't the Tigers this
Worth Missing" by Toby Keith weekend.
as the song for the 2009-10 Florida bas- For this reason,
ketball team, a tune freshman guard I submit English
Kenny Boynton surely sang to the squad Mike MCCall R&B singer Mark
upon his arrival in Gainesville to ease Morrison's oddly
the players' pain over Nick Calathes' de- McCal in It catchy 1996 hi
parture for an exotic mistress (Greece). Linceall@ali atororg "Return of the
After watching UF dismantle LSU 72- Mack."
58 on Saturday for its first Southeastern
Conference win, I've got a new, equally
annoying song that fits the bill.
If the Gators can make it through
conference play and earn an NCAA
Tournament berth, it'll be because cen-
ter Vernon Macklin keeps up the level ofOutside of the
title, most of the song is totally irrel-
evant to Macklin except for the lines "So
I'm back up in the game, running things
to keep my swing, letting all the people
know, that I'm back to run the show."
SEE MCCALL, PAGE 19
alligatorSports Podcast
U While host Adam Berry starts a
hellish trek that will eventually land
him in Arkansas, join Kyle Maistri,
Bobby Callovi and Phil Kegler for
the podcast (on iTunes).SEC WEEKLY AWARDS
U Shot-putter Mariam Kevkhishvili was
named SEC Female Field Athlete of the
Week, and Gymnast Ashan6e Dickerson was
earned SEC Freshman Gymnast of the Week
honors.TEEING OFF WITH BOBBY CALLOV
HIt's time for the NBA and MLB to copy the NFL and take all the power out of
the fans' hands and let players have some say in All-Star voting, so that Tracy
McGrady and Allen Iverson wouldn't start in a year when both have barely
started for their teams. .Lane Kiffin, you just can't help but stay in the news.
This time it was for crashing a leased car into a tree while still at Tennessee.t
,
t
18, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010
9%~
Copyrighted MteriaI
Syndicated Cont
Available from CommercialNewsProders
Roommate
OW-Individual Leases
-24 Hour Clubhouse
-Pet Friendly
-Best Amenities
kA
STARTING AT
Per Bedroom
Per Month
\XIA"M
N
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Copyrighted MateriIl
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
UF's coaches have past experience with each other
WHOOPS, from page 17
Gardner honed her SEC knowledge at Ar-
kansas from 2003-2007 and brought that to a
youthful coaching staff.
The reversal of roles between Butler and
Gardner has helped Butler as a head coach,
working for her previous boss.
"It certainly gives me a greater apprecia-
tion, when we're having debates about how
we want to do things, where she's coming
from because I feel like I have insight into how
she thinks," Butler said.
The history and comfortabilitybetween But-
ler and her aides got them on the same coach-
ing page, which translated to the players.
"Definitely the familiarity with one another
helps," Butler said. "It helps in terms of com-
munication and just being
effective and efficient."
In conference play, when
Women ' there's a quick turnaround
between games, the ex-Basketball change of communication is
invaluable.
"I think they're definitely comfortable with
each other," sophomore guard Jordan Jones
said. "You see it with the way they pick on
each other. They expect certain things out of
each other. They know their roles and they
play them well."
aWhether it's Butler, as the enforcer barking
out directions, or Gardener patting a player on
the back on one of her good days, the staff's
familiarity is something that has trickled down
to the players and bred success.
"My challenge was to put together the best
staff that I possibly could, to not just compete
in the SEC, but to win championships in the
SEC," Butler said. "I chose them to be on staff
because they were exceptional: exceptional re-
cruiters, great basketball minds and above all
things, exceptionally loyal and hard workers."Smaller squad leads
to tiring workouts
HOOPS, from page 17
man wasn't exactly the ideal candidate to mimic
the 6-foot-7, 245-pound Mitchell, who scored 17
points and grabbed nine rebounds against UF on
Saturday.
"Not to take nothing away from them, but
they're nowhere near those type of guys," sopho-
more point guard Erving Walker said. "Ray is
good, but he's not Tasmin Mitchell -he's a guard
trying to be a forward."
Freshman guard Kenny Boynton said the big-
gest difference for the players has been the switch
from five-on-five to four-on-four scrimmages, a
change that has made practices a little more tir-
ing for those capable of taking the floor.
Possibly the most important change made in
practices, though, was Donovan's decision to
break up Friday's practice with a short film ses-
sion in between drills and scrimmages.
The move simulated the break the team would
have at halftime, after which UF has come out
slow for most of the season.
The move paid off Saturday, as the Gators
started off the second half with a 23-6 run that
put the game all but out of reach with 12:53 re-
maining.
"I'm gonna try to keep doing that," Donovan
said. "I'm not gonna say we'll do it every day,
but it's something we'll try to continue."
At least a few of Donovan's players hope to
see it become a more common occurrence, espe-
cially after seeing how effective it proved to be.
"I don't have a problem doing it," Parsons
said. "We're 1-0 doing it, so why not?"
MCCALL, from page 17
The Mack held things down
against LSU with 14 points -
more than he scored in his first
two SEC games combined. He
tied a season-high with eight re-
bounds, but most importantly, he
played 28 minutes and collected
zero fouls.
In the previous two games,
Macklin was on the court for just
33 total minutes and racked up
nine fouls.The Gators already have a
depth problem, and they can't af-
ford to have their biggest threat in
the paint dropping out of games
early for picking up weak fouls.
Macklin was physical against
the Tigers, but he did it in a smart-
er way.
He did a better job of getting
in position, which led to more re-
bounds, less fouls and more room
to be aggressive on the offensive
end.
"We've had him in foul troublethe first two games, and when we
have him down there, he's a load,"
forward Chandler Parsons said.
"When we get him the ball in the
post, he's really hard to guard. We
definitely need him on the court."
Parsons also called Macklin
"one of the most unselfish big
guys I've ever played with in my
life." For that reason, he may nev-
er go off for 25 points in a game,
but the Gators don't need him to.
Macklin just has to stay on the
court, make a few of his silky-smooth hook shots and play de-
fense.
"He's a big, strong presence for
us," guard Erving Walker said.
"He can battle with all those big
guys when he's able to play ag-
gressive and not get fouls. I think
he's as good as (Kentucky forward
DeMarcus) Cousins and all those
guys, so we need to keep him on
the floor. That makes everyone's
job easier because we can be more
aggressive on the press knowing
he's back there."Macklin has a ripple effect just
by staying out of foul trouble, and
the immediate future looks good
for a few confidence-boosters.
He'll be the tallest player on
the court against the Gators' next
two opponents, Arkansas and
South Carolina, who are the SEC's
worst teams in terms of rebound-
ing margin.
If he relapses into his freely
fouling ways against those teams,
I might have to change that song
suggestion to "Thunder Road."Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF coach Amanda Butler has built her staff with coaches she has
worked with in the past.
20, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010
Copyrihted Material
.Syndcated Content.
vaiIab e from'Commercial News Providers
2 2__ F
R _ ___
E E
E EMkMM LII omc nma "m
0 GREATER -- 0
H SE HABLAESPANOL s
www.sau Isi, ber.com
