0the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 124 We Inform. You Decide.-0cy
TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010
Hunter Sizemore/ Alligator Staff
On the Fence
UF Fencing Club members Aeron Van Scoyk (bottom) and Paul Tang
fence using foils Monday afternoon on the Racquet Club basketball
court. Van Scoyk will travel to Dallas this weekend along with about
15 others for the division 2 and 3 North American Cup. The club is
one of the top in the nation according to Ashlyn Camron, vice presi-
dent of the UF Fencing Club.HEALTH CARE
Bill inspires dissent
By MATT HARRINGER
Alligator Writer
Local reactions to the House of Representa-
tives' historic health care bill passing Sunday
night were as partisan as the vote itself.
Bryan Griffin, Florida College Republicans'
executive director, was watching C-SPAN
while working on homework.
"I honestly thought the Democrats would
understand the American people want more
time before they voted," he said.
But once they began, he knew the Republi-
cans had lost this battle.
"I saw the inevitability when they started
voting," Griffin said. "But I didn't break downin tears or anything. It made me optimistic for
2010."
Griffin said he disagreed with almost every
part of the legislation.
He said the tax cuts in the
bill were subsidies that would
add to an unsustainable
deficit, and the government
shouldn't regulate insurance
companies from dropping
sick customers or denying
Cavataro children with pre-existing
conditions.
Griffin said he believed most Democrats
hadn't even read the bill, but that a majority of
SEE BILL, PAGE 8
Andy Samberg to visit UF
He was paid $72,000 anns t He w s pad $7 ,000 approach with a Q-and-A se
By STEPHANIE RAMIREZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students should have towels
in hand because the "I'm on a
Boat" rapper, Andy Samberg, is
making a splash at UF.
The Saturday Night Live co-
median is scheduled to speak
tonight at the O'Connell Cen-
ter.
Samberg was paid $72,000,
according to Student Govern-
ment Finance records.
Doors will open at 7 p.m.,and the show will begin at 8
p.m.
Accent Speakers Bureau
brought Samberg as part of
Jewish Awareness Month.
The event is
On free and open toCampus the public.
"He is just a
popular name right now, and
he's doing extremely well for
himself," said Jason Attermann,
Accent's chairman.
Instead of a lecture-style
event, the show will take on5-
sion moderated by Mike Foley,
master lecturer in the College
of Journalism and Communica-
tions and UF assistant dean of
student services.
Samberg will talk about the
course of his career and how he
got his current job, Attermarn
said.
The sketch comedian, actor,
rapper and writer is a mem-
ber of the comedy troupe The
Lonely Island with childhood
friends, and now SNL writ-
ers, Jorma Taccone and Akiva
Schaffer.
Friends remember student
0 TOM HOLLISTER TRANSFERRED TO
UF THIS SEMESTER.
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
and CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writers
Sam Hollister was always close to his twin
brother Tom. And, as they grew older, they grew
even closer.
The brothers were born in Kenya and spent 10
years living in Thailand.
They sang in a high school rock band and
played shows in Tallahassee.Tom, who transferred to UF this semester to
study electrical engineering, was a diligent stu-
dent and a loyal friend.
"The most noticeable thing about him
is he is just really sweet"
Maggie Lawrence
UFjournalism senior
On March 13, Tom and his father, David Hol-
lister, were driving on U.S. Highway 98 on their
way to Carrabelle, a small beach town in the Pan-
handle. They were killed when a pine tree hit
their car, causing it to swerve into a ditch.
SEE TOM, PAGE 8
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersToday
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
11
13
17Sunny
73/45
visit www.alligator.org0 UF wide receiver
Deonte Thompson
hasn't lived up to
the expectations
he came in with as
one of the nation's
top recruits, but the
Gators are looking
at him to lead the
unit next year.
See Story, Page 17.
2, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Obama and the Middle East
Wednesday, 7 p.m.
Ustler Hall
Human Rights Awareness on
Campus, Students for Justice in
Palestine and the political sci-
ence department are hosting a
talk by John Mearsheimer about
President Barack Obama's
Middle Eastern policy.
It will be followed by a
Q-and-A session. Professor
Mearsheimer has written exten-
sively on security issues and in-
ternational politics.
Fidelity Investments
Presentation
Thursday, 6:30 p.m.
Florida Gym, Room 230
Fidelity Investments is com-
ing to speak to UF students
about investing philosophies,
recruitment strategies, and in-
ternship and career opportuni-
ties.
Join the members of Student
Investment Club and GSIF to
learn more about a career in
investing and possibly begin
yours. Free refreshments will be
provided afterward.
Institute of Black Culture:
Exhale
Friday, 5:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m.
Orange & Brew
Exhale is a great way to im-
prove your poetry skills or test
out a piece, whether you are just
starting out or an accomplished
poet.
Don't rule yourself out for a
lack of experience or material.
Plenty of open mic performers
have come to the workshop and
crafted something to perform. A
workshop will start at 5:30 p.m.,
and the performances will kick
off at 9:30 p.m. For more infor-
mation, go to multicultural.ufl.
edu.
Institute of Hispanic Latino
Culture: Art exposition
GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF any one GNC Product
Cannot be combined, One Coupon per customer.
* 3914 SW Archer RdCopyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Friday, 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.
Come and experience a
night with Colors of Hope. The
UF Multicultural Diversity
Affairs and The Gainesville
Artwalk will have a night
of multicultural artists from
the Gainesville area and UF.
Students in the field of fine
arts, digital media and other
areas will be exposing their
work. For more information,
go to.multicultural.ufl.edu.
Earth Day on the Plaza
April 21, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Plaza of the Americas
Come to the Plaza of the
Americas to celebrate the
40th anniversary of Earth
Day. The event will feature
sustainable activities, a wide
variety of student groups,
a panel on creating sustain-
able jobs at 11 a.m. and presi-
dent Bernie Machen's State of
Sustainability at UF address at
1 p.m.
Don't forget to bring a
T-shirt to donate to get a dis-
count on this year's Earth Day
T-shirt.
Free-throw Contest
Tuesday, 6:30 p.m. to 11 p.m.
Southwest Recreation Center
Have you got what it takes
to be this year's free-throw
champion? Registration will
be available at the event from
6:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m.
3-Point Shootout
Tuesday, 6:30 p.m. to 11 p.m.
Southwest Recreation Center
Registration will be avail-
able on site at the event
WA0 Snye &opany
Where DVD's Are Always
Buy One Get Two FREE!
V www.lingeriecompany.comIV
Butler Plaza -Next to McAllister's Delifrom 6:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m.
Participants will shoot five
shots from five locations on the
court with the last ball being the
"money ball." Highest score at
the end of the night will win the
championship.
Technology and
Entrepreneurship
Tuesday, 6:30 p.m.
Matherly Hall, Room 16
Eric Sander, director of UF's
High Tech Corridor initiative,
will speak on the topics of tech-
nology, industry and innovation
at the Entrepreneurship Club's
meeting. More information is
available at gatorcreators.com.
UF Japanese Club Spring
Festival
Saturday, 12 p.m. to 4 p.m.
Reitz Union North Lawn
The UF Japanese Club's an-
nual festival will host a number
of performances that highlight
traditional and modern aspects
of Japanese culture. Events in-
clude a Japanese Tea Ceremony,
dancing, demonstrations, edu-
cational tables and more.
This is a nonprofit event and
is open to all students, faculty
and members of the communi-
ty. Come on out and have fun.
For inquiries, please send an e-
mail to jclub.vpresident@gmail.
com.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
C0
V-
A .m-p FriV Rr
49w:-7mMndyTurdyGratdin _eiaso!a the independent florida
NotoficiallyoVOLUME 103 ISSUE 124 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta @alligatororg
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner,jmisner@alligator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, ctillo@alligator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Holly Kane, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
Andrew Pantazi, Paul Runnestrand,
Colin Simmons, Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator. org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgockin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc--Su -------e-- s -e -- -- ---- ----- --
TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, ADVERTISEMENT, 3
Exploring genetics,
culture, and disease
Why do we W
get sick? Why do
we get diseases
like cancer and
hypertension, the
ones scientists call
'complex diseases'?
Is it something in
the environment,
something we do or
in our genes? Why Connie Mulligan
do some people,
more than others, seem more prone to
certain diseases?
These questions are at the heart
of new research in the Department
of Anthropology and the Genetics
Institute. Our work is combining
genetic and sociocultural data to
investigate risk factors for hypertension.
Lance Gravlee, a medical anthropologist,
and I are studying hypertension because
it is a condition subject to family history
(genes) and also the environment
(what you eat, how much money you
make, etc.) Furthermore, it is subject
to biological and psychological factors
such as stress, which may result from
racial discrimination and help explain
why African Americans have a high
prevalence of hypertension.
For more information on this
research, visit wwwclas.ufl.edu/users/
cmulligan/Webpage/, www.gravlee.org/
research/ and www.plosone.org/article/
info%3Adoi%2F10. 1371%2Fjournal.
pone.0006821. For information on a
community collaboration project in
Tallahassee, visit
healthequityalliance.org/.
Connie Mulligan
Associate Director, UF Genetics Institute
Innovation Square plans
released
University of Florida and Shands
HealthCarc officials recently unveiled
conceptual drawings of the Innovation
Square research park planned for South-
west Second Avenue. Formerly the site of
Shands at AGH, the park will help link the
UF campus to downtown Gainesville.
The drawings are considered a starting
point for discussion on how the area will
develop in the next 10 to 20 years. For
more of this story, visit http://news.ufl.
edu/2010/03/15/second-avenue/.
Seeking sustainable
award nominations
The University of Florida
Office of Sustainability will host The Sthe second annual Sustainable
Solutions Awards as part of the Awar
"40 Days of Change for the Earth"
for Earth Day 2010. Nominations
will be accepted through March 26,
and the awards will be announced on
April 21 at UF's Earth Day Celebration.
For more information, visit http://www
sustainability.ufl.edu/what-can-you-do/
SustainableSolutionsAwards-2009.html.
U UNIVERSITY of
OFL ORIDA
The Foundation for The Gator Nation0
Uystermen sort the day's catch in Apalachicola Bay during a more
prosperous time.
Students assist rural
Floridians and gain insight
to unique cultureUF's AIM for the
Panhandle is a
program of the
College of
Fine Arts.
The eyes of several University of Florida students were opened by more than just sunshine during
the recent spring break. The group was exposed to a unique culture while using arts to deliver health
messages in an area known as Florida's "Forgotten Coast."
A group of students from the College of Fine Arts, along with a few faculty members, traveled
across Florida's Panhandle to the Apalachicola Bay of Franklin County. Jill Sonke, director of the UF
Center for the Arts in Healthcare, led the UF team in a project titled AIM for the Panhandle. The
project focused on assisting the rural community by collecting local oystermen's histories, providing
free health screenings and creating a collaborative outdoor mural for a region suffering from a strug-
gling oyster industry.
The area's major industry, oyster harvesting, has been devastated by freezing weather and upriver
flooding. In February, Franklin County commissioners declared a local state of emergency. Less than
two weeks later, the USDA declared the county an agricultural disaster area.
The conditions have resulted in job loss for many seafood workers, particularly oystermen and
women. Sonke said many of the local families have lost their homes or are without electricity or run-
ning water because of the lost income.
UF has partnered with the local BayAid program to provide for the emergency needs of the suffer-
ing families that number between 1,000 and 1,300 in the Apalachicola area. Sonke said coordinating
with the local program helped the small-town community of less than 2,500 people be more open to
the help of outsiders.
The UF team immersed themselves in the rare culture before and during the project. They read
several pieces of local literature prior to the trip, and stayed with local families during the project.
While reaching out to this community through the various art and health projects, the UF team
broadened their perspective of Floridian life.
"The experience has opened their eyes to a different style of culture," City Administrator Betty
Webb said. "It is such a different location and people."
By Kristie Andres
UF Calendar
March 23
Hars Museum of Art presents "Deimantas Narkevicius, short
films," 7:30 pm. Student admission $3; members free.
Call 352-392-9826 for more information.
S March 24
Free screenings, UF Speech and Hearing
Clinic,1405 N.W. 13th St., Suites B, C, 11:30
a.m. -1 p.m. No appointment necessary. Call
352-273-0542 for more information.
ustainable Solutions March 29
Summer A/C advance registration begins.Is are collected from March 30past winners UFPA presents "One Night of Queen" per-
and "recycled" formed by Gary Mullen and The Works, 7:30
each year. p.m. Phillips Center. Admission fee. Call 352-392-
2787 for more information.
March 31
Free screenings, UF Speech and Hearing Clinic, 1405 N.W. 13th
St., Suites B, C, 11:30 a.m. -1 p.m. No appointment necessary. Call
352-273-0542 for more information.
This is a sampling of events from the electronic UF calendar
ji For more event details, or to submit an event to the calendar,
click "UF Calendar" at www.insideuf.ufl.edu.Your
campus
news
source
Produced by the
University Relations Office
for faculty, staff and students
Editor -Susan Stewart
March 23, 2010
Help bring faster broadband to town
Google will choose a few communities throughout the nation
to participate in a project that would increase speed of the average
user's Internet access more than 100 times.
For more information, and to nominate Gainesville, visit
http://www.google.com/appserve/fiberrfi. Visit
http://bit.ly/gig4gnvfbpage to become a Facebook friend of the
"Gig4GNV" project.
The 2010 Census is coming
Information from the 2010 U.S. Census will help allocate
important funding that impacts Gainesville and the University of
Florida.
Off-campus households should complete a single form and
mail it by April 1. Campus residents will receive instructions from
their facilities' staff. Students are not included on their parents'
forms unless the student's full-time residence as of April 1 is with
his or her parents.
For more information, visit www.2010.census.gov.
View these stories and more at www.insideuf.ufl.edu. Follow us on Twitter.
4, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010
LOCAL
Commission allocates $404K for public safety
By MINCH MINCHIN
Alligator Writer
The Alachua County Commis-
sion voted unanimously Monday
morning to give the Alachua Coun-
ty Department of Public Safety an
additional $404,565.
If the motion had not passed,
the fire station in the southwest
Gainesville suburb of Jonesville
would have been shut down next
month, putting nine firefighters out
of work, according to Commission
chairwoman Cynthia Chestnut.
The funds will come from gen-
eral county revenues, she said.
"It shows we're committed to
public safety," Chestnut said.
Brett Sandlin, president of the lo-
cal International Association of Fire
Fighters union, was grateful for the
decision.
Immediately following the vote,
he issued a three-sentence state-
ment, thanking the commission for
allowing the fire station to remain
open.
"We're grateful that [the Com-
mission] allowed us to keep our
jobs," he said.Fire Station 17 in Jonesville has
already significantly trimmed its
budget since last year, Sandlin
said, yet without additional county
funding, all the firefighters would
have been laid off and the equip-
ment would have been sent to
other stations beginning April 1.
"This was important," he said. "I'm
thankful."
The decision to allocate the funds
is coming at a time when the Ala-
chua County budget is facing reduc-
tions on all levels.
This year's budget has under-
gone several modifications to reduce
spending, but the outlook is still
poor, said Alachua County Manager
Randall Reid.
"This is a difficult situation," he
said.
During the meeting, the commis-
sioners also called for an audit and
increased promotion of the Alachua
County CHOICES health care pro-
gram after Chestnut asked for an
investigation to determine how the
program would be affected by the
federal health care bill that passed
through the U.S. House of Repre-
sentatives Sunday night.Alachua County commissioners Lee Pinkoson and Cynthia Chestnut react to audience input during a
special commission meeting Monday morning.
LGBT students create postcards about coming out
* THE POSTCARDS WILL PROMOTE
A YEARLONG PROJECT.
By KATRINA PEREZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students are being asked to share
their feelings about coming out without
fear of judgment. All they need is a post-
age stamp.
The OUT Project, which began in Janu-
ary, asks students to anonymously share
their thoughts -in the form of a post card-about coming out to their friends and
family.
The UF Office of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual
and Transgender Affairs will be tabling
from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. for the upcoming
two weeks.
The project will promote the office's
yearlong art project on the Reitz Union
Colonnade.
The steps for the project are simple: be
brief, be legible and be creative.
"A lot of people think you come out,
and it's a one-time thing. But there's awhole lot more that goes into it," said Ste-
ven Sweat, a graduate assistant at the UF's
Office of Multicultural and Diversity Af-
fairs. "It's a process."
Sweat said he thinks the project, in-
spired by PostSecret, allows people to
come together and share feel-
Student ings in an open and safe way.
Life Those who are not lesbian,
gay, bisexual or transgender
but are supporters of the LGBT commu-
nity, commonly known as allies, are also
encouraged to share their feelings aboutothers coming out to them, Sweat said.
Alex Jones, who came out to his friends
last year, believes the project benefits
people who have not come out about their
sexuality.
"I know that it feels like no one else is
in their situation, and I think it will help
them feel less alone by seeing other peo-
ple's stories," he said.
The final event of the OUT Project will
be during the week of National Coming
Out Day, Oct. 11, to showcase all the post-
cards in the Reitz Union gallery.
A LILLY PULITZER VIA SH3P
a1E.gat9o orts
Tune in for the latest Gators
sports news and analysis from our
beat writers and columnists.
Check it out on alligatorSpcrts.org or
subscribe on iTunes.
Short of Cash? Donate Plasma! Thousands do.
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6th St Gainesville (352) 378-9204 Easter .Spring Rush .Graduation"Wher. It Pays Srguaaa" "Where ItPy ae" n AnonI
TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Arti bill I( t'o ists
rnijkle' I.1St t ffor)f s
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers 
-
Thomas Plevik/ Alligator
African Beats
Teacher's assistant Terrence Jamison leads his West African dance class in the McGuire
Pavilion on Monday afternoon. See video online at alligator.org.
Counselors available to discuss shooting with students
* UF ALSO REACHED OUT TO
ADU-BREMPONG'S FAMILY.
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
After the University Police Department
shooting of Kofi Adu-Brempong on March 2,
staff members of the UF Counseling & Well-
ness Center are making themselves available
to students who want to talk about the inci-
dent.
Sherry Benton, the director of the Counsel-
ing & Wellness Center, said the center is will-
ing to provide whatever support it can to pro-
vide for the needs of the campus.
Benton said the center's Crisis Response
Team responded immediately on the night of
the shooting to be there for residents of CorryVillage who heard the gun shots and saw the
group of police.
"We got into action within half an hour,"
Benton said.
The team stayed until about 1:30 a.m.
The night after the shooting, Benton said
the center called a meeting for residents of
Corry Village, UF administrators and UPD of-
ficers to talk about the incident.
Sheryl Quail, a Ph.D. student in the school
of forest resources and conservation and a res-
ident of Corry Village, attended the meeting.
Quail said some residents require counsel-
ing while others are focusing on organizing
response groups in the wake of the campus
shooting.
"I have heard that there are some who need
counseling, and UF has responded to that,"
Quail said.
UF counselors have also reached out toAdu-Brempong's family members.
Benton said she met with Adu-Brempong's
brother and went with him to the hospital.
She said staff were also on hand during last
week's student rally and protest, making sure
students had someone to talk to if they need
help.
"We've had a number of people talk about
it with our staff in a variety of
Public ways since then," Benton said.
Health Students who have used men-
tal services include other resi-
dents of Corry Village, students in the geog-
raphy department who knew Adu-Brempong
and other international students.
Benton could not legally disclose whether
or not Adu-Brempong needed counseling
during the days leading up to the shooting.
Tong-An Shueh, an international doctoral
student studying counseling psychology, saidhe did not know Adu-Brempong personally
or visit the Counseling & Wellness Center but
felt he could relate to his situation.
They are often far away from their homes,
their families and are also learning a new cul-
ture and a different work and school system.
Shueh said Adu-Brempong was clearly in
distress, and he wishes the situation was han-
dled differently.
Shueh said he thinks the center does a very
good job with helping international students
adjust to their new situations.
He said he does not understand why UPD
was called to handle the situation when Adu-
Brempong was showing signs of distress.
"The crisis was handled mainly by police
force, and I don't think that's right," Shueh
said.
Students can talk to counselors at the office
in Peabody Hall or call (352)-392-1575.
The fastest way to find your
Gainesville apartment.
SWRENTALS.170iIButler Plaza Newberry Square
335-1232 332-3937
Buds ' Pike Bedding
YOU
SLEEP
BETTER
WHEN
YOU PAY
LESS
Q)
6, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010
Editorial
Monday Miracle
Students became health
experts overnight
one of the greatest miracles to ever grace academia since
the adderall cocktail, millions of college students overnight
ave become America's leading experts on health care pol-
icy.
Instead of doing what one would expect -keeping these se-
crets to themselves and selling them to the U.S. government at
an exorbitant fee to buttress their bankrolls -they are doing a
selfless, patriotic service in sharing them all on Facebook for the
whole world's benefit.
Although our lead scientists and policy experts are hard at
work establishing the cause of this phenomenon, their initial
findings have concluded two things.
First, Democrats shot the GOP Death Star -omething so
great that it would make Christ's second coming look like a
Buzz Killington story. Ring the church bells and fire the can-
nons. It's a new and glorious mom!
And second, that dirty, treacherous Islamic terrorist Hussein
and his henchmen from the ninth circle of Hell, who want to kill
grandma, sell our wives into slavery and eat our babies, have
plunged America into a Stalinist wasteland where couples will
be forced to only have three-sevenths of a child and all colors
except red and atheistic gray will be outlawed.
In the coming weeks, our top physicists tell us, these virtual
virtuosos will be treated like gods among mere mortals. Pro-
fessors will shower praise on them. The townspeople will fear
them, and women will be so mesmerized with their prophetic
knowledge that they will drop their britches at the first sign of
a winking emoticon.
Until then, let's only pray for our country's sake that it can
find 1 million people who would have also punched Snooki in
the face before we run out of time.
Crappy Contract
veryone knows aboutthe Jay Leno/Conan
O'Brien mess on NBC
that left the latter kicked off
The Tonight Show after the
former was reinstated.
O'Brien was recently of-
fered the chance to appear
on another network, but a
fear of his fans and support-
ers has prompted NBC to
keep him off TV until April
21. Although O'Brien has
been in talks with Fox Broad-
casting Co. about a possible
talk show, he was recently
approached to appear on
American Idol's charity
show, "Idol Gives Back."
But NBC's contract with
O'Brien bans him from tele-
vision for another month.
We can't help but see this
as a desperate push from
NBC to cover up the awk-
wardness of January's whole
Late Night debacle. We un-derstand NBC's reluctance
to have another network
plop O'Brien opposite Leno
and see who has the most
fans, but barring him from
the airwaves even for charity
events is a little extreme.
Even if you don't find
O'Brien's antics terribly
amusing, it is still obvious
that NBC's handling of the
situation was most unfair to
the man who was promised
the job of a lifetime and then
quietly paid to step down.
The refusal to allow
O'Brien on television until
this "blows over" is not mak-
ing NBC look any smoother.
O'Brien, on the other hand,
seems to be dealing fairly
well. In his free time he is
planning a 30-city tour called
the "Legally Prohibited from
Being Funny on Television
Tour." It's good to know
someone's laughing.
0 the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150words (about one letter-sized page) They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer showsjust cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University A e, or send them to PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/opinions
0 K, WE'Vs SET TCE 6A 1
A L, TTLE 14162 -POP You.
NOW~ \/0V 3UST -H A\/G TO *
+-OW COME HE QETsA V4
SLA D DE R WNCNI i +AVE
TO POLE VALT~7
5p
C1
-7
Column
We should apprec
dug out my high school yearbook from senior year
during the end of Spring Break. It was a combina-
tion of impending graduation wistfulness coupled
with a "what's past is prologue!"-induced search for
anything that can assuage just how freaked out I am
about that impending graduation. And then I discov-
ered something: I was really, really terrible at predict-
ing with whom I'd still be friends after high school.
I know that everybody's kind of bad about predicting that
sort of thing, especially folks in high school.
And I also know that sentimentalism runs high dur-
ing yearbook-signing time, so people have a tendency to
slather on the declarations of BFF-dom and pleas to keep
in touch a little bit more liberally than they otherwise
would. But it was still pretty surprising to see how woe-
fully wrong we often were.
Someone who talked about how great it was that we've
gotten a chance to get to know each other for the past few
years, and how every time I'm back in town we're defi-
nitely going to have to hang out? I'm pretty sure the last
time I heard from him was a mass "Happy Turkey Day!"
text in 2007. Someone who wrote, with unnerving sincer-
ity, "Joe, you're a douche bag, and I'm glad you're leav-
ing"? She's become one of my closer friends. Though, to
be fair, she's made it clear that her opinion about my pur-
ported douchebaggery hasn't changed; she's just not quite
as glad that I'd left.
I don't mean to assign too much significance to a
personal artifact from four years ago. You can find
all manner of meaning and draw all sorts of paral-
lels that don't actually exist when you go diving into
stuff from a transitional time, like finishing high school,
while in a transitional time, like finishing college.
But one parallel I do think is legitimate is how, in bothZim-s
iate ephem
cases, I spent
worrying ove
my life after
ter a year. Or
out of the
People have
Joe Dellosa and emotion
letters@alligator org ing geography
for the mosterality
a fair amount of time
r who would still be in
four years. Or even af-
even just after we step
graduation ceremony.
only so much time
al energy, and bridg-
y is a trying task even
committed of friends.
Which is daunting, a little discouraging and re-
sulted in me telling one of my friends, point-blank
and very awkwardly, that I really want to be her
friend after graduation. It was as lame as it sounds.
But I don't think it's productive to measure a friendship's
worth by its longevity.
Not every relationship is meant to be permanent, and
those that aren't can still be some of the most meaning-
ful and resonant. In fact, one might even argue that the
transience of some connections is part of what gives them
value.
Friendship is predicated on the idea that at most points
in your life, it's nice to have someone who keeps you sane,
who makes you laugh, who puts you at ease -not just
because they get you, but because they get you and seem
willing to put up with you too. Being friends means that
you're willing to be that someone for at least a little bit -
and yes, sometimes, it really is just a little bit.
That's not a call to bemoan the ephemerality of all
things or to be paralyzed by the thought of future sadness.
Rather, I'm taking it as an urgent little nudge to appreci-
ate even the temporary things and maybe smile a little bit
more at present happiness.
Joe Dellosa is an advertising senior. His columns appear on
Tuesdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question:
Should the House have passed
the health bill?Monday's question:
Do frat boys' outfits annoy you?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org48% YES
52% NO
206 TOTAL VOTES
TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
coo~
Letters to the Edito
GDI's should shed graphic
jorts
CJ Pruner's column publ
was a shameless attempt at
in what he described as,
rag of a newspaper." But,
the spirit of critiquing othe
there are some pressing ma
address.
Many of you may hav
beginning to grow in new
places and a strange -alm
traction to those "cootie-ric
It's called manhood, boys.
Lose the graphic tees v
sages on them (along with
jorts that should have stay
and try wearing a little Guy
shirt once in a blue moon.
Heck -you might find
pastels every now and th
lighten your mood. And
may even get you laid.
One more thing: My Spe
and Rainbows will beat y
day of the week. And leav
alone, okay?
0 0 0
Columnist impresses rea
I've been reading your p
time, and I don't remember
enjoyed an article so much.
I'm actually in a fratern
even the anti-Greek themr
c T-shirts,
ished Monday
Greek-bashing
"some hippie
while we're in
rs' wardrobes,good -funny.
Make that man a regular.
0 0 0
tters I'd like to Frat boys: Stay fratty
Last time I checked, there wa
e noticed hair pus fashion police task force,
and unfamiliar the beauty of America and
ost scary -at- school system: wardrobe freed
den" females. CJ Pruner, it is rather unfort
you've utilized your Alligator s
ith cute mes- privileges to deem yourself so
those hideous faux authority on what people
ed in the '90s), wearing.
Harvey/Polo It doesn't take a genius to rea
the lines and see your editorial
that wearing really is: just another angry an
en might just anti-Greek article.
vho knows, it I'm almost positive that
men walking around campus d
rry Top-Siders what you think about their outf
our Toms any they trying to impress you whe
e Beaver's dad dressed in the morning.
To make things better, in yc
Fernando Valle it looks like you are wearing a
4LS Does that automatically mean
for that team? I didn't think so
why it's also okay for fraterni
wear boating and hunting appa
der those hobbies interest them or j
paper for a long because they want to.
the last time I So attention, all fraternity n
pen to love what you wear.
ity so it's not You are doing a great job, an
e. It was just age you to keep up with all theHarvey and boat shoes that your heart
desires. I personally think you all should
Lou Ortega wear as much of it as you can this Friday,
UF student just to make CJ upset.
Jamie Dollinger
4LS and frat boy enthusiast
sn't a cam-
and that's Health care bill will have small effect
the public on students
om for all. Forget health care reform hysterics. The
unate that real drama occurred after the actual vote
taff writer on Sunday night, during a debate on a pro-
me sort of cedural measure offered by House Repub-
should be licans.
The penned, and prior defeated, Stupak
d between Amendment that was written and spon-
for what it sored by the congressman of the same
d resentful name fought to rid the health care bill of
any allowance on federal abortion fund-
fraternity ing.
o not care This, however, did not sit well with
its, nor are House Democrats who desperately need-
n they get ed the moderate Democrat, or "blue dog"
votes (who are generally pro-life). In the
ur picture typical political fashion of wheeling, deal-
sports hat. ing and horse-trading, the White House
you play copped a deal: Stupak's vote (and his fel-
Which is low followers) in exchange for an executive
ty men to order with similar language as the Stupak
rel because Amendment. With that came happy Dem-
ust simply ocrat blue dogs and a happy Nancy Pelosi
who finally had the 216 votes needed for
en: I hap- passage.
Flash forward to all the baby killing.
d I encour- Stupak vehemently opposed the measure
neon, Guy offered by Republicans, which would havetaken the bill back to committee to amend
and add the abortion language that Stu-
pak previously vehemently advocated for.
"Baby killer" was shouted during this time,
A la Joe Wilson circa this year's State of
the Union ("You lie!"). But really, enough
dramatics. What does the "biggest govern-
ment overhaul of health care in 100 years"
mean for you? Lay down your pitchforks,
because the answer is -not much.
Unless you have a pre-existing condi-
tion and have been denied insurance, are
below the poverty line and unable to af-
ford insurance, are older than 65 and on
Medicare, or make more than $200,000 a
year (most of us, I'm sure), the bill gen-
erally leaves you alone. And most of the
provisions won't take effect until 2014.
Other than an individual mandate, what
it does throw our generation is the ability
to stay on our parents' plan until the age
of 26, which aids greatly in the awkward
in-between phase of college and employ-
ment. But what's the cost? That's a little
harder to answer.
Estimates are that the $940 billion bill
will reduce the federal deficit by around
$150 billion over 10 years. Republicans ar-
gue that this does not include a $300 mil-
lion "doctor fix" that makes up for reduc-
tion in Medicare physician reimbursement.
However, that's another column. Suffice it
to say that, come November, we'll see if
Americans are on Team Democratic "baby
killers" or Team "name-calling" Republi-
cans.
Brittany Fox
3 CLASS
The New 9d
3727 W. University Ave. OM
Mon -Sat 8am -7pm
Sun 10 -5pm
378-4650 ON,-
hat you need-
hen you need it!xN
Celebrate National Nutrition Month!
Westgate Publix Tour
Tuesday, March 23
6:30-&pm
FREE ReUsable GatorWeliGrocery 3ags*
) GatorWell Health Promotion Services
gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu
.while supplies IastI;?- -L- 7 AAAA-<_ 2" -t o
8, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010
Magazine gives M.B.A. program 'excellent' rating
The Economist ranked distance-learning programs
By BRANDON BRESLOW
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF's Internet M.B.A. program is one of
two in the world to earn a rating of "excel-
lent" in The Economist's "Distance-learn-
ing special 2010."
The Internet M.B.A. program, taught
under the Hough Graduate School of Busi-
ness, allows students to earn their Mas-
ter of Business Administration degree
through a one- or two-year program with
classes taught predominantly online.The ratings, which came out in late
February, were based on the program's
content, the quality of the students admit-
ted and the quality of the technology and
methods used for distance learning.
"We are very proud of the 'excellent'
rating by The Economist magazine, par-
ticularly because much of the rating comes
directly from student feedback on the pro-
gram," said Alex Sevilla, assistant dean
and director of M.B.A. programs for War-
rington College of Business Administra-
tion.UF received perfect 100 ratings in pro-
gram content and effectiveness of the dis-
tance-learning elements
but received a rating of
"good" rather than excel-
lent in the magazine's as-
,: sessment of the quality of
the students.
"UF was one of the
Sevilla first top business schools
to produce a distance-
based M.B.A. program, and that experience
equates to program strength via teachingquality, technology advancements and ad-
ministrative excellence," Sevilla said.
Daniel Muzzarelli, a 26-year-old finan-
cial consultant from Deerfield Beach said
he has had a positive experience since he
enrolled in UF's Internet M.B.A. program
in January.
"The university has put an unimagi-
nable amount of thought into every aspect
of the program experience," Muzzarelli
said. "The classes are extremely demand-
ing and authentic to what I would imagine
a traditional program to be. I didn't think I
would get such a quality education from a
distance-learning program."
Friend says Hollister's most notable characteristic was kindness
TOM, from page 1
Sam said his dad and brother
were alike in their ability to easily
make friends.
Tom did not prejudge people
and was an easy person to get along
with, Sam said.
"He took everybody at face val-
ue," Sam said.
His international upbringing
did not prevent Tom from keeping
his friends close.
He made a strong effort to main-
tain his friendships and check up
on the people he cared about, Sam
said.
Maggie Lawrence, a UF jour-
nalism senior, met Tom in a high
school photography class and had
just reconnected with him a few
weeks before Spring Break.
"I know he was really proud
and happy to be accepted into UF,"
Lawrence said.
Lawrence said Tom was just a
typical young guy. He was very
laid-back and fun, she said.
"The most noticeable thing
about him is he is just really sweet,"Lawrence said.
Sam said Tom was also a moti-
vated student.He was in the top of his physics
and calculus classes at Tallahas-
see Community College and hadfriends come over to his house to
study.
When he was not doing school
-
-gm
Court
Tom Hollister, left, David Hollister. center, and Sam Hollister, right.work, Tom played the drums or
tossed around a football with his
brother.
Michelle Legaspi, a UF chemis-
try senior and high school friend
of Tom's, said Tom also made
spoof films of music videos and TV
shows.
Since hearing about the acci-
dent, she has been watching some
of videos.
"He was one of the quieter ones,
but he was always pretty funny,"
Legaspi said.
Legaspi said Tom's friends are
still in shock after hearing about the
bizarre and tragic accident.
"A lot of us are reminiscing
about high school and the old days
and how it used to be," Legaspi
said.
Sam remembers a more recent
trip to Key West that he took with
Tom and a friend last summer.
They went to a small bar and
sang a karaoke rendition of "Hotel
California."
"For me, looking back on it, that
was a really special time for me, just
spending time with my brother,"
Sam said.
The bill requires states to create health care exchanges to compare rates
BILL, from page 1
Republicans did.
The president is expected to sign the bill
later this week and then try to promote it
to the public. But Griffin said he doesn't
think Obama will be able to make the bill
popular.
"You can't sell a failure one way or the
other," he said.
But many Americans already view this
bill as a success.Ben Cavataro, Florida College Demo-
crats' president, was watching C-SPAN
with a group of excited friends as the House
voted.
"There was a sense it was a historic mo-
ment," Cavataro said. "The bill provides
stability for Americans with insurance,
provides insurance for those without it and
reduces the deficit."
Cavataro said he still believes Congress
should consider a public option.
"No bill is perfect, particularly one thisbig in magnitude," he said. "But while it's
not perfect, it will provide health care to
millions of Americans."
Allyson G. Hall, research director for
UF's Center for Medicaid
National and the Uninsured, said she
News was disappointed the pub-
lic option wasn't included
in the final bill, but she still believes the
legislation will increase coverage for the
uninsured.
The bill requires states to create healthcare exchanges for customers to compare
rates.
It also expands Medicaid to include
those making up to 133 percent of the pov-
erty threshold, expanding coverage to indi-
viduals making up to $14,403 or a family of
four making up to $29,326.
But Hall wasn't sure if the bill would
make insurance cheaper for those who have
coverage already.
"In theory it's supposed to, but I don't
know," she said.
changes in the first year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2018
1 Insurance companies will be prohibited from dropping sick customers 4 * Medicare payment program to reward quality instead of quantity of services
* Lifetime coverage limits will be eliminated * Medicare incentive programs
* Parents will be able to insure their children until age 26 for improving quality and outcomes * State health insurance exchanges for individuals and small business
* Medicare recipients in the "doughnut hole" coverage gap .Healthcare tax credits for those making up to 400 percent of the
will receive $250 rebates poetIie(0 ecn ftepvet ie$330fridvdas
* Tax credits for small business to provide coverage * Claims for medical expenses on itemized taxed returns is raised from overy line (400 perct of the povey line $43,320 for individuals,
* A 10 percent tax on tanning beds 4,7.5 to 10 percent of income$8,0foafniyffu)
9 Medicare payroll tax is raised from 1.45 percent to 2.35 percent for * Insurance companies can no longer exclude people for pre-existing conditions
* Medicare provides 10 percent bonus to doctors individuals making more than $200,000 and married couples * Fines for employers, with 50 or more workers, who do not offer coverage
* New Medicaid programs for community based care making more than $250,000. * Fines for individuals without insurance
* Annual fee on pharmaceutical companies * A 2.9 percent sales tax on medical devices * Tax on health insurance companies based on their market share
Source: Reuters.com with sales greater than $5 million * Tax on high cost "Cadillac" insurance plans.z
Erica Ervin / Alligator Staff
TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 9
Red Mango to join list of
Gainesville froyo shops
0 GAI N ESVI LLE WI LL HAVE 10
FROZEN YOGURT SHOPS.
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
Bernadette Castro and her family were
told they could open a frozen yogurt shop
anywhere in the state.
Castro, a UF alumna and former New
York politician, told Red Mango executives
Gainesville is the place to be.
"I was a Chi Omega there, I participated
in Gator Growl as a performer -the whole
thing," said Castro, who splits time living in
Ocala and New York. "I just loved the fact
that there is this city within a city that never
sleeps."
Construction began Sunday, and the
store is expected to open the second week of
May. Red Mango, located at 3333 SW 34th
St., will be next to Plato's Closet.
With its opening, Red Mango will give
local frozen yogurt lovers yet another op-
tion.
Gainesville already has three TCBYs,two Yogaberrys, a Mochi and a Lollicup.
Mochi executives are in the process of
bringing two more franchises to Gainesville,
meaning the city will have 10 frozen yogurt
shops in the coming months.
"People are looking for a guilt-free treat,"
Castro said of the boom in frozen yogurt
stores. "And I think they want something,
unlike ice cream, that doesn't make you feel
full."
Castro said she hopes to make Red
Mango the "Starbucks
Around of frozen yogurt." AtGainesville 2,000 square feet, the
Gainesville shop will be
the largest of Red Mango's 67 locations.
The Gainesville location will have a spe-
cial study area, wireless Internet access for
students and a Mango Pit, an area where
musicians can perform.
"It will be a neat environment for kids
to hang out," said Terri Keogh, Castro's
daughter and co-owner of the shop.
Customers will be able to vote on which
12 flavors of yogurt the shop will carry on
Red Mango's soon-to-be launched Face-
book page.County proposes uniforms
By SAMANTHA DELGADO
Alligator Contributing Writer
The School Board of Alachua County
released a proposal on Monday for man-
datory uniforms in its schools.
Board members have discussed the
possibility of mandatory uniforms for
years, and five schools in Alachua County
already have them, according to public in-
formation officer Jackie Johnson.
"They've seen a big drop off in the
number of distractions in school," Johnson
said about those five public schools.
Principal Leonard Weiss of the A.
Quinn Jones Center said uniforms take
away the competition kids have among
each other.
"What we're doing is basically plac-
ing the focus on education," Weiss said.
"That's the major reason for us. We want
kids to understand that school is a busi-
ness like anywhere else, that it's a serious
place."
A. Quinn Jones already has a similardress code, but it might be stepping it up
in the 2010-2011 school year to comply
with the new proposal.
Johnson said the uniforms will consist
of plain polo shirts in limited colors and
khaki or dark blue pants.
"We want kids to understand
that school is a business like
anywhere else, that it's a seri-
ous place."
Leonard Weiss
Principal of the A. Quinn Jones Center
Those who are unable to purchase the
school uniforms will be encouraged to
contact their principals.
According to the policy, principals will
have to set up a uniform donation pro-
gram with the help of the school board.
The proposal will be decided on in
May, according to Johnson.
The full proposal can be viewed at
sbac.edu.
Tell us with an essay, photo or video and you could win a
gift certificate to Sports Marketing, Gainesville's answer to
all your sports and diploma needs.
1st place -$400 gift certificate
2nd place -$300 gift certificate
3rd place -$200 gift certificate
Deadline for entries: Noon, Thursday, April 1, 2010.
Finalists will be selected by a panel of Alligator employees and voted on by Alligator readers.
Online polls will be open from midnight Monday, April 5 to 11:59 p.m. Thursday, April 8.
Submit entries to contest@alligator.org
Visit www.alligator.org/app/gradtab for official rules.
99 SW 34th St.
in the Publix Westgate Shopping Center
www.sportsmarketingintl.com2010
LF
-~t Admission i FF!
* Arts Supply Drive
S st " 100 fans " to bring a new art supply
item I'to donate to the Children's Miracle"
Network will receIve a free soaI
Visit Gator2 ene;-dom for morenf6.,
10, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010
~1 IIF
*1
I
11
OR ONNE LL
ENTER
ORS OPEN AT
STARTS AT
Photography provided by.
A. ENGLERT
PRODUCTIONSPromotional Material provided by:
P R EM IERCatering provided by:
SWAMPRESTAURANT.COMI
7uI+~I
Ant
IGOIVM'F "Transortation provided by:
Q-CNIES1 4
P
IL
N
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentslnGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
1 MONTH FREE!
Immediate availability
All Inclusive Student Living from $399
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-1
Crnssau
FULLY LOADED @ $379
2, 3 & 4 BEDROOM SUITES
Get a 42" TV, 19.95 to sign!
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, University Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
Summer Rates 2010
Summer Free 2011
On 15 month lease
352-376-6720
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-1Experience Why We
Define the Good Life
2/2*4/4*All Inclusive
Filling Fast for Fall!
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST Townhouse near UF,
Shands, shopping; easy access. 2BR/2.5BA;
great for student/family. Only $750/mo; short-
term lease available. Renovated & ready! Ed
305-972-6432 3-24-10-85-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net& utils. 239-250-6149 4-2-10-65-1
LUXURY 2STORY TOWNHS. 2B/2.5Ba
F Roomate Wntd for Master Bedrm! FULLY
FURN. 2 min to UF, Great bus routes & park-
ing, Pool/gym, Free wifi, All utils incl. Avail
May 1st. $540 786-246-3049 3-26-39-1
4/4 COUNTRYSIDE APTS. Spacious 4 bed-
room close to UF! Close to major shopping
areas and located on 3 bus routes that go to
center of UF. Every room has full bathroom
& large walk-in closets. Entire place is fur-
nished. High efficiency W/D. Rent is $400/
room/month. Utilities included! SD $200.
Available June or August. Call (305) 799-
7042 3-25-30-1
% i n a -sto no ,
2, 3 & 4'S READY NOW!
Individual & Fully Furnished @ $349
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-10-30-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
2/2*3/3*4/4
Experience the Good Life
Text "Enclave" to 47464
4-21-09-71-1
REDUCED 1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $300/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished +
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 3-24-10-31-1Spacious 4/4 fully furnished condo available
in SW G'ville area 5 minutes to UF! Indiv.
leases, $375/room/mo. On 3 bus routes
and close to major shopping/food areas.
Utilities incl. up to $200/mo. $200 SD. Avail.
immediately/summer/fall. (352) 262-0628
3-31-10-16-1
2 Blocks to UF $290/mo
Furnished bedroom in 4BD condo.
Rent includes utils, cable TV & internet.
378-4626 / 262-4290 4-21-10-31-1
3BE/3BA clean and quiet condo for rent. All
utilities included. $400/room or $1000/apt. 1
mile from UF. 2 bus routes available. Must
see!! Call Dory 954-816-1468. 3-26-10-
10-1
$339- Fully Furnished fairly new condo
4Br/4Ba spacious bedrooms & living area,
w/d in unit, great kitchen, great bus rts12
& 35 ten min to UF & shopping Discounted
rent Avail. Start fall. 941-232-1960
4-13-1-2-1
$339 rm/mo 4BR/2BA Condo at University
Commons furnished W/D/TV/Cable/Parking
Immediatley avl. spring/summer/fall
Great Place Great Price 239.253.8701 4-5-
10-14-1
4-4 condo will rent monthy, quarterly or
yearly. $500/month/room includes: washer-
dryer, dishwasher, private bathroom/bed-
room, walk-in closet, utilities, cable, wireless
internet, pool, gym, volleyball and basketball
courts.' Living, dining and kitchen have wood-
en floors, bedrooms have nice clean carpets.
Bus services every 5-10 minutes. 352-213-
7059 5-20-10-30-1
1BR/1BA. $850 per month (everything in-
cluded). Covered parking behind unit. Less
than one block from campus. Call for more
details, 724-974-9591. 4-8-16-1
Female roommate needed for a 2/2 apt.
$500 All Inclusive. Priv. bath, wash/dry, very
quiet, many amenities avail. Avail. summer.
Discount on month. rate if you sign lease for
sum/fall & spring. Call Angie 7862392740
3-25-5-1
Very clean large ONE bedroom ONE bath-
room apartment at the Polo's available for
sublease in May, 2010. FURNISHED
The lease will end in early August.
The Polos: 2330 SW Williston Rd.
Gainesville 32608
PLEASE contact me (William) with any
questions: bcollins223@gmail.com
3-30-10-7-1QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901
10-71-24-21-
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
THIS FALL LIVE DOWNTOWN!
Live where you play, love where you live
Studios*Ones*Twos*Threes
Big city living without the big city price
Limited availability! 352-338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
AFFORDABLE RATES! QUIET COMMUNITY!
www.frederickgardens.com
1 BR/i BA $469 2BR/1 BA $569
Great Move-In Fee Specials!!!
Adopted pets live free!! 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
I'VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*et Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOWor FALL 2010.
2/2 from $999 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
12, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010
For Rent For Rent For Rent W nFor Rent For RentO F nfurnishe~d j unfurnished ]a l unfurnished unfurnished ]a l unfurnished
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$699 2/2-$799 3/2-$899
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464
4-21-71-2
01 MONTH FREE@
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
Special applies to Immediate Move Ins
2/2's: From $799; 3/3's: From $979
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
Great School Districts!
HUGE 1 Bed- $595!
2 Bed- $729*4 Bed- $949
Tennis*Pool*Basketball
Call TODAY*332-7401
4-21-71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$549
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
SORORITY ROW 2BR
2BR/2.5BA for $1199
W/D & utils included. We <3 pets!
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $505 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2$369
INCLUDES UTILITIES
1 month FREE, Move In TODAY!
24hr Amenities & Valet Trash!
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SUN KEY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!)
Student Discount
$499/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Check out our unbelieveable bandwidth:
30x10 IPV6
Special runs until 3.31.2010
352-376-6720
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO UF -AVAIL NOW & FALL!
*1BR $460- $495
* 2BR $485- $600
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -YOUR NEW HOME!
Unique LOFT floor plan only $595!
1/1 from $625 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning* Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis * 1 mile to UF
377-7401 www.boardwalkapt.com
4-21-09-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $540;
1BR $465. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $490;
2BR $590 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 4-2-10-65-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-21-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1 bedroom from *$457 2 bedroom from *$558
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 bedroom 1 bath from *$549
2 bedroom 2 bath from *$641
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Additional $200 off next month
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 *$549
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
5-11-10-64-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
AVAIL 8/1. Clean 4BR/2BA house(no
master BA, baths accessable to all BRs)
garage, fenced yd, pets ok, FP, DW, W/D
provided, wooded pvt big yard. $1400/mo,
cent H/AC. 2606 NW 34th St. 352-339-2342
3-26-10-35-2
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 2 bd/ 1 ba
Hardwood floors, must see
$900/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers**Large 5 Bedrm House**
1 full & 3-1/2 baths
Plant Atriums, Unique floorplan, W/D
Plenty of Parking, 8 blocks N of UF
$2,500/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Great Parking! Walk to UF! 4BD/4.5 BA
Located near SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St.
Call today to view @ 352.373.7578
Union Properties www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
NEWLY REMODELED 1BRs
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
MOST WANTED
Eddie Lee
Glenn Jr.
Black Male
(DOB 12/02/70); 6'00",
170 lbs, Black Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
Possession of Cocaine
and Possession of
Cannabis
ALACHUA C OUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOP0 a
TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 13
Rent For rrRent For Rent For Rent For Rent
wished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
6-29-64-2
2BR/1 BA cent heat mobile home.
Shady lot. From $300 -$450/mo
First month half price incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887 3-31-36-2
705 NW 10th Avenue <9Blks from UF
3BR/1 BA, 8rooms + 400 sq.ft.porch, Central
A/C, W/D, $1,250 + util. Avail. Aug. 275-
1259, ATucker458@aol.com 4-2-10-37-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 4-2-
10-53-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 4-5-10-
35-2Baxter Cottage 2 blks to UF campus, 1013
SW 4 Ave 2BR/1 BA, Bright, clean, complete-
ly remodeled, 500 sq ft, Cent AC/Ht,wood
firs, DW, W/D, NS, NPets. $450+util. Lease
runs thru 7/1/10 ATucker458@aol.com 4-2-
10-33-2
2BR/2.5BA townhouse condo, 1 mi from
UF on bus route. Inc W/D, community club-
house, pool & fitness center. Wired for inter-
net & security sys. $878/mo. Avail 5/1 or 8/1.
Call/text 332-8841 lindalu@gatorhomes.com
4-5-10-30-2
OResort Lifestyle*
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
2's: From $479/person; 3's: From $399/person
Includes FREE Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-42-2
2BR HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area. Wood floors, new kitchen
vinyl, Cent H/AC, DW, fenced yard, wood
deck, parking, $1080/mo. Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 4-21-
10-40-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority
Row/Norman Hall area. W/D, ice maker, ce-
ramic tile. Cent H/AC, DW, parking, fenced
yard. $1545/mo. Pets extra? Avail Aug 16. 1
yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 4-21-10-40-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area, remodeled baths, new:
stove, DW, disposal & AC, W/D, wd firs. cent
H/AC, parking. $2400/mo Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg
4-21-10-40-2
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content I
Available from Commercial News Providers
% I
II I
N~ w
*1~3P
P.M.Houses Available for Fall!
2631 NW 1st Ave -$1845
402 NW 36th -$1425
315 NW 17th St. -$875
4 NW 25th St -$1499
717 NW 34th St -$1320
FREE UF Parking!
352.371.7777
4-21-71-2
3 br/1ba house near corner sw 34 st & nw 8
av separate dining & living areas, new kitch-
en, carport, wd/hook up, storage shed, front
lawn and fenced back yard. Water included
in rent. $945/mo -call 258-4184 3-26-18-2
APTS and HOMES for rent near UF!
Avail Summer and Fall, visit our website at
merrillmanagement.net or
Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494 x10
3-30-10-19-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue. St. Croix Apts
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
2BR 1BA, Wood Floors, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 or tazzie2l@bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
3BR 1.5 BA Home off NW 16th
Ave. Tile Floors, Laundry Hkups,
Central H & Air. $750/Mo
319 NW 16th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
***HOUSE 4BR/2BA***
Available 8/1. Lovely, remodeled. W/D. Bike
to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. $1200/
mo. 373-1558, 246-8645, or 256-8370 3-23-
10-13-2
Hidden gem 2/2 walk to shands/VA
just renovated/wood floor/new paint
w/d pool balcony free parking,water
REDUCED $850/mo.352-281-0733
thuy carroll@yahoo.com 3-25-10-15-2
$199 Move-In Special
$500-$700 2BR/1BA
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or 352-505-9264 4-16-10-
30-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $700/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220. (leave
a voicemail) 3-31-17-2
Available now. HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo. All
4BR/2BA $1100/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183
4-5-10-20-2
CHARMING 3BR/2BA HOUSE
Walk to UF. Near law school. Small pet ok.
No smoking. Available for fall. Call 352-371-
0601 for information. 3-26-10-11-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 4-2-10-100-2
$600, 2BR, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet school
& campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furn; Parking; 352 376
0080;352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-27-2Walk to campus, 1022 SW 4th Ave. -3/3-
1200 mo & 4/4-1600 mo 3/2 house- 1015 NE
5th PI, fenced yd-$995 mo 4/4 house- 2010
SW 11th Terr-$1250 mo Near law college,
2732 SW 3rd PI-3/2 house-$1250 mo All in-
clude cent A/C, W/D hkups
Edbaurmanagement.com
4121 NW 37th PL- 352-375-7104 4-21-10-
27-2
Homes Avail for Fall! Pets welcome!
4/2 3321 and 3236 NW 30 PL $1200/mon
3/2 3320 NW 30th PL $975/mon
4/2 5402 NW 25th PL $1200
Call April 352-514-1441 for more info! 4-1-
10-13-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**Near GHFC vaulted
ceilings, all appliances, W/D, garage, small
pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1300 333-9874
4-6-10-15-2
*3401 NW 7th Place* 3/2 liv,din,fam rms.All
appliances W/D close to campus, large yd.
small pets ok avail Aug.1 $1325 333-9874
4-6-10-15-2
3BR 2BA W/den Home, 1200sf,
Available Now
Corner lot close to Vet/Medical schools
Tile floors,washer/dryer/dishwasher/garbage
disp. Fenced back yard/fireplace/central
H&A, pets ok. 2826 SW 39th Ave Call Mike
@ 850-497-2714 3-23-10-5-2
For a Limited Time Only! 1BR/1BA seperate
dining rm, Ig living rm, walk in closet, cent
H/AC, full kitchen, full bath. H20 & sewer
incl. Free pest control. Close to Oaks Mall,
Archer Rd & UF. $395/mo. 2 & 3 BDs avail
in several locations, dif floor plans. 215-7780
6-17-10-38-2
0* Very Nice 1BR 0*.
Full bath, living room, dining room, full kitch
en, in-law suite, w/ W/D, cable, all utils incl.
$750/mo near Haile. (352) 367-0372
4-13-10-20-2
OClose to UF 2BR House. Yard, W/D, wa-
ter incl. Pets ok. 618 NW 14th Ave $900/mo
Avail Aug 1st 561-350-1552
@1/1 apt in duplex, Irg yard, W/D hk up. Pets
ok. 1/2 mo free. 608 NW 24th Ave $500/mo
3-30-10-2
*1 BR Home On A Hill*
13"x23" living room w/view, kitchen seats 6,
huge patio, no pets, near NW 14th Ave
& UF, utilities paid, quiet person $850
(352) 395-6250 or 332-1429 4-2-10-13-2
Walk to UF. Openings in April -Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601 gmail.com
4-21-10-26-2
Available Immediately! Small 1/1
Efficiency apt. W/D avail, new paint & carpet.
10 min walk to UF. Perfect for international/
graduate students! $500/mo + utils. 284-0979
4-21-10-26-2
The English House, Available now, 5 blks
from UF, Ig rooms for rent, ind leases, utili-
ties included. call today for more info and to
reserve yours for fall.
call 352-226-4111 3-23-10-5-2
*4/2 3962 W University Ave.**close to cam-
pus, all appliances, W/D, hot tub, fire place,
screened porch, avail. Aug,1 $1400, 333-
9874 4-6-10-15-2
Spacious 1 BR apt for rent.
1 BR/1 BA apt near Oaks Mall.
Walk to mall, restaurant and coffee shops.
New appliances. Call 352-258-4695 3-23-
10-10-2
2BR/2BA New,Big,condo,near UF/Shands.
Small quiet complex. $1200/mo+deposit.
Avail June/July. Balconyfree parking,
dishwasher, deluxe applianceslaundry IN
UNIT. Pets considered-fee. Over 1400 sq ft.
352-213-2366,sshunkwi@gmail.com 3-30-
10-10-2
10houses.com
3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$1000 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
5-11-10-26-2**4/3 18 NW36th St.** Close to campusall
appliances,W/D, cent, heat/air Avail. Aug.1
$1375 333-9874 4-7-10-15-2
**4/2 919 NW 10th Ave.**Close to campus,all
appliances,W/D,Cent.heat&air.Avi.Aug.1
$1400 333-9874 4-7-10-15-2
***House 4 Blks 2 UF***
3BR/2BA cute, clean historic house. Hdwd,
tile, cntrl A/C, W/D. $1360/mo. Avail Aug.
1102 NW 4th Ave. 828-216-2565 3-24-10-
5-2
FREAKS!! DOWNTOWN 414 SE 2nd St
2BR/1 BA DUPLEX apt w/loft, central heat,
window air, off-street parking, convenient ac-
cess to everything. $630/mo, 1st, last, $600
dep. Call 352-373-6551 3-26-7-2
1/1 just 6 blocks from UF! Wood floors,
washer/dryer, walk-in closet, very private
development, close to bus. Call Charlene
Dinkla today (Realtor) (352) 665-4106 to
take a look! 3-24-10-5-2
Barn Eff Apt, Loft Q Bed, Washer/dryer $400
Pets OK, Stalls Also Available, Jonesville,
Prop 15 Acres 954-292-2244 3-31-10-10-2
WALK TO CLASS 4/2 apt $295/room/mth
One year leases begin 8/16/10 NO Pets
1740 NW 3rd PL Call 352-231-3002 3-23-
10-3-2
4BD/3BA HOUSE NEAR UF!
W/D, Central AC, Wood Floors. 3514 NW
7th Place. Available Aug. 1st. Call Manny at
352-317-4408 3-31-10-9-2
4BD/2BA HOUSE NEAR UF!
W/D, Available Aug. 1st. 610 NW 34th
Terrace. Call Manny at 352-317-4408
3-31-10-9-2
LOFTS OASIS 2/2.5 NEAR UF!
2515 SW 35th Pl. Brand New Unit, study
area, W/D, new stainless steel appliances in
kitchen. Call Manny at 352-317-4408 3-31-
10-9-2
***BELLAPROPERTIESNET***
Luxury apartments 2/2 &3/2
next to sorority row.
See pic & info on web page 335-5424
4-1-10-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
Walk to Campus
1/1 Townhomes from $579
2/1.5 bath townhomes from $699
Check out our unbelieveable bandwidth:
30x10 IPV6
352-376-6720 352-376-7041
Ask about our specials!
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-25-2
SUN BAY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(not just a room!)
Student Discount
$499/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Special runs until 3.31.2010
352-376.6720
www.sunisland.info
4-21-25-2
FREE MONTHS RENT 1BDs
1114 SW 7th Ave $650/mo
Spacious loft style, parking onsite.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-24-2
That's what She Said!
"I LOVE Hidden Lake because.
Cable & internet are Included,
roommate matching is available,
furniture & utility packages are available,
I'm just 1.5 miles to UF & midtown,
there's FREE tanning & a 24-hr gym,
a designer pool AND pets are welcome!"
Come see for yourself!
call 374-3866 for a tour or text
HIDDENLAKE to 47464 OR.
Next time you're on facebook,
creep on over to Hidden Lake's page
to see floor plans, pics & more!
4-21-10-25-2
14, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010
O F frnshed Subleases Roommates Furnishings Fusings
7 Blks UF , 4BR/3BA, 2 masters, POOL HOT
TUB, 2500 sq ft, 2 porches, 5 car parking,
responsible students, professionals only, Will
leave plasma TV on wall, $2375/mo -nego-
tiable. Starting May, Jordan 352-222-0211
3-26-10-5-2
3bed/2bath Creeks Edge condo -just off NW
13th St. W/D, pool & clubhouse. Close to UF
and on bus route. Available August. Seeking
roommates $395/mo/ea. 727-463-0560
6-29-10-35-2
0 2BR/1 BA TOWNHOUSE 0
7209 SW 45th Pl. $600/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 4-5-10-
10-2
WALK TO CLASS AT UF!
1122 SW 2nd Ave 3/1.5 $1575 HOUSE
1123 SW 1st Ave 3/1 $1500 APT includes util.
1118 SW 2nd Ave 3/1 $1200 DUPLEX
1 & 2 BRs also available. No dogs.
Call Kinetic Properties at 337-9600 4-12-
15-2
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
$575/mo OBO furnished/unfurnished 1/1
directly behind Midtown at College Park.
Walking distance to UF. Parking includ-
ed. Female or male. Call 305-587-1122
3-26-10-3
Luxury 1 Bedroom Single for Sublease.
Female only Building. Furnished, all-inclu-
sive (utilities, cable, & ethernet). Private bath
and Kitchenette. $550.00/mo available May
1st thru August 305 776-3632 3-23-10-5-3
Amazing 1 bedroom in a 2/1.5 townhouse
w/ balcony in room. 5 blks to campus behind
chipotle. Sublease starting May 1st-July w/
option to renew. $450+ utl. call 772-418-4041
or email tsinger@ufl.edu 3-23-10-5-3
TRENDY URBAN STYLE LOFT
lbd/lba in 3bd/3.5ba LOFTS OASIS condo
for summer sublease. Rent $433/mo. Lease
may be extended for full yr if desired. Call
904-982-3206 or email brit1013@ufl.edu.
3-23-5-3
Room available for the ENTIRE SUMMER
(summer C 2010) at University Commons
Apartments, very close to campus! $380
per month with ALL UTILITIES INCLUDED.
Email Jackie at yaqui109@ufl.edu & I can
send you pics, show you the apt and room,
and more 3-23-4-3
Sublease for 1 bed/1 bath in the Polos of
Gainesville. Available May 1st -Aug 7th.
Price incls internet service. Kept very clean.
4 Bus routes to campus & 3 pools for the
summer heat! Pets allowed. 941-447-4495
3-26-1 0-7-3
$595 OBO a 1/1 in a 4/4. May 1st-August
13th. Fully furnished. Walk to campus. Price
includes internet, cable, + utilities. Females
only. Call Chase (850)228-5660 3-24-10-
5-3
$448 for a 1/1 at Sunrise apartments!
I NEED to Sublese! Available 8.1.2010!
Clean quiet neighborhood. You can't find a
better deal. Close to everything and has bus
routes. Please call Rebecca Battillo @ (352)
281-2880. 3-24-3-3Summer Sublease
Private Bedroom and Bathroom furnished
Oxford Terrace II
-walking distance to campus and across the
street from sorority row bus stop
Dates: May 3- August 3
Cost: 575/month
If interested e-mail: ccally@ufl.edu or call
(985) 264-1691 3-23-1-3
Room Available for the ENTIRE SUMMER
(summer C) in University Commons:
$385 per month. Utilities included! Email
me,Jackie,at yaquil09@ufl.edu and Ill show
you the room, send you pictures, and more.
3-24-10-2-3
$400 Summer Sublease. Studio Apt. located
in College Park, walking distance to UF.
Furnished except for a bed, but does include
a futon. Very clean, recently remodled. Call
4- 3 52 7 -l -Ai ;I d 1 --or ema cour z ueu
subleases 3-29-5-3
fu Roommates
DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES
IN FURN 4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF.
$290/mo incl elec, cable tv, internet, pool,
laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626
4-21-09-71-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
4-2-10-48-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo, 1 mile from UF, $350/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
3-26-10-35-4
STUDENT NEEDED
New townhome, W/D, clubhouse, pool, gat-
ed, packing, bus route. $350 + utilities. 727-
729-1561 3-31-19-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room -utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Bball, pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd FIr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, or 352-636-4814 3-31-10-18-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsNA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$350/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220
(leave a voicemail.) 3-31-17-4.$400/mo Room for Rent plus elec, Rockwood
Villas TH, pvt bath, on bus route, w/d, free
internet, non-smoking, female only. Avail
Immed & Fall. 1st Mth Free w lyr lease.
ktellmann@ufl.edu/904-874-6877. 7-13-
10-45-4
Seeking roommates for 3 bed/ 2 ba quiet
condo at Creeks Edge. New flooring, recent
remodel,upstairs unit, washer/dryer, on bus-
line to campus, partial furnished. Available
Aug 1st. $395/mo. 727-463-0560 5-11-10-
28-4
HOUSE BEHIND SWAMP needs 1-2 room-
mates between the ages of 19-26. Walk to
UF.
$550 with utilities included.
Please call 914-815-1339. 3-30-10-7-4
Grad student looking for roommates for 4
bed/4 bath condo at University Terrace.
$400/room/month, ac. cable, internet, util.
On 2 bus routes, fully furnished. Tidiness
preferred. Call 352.575.0731. 4-12-10-15-
Roommate wanted: College house; 4/3: Lg
rooms, Lg yard, FP & Lg pool, Walk/bike to
UF or 4.5 mi. to SFC. Nice/safe neighbor-
hood! Joii the good life! $375/mo +1/4 Util:
Call Justin @ 813-748-6042 4-12-10-15-4
Real EstateD
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, e-mail or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Campus Edge / Somerest VillageWalk to
Shands/VA/class 2units, 2bd/2ba vault-
ed ceilings 2nd/3rd floor w/d in unit,best
locations parking. $8,000 tax credit.
$164,900/$132,900. Move in Ready 954-
439-2301 stedel@bellsouth.net 4-21-10-
41-5
Motivated. For sale by Owner. Must sell
beautiful 3bd/2b 1777 sf home in Cottages
of Country Way, Newberry, FL. Close to
schools. No HOA. Large lot.Asking $184,900.
(530) 613-6488 4-21-10-28-5
Your roommate hasn't done the dishes in
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the
Alligator Classifieds.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersBED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Fomputers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7II right thru our website! CALL TODAY! JuZ to
or www.alligator.org/classifieds
'111111'00
9sent,% #4N%4%
TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
computers Motorcycles, Mopeds Autos Wanted Help Wanted
OCERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECHO
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
3-31-10-52-7
C For Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
Motorcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
*www.B~uyMyScooter.com**
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
ELECTRIC SCOOTER
No insurance/registration needed
Inexpensive to own & operate
Assembled/free delivery/guaranty
American Electric Bike Co
www.greenscootersoncampus.com
4-16-10-25-11MOTOR SCOOTER
Blue w/silver trim. 150cc, 4-stroke, air-cooled.
Will do 50 mph, 1100 miles. $900.
Call 337-1784 3-23-10-5-11
2007 KAWASAKI NINJA 500
Garage-kept, never dropped. All mainte-
nance done. Very, very clean. 720 miles.
$3500. Call anytime 352-214-5191 4-13-
1020-11
MF__Au tos
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
3-31-09-103-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699
94 Chevy 1500 $999
92 Chrysler Cirrus $999
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
93 Ford F150 $1999
98 Ford Explorer $1999
96 Mits Galant $1999
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Nissan Stanza $1499
98 Pontiac Transport $1499
97 Plymouth Voyager $1999
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2999
99 Olds Alero $2999
99 Pontiac Grand Am $2999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-1299 Chrysler Sebring $2500
01 Dodge Neon $2500
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Mustang, 40k, $5500 CASH
03 Chevy Venture, 143k, $6900 CASH
05 Jeep Liberty, 105k, $6999 CASH
05 Saturn Ion, 123k, $7999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
06 Ford Taurus, 40k, $8900 CASH
05 VW Jetta, 111k, $8999 CASH
05 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
05 Chevy Trailblazer, 135k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Ranger, 158k, $7999 CASH
06 Chrysler PT Criuser, 46k $9999 CASH
07 Chevy Cobalt, 24k $10,999 CASH
02 Volvo S60, 97k $8999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
WFWantedI
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
30,000 NIPPED & COUNTING!
Operation Catnip is gearing up to sterilize
its 30,000th cat. Please join us in the effort
to end euthanasia of homeless cats in our
community. Bring in a stray or feral cat for
spay/neuter on March 28th -enjoy refresh-
ments, door prizes & a very special gift for
the person who brings in lucky cat number
30,000. Please call for an appointment (352)
380-0940. 3-26-10-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948. 3-26-10-72-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 3-26-
10-72-13Volunteers needed for Sunday, March 28th.
HOPE -Horses Helping People, Inc. needs
help preparing our farm for a big event.
Volunteers needed to paint fences. Lunch
will be provided. Please email KCShimeall@
gmail.com to sign up! 4-26-5-13
WF HepWanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
Summer Jobs
*0$2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
LATE NIGHT DRIVERS
$15-$17/hr 10pm -4am.
Apply @ gatordominos.com 4-21-10-60-14
Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have a fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
OSOATTENTION SMOKERS!@@@
SODo you want to quit smoking?@
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking
cessation study. You may be compensated.
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic 328-6603 or
email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com 3-29-
30-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable.
Writing skills a must, accounting skills a plus.
Call Carrillo & Carrillo @ 352-371-4000.
3-29-10-20-14HIRING STYLIST AND NAIL TECHS!!!
LOCATION: THE SALON 0" EXPERIENCE;
ON NW 6TH ST GAINESVILLE, FL 32609.
50% COMMISSION OR RENTAL IF
DESIRED. CONTACT SALON MANAGER
MRS. CAROYLN 0 AT 352-284-1320 OR
352-672-6339. 4-1-23-14
LEASING AGENT FT
Friendly, energetic person. Experience
preferred. Hourly & bonus. Great benefits.
Must be avail. weekends. Apply in person.
Spyglass or Hunters Crossing Apts. DFWP
4-21-10-29-14
Build your own online business from your
laptop. Fifty year old company. Contact John,
352-219-0871, or John@JCantlon.com
4-12-10-20-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Afternoons,
evenings & weekends. Fax resume and
available hours to 373-2230 3-30-10-10-14
Best P/T job in Gainesville! Interesting
varied office/ PA job for MATURE, depend-
able self-starter w/ EXCELLENT computer
skills. Bondable. Flex hrs. $9/hr + commis-
sion. NO SALES.
Resumes: wootenl@bellsouth.net
3-23-10-5-14
SWIM COACH- GATOR SWIM CLUB
Love swimming, love kids!
PT/Summer position -Pay hourly/negotiable
Located on campus, 2 satellite locations
Call (352)-278-6346 3-23-10-5-14
Start securing your career today!
Join UF ARMY ROTC!
Register for MSL 1001 and 1001L
Call 392-1395 today to learn about
jobs available as an Army officer!
8-5-10-50-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with
a love for children to staff its summer day
camp program. Positions in the camp are
available in our Middle School day camp
and our elementary school age day camp
offered at Oak Hall. Individuals for the day
camp should be available to work daily
from June 7-July 30 (June 21-July 23 for
Middle School). Interested applicants should
submit a resume to Jeff Malloy, Oak Hall
School 8009 SW 14th Avenue Gainesville,
FL 32607 or via e-mail at jmalloy@oakhall.
org by March 26th. Interview information
regarding group interview on March 27th will
be sent out upon receipt.
3-26-10-8-14
CHILD CARE. Weekday afternoons and oc-
casional weekend days or evenings. Reliable
car required. Respond to: seekinghelp.
school gmail.com 3-26-10-8-14
Admin Asst
Tech Support
Sales Rep
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com. 3-30-10-10-14
3 NANNIES to start ASAP:
T/TH 2:30-6:30 AND Wed 8-6
ages 3 & 6, 18+hrs @ $10.50/hr;
M-F 20 hrs btwn 9-6pm $9/hr infant;
W thru SAT 8-6pm: 40hrs @ $10/hr;
14mon old, travel req /expenses paid;
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com 3-24-10-
6-14
2 NANNIES to start APR 26:
MWF 20-30 hrs; 3 & 7yrs old; $10.50/hr;
M-TH 1:45 -5/5:30; W at 12:30;
ages 7 & 10; $10.50/hr for 15hrs/wk;
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv~nanoneone.com 3-24-
10-6-14
Morning NANNY starts May 3 $$
7am to noon/ M-F; lyr commit
8wk old infant ! inf exp required;
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com 3-24-10-
6-14
Ever think about joining the Army?
Ever considered being an officer?
If you have 2-3 years left at UF you
may have an opportunity through
Army ROTC Call 392-ARMY!
5-27-10-32-14The Alligator has sales intern positions available for
the Summer semester.You will receive classroom
training, firsthand sales experience, and an
opportunity to improve your communication skills.
This resume builder offers a flexible schedule with
a minimum of 10 hours per week.
a ligaor,Vugmffl1h8o - a. o0a
16, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010
FHelp Wanted Services Health Services Event Notices Entertainment
CERTIFIED DENTAL ASSISTANT with ex-
panded functions and great xray skills. Good
work ethic and desire to help disadvantaged
children a must. 4 day work week/40 hours
avail, competitive wage. Fax resume to
CSPS @ 352-375-4268 3-23-5-14
GREAT OPPORTUNITY for psych, special
ed or applied behavior majors to obtain state
of the art intervention skills & knowledge
working with severly autistic young man in
home & community based setting. Must be
motivated, reliable and make a one year
commitment. Hours TBA, competive wage.
Fax resume to BH @352-375-4268 3-23-
5-14
Nanny for 9 month old needed
Infant experience and references required
Email resume and availability to
nannyingville@gmail.com 3-26-10-5-14
Group Fitness Instructors needed.
We need high energy people who are certi-
fied to teach group fitness classes (Zumba
and yoga). Contact Steve at Powerhouse
Gym at 352-373-4439 or www.baileysgym.com
3-30-10-10-14
TCBY at Thornebrook Village
Now hiring all shifts. Apply in person only -no
phone calls. 4-21-25-14
In Home Care for 30 yr old woman (NW)
Temp 3rd shift Respite care possible 1st or
2nd shift permananent. CNA training is a
plus. email eileen@coworkersinc.com 3-23-
10-4-14
WAITPERSONS
Experienced & friendly. Evenings & week-
ends. Apply in person at NAPOLATANOS
606 NW 75th St. 3-24-10-5-14
Salon"O"
Seeking F/T Stylist, Barber and Nail techs
W/ some clientell. Rental or commission 50%
Call 352-672-6339 4-1-10-10-14
PSYCH, SPECIAL ED OR FYC MAJORS
Full or part time. Good pay.
352-337-8333
www.heneshealthcareagency.citymax.com
3-24-3-14
Leasing Agent PT Must be fluent with face-
book, excel & familiarw/ UF & SF campuses.
Very Friendly & Smiles Often
Fax Resume to 338-7468 4-9-10-14-14
F Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-
15Local Immigration Attorney -Marriage
Green Cards/Fiance Visas/Naturalization
Matters -$295.00 Attorney Fees Plus Costs
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
6-1-45-15
House/Apt Cleaning!! Too busy? Messy
roommates? I'm here to vanish this problem
from your life! Contact Rachel 352-246-2773
3-23-10-5-15
Salon "0" Specials
Facial -$25.00, Bring a friend and get 50%
off, 'free' prom dress event, and so much
more. Call 352-672-6339 TODAY to set up
your appointment
4-2-10-10-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding. Owner
housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 6-3-10-
30-15
Health Services
HII AKTIBrV TEQTIfl
-t -THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
Grieving the loss of someone?
National Students of AMF
Join our Facebook group:
"Gator Students of AMF"
TalkAboutLoss.org 4-21-43-16
A Woman's Answer
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716 8-24-74-16
CNA HOME
COMPANION CONNECTION
Gainesville. Days. 352-246-1354 3-29-5-16
3 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
334-790 forapp't(optinal-$01fee Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee) M Connections
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16Male professional, 70 years old, tall, from Sri
Lanka seeking white female, fair hair, 60-80
years old. Animals okay.
Write to MFP P.O. Box 1823, FI 32656
3-26-19-19Do you have 2 years left at UF? Ever
think about being an Army officer?
Free entry to Gainesville Rock gym
2-6 PM 1 APR from Army ROTC
704 S. Main St. Call 392-ARMY
3-31-10-11-20
Come join Gamma Sigma Sigma National
Service Sorority, Incon March 24forour2OlO
Health Fair on the North Lawn. A HEALTHY*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
WJFRZides
LiFE- 1S A FLOURISHING O E
3-24-3-20
Entertainment GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301 charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255 -$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-8-74-21 4-21-71-23
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-1 6-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
JUVSLEW EYPets
@ 2 yr old male Boxer named Macado, AKC
certified, fawn color with black mask & white
markings. Ears and tail cut, declawed, well
trained, very obedient. $400/OBO (386) 496-
1058 3-23-10-10-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily W ventcN
submit your classified ad OiL
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
.a
&e e
a f mCopyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
a e. ba I .A a
0
0
Thompson to lead receiving corps
* UF IS EXPECTED TO PASS
MORE WITH JOHN BRANTLEY
AT QUARTERBACK.
By BOBBY CALLOVI
Alligator Staff Writer
bcallovi@alligator org
Deonte Thompson came to Flor-
ida as one of the top wide receiver
recruits in the 2007 class, but three
years later, he still hasn't produced
on the field.
Thompson spent the first two
seasons waiting for his chance to
start, and last season, he got his
shot but failed to do much with it.
"He has to be the man. He
has to develop into being
the X receiver."
Urban Meyer
UF football coach
The redshirt junior finished
with 24 catches for 343 yards and
four touchdowns, but never had
more than five receptions or 66
yards in any one game.
With receivers Riley Cooper,
Brandon James and David Nelson
all graduating, Thompson will be
the only returning wideout with
much game experience.
"He has to be the man. He has
to develop into being the X re-
ceiver," coach Urban Meyer said.
"Him and Carl Moore have to
be the main guys. We have some
numbers, but it's time Deonte be-
comes like he's the number-one
receiver in America."
Early last season, Thompson
struggled with drop passes, letting
two slip through his fingers in theDeonte Thompson had 343 yards and four touchdowns receiving
last season, and he'll be counted on as the top wideout this year.
first two games.
Just as he started showing
his big-play potential with two
touchdown catches against Troy,
Thompson strained his hamstring
and missed two games.When he returned from the in-
jury, things didn't go as he hoped.
Thompson said he was disappoint-
ed with his role in the offense.
"When I got hurt, I got set back
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 18Sports
TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010
Doublespeak: Reading between the lines at Florida's spring practice
It's spring, which means the sun is shining,
the birds are singing and love is in the air.
All right, I spent Monday freezing my
butt off under an overcast sky, the only thing
I can hear is the construction on University
going on outside my house and seemingly all
my friends just ended long-term relationships
with their girlfriends.
But it's still springtime, and football prac-
tice is back.
You all remember the revelations from last
year spring? All the I-Form you can handle,
and redshirt freshman center Sam Robey wasmaking a serious push to take a starting job.
I have a hard time putting a lot of stock into
anything I hear on the practice field right now
simply because there's so much time between
now and the start of the season.
So, here are a few quotes we've heard since
practice opened back up on Wednesday, and
what you should make of them:
Actual quote from Urban Meyer on his
health status: "I'm fine. Thanks for your con-
cern. I'm good."
Translation: "Next person who asks me
that question gets thrown into the circle of lifedrill with Carl John-
son."
Actual quote from
co-defensive coordina-
tor Chuck Heater: "Ur-
ban was still very much
Kyle Maistri involved in recruiting.
Kyle Points The one who held this
kmaistri@alligator org recruiting class together
was coach Meyer."
Translation: "He
took less time away than the students do dur-
ing drop/add."
POLL RESULTS
Previous question:
How far did you
have Florida going
in the NCAA Tourna-
ment?Percent (Votes)
1st Round 48% (28)
2nd Round 34% (20)
Sweet 16 8% (5)
Final Four 8% (5)
Elite Eight 2% (1)
59 TOTAL VOTESActual quote from sophomore cornerback
Jeremy Brown when asked if he had surgery
on his back: "We just got it fixed."
Translation: "I've been so overcoached
about what to say about this injury thing that I
almost took the fifth when you asked me how
practice was" or "I'd tell you, but I'd have to
kill you."
Actual quote from Wide receiver De-
onte Thompson on the difference between
the two passers: "You never know with Tim
(Tebow). He can bolt. You think he's running
SEE KYLE, PAGE 18
alligatorSports Podcast
* Bobby Callovi and Kyle Maistri join host
Adam Berry to look back on the Florida
men's basketball team's season and
talk about the first weekend of the NCAA
Tournament. Download it on iTunes.ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Transfers leave
UF in uncertainty
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@alligator org
Amanda Butler's third season as head coach of the UF wom-
en's basketball team wasn't the charm she was looking for.
A year after a second-round NCAA Tournament loss to
eventual-champion Connecticut, the Gators (15-17, 7-9 South-
eastern Conference) failed to make the Big Dance this year and
settled for the Women's National Invitation Tournament.
Different tournament, same story: a second-round exit.
"I'm proud of this team to make it back to the postsea-
son with a lot of adversity with injuries and switching roles
around," Butler said. "That's the message the returners will be
transferring: this is not the end of the season we want."
And some of Butler's players have decided to transfer, leav-
ing the program on precarious ground for
next season.
In addition to the five seniors departing,
three underclassmen are leaving the pro-
Women's gram.
Basketball Sophomore Trumae Lucas, who made
the All-SEC freshman team last year, fresh-
man Tessah Holt, who shared time with se-
nior Lonnika Thompson at point guard, and Christal Caldwell,
who played just 5.6 minutes per game, will all seek playing
time elsewhere.
The abrupt transfers may scare away recruits and could pose
a problem for Butler's coaching staff as it leaves only six return-
ing players next year and just one guard -Jordan Jones.
Butler still has work to do on the recruiting trail though,
and according to ESPN's HoopGurlz, the Gators have the No.
21-ranked class.
"We'll have a few different [recruits], that's their strength:
put the ball in the hole," Butler said. "It's no secret we had a
very disappointing shooting year. They can see how immedi-
ate their impact is going to be."
The Gators will most likely rely on an inside tandem of cen-
ters Azania Stewart and Jennifer George, who replaced Stewart
while she was out with a stress fracture in her ankle and was
named to the All-SEC Freshman team, to lead them back to the
NCAA Tournament next season.
HOne of the Tiger Woods' sexts: "I would love to have the ability to make you
sore." Besides being the most awkwardly worded sentence ever, I think you
could pass that off to your wife as making her sore after a long session at the
range. .Roger Goodell will meet with Ben Roesthlisberger soon to discuss his
off the field issues. Over/under a week and a half until Tony Dungy is involved?
18, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010
Azzanni working on fixing drops
FOOTBALL, from page 17
a little bit, and it seemed when I got
back after the two games, the quar-
terback forgot about me," Thompson
said.
But with a new quarterback in John
Brantley and a new receivers coach in
Zach Azzanni, Thompson gets a new
start.
Brantley taking over as the starting
quarterback for the Gators will likely
result in more of an emphasis on the
passing game next season, as he is
known as more of a pure passer than
Tim Tebow was.Azzanni brings a different coach-
ing style than Billy Gonzales, which
could be just what Thompson needs to
emerge as UF's go-to receiver.
"It's always good to get a fresh
start for some people
sometimes, and some
.of these guys needed
Footba l a fresh start," Azzanni
said. "Every coach has
their own style and phi-
losophy, and I think I brought some
things they hadn't heard before and
maybe a different way of teaching the
same things than coach Gonzales did,
and that kind of put the shockers on
their heart and got them going again."KYLE, from page 17
but he'll come up and pass it to you. You just
have to be ready. With (John) Brantley, every-
thing's with rhythm, with time. You know, a
real quarterback."
Translation: "Tim is a damn good football
player, but I'm sick of blocking."
Actual quote from running backs coach
Stan Drayton, who held the same position
at UF before leaving to take the same job at
Tennessee and then Syracuse: "I've said this
before, there was never a loss of respect. I've
always had the utmost respect for what this
program is all about: hard work, relentless ef-
fort."Translation: "Do you know how cold it is
in upstate New York in the fall?"
Actual quote from defensive line coach
Dan McCarney on waiting for Ronald Pow-
ell and Dominique Easley to arrive in the
fall: "We don't want to put too much empha-
sis on it and too much hope because I've seen
some examples of that where guys really fail
and it's a major disappointment."
Translation: "We're putting a lot of em-
phasis and hope on it."
Actual quote from wide receiver Deonte
Thompson: "Somebody's got to be (the guy).
Why not me, right?"
Translation: "I'm just as surprised as you
are."
HOT SHOTS
From his two buzzer-beaters in
January to a series of impressive per-
formances later in the year, this was
Parsons' season. The 6-foot-9 junior
forward emerged as the Gators' star
in the 2009-10 season, becoming
Florida's most reliable scorer and
rebounder. Criticized for his incon-
sistency during his freshman and
sophomore years, Parsons seemed
Chandler Parsons, F more comfortable this season in a
newfound leadership role. Parsons
crashed the boards, slashed into the lane and even played
point guard when UF coach Billy Donovan asked him. He put
everything together in a seven-game stretch from Feb. 6 to
Feb. 27, when he averaged 17.7 points and 8.4 rebounds per
game. And, of course, without his 75-footer at N.C. State or his
last-second three-pointer against South Carolina, UF might have
played in its third-straight National Invitation Tournament.
Season Stats: 1 2.4 points, 6.9 rebounds, 2.6 assists, 1.1
steals per game; 49.3 FG%, 35.8 3-pt%, 66.2 FT%Beginning with SEC play, the alligatorSports staff voted on the top-three UF
basketball performances of the week each Monday. Now that the season's
over, we're ready to announce the alligatorSports Player of the Year. There
was really only one person for the job of following Nick Calathes as our
champion, and Chandler Parsons heroically overcame his best friend's move to
Greece to keep the award in the family.
Although Tyus' scoring average and
shooting percentages are down from
his sophomore year, the 6-foot-8 junior
still put together a season worthy of
our second-place spot. Finally able to
play his natural power forward spot,
Tyus displayed a more versatile game
than in previous years, stepping outside
Alex Tyus, PF to hit mid-range jump shots in addition
to his usual array of dunks and layups.
Tyus struggled near the end of the Southeastern Conference
season, but he was dominant from the middle of December
to the beginning of February, averaging 15.5 points and
7.4 rebounds over a 1 3-game stretch. If Tyus can improve
his outside shot and become more of a threat on the offen-
sive glass, he could have a huge senior season for UF.
Season stats: 11.8 points, 6.9 rebounds, 1 block per game;
50.3 FG%, 68.3 FT4
FINAL STANDINGS
Parsons -20 Boynton- 10
Tyus -11 Macklin- 8
Walker -10 Shipman- 1II
n
Kenny Boynton, GI
Although Boynton didn't exactly light it
up at as high of a percentage as expect-
ed, he still led the team in scoring and
proved to be a great defender. Walker,
meanwhile, had an up-and-down year
in his first season as UF's point guard. But
when the 5-foot-8 sophomore's shot was
falling, he was nearly unstoppable. In the
team's first six SEC games, Walker was
23 of 37 from three-point range, racking
up 19.2 points and 6.2 assists per game during that stretch.
His production slowed after Tennessee
showed others how to contain him, but he
still earned Second-Team All-SEC honors.
Boynton season stats: 14 points, 2.7 as-
sists, 2.6 rebounds, 1.1 steals per game;
37.6 FG%, 294 3PT%, 74.7 FT%0 f
Walker season stats: 12.6 points, 4.9 as-
sists, 3.3 rebounds, 1.3 steals per game;
33.9 FG%, 34.7 3PT%, 81.2 FT! Erving Walker. PG
Adam Berry and Erica Ervin / Alligator Staff
EXAMS
(/)v Independent Oplometrisi )Z Corner ofI NW 13th St.
& 39th Ave.
Near PUblix
EYECARE
I EXPRESS I
L (352)375-6133
VC
Woo10
1N.
TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Shooting Down Critics
Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator Staff
UF guard Steffi Sorensen played a year each at Florida Gulf Coast
and Santa Fe before transferring to Florida.By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@alligator org
Steffi Sorensen stood at the free-
throw line.
Swish.
Took another shot.
Drained it.
She sank shot after shot, oblivi-
ous to the crowd around her, until
she was 10 for 10.
"I was pretending I was out
shooting hoops with my brother,"
the UF senior said. "I could prob-
ably write a book on the 500 things
you think before you go to the line.
I wish I could go 10 for 10 now,
gosh."
As a fifth-grade student, Sorens-
en wasn't eligible to win a trophy at
her older brother's middle school's
free-throw shooting competition,
but she was compensated with a
dwarfing North Carolina Antawn
Jamison jersey.
"It was huge on me then, but I
still have it," she said.
For the Jacksonville native, who
grew up with three sporting loves
-tennis, golf and basketball -
missing out on the trophy was a
typical snub for a player who took
a beating as a self-described thin
girl playing with boys. She came
out of high school as an unheralded
player and had a nomadic career
spanning three schools.
Making Boys Cry
Sorensen's love for her brother,
Eric, almost proved fatal once. As
an infant, Sorensen once witnessed
her brother jump in the pool.
"He jumped in, he could swim,"
her mother, Kirsten Sorensen, re-
called. "I guess she thought she
could too. She went right after him
and jumped in, and I had tojump in
and pull her out."
It didn't end in the deep end ofthe pool either. Big brother started
playing basketball, and she started
around 4 years old at a hometown
basketball camp.
Founded as the Switzerland
Point Basketball Camp in the sum-
mer of 1995 with 18 kids, it has
since turned into the Steve Melgard
Camp, with turnouts of up to 300
campers in recent years.
"It's a competitive camp, and
that's what I tell them at the begin-
ning: 'Not everybody gets a tro-
phy,"' Melgard said.
But Sorensen wasn't everybody
-she received trophies. There
were times she'd come home with
more awards than her taller -now
6-foot-4 -more physically gifted
brother.
And it wasn't just her older
brother she was beating; it was the
whole camp.
Players are sorted into differ-
ent leagues based on age -NBA,
Southeastern Conference and At-
lantic Coast Conference teams.
"She always wanted to be on
Florida's team," said Melgard.
Within their age divisions, the
kids played and worked at differ-
ent stations to develop fundamen-
tals, and Sorensen soon was play-
ing with the older, upper-division
boys and beating them.
"A lot of times she made the
boys cry," he said, partly because of
the notion of getting upended by a
meager girl who Melgard described
as "ruthless."
But the kids Sorensen was beat-
ing weren't the only ones with wa-
terworks.
The Sorensens look back on it
now and laugh, but more than once
Steffi would come home crying be-
cause Eric held her to such a high
standard as a teammate, and she
couldn't bear to disappoint him.
The two siblings were a basket-
ball tandem. When they were team-mates, Eric -the taller post player
-would go for a rebound and
chuck it to his smaller sister down
the court for an easy bucket.
"She felt like her brother was
counting on her to make the bas-
ket," Kirsten said. "If she got it and
she threw it to him in the post, she
expected him to make it too."
That toughness is echoed by
anyone close to Sorensen.
'Take it Back'
During a sixth-grade basketball
game, Sorensen leapt for a rebound
and was shoved to the ground. She
landed awkwardly and sprained
her right wrist.
The injury was a devastating
and eventual career-ending blow
to the then-promising tennis player
named after legend Steffi Graf.
"I wanted to be a tennis player,
that's what I wanted to do," said
Sorensen, even though she believes
she would have followed basket-
ball sooner or later. "I got hurt, and
I couldn't really do that anymore."
For the avid tennis player and
golfer, who lettered in both in ad-
dition to basketball in high school
despite the injury, it caused irrepa-
rable damage, and Sorensen still
hasn't regained full strength in her
right wrist.
During her stint at Santa Fe Col-
lege, she reinjured it and was side-
lined for two-and-a-half weeks,
during which she tried to teach her-
self how to shoot left-handed.
The left-handed shooting didn't
work out, but the flick of her right
wrist did. She has become a prolific,
right-handed, three-point shooter
-she has led her teams in three-
point shooting at each of her stops:
Florida Golf Coast, Santa Fe and
two years at UF. According to Mel-
gard, she became a "great" shooter
SEE STEFFI, PAGE 20
CHILD
ENRICHMENT
CENTER
We offer care for Infants -VPK
CC C .,
at Gainesville
Eco-Healthy
Child Care2 For Tuesdau $1 .50 Pabst Pints
2 for I Any Farah's $5 Pabst Pitchers
FamousBrgers $2 Well Drinks
ALL DAY EVERY DAYWednesdaN tasceensoliysr s
600 Wings . 352-378-5179.... 1 120 W .University Ave.
20, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 2010
Sorensen overcame a lack of size to lead the Gators in scoring
STEFF1, from page 19
in her high-school days, when she
saw a shooting coach in Orlando.
"That's the first question I got
when she started to get successful,
is 'Can she beat you?' said Eric,
who played at Santa Fe. "That, at a
younger age, is kind of offending.
She's a girl, blah, blah, blah. Now,
it's humbling for them to even
ask."
It seemed the only unconquer-
able opponent Sorensen faced was
off the court, from the cynical re-
cruiting world. Ironically, all her ac-
colades on the hardwood couldn't
salvage her in high school.
She hit a growth spurt in eighth
grade, and while the height came
-the physique never followed.
She heard college coaches' ad-
vice to put on 20 pounds. She did
weight training, played in weighed-
down vests, took boxing lessons in
the summer and attended the High
Intensity Training Center in Jack-sonville.
"Even with weight training,
she's just not ever going to be a big
girl," Kirsten said.
Despite her lack of size, she be-
came the all-time leading scorer in
St. Johns County with 2,147 points
and starred at Bartram Trail
High School, making the var-
sity team as a freshman. She
was ultimately named the
2006 Class 5A Player of the Year
with her senior-year statline of 19
points, 10 boards, five assists, six
steals and three blocks per game.
But people weren't blinded by
the glamour of her prizes. Rather,
critics raised their eyebrows at the
slender Sorensen and challenged
how she could be this dominant
looking so contrastingly delicate.
In her senior year of high school,
she was 5 foot 10 and measured 135
pounds.
"People didn't see that I had
skill, not saying that I do," Sorensen
said. "But I mean, I'm here now and
I've had to work for it."Even the swish of a net or the
buzzing of a shot clock couldn't
drown out the scathing reviews.
"I wasn't the best player in the
state, which I didn't think I was, but
I won the award," said Sorensen of
her feelings about winning Miss
Steffi Sorensen
Florida Basketball in 2006. "It was
almost like, 'take it back, I don't
even want it.' To hear all this criti-
cism saying that I didn't deserve it
-look, I didn't vote myself."
No Sour Grapes
When Sorensen decided on Flor-
ida Gulf Coast after her illustrious
high school career, it was in its last
year of being a Division-II school.
Some were surprised her high-
school career didn't translate into a
more prestigious school.
"Her jersey's retired at highschool. Would you call if you were
a recruiter?" Steffi's dad, Chris So-
rensen asked. "Maybe just inquire
or look. I don't know why, and it
doesn't really matter why. But it's
not a sour grape."
Sorensen was pivotal in a tan-
talizing year where the No. 1
Eagles went undefeated until
the D-II national champion-
ship game, when they lost to
Southern Connecticut State.
She hit the shot that sent the
team to the championship.
Citing a desire to be closer to
home, along with an adamant re-
fusal to sit out a year per NCAA
transferring rules -Sorensen
transferred to Santa Fe, once again
following in her brother's footsteps.
Playing at SFC gave her more of a
Gainesville audience, which made
it easier to walk on at UF for her
junior year.
This season, her senior year, she
has been more relied upon as an
offensive source with fewer assists
than last year, but just playing aminute more (31.2). A year after be-
coming an established three-point
threat, Sorensen has taken more
shots and ended up with lower
field-goal and three-point percent-
ages.
She has upped her rebounds to
6.3 boards per game and has been
a constant with 9.6 points per game
-good for the team leader this
year.
Once again, her effort and work
paid off, and although her senior
season didn't materialize the way
she envisioned, Sorensen doesn't
hold any grudges over her brother,
critics or competitors.
"Other sports didn't keep me
entertained like basketball did,"
Sorensen said. "I have a short atten-
tion span, so something that could
hold my attention was a good thing.
Eighteen years later, I guess it's
holding my attention fairly well."
It's certainly been more atten-
tion-grabbing for her than the
crowd watching a fifth grader shoot
freebies.
Steffi Sorensen's Career
Year School Points per game (rank on team) Three-point percentage Rebounds per game
2006-2007 FL Golf Coast 14.5(2) 39.8() 5.2 (2)
2007-2008 Santa Fe 14.1 (2) 40.2() 6.9 (3)
2008-2009 Florida 9.2(3) 39.2() 5.2 (3)
2009-2010 Florida 9.6() 5.6 ) 6.2 (2)
SPRING HOUSING FAIR
brought to you by Student Government Housing Affairs Cabinet
U
(f~
(Reitz Union Colonnades
March 25th 10 am -1 pm
