0the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 105 We Inform. You Decide.-0Resye
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010
Senators tout
transparency
0 SENATORS VOTED TO PUT
RECORDS ONLINE.
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
Student Government senators
are leaving nothing to the imagi-
nation.
The Student Government bud-
get and Senate voting and atten-
dance records will be available on-
line in three to four weeks.
Senators unanimously passed
two bills that would place the re-
cords online during Tuesday's
meeting.
Jonathan Ossip, Senate leader
for the Student Alliance party, said
these bills will help students make
informed decisions in SG and have
a better idea about what their mon-
ey goes toward.
"I'm really happy that the Sen-
ate is choosing to go in this direc-
tion," Ossip said.
Unite Party Sen. Ben Meyers
said he sees no reason why these
records should not be readily
available to students."I personally am very proud of
how Ivoted in the past, and I think
most people are," Meyers said.
He agreed with Ossip that it is
important for students to be able
to track where their fees are going
in SG.
"Every student contributes to
our $14.4 million budget, and it's
important that students have their
say," Meyers said.
As the Feb.
23 and Feb. 24
SG elections ap-
proach, sena-
tors also passed
resolutions en-
couraging stu-
dents to vote and
NAP "promoting more
sustainable elec-
tion campaigns.
A resolution is a piece of leg-
islation that states the opinions of
senators without taking action.
The sustainability resolution
comes in the wake of the distribu-
tion of fliers critical of the Unite
Party on fraternity and soror-
ity rows and on the Plaza of the
Americas last week.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Ballot questions explained
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
During next week's Student Government
elections, students will have the opportu-
nity to answer three referendum questions
while they are at the polls.
Two of the three questions revolve around
a potential student fee that would help fund
the renovation of the Reitz Union.
The first question asks if there should be
a student fee to fund the Reitz Union re-
pairs.
The second question asks if the fee should
also fund an expansion of the union.
The final referendum question asks stu-
dents if UF should join the Workers RightsConsortium, which would ensure UF and
Gator apparel is not made in sweatshops.
"A referendum is the perfect way
to hear exactly what the students
want."
Ashton Charles
Senate President
Senate President Ashton Charles, who
represents the Unite Party, said each of the
referendum questions on the ballot is im-
portant for students to answer.
"A referendum is the perfect way to hear
exactly what the students want," Charles
SEE BALLOT, PAGE 10Student goes green
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
For Lance Griffin, a theater
senior at UF, shopping for eco-
friendly clothes was too much of a
hassle.
It seemed every store he went to
offered the same closet full of dis-
appointment.
"I'd walk into a clothing store,
and they would usually have a rack
toward the back. and a lot of the
clothes were either forest green orhad giant recycling symbols," he
said.
Griffin developed a natural solu-
tion: He created a company offering
a wider selection of environmen-
tally friendly
Spotlight on the clothing.
Swamp Griffin's
company,
Breathe Smile Love, was launched
four months ago and offers those
seeking environmentally friendly
clothing and accessories an alterna-
SEE CLOTHING, PAGE 10
Man who stole mayor's wallet found in her neighborhood, according to police
A Gainesville man who stole Mayor Pe- Department spokeswoman.
geen Hanrahan's wallet from City Hall years Officer Jamie Hope and K-9 Redd found
ago was arrested again Tuesday morning Clark hiding behind a wall, Senn said. Clark
when a witness noticed him trying to get into was found with different electronic devices,
vehicles in her neighborhood. but GPD has not identified the owners, Senn
The witness watched as Dashard Clark, said.
22, tested the door handle on her car and According to court documents, Clark has
called police when she noticed Clark mov- been charged similarly in more than 15 sepa-
ing on to other cars on Northwest 11th Street, rate cases since 2005.
said Cpl. Tscharna Senn, Gainesville Police -KATHERINE BEINTOday
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
11
15
16Sunny
57/30
visit www.alligator.orgPro-test
Rosie Daniels (left) and Desiree Orofino, of Vox: Voices for Planned Parenthood, hold signs
in protest of the Center for Bio-Ethical Reform's anti-abortion display on the Plaza of the
Americas on Tuesday afternoon.
0 UF sophomore
Erving Walker
has thrived in his
increased role this
season, replac-
ing former Gator
Nick Calathes as
the team's point
guard, but he is still
adjusting.
See Story, Page 16.
2, ALLIGATOR E WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
RUB Entertainment presents:
comedian Joe List
Today, 8 p.m.
Orange & Brew
Come check out funny man
Joe List. A finalist for New
York's 2009 Funniest Stand-
up Competition, List began
his comedy career in Boston in
2000. Since then he has traveled
around the country performing
at comedy hot spots such as the
HBO Comedy Festival in Las
Vegas and "Live at Gotham" on
Comedy Central.
Underwater hockey clinic
Saturday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Florida Pool
Come out and learn to play
underwater hockey with UF's
club team. The cost -$5 for UF
students and $25 for everyon
else -will cover all equipment
and food for the day. Bring your
bathing suit and Gator 1 Card.
For more information, RSVP
to the Facebook event, UF
Underwater Hockey Clinic, or
e-mail Emily Morrow at emor-
row@ufl.edu.
Cornhole Tournament
Friday, 5 p.m.
Southwest Recreation Center
The registration deadline is
Wednesday at 5 p.m. Download
a registration form from the
intramural sports page at recs-
ports.ufl.edu.FORECAST
TODAY
I,
SUNNY
57/30THURSDAY
SUN NY
59/32
Rock, Paper, Scissors
Tournament
Friday, 7:30 p.m.
Southwest Recreation Center
Do you have what it takes
to be the Rock, Paper, Scissors
Tournament champion this
semester? Registration begins
at 5:30 p.m. on the day of the
event at SWRC.
Got something going on?
And want to see it in this
space? Send an e-mail with
"What's Happening" in the
subject line to efuggetta@alli-
gator.org. Please model your
submissions after the events
listed above. Improperly for-
matted "What's Happening"
submissions will not appear in
the paper. Press releases WILL
NOT appear in the paper.
Israel birthright registra-
tion to begin
Jewish young adults hoping
to explore their heritage can be-
gin registering at noon today for
a free 10-day trip to Israel this
summer.
The Taglit-Birthright Israel
trip, offered in winter and sum-
mer, gives Jews ages 18 to 26 theFRIDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
62/34SATURDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
68/41SUNDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
69/47
opportunity to strengthen their
Jewish identity and form a deeper
connection to their religion. Regis-
tration is open until the trip reach-
es capacity. The trip is funded by
the Israeli government, Birthright
trip alumni, private philanthro-
pists and other Jewish organiza-
tions, said Dana Ben-Chail, an
Israel fellow at the UF Hillel.
Ben-Chail staffed Hillel's win-
ter break trip to Israel and is coor-
dinating the summer trip.
"It is an amazing opportunity
for people to experience Israel in
a very unique way with people
who are all experiencing Israel
together for the first time," she
said.
A refundable $250 deposit is
required for registration. Birth-
right provides airfare from New
York to Israel, accommodations
and two meals a day.
-REBEKAH GEIER
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the independent florida
Not offgicill
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 105 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Flonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors Ja red M isner, jmisner@alligator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tilb, ctil1o@a1/gator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
M att Tri pp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Corey McCall, Amanda Milligan,
Emily Morrow, Andrew Pantazi,
Paul Runnestrand, Colin Simmons,
Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Shaun O'Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Flonda Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions IncGHFC .com
GI Ir d~ C1170rVIP PassGa tI ' 'I
Bring in this coupon to redeem your pass &
Register to win a free personal training gift card. Health &, Fitness"
Newberr Road 377-4955 e Tio*a 692-2180 * GHF For Women 374-4634
HSR\3 First time local guests. 18 years and older. Expires February 28, 2010
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
ON CAMPUS
Finance club holds flash mob
to promote poker tournament
bieven H. Keys / migazor wiani
Kim Crofford and Jackie Arellano dance on Turlington Plaza Tuesday
with a flash mob to promote a poker tournament fundraiser.By ERICA COOK
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 20 students put on their poker faces and
danced to Lady Gaga in Turlington Plaza Tuesday
afternoon.
They broke it down for passing students dur-
ing two dance performances, which each lasted
about five minutes and were part of a flash mob
sponsored by the Student Finance Group, an or-
ganization that teaches students from any major
about how to invest and save money and find in-
ternships.
Through its dance, the group hoped to promote
its poker tournament at Beef 0' Brady's on Thurs-
day at 8 p.m., said Bastian Bockenhuser, the flash
mob's coordinator.
The tournament will raise money for the Stu-
dent Finance Group's bus trip to Disney World at
the end of April, Bockenhuser said.
The trip will cost about $800, but the group has
already raised about $300 from member dues and
past events, he said.
"We hope that the poker tournament will help
us raise the remaining money to go on our trip,"
Bockenhuser said.The poker tournament costs $10 to enter, and
anyone can participate.
Students who go on the trip will use free Dis-
ney tickets earned from participating in a Day of
Difference on March 26. For the Day of Difference,
volunteers will reach out to local elementary
school students and teach them about business
and economics.
"We hope that the poker tournament will
help us raise the remaining money to go
on our trip."
Bastian Bockenhuser
the flash mob's coordinator
The students who performed in Turlington Pla-
za had a slightly different mission.
Three of them wore life-size playing card cut-
outs, while others passed out playing cards adver-
tising the tournament.
Jackie Arellano, a member of the Student Fi-
nance Group, said she was not nervous about
dancing in the middle of Turlington Plaza.
"We wanted to promote unity and harmony
within the group," Arellano said.
Speaker promotes homeless 'adoption' program on tour
0 HE WILL BE SPEAKING
TODAY AT 6 P.M.
By NATHAN BEAM
Alligator Contributing Writer
Wood paneling, shag carpet and
a plastic pantry frame the interior of
the van-turned-home. To some, the
1994 Ford Econoline is a mere vehi-
Fde, but to some homeless people in
Florida, it is a beacon of hope.From his van, James Barnett,
24 is introducing Adopt-A-Jesus,
a homeless adoption program, to
Gainesville.
"The idea behind Adopt-A-Jesus
is simple," Barnett said. "One group
in the community finds a home-
less person in need and helps them
out."
Barnett is traveling on a cross-
country speaking tour for the next
year and is speaking at the Wesley
Foundation today at 6 p.m.The program is one way Barnett
invites people to get involved in
their community.
Those who "adopt" a homeless
person are asked
Around to invest in thatGainesville person's life over
meals, conver-
sations and basic provision of their
needs.
"It really isn't that complicated,"
Barnett said. "There is no law on
how a community is supposed tolove someone."
Barnett has developed a pro-
cess for choosing the homeless in
the program. He chooses homeless
people who he finds would best fit
into the program and invites them
to be adopted -people who are de-
termined to better their lives and are
unlikely to get in trouble with law.
Those who are interested go through
a brief interview process, and those
accepted are offered for adoption at
the places he speaks.Sam Shepherd, 20, adopted a
homeless man with his Bible study.
"It's great," Shepherd said.
"We've already been out to lunch
with him, and it's been surprising.
I always thought things like this
would be hard, but if anything, it's
taught me that people are people."
As Barnett continues his speak-
ing tour, he wants to be clear about
one thing.
"It comes down to community,
not convenience," he said.
Do you have what
it takes to be a
Tailgate Champion?
Register to play in Phi
Mu's Tailgate Invitational
at phimutailgate.com
TONS of free food
for participants, and
amazing auction items
from your favorite
places in Gainesville.
Lake Alice Field
February 21, 2010
4, ALLIGATOR E WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010
Author speaks about Islam
By MINCH MINCHIN
Alligator Writer
Islam-American relations have not improved
since Sept. 11, and they are only getting worse,
said John Esposito during a speech Tuesday
night at the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom.
Unless government officials make drastic
changes to U.S. foreign policy, a peaceful solu-
tion between Islamic nations and America will
not come for a long time, said Esposito, an author
and Georgetown professor.
He spoke to a crowd of about 250 students
and addressed whether Islam represents a threat
to the United States.
"Islam is no more a threat than any main-
stream religion is a threat," he said.
Esposito addressed topics such as Sept. 11,
U.S. foreign policy and media perceptions of Is-
lam.
The prevailing U.S. perceptions of Islam are
unfairly skewed because Sept. 11 caused someAmericans to judge all Muslims based on the ac-
tions of a few extremists, he said.
This is akin to judging all Catholics by the
Spanish Inquisition, Esposito said.
"All religions have a transcendent side and a
dark side," he said. "Any religion can be trans-
lated darkly."
Only 7 percent of worldwide Muslims are
potential extremists, he said, but unless the U.S.
changes its policies toward Islamic countries, the
number of potential extremists could increase.
The problems created by the
On wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are
Campus persisting and getting worse, he
said.
The American forces in the Middle East are
inciting anti-American sentiment instead of win-
ning the hearts and minds of Muslims, Esposito
said."American military presence needs to be
pulled out as fast as it can occur," he said.
Accent paid Esposito $8,500 for the lecture.
For more information, see alligator.org
9Cop~r'gh1ed M~1er'~ed
Syd'1e Conen
Legalize it. Don't criticize it!
Pd. Pol. Adv. approved by Richard Selwach
RichardSelwac
www.selwachformayorcm
Best Jewelry and Loan
523 NW 3Av -an Brkers
[7 6 3
oA E , J HJJIJ
a 1wwIIC4ihoMarch 26-27
Stephen C. O'Connell Center
Relay For life is an overnight event with
entertainment, activities and prizes all to
benefit the American Cancer Society.
This year we invite students and faculty to create their V
own "party" theme and join us in the fight against RELAY
cancer! For more information and to learn how you can FOR LIFE
form a team, attend a Team Captain Party or visit
www.RelayForLife.org/UFFL.Danica Spears / Alligator
John Esposito, author and professor of Islamic Studies and International Affairs
at Georgetown University, lectures to a crowd in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom.
Accident on 13th Street
A pedestrian is moved to an ambulance after being hit by a car while crossing 13th
Street Tuesday. Details on the pedestrian's condition were unavailable.I
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
NE .
Stewart Cheatwood saw opportunity, found a mentor
and changed his career. Now he finds time to coach others.
Every day, he's feeding his life, his career and his future.
Feed your future at www.pwc. tv
PRICEWATERHOUSECPERS *
@ 2010 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP All rights reserved. "PricewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware limited liability partnership) or, as the context requires, the PricewaterhouseCoopers
global network or other member firms of the network, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer.Police
discuss
plans at
meeting
0 PRESENTERS EXPRESSED
NEED FOR COMMUNITY AID
IN PREVENTING CRIME.
By ALLYSON FOX
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville Police Department
Chief Tony Jones wants city resi-
dents to understand a couple of
things.
First, Jones wants Gainesville
residents to know they play a
critical role in preventing crime.
Secondly, Jones wants local
citizens to know that as chief
he promises to do everything
in his power to reduce crime in
Gainesville.
The Gainesville Police Depart-
ment addressed its recent reorga-
nization and changes it has made
in order to better serve the com-
munity.
About a dozen citizens attend-
ed the meeting Tuesday evening
at the Gainesville Police 2010 pre-
sentation, held at the Westside
Park recreation center.
"I knew change was needed at
GPD," Jones said.
Local Jones added that
News sergeants will now
work as a team with
the police officers.
Previously, the sergeants were
on different shifts.
"We've got to work in partner-
ship," Jones said.
In addition, GPD is anticipat-
ing budget cuts, so it needs an
increasing amount of community
aid in preventing crime.
Currently, GPD has a class for
volunteers called the Citizen's
Academy, which is designed to
engage residents in their com-
munity.
"The end result is volunteers
will work in the police depart-
ment," said Capt. Ed Book.
The volunteers will use skills
they already have in order to
serve their community. Tasks
will require grant-writing and
clerical skills.
GPD hopes that eventually
citizens on patrol will be able
to identify and prevent crimes,
Book said.
Barbara Ruth, Stephen Foster
Neighborhood Association presi-
dent, said she decided to attend
the presentation to have a better
understanding of GPD's chang-
es.
"It seems like a very positive
thing is happening," Ruth said. "I
think the new chief is doing some
good things."
6, ALLIGATOR E WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010
Editorial
Frivolous Filers
SG should stop wasteful
distribution of fliers
he Editorial Board always loves when it gets the
chance to call Student Government out on yet an-
other thing it's done that is stupid and completely
useless.
And today is certainly no different than any other oc-
casion.
We couldn't help but laugh at the Student Senate's
newest installment of ridiculous resolutions with no point
whatsoever.
For all of you who don't know what that is, have no
fear: A resolution is the Senate's official opinion on some-
thing.
That's right, it does absolutely nothing.
And on a side note, stop passing resolutions. They don't
do anything, and contrary to popular belief, no one cares
what your opinion is.
Additionally, half the things you make resolutions
about you have absolutely no control over. (The resolution
that advocated of a two-state solution in the Gaza conflict
anyone?
If the United Nations can't even help, UF's SG certainly
won't do anything.)
But seriously, you guys really passed a resolution talk-
ing about possible methods of campaigning in a sustain-
able way?
We mean, we get it; it was obviously a dig from both
parties that were made at the other parties because of last
week's mysterious flier incident.
For those of you who don't follow our SG election cov-
erage religiously, we'll give you a summary: Fliers with
the Unite Party symbol and the word "obey?" written
below the Unite symbol, which mocked some of Unite's
brainless drones, were placed on cars on Fraternity and
Sorority rows. Regardless of who made the fliers and who
put them on the cars, when it comes down to it, all of you
are being wasteful.
Just take a short stroll along campus, and you'll defi-
nitely see that a vast majority of your beloved fliers with
your candidates' mugs on them wind up in trashcans or
on the ground.
That doesn't seem very sustainable to us.
Furthermore, you all just wasted even more paper writ-
ing this stupid resolution and having a hundred copies
made of it so you and your "frienemies" are able to discuss
it and vote on it.
That doesn't seem very sustainable either.
So instead of using your pretty, glossy paper, make
some signs to hang in Turlington Plaza.
And if you insist on keeping the fliers, take a page from
the Alligator's book and use recycled paper or consider
handing out those fliers near a recycling bin so people can
throw them in there instead of on the ground when they
inevitably decide not to read them.
That way, when students are done pretending to look
at them so you'll leave them alone, they can throw them in
there instead of the trashcans.
We get that recycled paper isn't the prettiest and is even
a little dingy, but it works for us.
After all, more people are reading this editorial than
your flier right now.
0the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University A e, or send them to PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions
-I /6 '
Column
America should focus on education
he United States is a country that, while undoubted-ly a strong and immensely powerful leader in many
areas of global society, faces several serious issues
as it pushes forward into the future. Beyond issues such
as ongoing wars, steady unemployment and reality TV
shows giving birth to other, far worse reality TV shows,
one specific issue rises above the rest in its level of impor-
tance and the amount of immediate action we must take
to combat its potential effects. This issue is a growing ig-
norance by a majority of our population toward confront-
ing and solving the major problems and questions facing
our nation today. This ignorance is being supported by an
overall lack of resolve and patience, partisanbickering and
a tendency for the national consciousness to be distracted
and concerned with issues of far lesser importance.
It arises from the materialistic and media-driven cul-
ture we live in, a culture created from the 24-hour news
cycle and the ever-expanding reach of technology. It is de-
fined and enforced by an invasive media presence, social
networking sites and an obsessive fascination with celeb-
rity and popular culture. Through the advancements and
abuse of technology, we have created another realm into
which people can immerse themselves and forget about
the real problems that face the world. It is too alarmist to
say that no one pays attention to the dire issues and prob-
lems, such as global warming, the wars in Iraq and Af-
ghanistan and international economic malaise. There are
obviously a veritable army of experts who are handling
these matters, but I feel that we should engage topics of
national importance on an individual level and not be-
come lost in our daily lives.
However, a growing majority of Americans are slip-
ping into an electronically induced "social coma," which
has taken away their eyes, ears and ability to think forJoshua Lee
letters@ali gator orgthemselves. News outlets regulate
and disperse news, but too often
they focus on the scandal, the sen-
sational or anything that brings
in the ratings. Somewhere Tiger
Woods is nodding his head. In con-
sumer-driven America, the truth is
slimmed down, parceled out in five-
minute news blocks and drowned
out among biased reports from all sides.
And while the Internet has brought an unprecedented
amount of information to people's fingertips, social net-
working sites, which receive traffic in the millions each
day, have allowed people to create a world of their own
while forsaking real issues that are right outside their
front door. Time and energy is being lost on these endeav-
ors as the minutiae of daily life have now gained this over-
inflated sense of appeal and worth. I miss the days when I
didn't know what my high school teacher thought of Ava-
tar or what type of animal my friend found wandering on
his virtual farm. We must look past the events of our own
lives and form a greater coalition to solve the great prob-
lems of our age.
This social coma that has overtaken so many can only
be lifted, in my opinion, through greater funding toward
proper education of the youth; more emphasis on relevant
areas of life, such as international relations or national
governance; and a greater focus on the true reality of our
increasingly precarious situation as a global leader in a
dangerous world. Will all of these things be achieved in
the near future and allow for this veil to be lifted? Accord-
ing to the Facebook poll I just completed, they will not.
Joshua Lee is a political science sophomore. His column ap-
pears every other Wednesday.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Tuesday's question:
Are you annoyed with the Student Does the Genocide Awareness
Government flier distribution? Project have a place on campus?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org45% YES
55% NO
74 TOTAL VOTESALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/opinions
* M a4 ,- nS~ C-
electio son
74RM
V,
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Letter about Student Alliance party's
name failed to mention Unite's history
Ryan Scott's letter to the editor Tuesday
stated that "as much as changing the name
and logo of a party can be aesthetically pleas-
ing, it doesn't hide the fact that the party is Or-
ange and Blue 2.0."
So, he's basically saying that the Student
Alliance party changed its name to cover up
some former indiscretion in hopes that no one
would notice, right? That sounds really famil-
iar.
Oh, wait. Remember those e-mails between
top Gator Party officials that talked about how
to keep the Orange and Blue Party from get-
ting certain Senate appointments and commit-
tee assignments?
It turns out the Gator Party was so un-
happy about those e-mails being leaked that it
tried to steal all the Alligator newspapers that
morning to prevent the student body from
reading about it. That was followed up with a
bombardment of anti-Orange and Blue Party
fliers titled "Lies," for which it subsequently
apologized.
It's no surprise that the semester after that
politically damaging scandal, the Gator Party
changed its name to the Unite Party. So, I find
it funny that Student Alliance party is being
unjustly accused of something the Unite/
Gator Party has actually done fairly recently
because that happened only a little over a yearago. I guess some people are quick to forget. it should at least tone down its absurd, over-
Aida Bibart blown rhetoric and stop lashing out at its op-
3LS ponents.
Unite should stop lashing out at critics
Why does the Unite Party get so outraged
whenever it is criticized?
Most people would agree with the fairly
expressed criticism of the Unite Party.
It takes thousands in student money for
personal perks like student-subsidized meal
cards, parking decals and cell phone plans.
It rushed to impose a big Reitz Union fee
(not covered by Bright Futures) on every stu-
dent without telling anyone the total cost of
the proposal or how long it will last.
It completely dropped the ball on protect-
ing Bright Futures, putting its faith in week-
end trips to Tallahassee (totally fruitless) and
in paying an inept lobbyist (who evidently
spends more time working for his other clients
in the insurance industry than for us).
Yet whenever someone calls out the Unite
Party with reasonable criticism, it sends out its
people to personally attack anybody who dis-
agrees with them. In the past few days, it has
said that its opponents want the Reitz Union
to crumble (when in fact all its opponents dis-
agreed with was a massive fee) and even com-
pared its political rivals to serial killers.
This is America. While the Unite Party
may feel threatened by those who disagree,Student Body candidate broke regulation
I am fairly new to Student Government,
having served as a student senator represent-
ing Beaty Towers for merely a semester. Yet
I've taken it upon myself to learn the necessary
rules and regulations when it comes to elec-
tions and campaigning. Evidently, Ben Cava-
taro has not. A couple days ago, Ben Cavataro
went door-to-door in The Estates apartment
complex. Going door-to-door is not only an
inconvenience to those who live in the com-
plexes, but it is also a clear violation of election
codes. Ben Cavataro should know this. Such a
blatant disregard for the rules is probably why
he was recommended for disqualification by
the Election Commission when he first ran for
office. Anyone who chronically violates the
rules that guarantee the fairness of our demo-
cratic process, as Ben Cavataro did, should not
be running for office.
How could someone with no regard for the
political process be running for Student Body
president? I am deeply troubled by Cavataro
and his party's disregard for these essential
rules. I was under the impression that Cava-
taro was an experienced former senator. Ap-parently, he has been out of the Senate so long
that he has forgotten how SG operates. Who-
ever wins this election should win it fairly by
following the rules, not by cheating.
Hayley Plant
UF freshman
U U U
Editorial misrepresented demonstration
The "Fear Factor" editorial in Monday's
Alligator labeled the anti-abortion Genocide
Awareness Project in the headline as "anti-
choice .ineffective, distasteful".
Although the large photographs are un-
pleasant to view, the project is very effective
at portraying the distasteful choice of abortion.
Yes, abortion is legal in America today, just
as slavery was legal in the United States and
the Holocaust was legal in Hitler's Germany.
The "bloody photographs of abortions gone
wrong" (quite a redundant phrase) are accu-
rate images of the victims of typical abortions,
and they frequently change viewers' minds.
For proof, visit AbortionNo.org and click on
Changed Minds/Abortion Regrets Testimo-
nies. While other bloody medical procedures
are performed to heal and extend lives, every
abortion is performed to harm and end the life
of an unborn baby.
Michael A. Schrimsher
Florida director, Center for Bioethical Reform
Guest column
Student Alliance party represents necessary change in politics
IIt's time." That simple phrase means more than just a
great video produced by the Student Alliance party.
It represents a fundamental change from politics as
usual in Student Government. When 80 percent of students
do not vote in SG elections, it's not hard to wonder why they
feel SG is out of touch at best and disingenuous at worst
when it comes to hearing student voices.
It's time for students to receive real information about
the proposed Reitz Union fee. This fee will not be covered
by Bright Futures or Florida Prepaid. This fee is being forced
upon students in the middle of the worst economic reces-
sion since the Great Depression. This fee is being imposed
for an uncertain and undisclosed amount of time. The Unite
Party and the Reitz Union Board of Managers (composed of
Unite Party appointees) wholeheartedly endorse and sup-
port reaching into your wallet when other sources of fund-
ing, such as Florida's Capital Improvements Trust Fund, are
available. Alarmingly, the Unite Party is actively promoting
confusion about the facts of the fee. They claim the fee is forRafael A. Yaniz $42.5 million in "repairs" to the Reitz
Speaking Out Union while quietly sneaking in that
they want to construct a more than $80
million dollar expansion to the Reitz
Union. That adds up to more than $120 million they expect
students to pay for at the end of the day.
The Student Alliance party believes that by enacting sim-
ple waste-cutting measures in the SG budget, and by reach-
ing out to alternative sources of funding, we can pay for
the repairs to the Reitz Union at no additional student cost.
Reaching into students' wallets as the first course of action
is unacceptable and just plain wrong, especially in our tough
economic times. In addition to redirecting mismanaged funds
from the SG budget, the Student Alliance party will work with
the University Athletics Association and prominent alumni to
increase student organization space in the Reitz Union with-
out an egregious fee being imposed on the Student Body. One
proposal from the Student Alliance party involves moving
the Reitz Union Hotel to the half-constructed building acrossfrom the stadium on University Avenue. This relocation will
free up two floors' worth of space in the current Reitz Union
while maintaining the service of the hotel, increasing revenues
for the union and SG. The Unite Party and the current admin-
istration have called imposing this unnecessary fee increase
and expansion project their "legacy." But let me be clear: The
only "legacy" this fee increase will leave is a legacy of debt.
It's time for SG to work on behalf of students and student
organizations. Student Alliance party has more than 70 mean-
ingful and well-explained ideas on its platform. You can visit
www.ufstudentalliance.com to learn about how we plan on
protecting your wallet, protecting your Bright Futures and
giving student organizations the ability to meaningfully in-
crease their budgets. At the end of the day, your vote does
matter, and you do have a choice. You can stand by as more
money is taken out of your pocket, or you can take two min-
utes on Feb. 23 or 24 to make your voice heard in SG.
Rafael A. Yaniz is the the Student Alliance candidatefor Stu-
dent Body treasurer.
Islam Awareness Month r
Pulitzer Prize Winning Reporter
Andrea Elliott
Of the New York Times
US: Between
eMuslinin A nation and Integration
Rejection, ASM foropn7M
Thursday, Feb. 18th @ 7:30Pm (doors open
Reitz Uniosd, Ron Ballroom
free and open to the public
Islamf Onl CampusApril 17, 2010
from 8 am to 3pm
at the Martin Luther King Center
Help clean
up trash
and litter,
plant trees,
and paint
over graffiti.
Ta4 .se call 3 1 319444
[L7  It7 k4rrh acb@gmai.com
ided! Free giveaways!
Presente ep Alachua County BeautifulI
8, ALLIGATOR E WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010
AROUND GAINESVILLE
Student scarfs five
pounds of ice cream
By EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
Some brought their own
spoons, some brought hot water,
but they all brought an appetite.
Fifteen students represent-
ing different UF organizations
showed up at The Caffeine Bar
at Ben & Jerry's to compete in the
first Vermonster Challenge Tues-
day night in front of a crowd of
more than 300.
The participants raced to be
the first to finish Ben & Jerry's
Vermonster -a 14,000-calorie ice
cream creation with 20 scoops
of ice cream, four bananas, one
brownie, 10 scoops of nuts and
eight scoops of toppings, all
topped with whipped cream.
The rules were simple: Finish
all of the ice cream, and if you
throw up, you're out.Sigma Phi Epsilon's Kurt
Gielow was victorious Tuesday
evening, finishing his five pounds
of ice cream in about 13 minutes.
Contestants had different strat-
egies to prepare for the eat-a-thon.
About five said they starved them-
selves and one said he ate Chinese
before competing.
The competitors from TriGa-
tors and UF Wrestling club were
the only other two contestants to
finish their ice cream, placing sec-
ond and third respectively. Both
received $20 gift cards to Ben &
Jerry's.
The winning organization re-
ceived a trophy and $250 from
Ben & Jerry's.
Ben & Jerry's gave Gielow a
$50 gift card for conquering The
Vermonster in the fastest time.
At least five competitors were
disqualified for throwing up.Thomas Plevik/ Alligator
Andree Koop, representing the UF Tri-Gators triathlon team, holds his empty Vermonster container. Koop
finished second overall in the Ben & Jerry's Vermonster Eating Contest on Tuesday night.
UF study will determine if compound helps older adults
ETHE COMPOUND IS FOUND IN WINE.
By SARAH JACKSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new study by UF researchers is testing
to see if resveratrol, a compound commonly
found in red grapes, produces benefits in old-
er adults.
.1The purpose of RIPE Trial, Resveratrol for
Improved Performance in the Elderly Trial,
is to see if the compound is safe for humans
to consume, said Todd Manini, Ph.D. and co-
prinicipal investigator of the study.
"It's a powder compound, similar to vi-
tamins that you would find in a drug store,"
Manini said.
Resveratrol is an antioxidant thought to
rescue adults from the impairments of old age,he said. The compound may help adults re-
duce their fatigue and improve their memory.
In previous studies, scientists found the
compound was safe for
U F animals and improved theirResearch memory. The trial will moni-
tor participants' memories
with MRI scans to see how the blood is redis-
tributed after three months, he said.
If the compound helps cells produce more
Copyrighted Materialenergy, it may help adults have a stronger
memory, too, he said. Participants will take
the supplement for three months, and the re-
searchers will follow participants for an ex-
tra month to see if there are any side effects,
he said. Although resveratrol is found in red
wine, the study has nothing to do with red
wine, Smith said.
"If that was the case, we would have people
pounding on our door," Manini said.
9 I
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Black History Month 2010 Presents:
A Coversatiovt with
JoI-w Legentd
Wednesday, February 17
Stephen C. O'Connell Center
@) 7pm
Co-Sponsored by ACCENT
and SGP
"Meet the Grammy award-winning recording
artist, musician and actor whose chart-topping
hits continue to remind us of love and self."
www.ufbiackhistorymonth.coi
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 9
Engineering and Science Fair draws about 450
J Hunter Sizemore/Alligator Staff
Shaina Rosenauer, a UF chemical engineering student, freezes a mixture of heavy cream,
sugar and chocolate syrup using liquid nitrogen to make ice cream.By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Contributing Writer
A Mars rover model, robots and
bowls of ice cream chilled with liquid
nitrogen were some of the exhibits at the
Engineering and Science Fair, known as
the E-Fair, Monday and Tuesday.
The fair, which attracted about 450
people to the Reitz Union Grand Ball-
room, included students from local el-
ementary schools, middle schools and
an after-school program.
The fair had about 33 booths spon-
sored by UF clubs and research orga-
nizations and hoped to encourage chil-
dren to pursue science-oriented careers,
said Robert Williams, an industrial and
systems engineering junior.
Williams said it's important for stu-
dents to have an idea of what they want
to study before making their college
plans.
Anthony Moore, a seventh-grader at
Howard Bishop Middle School, wants
to be a mechanical engineer. He mar-
veled at a solar-powered car on display
but thinks one day he'll be able to makean even better robot.
"Probably when my time comes
along there will be more advanced
technology," Anthony said.
Three-year-old Daniel Dickrell also
has an idea about his future.
He's debating between a job as a pi-
lot and a job as Buzz Lightyear.
"Probably when my time comes
along there will be more ad-
vanced technology."
Anthony Moore
Howard Bishop Middle School
seventh grader
The fair is not just an opportunity
for students to form career plans. It's
also a chance for scientists and students
to have a little fun.
Paul Muri, president of the Institute
of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
said the fair gives scientists the chance
to make their research available to stu-
dents.
"Information is just out in the open,"
Muri said.
JWWW4= WNAMGW OVPH
100 Years of Mastering The Craft
Engineering & Science Fair:
Grand Ballroom 9AM -4PM
Engineering Bowl: Rion Ballroom 7PM -9PM
Engineering & Science Fair Day 2:
Grand Ballroom 9AM -noon
Field Day:
North Lawn 9AM -2PM
Engineering Extravaganza:
North Lawn & Reitz Colonnade 10AM -3PM
- Meet the Deans Barbeque:
New Engineering Building Lawn noon -2:30PMW 1 American Society of Mechanical Engineers
Swampfest 2010 Car Show:
Commuter Lot 2PM -8PM
Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers'
Goals for Tomorrow Soccer Tournament:
Flavet Field, 1OAM -5PM
All events are free and open to the public.
Free food & giveaways for UF Students!!
Sponsored by:
Chevron
fA4RRIS
Human Energy
Fo mor ino vii htp/wwubcogeek IZ(i <~benqdu
Take beginning Chinese 1 & 2
this Summer in China!
$3992 =13 weekslodging,
excursions, transfer credit tuition
(13-16 credits)
For more info, contact
Kristen Eller at klanfer@uflc.ufl.edu
Enrollmentcapis 16 students
ApplicationdeadlineisMarch 5
Info session, WednesdayFeb 17 at 5pm
14at 302 Pugh Hall
-IP
FIRST 500 FANS WILL RECEIVE 2010
GATOP SOFTBALL SCHEDULE T-SHIRTS!
ate Smsdium
(N&U L IT Y1 -GhUWE WER
j. d~pbie
SUN-WED 11AM-3AM FREE WIFI
THURS, FRI & SAT
IIAM-4AM NEXT TO SWEETBAY
WWW.JDOOBIES.COM 34TH ST. PLAZA
mact the UAA at 800-34-GATOR The speeh and heng i
maycal the Floida Relay Sriea 800-955-8771 (TDD) &40
10, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010
Company sells T-shirts and totes
CLOTHING, from page 1
tive to mainstream products.
"I knew I wanted to do something
that would inspire people and uplift the
world," he said.
The company, whose concept took
about a year and a half to develop, uses
handmade designs on T-shirts made from
organic cotton and bamboo. The company
also sells tote bags.
The prices of the shirts range from
about $15 to $25, while the tote bags cost
$6.
The biggest challenge for the business
is making the company's name known as
it competes with more mainstream prod-
ucts, Griffin said.
"Think about how much Nike and Adi-
das spend on advertising-that's hard to
compete against," he said. "I think the
product lends itself to people as opposed
to people lending itself to the product."
Building the business has cost about$2,000, he said.
Jill Casey, who bought three shirts and
one bag from Griffin's company, likes the
design and the feel of the T-shirts.
"I love them," Casey said. "I wear them
all the time when it's warm outside," she
said.
"I knew I wanted to do something
that would inspire people and
uplift the world."
Lance Griffin
UF senior
Griffin is holding a "Dream-a-Design"
contest for which his company is accept-
ing T-shirt ideas.
Profits from the sales of the selected
shirt will go toward funding sustainable
agricultural systems in developing coun-
tries.
For more information about the prod-
uct, visit the company Web site at www.
breathesmilelove.com.
Student Government spring ballot will have three referendum questions
BALLOT, from page 1
said.
Charles said it is important for
students to know about the ques-
tions before they vote so they can
educate themselves about the is-
sues.
"I think it's extremely impor-
tant that students take an activeinterest in them so they know
what they're voting and how it
will be affecting not only the UF
community, but the Student Body
in general," Charles said.
Charles said students should
take time to educate themselves
about the Reitz Union fee and the
other questions on the ballot so
they can make an informed deci-
sion on election day.She said a student fee would
not be the sole source of funding
for the renovations.
It could be supplemented by
other sources
Student of funding,
Government such as Capital
Improvement
Trust Funds.
Jonathan Ossip, Senate leader
for the Student Alliance party,agreed that students should have
a voice, especially on issues such
as the Reitz Union fee.
Ossip said the Student Alli-
ance party favors exploring alter-
natives to the student fee, includ-
ing redirecting about $1 million
in SG funding to help fund the
renovation.
"You know to go straight into
students' pockets first is really notacting in their best interests," he
said.
There will also be one question
regarding the Student Body Con-
stitution.
The constitutional amendment
would change the appointment
time for summer replacement se-
antors and amend election laws
Staff writer Carolyn Tillo con-
tributed to this article.Paynes Paintbrush
Three onlookers watch the sun rise over Paynes Prairie on Tuesday.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
*3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
INCLUDES EVERYTHING
4/4's & 2/2s from $399 to $509
24hr Fitness*4 BUS LINES
DJ by the pool on weekends
GainesvillePlace.com*352-271-3131
4-21-71-1
Oresisiq
FULLY LOADED @ $399
Individual w/free roommate matching
Cable, Internet and utilities
Pick New 42" TV or Sofa Set
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, University Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2 $665 * deluxe 2/2 $699
3/3 $639*4/4 $539 *All prices are all inclusive
*Close to UF* EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST Townhouse near UF,
Shands, shopping; easy access. 2BR/2.5BA;
great for student/family. Only $750/mo;
LEASE/BUY OPTION -OWNER FINANCED.
Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432 2-17-
09-65-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. 239-250-6149 2-26-10-35-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Unit. $450 ea. W/D.
Property has clubhouse, fitness and busi-
ness/computer ctr. Utilities incl. On bus
route. Windsor Park.
305-788-5681/Windsor5l5@gmail.com.
2-26-10-28-1
LUXURY 2STORY TOWNHS. 2B/2.5Ba
FULLY FURN. 2 min to UF, Great bus routes
& parking, Pool/gym, Free wifi, All utils incl.
Both rooms avail June 1st or later, Individual
Leases $540/$520 Martha 786 246-3049
3-5-29-1
4BR/4BA, large living, next to bus stop, fairly
new condo. $399/mo each room. Close to
shopping, school & library. Call 941-232-
1960 3-3-10-20-1
4/4 COUNTRYSIDE APTS. Spacious 4 bed-
room close to UF! Close to major shopping
areas and located on 3 bus routes that go to
center of UF. Every room has full bathroom
& large walk-in closets. Entire place is fur-
nished. High efficiency W/D. Rent is $400/
room/month. Utilities included! SD $200.
Available June or August. Call (305) 799-
7042 3-25-30-1
$370-4/4 University Terrace Condo available
starting summer/fall. ALL utilities included,
W/D in unit, on routes 12 and 35, ten minutes
to campus by bus! $250 deposit, individual
lease. Call Anu at 352.262.0628. 2-26-10-
13-1$370-4/4 Countryside condo for rent starting
immediately/summer/fall. ALL utilities includ-
ed, on bus routes 9 and 35, individual leases.
Call Anu at 352.262.0628. 2-26-10-13-1
IMMEDIATE/SUMMER AVAILABILITY
2,3 and 4 bedroom suites
STARTING @ 349
All inclusive, fully furnished
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-10-30-1
Hampton Oaks Apartments
Unfurnished TH $749
Furnished ind. $538
$500 Visa gift card with ad
124 SW 62nd st -(352) 333-8643
leasing@siverwingproperties.com
2-26-10-11-1
1BR/1BA. $850/mo everything included. 1
block from campus. Covered parking. Call for
details 724-974-9591. 2-25-10-10-1
3bed/2bath condo with W/D, pool &club-
house $1250/mon close to UF and on bus
route. Will consider seperate leases. 727-
463-0560 2-19-10-5-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
2/2*3/3*4/4
Experience the Good Life
Text "Enclave" to 47464
4-21-09-71-1
Countryside 4/4 $1600 GREAT CONDITION
Great bus rts. 9&35, poolside, balcony, tiles,
w/d, walk-in closet, 42" LCD, gate w/buzzer,
incl. utilities w/cap, Newly Renovated. Avail.
Fall-lyr lease, Call Patel 941-518-4058
2-23-10-5-1
Fo RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901 4-21-
10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
LIVE THE DOWNTOWN LIFE
Steps from clubs-blocks to UF
Studios, 1/1's, 2/2's & 3/3's
The best location.GUARANTEED
Reserve NOW for fall! 338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
AFFORDABLE RATES! QUIET COMMUNITY!
www.frederickgardens.com
1 BR/1 BA $469 * 2BR/1 BA $569
Great Move-In Fee Specials!!!
Adopted pets live free!! 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOW or FALL 2010.
2/2 from $999 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$699 2/2-$799 3/2-$899
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464
4-21-71-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
12, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
*THE POLOSO
Already have your roommates?
ALL utilities Included
2's: From $479/person; 3's: From $399/person
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75 SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 4-21-
71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
SORORITY ROW 2BR
2BR/2.SBA for $1199
W/D & utils included. We <3 pets!
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
That's what She Said!
"I LOVE Hidden Lake because.
Cable & internet are Included,
roommate matching is available,
furniture & utility packages are available,
I'm just 1.5 miles to UF & midtown,
there's FREE tanning & a 24-hr gym,
a designer pool AND pets are welcome!'
Come see for yourself!
call 374-3866 for a tour or text
HIDDENLAKE to 47464 OR.
Next time you're on facebook,
creep on over to Hidden Lake's page
to see floor plans, pics & more!
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $505 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2$394 ALL INCLUSIVE
Upscale Student Living
TV IN YOUR APT!*Ask how
Bus line through the Complex!
GainesvillePlace.com*352-271-3131
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
1BRI 1 Mo free 2BR 2 Mo free
if everyone is full time undergrad at UF.
3 Mo free if full time grad at UF.
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
0 Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
0 Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
S1 BR/1 BA $425
0 2BR $450-$600 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 2-19-10-75-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -WE'VE GOT IT ALL!
1/1 from $589 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning * Fitness Poolr/ Pets Loved!
Tennis*1 mile to UF*Huge Laundry Facilities
377-7401 www.biketouf.com
4-21-09-71-2
BLOCKS TO UF
Available August 2010. Now showing
multiple houses. 2BR/2BA, 3BR/2BA,
4BR/3BA, 5BR/3BA. www.dalyproperties.
com or call Carol 359-3341 2-26-10-43-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $540;
IBR $465. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $490;
2BR $590 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
$199 Move-In Special
$500-$700 2 bed/1 bath
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or (352)505-9264 2-17-10-
30-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 2-26-10-35-2
One Block to UF:2/2.5 bath townhouse. W/D,
Dishwasher, Garbage Disposal, wood floors,
ceiling fans, GUARANTEED Parking call
Todd at 514-4915, VERY Nice townhouse
2-26-10-33-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1st Nice large
4BR/2BA house. Big bedrooms, big living rm.
W/D provided, game rm $1425/mo. 2100 NW
8th Court. Call for diretions. Pets ok, fenced
yard. Other houses available 352-339-2342
2-19-10-33-2
** Across From UF
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-21-65-2
* One Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $499 2/1 $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/1 from $599 2/2 from $699
Additional $200 off next month
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Sunrise Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $509 Additional $200 off the next month.
NO APP FEE. Near UF, Shands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 $599
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!
Villas at Ashton Square
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/2 $719 3/2 $849
Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!
Summer Place Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $519
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Sundowne Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Studio $469 1/1 $519
Walk to Butler Plaza and Regal Cinemas
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2* One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Gator Village Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1/1 $489
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Walk to UF. Openings in Feb, May & Aug.
0 2BR/2.5BA $850 S 2BR/1 BA $700
0 1BR/1BA $585 S studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
2-26-10-32-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/i s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
3-18-10-40-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
GOT ROACHES?
Buy Harris Famous Roach Tablets.
Guaranteed to kill. Available at: Zells
Hardware, 3727 West University 3-17-10-
35-2
JUMBLE4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
Move in Special: No Security Deposit
2/2 Condo with washer/dryer, screened-
in porch, newer condo, near UF. Shands,
located off 34th & Archer Rd. 2 units
available $750/mo. Call 317-5060 215-5996
3-1-10-27-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Large 4BR/2BA house,
Wash/dry provided, privacy fenced, pets ok,
full sized hot tub on back screened porch,
dishwasher, carport, $1600/mo. 3413 NW
8th Ave 352-339-2342 2-19-10-15-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. 3BR/1BA house. Nice.
Nine blocks from campus, wash/dry pro-
vided, cent H/AC fenced private backyard,
hardwood floors, detached garage. $1125/
mo. 924 NW 9th Ave. 352-339-2342 2-19-
10-15-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Clean modern 4BR/2BA
house. fenced backyard, pets ok, fireplace,
wash/dry provided, wooded private big yard.
$1425/mo, central heat/air. 2606 NW 34th
Street. 352-339-2342 2-19-10-15-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Clean nice 4BR/2BA
house, privacy fenced backyard, pets ok,
hardwood floors, fireplace, plenty of parking,
wash/dry provided, dishwasher, cent heat/air
$1400/mo 830 NW 16th Ave 352-339-2342
2-19-10-15-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 3-31-37-2
C"
* Co-
-e0 
116'U42>
-4c30
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 13
For Rent For Rent For Rent f1 For Rent For RentO nFnished unfnished ufurnished nfurnished ufurnished
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 3 bd/ 2 ba
Completely Remodeled
W/D inc. Spiral Staircase
Walk to Class, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
*Walk to Class & Stadium*
2/1, W/D, Granite Countertops
Hardwood Floors & Fireplace
Huge Bedrooms,Covered parking
$1300/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Large 5 Bedrm House**
1 full & 3-1/2 baths
Plant Atriums, Unique floorplan, W/D
Plenty of Parking, 8 blocks N of UF
$2,500/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Walk to UF/Sorority Row 4bd/4.5ba
3 stories w/ 4 master suites. w/d incl.
Near corner of SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
r/ $9!;
the BEST of LIFE
EOE M/F/D/V. Shards HealthCare supports a drug-free workplace.5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
2BD 1 BA WALK TO UF
Charming Quad near AGH
1005 SW 3rd Ave
Hardwood floors & parking
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
NEWLY REMODELED
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
2-26-18-2$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1BA
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands.
W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500sec., $495/
month. 3120 SW 26th Way Unit A. 562-2782
or 514-6869 if interested. 3-16-25-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $700/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220.
2-26-18-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home. Shady lot.
From $300 -$450/mo ind water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887 3-2-20-2
1 BR apt. for rent off Tower Rd. $385/mo. We
accept Section 8. We will pay you $500 cash
back for 1 year lease on Section 8. 352498-
3035 3-2-10-20-2
705 NW 10th Avenue <9Blks from UF
3BR/1 BA, 8rooms + 400 sq.ft.porch, Central
A/C, W/D, $1,250 + util. Avail. Aug. 275-
1259, ATucker458@aol.com 3-5-10-22-2
SMALL CABIN 2/1, 20 ACRES
Watermelon Pond views. 27802 SW 120th
Lane, Newberry. Horse pens, dog door.
Needs work. $575/mo. $750 move-in 330-
329-8834 2-17-10-2
**MUST SEE -IN-LAW SUITE**
1BR full BA, living room, dining room, full
kitchen. w/cable & W/D. Inc all utils. Near
Haile. Quiet. $750/mo. Call 352-367-0372
3-5-1-21-2
10houses.com for more info
2 & 3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$840 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
3-5-10-20-2
WALK ONE BLOCK TO CAMPUS!
1, 2, 3, and 4 BR units available now and
for Fall 2010. Locations between SW 1st
ave, SW 5th ave & SW 12th St. Call Kinetic
Properties at 352-337-9600 (no dogs please)
3-19-10-25-2
Everything you dream about in a nursing career is at
Shands HealthCare. Dozens of specialties, a choice
of practice settings, leading-edge research, academic
programs, and a chance to work alongside North
Central Florida's most prominent nursing experts.
It's the opportunity you've waited for. And it's here.
GN BASH 2010
Sunday, February 21st
Social: 4:00pm-4:30pm
Info Session: 4:30pm-7:00pm
UF Hilton & Conference Center
Grand Ball Room
1714 SW 34th St., Gainesville
-Meet & Mingle With Nurse Managers
* Enjoy Food, Fun & Giveaways
For questions, call 352-265-0441, ext. 85399.
Apply online to Req # 1659 by
Friday, February 19, 20 10 at:
Shands.org
Sh dsExperienced CareShandS Eert CaingHealthCare .NUR.SING EXCELLENCE4Br/3Ba Large Home w/ 2 car gar, 8 min from
UF, large fenced yard, dogs ok. Exquisite
oaks & landscaping, wood & tile floors, new
appliances. $1,600/mo. 352-466-0358. Avail
summer or Aug. 3120 NW 31st Blvd. 3-5-
10-20-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 2-19-
10-10-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 2-22-
10-10-2
Available now. HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo. All
4BR/2BA $1100/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183
2-23-10-10-2
Female roommate pref for furn/unfurn
lbr/lba in a 2br/2.5ba townhouse in quiet
SW neighborhood near UF & Shands. AVAIL
NOW, M-to-M lease, $450/month & $250
refundable deposit. Call Ann 352-870-7414
2-26-10-13-2
Baxter Cottage 2 blks to UF campus, 1013
SW 4 Ave 2BR/1 BA, Bright, clean, complete-
ly remodeled, 500 sq ft, Cent AC/Ht,wood
firs, DW, W/D, NS, NPets. $550+util. Lease
runs thru 7/1/10 ATucker458@aol.com 3-5-
10-18-2
Lakefront House/5 Acres/Quiet
2BR/2BA/FI Rm w/pri ent/Lg Kit
LR w/Fire PI/Washer Dryer/2-car
Carport/Interlachen $1500./mo
813-473-3713 swellgirl@gmail.com 2-26-
10-13-2
$650, 2 bdrms, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet
school & campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furnished; Parking; 352
376 0080; 352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
3-5-10-17-2
HAILE PLANTATION CONDO FOR RENT
2/2 condo near the Village Center, walk to
restaurnts, shops, and coffee houses, jog-
ging trails, golf course. Call 352-258-4695
2-17-10-5-2
Beautiful 3/3, close to schooldir. on bus!
Brand new appl, paint, bedding, remdld
bthrms, Frnt bldng, upstrs. $1250/mo.
bdduf86@comcast.net
3-4-10-14-1
2BR/2.5BA townhouse condo, 1 mi from
UF on bus route. Inc W/D, community club-
house, pool & fitness center. Wired for inter-
net & security sys. $878/mo. Avail May 1 or
Aug 1. 332-8841, lindalu@gatorhomes.com
3-1-10-10-2
7 Blks UF , 4 bed 3 bath, 2 masters, POOL
HOT TUB, 2500 sq ft, 2 porches, 5 car
parking, responsible students, professionals
only, will leave plasma on wall, $2375 a
month starting May , Jordan 352-222-0211
2-22-10-5-2
OTHE POLOSO
You want it, We got it!"
#1 in Amenities
2/2's: From $799; 3/3's: From $979
Includes FREE Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-42-2
NW -Appletree, Contemporary Home.
3BR/2BA, 2 car garage, sunroom, cul-de-sac
st. 1700 sq ft. NICE $995/mo. Irene Larsson
Owner/Realtor 352-373-2605, 352-538-1218
3-1-10-10-2
NW -Home 3BR/2BA, 2 car carport, large
family room, fenced yard, extra storage,
W/D. $980/mo. Irene Larsson Mgmt Service
352-373-2605 3-1-10-10-2Amazing 4/4 house Fall-walk to UF or Law
Sch.Univ.& NW 28 St-on bus line-Huge bed-
rms-new appl.& paint-c/air-pets ok/fenced
yd/ Ig home-$2195-can email pics-954-270-
4000 3-15-10-14-2
subleases
DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY!!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $400/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished +
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 2-17-10-11-3
Arlington Square 207 SE 2nd Place.
Downtown near the Hipp. on bus routes.
2BR/2bath townhome. Available immediate-
ly. $650.00. Lease expires 7-30-10. 863-258-
6350 2-18-10-5-3
Summer Sublease
2 Blocks from campus
Windsor Hall
$300 per month, all utilities included
fully furnished
407-314-0535 2-10-4-3
eRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $299 -$260
+ $50 utils charge/mo incl elec, cable tv, in-
ternet, pool, laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave.
378-4626 4-21-09-71-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
2-26-10-28-4
Female seeks roommate for 4/2.5 town-
house, cricket club, all included, no pets,
$400 954-557-4769 3-4-10-30-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
2-26-10-20-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsNVA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$350/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220.
2-26-18-4The
Here
14, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010
tesReal Estate Computers Autos
Female seeks roommate for new 3/2 home
in clean, quiet SW neighborhood. $450 incl
all utils. No pets, no smoking. 352-641-6166.
Furnished, 1 acre fenced yard, W/D, DW,
central H/AC. Available immediately. 3-2-
5-4
Looking for roommate to share 2/2 at
Lakewood Villas. $525 per month with inter-
net/full digital cable/utilities included. On bus
route. 850-585-4405. 3-5-10-13-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Manufactured Homes. Won't Last
3/2 -Great Community
Owner Financing
$650.00/mo
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes
3 and 2 beds avail/low down/low monthly
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes 2 & 3 bdr's
From $599.00/month
Owner Financing
Low down
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes. Move In Ready
3/2 Adorable
From $99.00/mo
Westside/owner finance
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured homes.
OWNER FINANCING
3 & 2 bedrooms avail
Great Locations
Call 352.378.4411 today! 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes. Up to $8K tax credit
For 1st time home buyers
3 & 2 bdrs avail
WE FINANCE
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
OPEN HOUSE EVERY SATURDAY
MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITIES
GREAT HOMES, GREAT PRICES
WE FINANCE, LOW DOWN,
LOW MONTHLY 904-400-0421,SUSAN
2-26-10-20-5
Manufactured Home Communities-
Jacksonville Use your tax refund
Get a 42" TV with purchase
Limited offer, call for details
904-400-0421 Susan 2-26-10-20-5
4BR/4BA fairly new condo for sale. Ideal for
students or family. Within 2 miles of every-
thing: school, shopping, library. Quick sale.
$139,000. University Terrace on 34th St. Call
941-232-1960 3-3-10-20-5
3BR/3BA, 4171 sq ft, heating & A/C, 3-car
garage, 20'x40' screened pool, small office,
sauna hottub, 1 1/4 acres. 1410 NW 110th
Terr, $422,500. 352-332-1050 2-22-10-10-
5Campus Edge / Somerest VillageWalk to
Shands/VA/class 2units, 2bd/2ba vault-
ed ceilings 2nd/3rd floor w/d in unit,best
locations parking. $8,000 tax credit.
$164,900/$132,900. Move in Ready 954-
439-2301 stedel@bellsouth.net 4-21-10-
41-5
F Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
WIcomputers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
CERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECHO
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
2-26-10-34-7
z Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator ClassifiedsOFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS Tile Ol Cal K.()2198
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
For Sale I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
U% torCycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***Www BuyMyScooter com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
Gator Mobile Scooter Repair
Stop waiting weeks before getting your
scooter back. Call Gator Mobile Scooter
Repair and ride today.Specializing in On-site
scooter repair and diagnostics. Guaranteed
lowest prices in all of Gainesville. Free oil
change/inspection with this AD.Call Tony at
(305)989-0824or(305)563-4359. 3-1-14-11
2008 Johnny Pag fx3, 1900 miles, black
looks new, 300 cc, $1650. 2007 Dirtbike
SUZUKI drz125 black yellow runs great,
$975 email for pictures jssaxa@gmail.com
352-222-0211 2-22-10-5-11Call Anytime 352-339-5158
2-26-09-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Chevy Camero $999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
96 Chevy Blazer $1999 cash
97 Plymouth Voyager $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699 cash
94 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Kia Sephia $999
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1999
97 Olds Delta 88 $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
98 Ford Explorer $1900
97 Mits Diamonte $1999
98 Ford Contour $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
94 Nissan Altima $1999
98 Pontiac Transport $1999
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Chevy Malibu $1999
95 Chrysler LHS $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
02 Kia Rio $3900
03 Buick Century $4900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k, $8999CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k, $6999 CASH
2000 Ford Mustang, 111k, $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Ford Escape, 95k, $6999 CASH
2000 GMC Sierra, 166k, $5999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k, $5999 CASH
2007 Isuzu Trooper 290 Truck, 46k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Dodge Stratus, 78k, $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
INSTANT CASH
FOR ALMOST ANY CAR OR TRUCK,
Wrecked or running. Any condition.
Highest dollar paid.
386-365-1855 2-22-10-10-12
W Z IWanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948. 2-25-10-72-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 2-25-
10-72-13
OSOSOPERATION CATNIPOOSO
Many needs and opportunities can be found
at www.nmhp.net. Feral cat capture, spay-
ing, volunteering, office work earn Disney
Tix, etc. Email: operationcatnip@nmhp.net
2-19-7-13
LEGITIMATE INDEPENDENT FILM PROJECT
seeking 3 singer/songwriter producers.
$1200 investment guarantees live video
performance of one 4-minute or less song.
Professionally filmed on location at popular
local nightclub. You will be in the film
Call 386-454-7170, 352-316-5460,
etrip@windstream.net 2-19-5-13
OPERATION CATNIP
Many needs and opportunities can be found
at www.nmhp.net. Feral cat capture, spay-
ing, volunteering, office work earn Disney
Tix, etc. Email: operationcatnip@nmhp.net
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
Help Wanted Help Help WHe3pnanted Help Wanted Health Services
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
U
UU.
U.
U.
p
F.
ISummer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
LATE NIGHT DRIVERS
$15-$17/hr 10pm -4am.
Apply @ gatordominos.com 4-21-10-60-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Entertainment
352/672/1892 2-23-10-20-14
BARTENDER OPENINGS
Earn $150-250/day. No experience required.
Will train. Call now 352-678-5246 2-26-10-
20-14
No jobs available, but we buy LPs, CDs &
DVDs. (And we sell them, too!)
Hear Again Music and Movies
201 SE 2nd Ave. (Suite 105), 32601
352-373-1800
2-26-19-14
-.
p-0PCamp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have a fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
Bartender
Meet new people work in an exciting
environment. Take home cash tips after
each shift. No experience necessary training
available. Call (877) 568-7296
2-19-10-12-14
Computer consultant positions available
in faculty lab. Applicants must be familiar
with Windows and Microsoft Office applica-
tions, Photoshop & Dreamweaver. Friendly
and helpful attitude essential. Pay starts at
$9.00 per hour. Online application:
www.citt.ufl.edu/employment.php 2-19-10-
10-14
OSOATTENTION SMOKERS!@@
SODo you want to quit smoking?@
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking
cessation study. You may be compensated.
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic 328-6603 or
email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com 2-22-
10-14
SERVERS
Exp in full service. Apply in person between 2
& 5 NAPOLATANO'S 606 NW 75th St. 2-1-
10-4-14
Photography Assist PT
Skills: Advanced Photoshop, professional,
organized, fun, attentive to detail. No wall-
flowers. Interest in Photography +. Must be
OK with AODA. Call Today: 352-283-8196
2-23-10-14
PT Hibachi Chef & Server Wanted Asian fast
paced full service restaurant looking for ex-
pprofessional Hibachi Chefs & strong ser-
vers. Strict business oriented environment.
Responsible, disciplined team players only!
Fax resume to 352-337-0036. 2-24-10-
10-14
Female homework Coach need for high
school student twice a week. Please call
352-226-8653 2-19-10-5-14
OFFICE WORKER- Must be able to work fall
and spring. Average 15-20 hours per week
for in-home office. Must have transportation,
be reliable, honest, and a HARD WORKER.
Must have office experience. Pay is $7.25/hr.
Email: fratmgmt@gmail.com a cover letter
and resume. We will email you a complete
job description. 2-19-10-5-14
-UCity of Gainesville/GRU is
seeking a student with event
planning exp. for a paid internship
opportunity. If interested, apply
today at www.cityofgainesville.jobs
2-26-10-10-14
Dental Office seeks qualified personnel.
Work ethic nec. Desire to help disadvan-
taged children a must. Prefer CDA- 4 day
work week/ 40 hr avail -Competitive Wage.
Fax resume only to 352-375-4268 c/o Staff-D
2-19-10-5-14
Autism-Great Work Opportunity for reliable
motivated individual to acquire knowledge &
intervention skills working with autistic young
man in home & community setting. Req
BA-Psy, Sp Ed, ABA exp and/or non-verbal
communication skills. Hours TBA, competi-
tive wage.Fax resume to 352-375-4268 c/o
Staff-A. 2-19-5-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Evenings &
weekends. Fax resume to 373-2230 3-1-
10-10-14
Now hiring -Waitstaff & Host(esse)s with ex-
prience. No calls. Apply: LaFiesta 7038 NW
10th Pl. (behind Red Lobster) or 9513 NW
39th Ave between 2 & 4pm in person. 3-2-
10-10-14MACRO-ECONOMICS TEACHER
IMMEDIATE OPENING
www.tutoringzone.com apply if you are well
versed in other classes. We only hire the
smartest and the funniest. Must be able to
entertain a group of 300 people while teach-
ing the course in a fun way. Experience in
macro is critical.If you are confident, funny,
charismatic email larina@tutoringzone.com
2-23-10-5-14
Looking for great experience to excell in your
career? Exactech, Inc is a medical device
company in Gainesville, FL. We are looking
for a part-time intern to start immediately, on
our human resources team. Job responsibi-
lites would include screening resumes, as-
sisting with new employee orientation, greet-
ing candidates for interviews and providing
with Exactech information, sourcing candi-
dates, posting jobs, and evaluating recruiting
trends and research. Please submit cover
letter and resume to human.resources@
exac.com 2-25-10-7-14
Marketing Assistant, P/T.
Assists with marketing and PR
for O'Connell Center. If
interested send e-mail
to musson@ufl.edu 2-25-7-14
Sun Country Summer Job Fair! Tues. Feb.
23 7-8:30 pm at the West gym.
Bring applications for Summer Camp,
Aquatics, Gymnastics, Cheer, Rockwall,
Tumbling, Dance Cleaning/Maintenance,
Office, Driving & more.
Applications at suncountrysports.com.
Contact hr@suncountrysports.com for info.
2-23-10-5-14
O -Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-
15
JOSH'S TUTORING
Math, Biology, Chemistry, Spanish
$20/hr, group rates available
Flexible schedule, references upon request
(352) 682-3014 2-23-5-15THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
Grieving the loss of someone?
National Students of AMF
Join our Facebook group:
"Gator Students of AMF"
TalkAboutLoss.org 4-21-43-16
F Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
W Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-21-09-71-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
SOOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
o il Rides
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
W3Health Services ) lZPets
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
Midwest Feed and Farm Pet Adoptathon
Sat Feb 20th 1 Oam-5pm Dogs, Cats, Horses,
Rabbits, Guinea Pigs. Low Cost Vaccines,
Feed Vendors, Pet Trainers Live D.J, Food
Fun for all ages 17010 W. Newberry Rd.
(352) 472-6050 2-19-5-24
Sports WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Walker steps up to challenge
Guard stil learning to lead has a really calm demeanor about
him and is very, very under con-
By ADAM BERRY losing streak and entering the trol and does not get too rattled.
Alligator Staff Writer most critical stretch of its season, .Sometimes he has got to, even
aberry@alligator org the team will lean on its 5-foot-8 in practice, show a little more in-
point guard to lead them on the tensity, some more focus, some
During the offseason, Billy court. more fire -not necessarily with
Donovan told Erving Walker this The Gators will need him to be his mouth, but a lot of times with
season would be the toughest of on top of his game if they hope to his actions."
his life. make the NCAA Tournament for Walker has been struggling on
The sophomore point guard the first time in three years. the floor lately. His usually im-
has had his ups and downs this But for the quiet, mild-man- pressive assist-to-turnover ratio
year, but he hasn't backed down nered Walker, assuming a leader- has taken a hit since UF's 61-60
from his coach's challenge. ship role is still a work in prog- loss to Tennessee, when the Vol-
"I wouldn't say the hardest. ress. He has embraced the role of unteers rattled the point guard
Basketball is basketball," Walker floor general as the starting point with pressure in a way he hadn't
said. "It's been challenging, and guard, but he has yet to take on seen all year.
I've had some rocky points and all the responsibilities his coach Walker has 23 assists to 21
some high points, but I'd say wants him to. turnovers over the Gators' five
that's just how life is in general. "Your team follows and goes games since Jan. 31. Removing
I'm just embracing it." off your point guard," Donovan those contests, he has 106 assists
With Florida on a two-game said. "Erving, in a positive sense, to just 40 turnovers on the year.
At the beginning of the South-
eastern Conference season, it
seemed as if he could hardly
miss from three-point range,
and he shot 47 percent from the
field in the Gators' first six league
games.*
Over the last five games, Walk-
er cooled down a bit, making just
21 of 57 attempts from the field
(37 percent).
"I try to have a short-term
memory when it comes to turn-
overs and shooting and just go on
with the next play," Walker said.
"This is new to me, but so far, it's
going pretty good.
"We stumbled the last few
games, but we've just got to pick
it back up."
Those struggles even car-
ried over off the court last week.
Walker was late to a team meet-
ing Saturday morning and had to
sit out of the starting lineup for
A the first time all season.
Donovan said the incident
was an exception to the rule for
Walker, but the coach still expects
more out of someone looking to
become more of a leader.
"As a point guard, he needs to
understand the level of account-
- - ability he needs to have," Dono-
van said. "He needs to be not
only there and on time, but he
should be the point guard hud-
a dling these guys up talking about
what we need to be doing.
Steven H. Keys/ Alligator Staff " Hopefully that situation will
UF guard Erving Walker has cooled off from the field after his hot be an opportunity for him to
start to SEC play, shooting just 37 percent in the last five games. grow."Catcher position
still up for grabs
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
tjett@aligator org
In a game defined by box scores, Hampton Tignor's
name has been near irrelevant the past two years.
The catcher's career began with promise, starting 23
games his freshman year. But in the two seasons since, he
has started a total of 20 games.
Entering his final season with the Gators, Tignor is not
focused on the arc of his playing career.
Rather, he enjoys mentoring freshman
Austin Maddox, freshman Mike Zunino
and sophomore Ben McMahan.Baseball "I've always had players around me
who were very good at bringing me along,
teaching me the game and teaching me the right way to go
about the game from a mental perspective," Tignor said.
"I feel like that's translated into where I am today as a
player."
As an underclassman, Tignor admired former Gators
Matt LaPorta and Brian Jeroloman, who are now in the
minor league systems of the Cleveland Indians and To-
ronto Blue Jays, respectively.
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 17
UF SOFTBALL
Freshmen to contribute
in Gators' home opener
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Writer
After a 3-1 start at the USF
Wilson DeMarini Invitational,
No. 3 Florida will be playing
its home opener tonight at 5
against Jacksonville.
It will be the first game in
Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium
for the team's freshmen, some
of whom have already made an
impact.
Catcher, right fielder and des-
ignated hitter Brittany Schutte
has been a force at the plate up
to this point in the young sea-
son, hitting a pair of home runs
and tying for the team lead with
a .533 on-base percentage.
"It felt really good to start off
like that, and I still have a lot ofwork to do, but its good to start
the collegiate season off that
way," Schutte said.
The utility player's efforts
clearly impressed coach Tim
Walton, as heK1i moved Schutte
from sixth in
the lineup in
the Gators'
first game up
to fifth against
Walton Georgia Tech,
and then to
second in Florida's two Sunday
games.
Schutte's ability to hit for
power while still drawing
walks gives Walton the flexibil-
ity to use her as a table-setter or
SEE SOFTBALL, PAGE 17
U F TRACK AND FIELD
U Charlotte Browning was named
SEC Female Runner of the Week on
Tuesday while Jeff Demps earned
SEC Male Freshman of the Week
honors.Previous question:
Who's to blame for the
Gators' rash of arrests
under Urban Meyer?TEEING OFF WITH BOBBY CALLOVI
E The Raiders have finally come to the realization that they are never going to
score many touchdowns, so they invested their money wisely, making Sebastian
Janikowski the highest-paid kicker in the NFL. .Snowboarder Lindsey Jacobellis
again is leaving the Olympics empty-handed after being disqualifed for going out
of bounds. Hey, at least she didn't celebrate too early and fall again.Players
Coaches
Nobody
SocietyPercent (Votes)
67% (40)
18% (11)
8% (5)
7%(4)
60 TOTAL VOTESPOLL RESULTS
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 17
Maddox likely to see time at first base, DH instead of behind plate
BASEBALL, from page 16
LaPorta was disciplined and
self-motivated, and Jeroloman
knew how to handle the diverse
personalities of the pitching
staff.
Tignor shares those lessons
with the underclassmen, but he
has more advice: Don't get too
excited, and don't get too upset.
Even with a level head, a 56-
game regular season can be tough
to adjust to.
"The best high school teams
will play 32 games total, includ-
ing a state championship game,"
Tignor said. "We'll play 32 games
in 35 days."
McMahan did not get worn
down by the grind of the season
last year. Instead, he had the op-
posite problem. McMahan said
he struggled to get into a groove,
batting .100 in 30 plate appear-
ances.
But he regained confidence and
improved defensively last sum-
mer while playing in the Cape
Cod Baseball League, which fea-
tures more than 400 college play-
ers and some of the best pitchers
in the nation.
After rarely playing in 2009,
McMahan hopes to surprise
Southeastern Conference oppo-
nents."People really don't know me
in the SEC too well right now,"
he said, "so it's my chance to step
up and make a name for myself."
Working mostly at first basein the preseason, Maddox is un-
likely to crouch behind the plate.
Head coach Kevin O'Sullivan
said he might move sophomore
Preston Tucker to right field ifMaddox proves to be a capable
first baseman.
But the experiment is predi-
cated on the 6-foot-3, 230-pound
Maddox becoming a more fluid
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF catcher Hampton Tignor will try to win the starting catching job in his final season as a Gator, but he
will also serve as a mentor for the underclassmen he is battling for the position.player.
Coaches have spent the pre-
season improving his footwork
and throwing, as Maddox said
defense was not his priority in
high school.
"I didn't work on it nearly as
much as I should have," he said.
"I've been blessed with a lot of
talent, so I've just been able to go
out there and do my thing and
not really focus on the mechan-
ics."
Regardless of how much
Maddox's defense improves,
O'Sullivan said he has found
UF's cleanup hitter.
During a batting practice ses-
sion two weeks ago, Maddox hit
five opposite-field home runs,
each one banging off the score-
board behind the right-center
field fence.
But for all their raw talent,
Maddox and the other young
catchers don't have the experi-
ence Tignor does.
And he can't wait to use it.
Not to get himself more playing
time, but to help the underclass-
men improve so he can do some-
thing he never has: celebrate a
championship.
"If that's not your motivation
for a season, to win a ring," Ti-
gnor said, "then you're playing
for the wrong reasons."
Starting pitcher yet to be named for tonight's game against Jacksonville
SOFTBALL, from page 16
a run-producer.
"She's just really looked good," Walton
said. "It's something I anticipated, but un-
til you play for real, you don't know, but
she was there and ready to play."
The other freshman who has worked
her way into the starting lineup is Brittany
Walker.
Walker has yet to start producing at the
plate but has been error-free in her first
four games at shortstop.The team also has a pair of freshman
pitchers who saw action in the opening
tournament.
It was an up-and-down weekend for
Ensley Gammel, who overcame control is-
sues to get the win in the season opener.
But she couldn't over come her control
inconsistencies against Long Island, as she
walked three and gave up a hit while re-
cording just two outs.
"She had way too many walks and
didn't give her team a chance to play de-
fense behind her," Walton said. "Hitters
are going to start hitting on her when youcan't get ahead in counts."
Fellow freshman Erin Schuppert seemed
to be a steadier option in relief, throwing
6.1 scoreless innings and tallying a save in
the tournament.
Schuppert also excelled
in the area where Gammel
struggled most, walking onlySoftball a pair in her two appearanc-
es.
Despite the disparity in quality of UF's
early season performances, Walton is still
uncertain how he will handle the role of
number two pitcher as the season contin-ues.
"I really don't have a set plan," Walton
said.
"Erin and Ensley are going to spend a
lot of time splitting games, I might start
one and pull her and then bring her back.
They're totally, completely different pitch-
ers, so I might move them around and
shake it up a bit to make it difficult for hit-
ters."
At this point, it is unclear whether one
of the freshman pitchers or junior ace
Stephanie Brombacher will start tonight's
game.
Lose 15-20 lbs. by Spring Break
Alliance
Permanent Weight Loss Program
Healthy lifestyle alterations
developed for your
individual needs by
Physicians & Medical Practitioners
Appetite Suppression Medication
No special foods or starvation -
We show you how to be healthy
and lose weight at the same time.
ALL Medications and Injections included.
Call Donna at (352) 337-3961
for information & appointments
www.AllianceWeightLoss.comL A PIES NIGHT 7
Free Wels & Draftr *
forLales
5tr6 1O W.O pmA374-4984 1702 W. LUrdvarsWy Ave.13th Annual
~umi
April 10, 2010 at 8 am.
Behind North Florida
Regional Medical Center
Benefiting the student-run Equal
Access Clinic of Gainesville which
provides free healthcare to
underprivileged populations.
For more info:
Call Stephanie Mazariegos at
(813) 484-8031 or go to
ufpremed.org/easc
t9 Equal Access Clinic
18, ALLIGATOR 0 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010
C00rhted Matal
Sndieated Cotent
Avll ablefo om cia es:overs
The Adventures of
A section of the Alligator dedicated
to giving students tips on healthy
living and exercise!
change your business
Deadline: Thursday, Feb. 18
Run date: Wednesday, Feb. 24
Contact the Alligator today!
352-376-4482
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Gators head to Athens for SEC Championships
By MATT RUBIN
Alligator Writer
After a long and grueling regu-
lar season, the Florida women's
and men's swimming and diving
teams will begin competition to-
day in the 2010 Southeastern Con-
ference Championship Meet.
The four-day meet, which is be-
ing hosted by Georgia in Athens,
Ga., will conclude on Saturday.
The women's squad will try to
defend its 2009 SEC title and win
its 18th overall in school history. If
successful, it would mark the first
time Florida has repeated since
1995-96.
"We've got a tremendous chal-
lenge in front of us," UF coach
Gregg Troy said. "Georgia is the
best team in the country right
now. Not only are they the best
team in the country, they may be
the best team ever. They are ex-
tremely deep and they're strong
in every event."
Senior Gemma Spofforth is one
of the women's swimmers expect-
ed to step up to the challenge for
the Gators.
Spofforth, the defending SEC
and NCAA champion in the 100-
and 200-yard backstroke andNCAA record holder in the 200,
was the 2009 SEC Female Swim-
mer of the Year. Although the
Gators have other returning SEC
champions, they need strong
showings from their young com-
petitors.
"One of the biggest points ofemphasis will be that we have to
get some good performances from
our freshman swimmers like Ja-
mie Bohunicky, Corinne Showal-
ter and Eva Lehtonen," Troy said.
After finishing its regular sea-
son undefeated, the UF men's
team will try to win its 34th SECtitle in school history and first
since 1993.
"It's great to have an unde-
feated men's team and it's nice to
know that we can match up with
all the other teams in the league,"
Troy said. "On paper, with the
race entries and times submit-
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF's Shaune Fraser is the only male swimmer who won a title at last year's Southeastern Conference
Championships. Fraser took home the 200-yard freestyle event in 2009.Women's team will be looking to repeat last year's win
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
onornor 1asn'r uonate rasma! nousanas ao.
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6th St Gainesville (352) 378-9204
"Where It Pays to Care" Ited, we're the third-best team
right now. That means we have to
make up some ground and swim
well the whole way through the
meet."
"We've got a tremendous
challenge in front of us.
Georgia is the best team
in the country right now.
Not only are they the best
team in the country, they
may be the best team ever.
They are extremely deep
and they're strong in every
event."
Gregg Troy
UF swimming coach
Looking to lead the men's team
is defending SEC and NCAA 200-
yard freestyle champion Shaune
Fraser.
Because Fraser is the only re-
turning SEC champion for the
Gators, the team will need others
to rise to the challenge.
"We'll expect Omar Pinzon or
Conor Dwyer to step up," Troy
said.
"They've both been good for us
all year long, and they should be
solid contributors."
vo
20, ALLIGATOR 0 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2010
I a IP
For persons with disabilities requiring special accommodations, please contact 392-2567(TDD), e-mail
accomodate@sg.ufl.edu or contact the Florida Relay System at 1-800-955-8771 at least 72 hours prior to the event
Photography provided by
A.ENGLERPromotional Materl provided by
PR E MI ERCatering provided by
SWVAMPRESTAURANT.COMTransportation provided by
CANDIESg
LIMOUSINES&lWI COACHES Aft
