the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 145 We Inform. You Decide.S~~CYK~
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010
SG finance records reveal Accent spending
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
Although Gainesville has no
red carpet, Accent speakers still
get star treatment.
Accent sponsors celebrity
speech events on campus, ar-
ranges limos, catering, dinner
and other luxuries for its speak-
ing guests, who are each paid
thousands of dollars.
Accent is funded by Student
Government, whose budget
comes from Student Activity and
Service Fees, which come entirely
from students.
According to SG finance re-
cords, Accent spent $589.26 on a
dinner for Zach Braff and some
Accent members in March 2009.
In February, it spent $352.97
on a post-show reception for Hill
Harper, in addition to $436.60
for a dinner, according to the re-cords.
Accent Chairman Jason Atter-
mann said it is not uncommon for
bureaus like Accent to provide
food and transportation for the
speakers.
Attermann said he thinks it is
important for the speakers to en-
joy their time at UF and not have
to worry themselves with the
little details.
"It shows that we
special respect our speakers,
report that we bring in and
that we respect what
they are doing," Attermann said.
Speaker and performer John
Legend was treated to a pre-
show dinner worth $769.17, in
which guests ate buffalo wings
and about $130 worth of spinach
dip, according to SG Finance re-
cords.
To promote the show, Accent
spent $119.15 on full-size card-board cutouts of Legend.
Meghan McCain's show fea-
tured a pre-show dinner worth
$463.14, according to the records.
For the show reception, Ac-cent ordered 50 fruit and cheese
platters for about $200, according
to SG Finance records.
Student Body Treasurer Mary-
am Laguna said dinners and limoMax Weissler /Alligator Stafftransportation are part of the
speakers' contracts.
The speakers may not come if
their contracts requesting food
SEE ACCENT, PAGE 10
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
President reflects
on time in office
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
After a year focused on moving
forward, Jordan Johnson looked
back with pride on his term as
Student Body president Monday
afternoon.
His term ends May 1.
After his stint in office, Johnson
will walk out of his office in the Re-
itz Union with a number of accom-
plishments under his belt, includ-
ing the creation of the late-night
study center in the Hub, the ex-
pansion of SNAP services and the
renovation of the student printing
center in the Reitz Union.
Johnson, a member of the Unite
Party and former Senate president,
said his accomplishments as UF's
chief executive officer stem from
his administration's ability to iden-tify needs on campus and take that
information to the administration.
In the case of the study center,
Johnson said his administration
recognized that students needed a
safe place to study on campus late
at night before their projects are
due.
He said he
made the plans
to make the
change and took
them to the ad-
ministration.
"We didn't
Johnson just tell them we
wanted this,"
Johnson said. "We showed them
why we wanted this."
Even after accomplishing about
23 of the goals on the Unite Party
platform since taking office last
SEE JOHNSON, PAGE 10
U UFs Austin
Maddox is on pace
to break most of
Preston Tucker's
freshman records
he set last year. The
Gators will count
on both of them
when they face USF
tonight in Tampa.
See Story, Page 22.Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersDATE SPEAKER SPONSORS AMoUNT SPEAKER WAS FoOD COSTS TRANSPORTATION COSTS
01/27/10 MEGHAN MCCAIN ACCENT AND THE BOB $10,000.00 RECEPTION FOR LIMO: S9S0.40
GRAHAM CENTER FOR SHOW S3 E.27
PUBLIC SERVICE. PRE-SHOW DINNER
FROM THE SWAMP AND
ToOJAY'S:S463.14
02/08/10 HILL HARPER ACCENT, BLACK $30,000.00 DINNER AT 101 CANCELED
HISTORY MONTH AND DOWNTOWN: $436.60
THE BLACK GRADUATE
STUDENT POST-SHOW
ORGANIZATION RECEPTION:
$352.97
02/17/10 JOHN LEGEND ACCENT, BLACK $90,000.00 PRE-SHOW DINNER LIMO: S869.40
HISTORY MONTH, DELIVERY FROM THE
STUDENT GOVERNMENT SWAMP RESTAURANT:
PRODUCTIONS $769.17
04/6/10 GREAT RELIGION ACCENT, GRAHAM COLLECTIVELY PAID DINNER: $256.06 LIMoS: $1,080.00
DEBATE SPEAKERS" CENTER FOR PUBLIC $33,000
CHRISTOPHER SERVICE
HITCHENS AND DINESH
D'SOZUZA
Stick it to
the Mann
Reid McCullough,
22, chants through
a megaphone while
marching toward
the State Attorney's
Office on Tuesday
afternoon during a
protest in response to
the shooting of
Kofi Adu-Brempong, a
UF graduate student.
About 70 people
attended the
march to deliver
a list of demands to
to state attorney
spokesman Spencer
Mann. See Story,
Page 13.
0day
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
16
19
22Partly
cloudy
78/57
visit www.alligator.org
2, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010
News Today
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
TREE HOUSE VILLAGE
Open House & IbbQ
(FREE FOOD -ENTERTAINMENT -GIVE AWAYS)
THURSDAY, APRIL 22ND, 2010
1 1 AM -,4 PM
117 SE 16TH AVE. GAINESVILLE, FL. 32601
AT THE LEASING OFFICE
RATES STARTING AT $649
(NON BALCONY)/UNIT
352-372-3096
TREEHOUSEVILLAGE.COMTOUR OUR MODEL
AND ENTER TO WIN
A $100 GAS CARD!
explaining the facebook
pics of you and a goat, hard.
getting your vitamins, easy.
introducing.
connect (caffeine + 8 key nutrients)
spark (vitamin e + choline)
E E
t~iiVw via1inwater a the Endependent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 145 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner, jmisner@a//igator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, cti//o@a//igator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agoni/essan@a//igator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Holly Kane, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
Andrew Pantazi, Paul Runnestrand,
Colin Simmons, Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor,
soconno@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions IncUPDATE
Pam Carpenter
Alachua County Supervisor of Elections
www.VoteAlachua.com
(352)374-5252
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, ADVERTISEMENT, 3
ADVERTISING
CLASS TAKES
ON LAW FIR\
AS CLIFF
A local college a
taking on the lav
law firm! The cr
ing their semeF
lawyers get moro
"We just
Fats. "We really
help around here. A-
look forward to seei
and work, then c
legal speak and jarg
change things that J
basically trying to v,
it's either not fur,
interesting in arr "
of ide
edits
loomed
w
cc
ab
ab'
lib(
IT,
HI
ST
OR
AT
RAment. Once I heard him say 'amici' I
knew he wasn't mad at us or anything,
so I just stuck with we I remem-
((f(. '9grill, cooz
the whole
to be helpies, Chinese horseshoes. Apparently, Money is always
shebang! They're supposed better than books.
ing ushere. not urillini' "It's not really a shock," Sherrif
Steven Kimbo stated at the press
onference. "I don't know of many
ooks that people would prefer over
straight cash money. Maybe a stack of
M M @ i appropriate magazines or9 something, but not textbooks."
The Money mascot was released
b on evidence proving it was
ri hile Book was thinking of
6 year-old b r loset for the rest of its life
the students be forgotten and never
t I j e"
-nding
how
The
e'- GREEK
dto SYSTEM
ilgate
Rlafter sub g
as, thr ias
an s, wh 0
d-
WE
TH]
p" TO MSGME (67463) F OF
TEXT "UFLVIP To M AS WHEN CO
GE 10 EXTRA' CASH BACK W LZ
GET E TEXTBOOKS GUAIyoUj SELL seizedd YO - --romote
.-. --. ~off-campus bookst
.iiigrieice, Danny rmt
managed to tell the waiter that he and involving its cou
WLI P!1 ILLA his friends wanted one very much mascot.
RIESTAt- good pizzas on the large. It was Police reports indicate Money
exactly what they received, much to became agitll when '
NT everyone's surprise.
"It was a g
added. "Professorc
been proud of me. k ,o S A
say would've been f
Professore Va(
comment. cATl 4F.S
...x rloRUNNING OUT
F LETTER
OMBINA-
3UY BAC
RANTEThe news certainly left the Greek
System in a state of turmoil, as rumors
began to fly immediately. Some
suggested a move to a 4-letter system,
while others questioned why it always
had to be Greek. "I think English is a
pretty good language," said Debra
Boomgarden. "I mean, this is the
United States, not a foreign domestic
country."
AREA
SENIOR GET-
TING REALLY
GOOD AT
WRITING AN-
SWERS ON
TINY SCRAPS
OF PAPER
Sixth-year senior Craig McGrott may
"' " "'- lot of things, but he's
w when it comes to
on tony pieces ofKnown as crib
t according to the
coan on Facebook last
body's different,"
yesterday. "Some
mart. Others are just
handwriting. That's
cheat and not getECraig 'CribSheet'
the
N'nials
,no
What began as a typical dining-out
experience quickly turned into a scary
situation yesterday when sophomore
Danny Rivers and his friends realized
that the Italian restaurant that they had
chosen for lunch. was completely
Italian-speaking.
Looking for something more
authentic than local favorite Pizza
Barn, the group had decided to
out and try a new place.
"I swear it was the
moment of my life," Karl
friend of Danny's, recalled
like we time-warped into
something. The waiter came
started talking in Italian! Um
had no idea what to do."
Fortunately for the gro
Rivers did.
"I've been taking Italia
semester," Danny explained,
pretty comfortable in thatFACULTY
FOUND TA
GATING
BEFORE BIG
EXAM.cided
.hing.
JIm
ighis
,aper
;0 V renting
iting cars an renting
)ks. "Once d out I
textbooks, I ike, duh,
nature "
Mick has- aad much
's determi' o find a way.
.is currently negotiating
ements for food, tuition,
ages and toiletries. "If I
ill that, I'm pretty certain I
ver need a real job." And if
'11 probably rent a guy to do
too.",on**) 10")
V",
4, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010
Author to write biography on Tebow
By MATT HARRINGER
Alligator Writer
Ellis Amburn has spent his career
working with celebrities: He published
Jack Kerouac, ghost wrote for Priscilla
Presley and authored a biography on
Jack Nicholson.
Now the 74-year-old is adding a local
celebrity to his A-List career.
Amburn is writing a biography on
former Gators quarterback Tim Tebow.
He hasn't written anything in six years,
but he was inspired to write about
Tebow because of the football star's spir-
itual commitment.
"At the Gator games, I started seeing
God's will in action," he said.
Amburn wasn't spiritual until 2002,
when he was diagnosed with third-stage
cancer in his neck and head.
He received radiation therapy at
Shands at UF, and dedicated his last bi-
ography, "Jack: The Great Seducer," to
Dr. William M. Mendenhall, whom he
credits with saving his life.
But with his health back, Amburn
wasn't sure if he still
Local wanted to write.
News "I didn't know if I'd
ever write again," he said.
"I didn't need to do anything but get to
know Ellis in Act 3 of my life."
Amburn had been writing since he
worked for his college paper at Texas
Christian University. In 1954, at age
20, he moved to New York to work for
Newsweek.
Six years later, he entered the pub-
lishing industry, where after scoring a
bestseller, he worked with famous beat
author Jack Kerouac.
"a was a young editor on my way up,
and he was a great author on his way
down," Amburn said.
He encouraged Kerouac to write a
book about murder, war and football,
and when "Vanity of Duluoz" was pub-
lished, the author dedicated it to him.
But since recovering from cancer,
Amburn has come to appreciate his
newfound spirituality.
'Delicious foodMad,
Snacks and Beer
ban San chesPlates Pastri a more!
371A-2000 8 sec371 2000nex rty Nellys
e -
GAINESVILLE'SBEST
BIKINIS
.420 N.W.
13TH ST. 352373.7873Matt Harringer / Alligator
Local author Ellis Amburn poses in front of the celebrity biography section
at Books-A-Million.
He doesn't subscribe to any specific For research, Amburn needs help
religion; instead, he believes he can best from students who have stories about
connect to his creator by helping others. Tebow.
He volunteers and is a mentor to UF Those who shared a class or were
and Santa Fe College students. friends with Tebow while he attended
As he writes about Tebow, Amburn UF are encouraged to e-mail Amburn at
will still focus on spirituality. ellis.ambum@gmail.com.
T1IE COST OF DIJI IS SOBERING!
The absolute mandatory minimum costs for a first time DUI conviction:
$250.00 Fine
$385.00 Court Surcharges
$610.00: 1 Year Supervised Probation
$215.00: DUI School
$500.00 : Bail
$225.00 : License Reinstatement
$150.00: Towing Charges
$100.00 : Vehicle Impound
$600.00 : Ignition Interlock Device
$3,035.00 TOTAL (plus attorney fees ranging from $2,500-$6,000)
A DUT conviction will stay on your driving record for 75 years.
Most insurance companies will drop your coverage or
increase your premiums up to $1,000 a year for three years.
Other consequences:
-complete 50 hours of community service
-license suspended for 6 months
-possible suspension or expulsion from UFGainesville to
celebrate earth
0 THURSDAY IS EARTH DAY'S 40TH
ANNIVERSARY.
By OLGA VELEZ
Alligator ContributingWriter
Gainesville and the rest of the world will cel-
ebrate Mother Earth Thursday for Earth Day's
40th anniversary by gathering their shovels and
gloves and getting down to business.
About 50 to 100 Alachua County employees
will clean Sweetwater Branch Creek, where part
of the city's drinking water comes from, Thurs-
day.
"For the city of Gainesville, every day
is Earth Day."
Bob Woods
City of Gainesville spokesman
Meanwhile, Gainesville will partner with
Florida Organic Growers, an organization that
provides vegetable gardens to about 200 sites
in the county for residents with low incomes, to
grow a gift garden at the Thelma Boltin Senior
Activity Center, a downtown city facility that
serves low-income retirees.
"The food grown in the garden will add to
the meals they are already getting, so they can
have fresher and more nutritious food available
to them," said Christine Hale, Florida Organic
Growers' education and outreach program di-
rector.
Bob Woods, city of Gainesville spokesman,
stressed the importance of celebrating Mother
Earth not just on Earth Day.
"Earth Day is one day out of the year to call
awareness to sustainability," Woods said. "For
the city of Gainesville, every day is Earth Day."
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Gainesville's next mayor part of nationwide trend
By STEFANIA FERRO
Alligator Contributing Writer
In one month, Craig Lowe will join the
ranks of about 24 other mayors who are
bringing diversity to city halls across the
country.
According to the Gay & Lesbian Leader-
ship Institute, an organization that supports
gay political candidates, at least 24 openly
gay and lesbian mayors currently hold office
in the U.S.
Lowe, Gainesville's mayor-elect who isopenly gay, encountered opposition during
his campaign through fliers and protests.
Michael Cole, a spokesman for the Hu-
man Rights Campaign, saw the attacks
against Lowe during the election season, but
said he thinks his victory demonstrates that a
majority of Gainesville residents did not see
Lowe's sexuality as a disqualifying factor.
"[It] shows that voters care about whether
or not someone can do the job and [are] less
concerned with the sexual orientation of a
candidate," Cole said.
Other gay mayors, like Ron Holland ofDillon, Colo., are celebrating victories. Hol-
land was sworn into office Tuesday.
Holland, who was the president of the
Dillon Business Association, said he was
elected because voters looked at his creden-
tials rather than his sexuality.Local "I think it's important weNews step out as leaders and educa-
tors," he said. "Our sexual ori-
entation doesn't matter."
The Advocate magazine named
Gainesville the 11th gayest city in America
in January, using a system that took into ac-Gainesville was named the 11th gayest city this year
I ISCQUN T IRIE
SUPER SA VINGS! i
UP WHEN YOU
T BRING IN ITHIS COUPON 1
$25 OFF any purchase of $250 or more
OR $50 OFF any purchase of $500 or more
OR $100 OFF any purchase of $1000 or more
MAIL-IN REBATE OFFER. OFFER EXPIRES 6/30/10. PROMO CODE: 87991
MUST PRESENT COUPON AND VALID STUDENT/IFACULTY 1.0.
14" TIRES from 15" TIRES from 16" TIRES from
MOi
P185160R-14 P195/65R-15 -P205165R-15 P205/60R-16
P195160R-14 P195/60R-15 -P205160R-15 P215160R-16 -P225/60R-16
P205155R-1 6................................
1 'f 2 TO 4/241ON ANY SET 0F4 BFG TIRES! sEsTflOE TAILS..................- .
C. 0ODjEAR ZIIDGESTIIE
enlinental r_,0LICs" ** mn LLI .7YOKOHAMA
GAINESVILLE
3003 SW 34th St. MV-62914
(Behind Carrabba's, University Town Center)
352-491-2812
M-F: 8:00-6, SAT.: 8:00-5 * OVER 750 STORES NATIONWIDE!
rD'I W
AMERICA'S LARGEST INDEPENDENT TIRE DEALERcliscounttire.com
STATE OR LOCAL TAXES AND, WHERE REQUIRED OR CH ARGED, STATE ENVIRONMENTAL OR DISPOSAL FEE S A RE EXTRA.-- - d $2 OFF
--- --- -- ----- -----
N I G H T C L U Be Ae
ALL YOU CAN DRINK iaE
EVERY THURSDAY & FRiDAYSgnurShte
FROM IOTO 1 2 ALL WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTERS
ABORTIONS
(ONLY $ 1 5) -Abortion by Pill ' s
(RU-486) J-feaftli
SEarly 86 Late Term terms
Abortions
-Morning After Pill
9 Birth Control & Gyn Services
DRESS TH EVAULTNIG HTC LUB. N * Insurance & Credit Cards Accepted
TO 238 W UNIVERSIY AVE. .abortiongainesville.com
1]35 NW 23rd Ave Suite IN
IMPRESS (35 2) 505-6554 4 5-78991 -800-869-0440
Come
watch
+ our Miff
~}B~Jpackaeon 42"
Hil TIV's
Weueda1T"w~k Scdua
Open 12 a.m. to 4 a.m.
Serving Breakfast or Dinner
1250W. University Ave.
Located @ University 8 13th @ the Holiday Inn
I) ~ JF~u U~uinMeecount the number of same-sex couple house-
holds per capita and gay elected officials,
among other factors.
However, Lowe said this recognition did
not help him win the election.
In his upcoming term, Lowe said he wants
to address several issues, including econom-
ic development, environmental protection
and civil equality.
To Lowe, a candidate's sexuality is not as
important as it used to be.
"The issue is one of fairness," he said.
"I'm grateful to the people of Gainesville that
I'll represent their issues and work to the best
of my ability to ensure issues are presented
fairly."
6
6, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010
It's finally here.
We've managed our way through another eight months
of coffee-crazed exam crams, beer-ponging weeknight
tournaments, Turlington-flier frenzy, bowl-winning whirl-
wind of a year in our tiny swamp-turned-oasis in the heart
of camo country.
So before all you five-star students get down to study-
ing for your last batch of exams for the year, or possibly
ever, let us present you with a where-the-hell-have-we-
been-while-this-year-flew-by-besides-drunkenly-falling-
off-our-chairs-at-Mother's-after-downing-buckets-of-
beers-on-a-Wednesday-night edition of .
Darts & Laurels
And at UF, eight months is enough time to redefine and
recreate the meaning of crazy so much that we've complete-
ly forgotten what happened during our first semester this
year.
So, for that, we'd like to send a we-know-there-must-have-
been-an-important-football-game-in-there-somewhere-but-
too-much-crazy-has-happened-this-semester-to-remember
LAUREL. to the months of September through January.
But as much as it pains us to search our brains through
the wreckage that is finals week, we do remember a certain
"Love Story" at MTV's VMAs way back in September.
Seven months ago, our favorite "Heartless" star we love
to hate, Kanye West, stole the stage from teeny, tiny, just-
kidding-she's-actually-a-giant Taylor Swift.
For not minding your manners, and finally breaking
down about the lack of them on Oprah, we're throwing a
huge, I'm-sorry-Kanye-but-this-was-some-of-the-craziest-
nutjob-news-of-all-time DART to Kanye West.
And while we're discussing crazy, nutjob news, we hope
you all have read the adorable profile of our beloved com-
mander in chief on our final front page of the semester.
No, even that "Million Dollar Baby" smile and those
even-Samson-would-be-jealous blond locks of love could
save our leader from making the news this semester.
During a drunken debauchery-decorated evening, the
University Police Department cited Student Government
President Jordan Johnson with disorderly conduct.
It happens. We all get a little loud when we're plastered.
But this isn't going where you think it is.
We're throwing a thank-God-someone-can-put-SNAP-
in-its-place-and-threaten-it-with-cutting-its-expletive-fund-
ing LAUREL around that adorable face of our beloved J.J.
Because who really needs that whole free-rides-for-stu-
dents-on-campus-who-fear-getting-raped program any-
way?
As Earth Day approaches Thursday, we wonder why so
many people want to celebrate Mother Nature -the same
woman who ravaged the world this year.
Let's talk about this broad for a second, and keep in mind
it's only April.
She ravaged tiny Haiti, sent tremors across Chile soon
after (Haiti totally stole Chile's thunder), flooded the North-
east, froze all our strawberries and sent all kinds of ash and
smoke all across Europe from that Icelandic volcano no one
can spell (we didn't even care to try).
For that, we'd like to throw one big stop-freaking-out-
on-all-of-us-because-this-must-be-a-sign-Fred-Phelps-was-
right-and-God-is-really-punishing-us-for-all-these-gays-all-
over-the-place DART at Mother Nature.
And with that, we'd like to leave you until the summer
with the reminder to not piss off UPD officers because they
might shoot you in the face with a rifle.
0l the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University A e, or send them to PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.a Iligator.org/opinions
w~0rCA q/j S MT\1FTH
N TT S
-yk6T- (ZLI
6f, At1'2JSO
\ L-'-/
-S
C/ -0
00
Editor looks back o
'm sure all of you are over those sappy, sentimental
goodbye columns. However, you'll have to suffer
through one more because I'm the editor and have
control over the paper. Therefore, I can do what I want.
When I found out that I was going to be editor in chief,
everyone said, "Wow, that'll look great on your resume."
Let me tell you something, I didn't take this job for a re-
sume builder. There are much easier and less stressful
things I could have done.
I took on this 40-hour workweek because I love the
Alligator and I love serving you, the Student Body. There
is something so cool about walking across campus and
seeing a student grab a paper from an Alligator bin. I'm
proud of the product we put out each day, but I'm even
more proud of the people I work with.
When you work for the Alligator, you forgo good
grades and a social life in order to give the Student Body
the news everyday. A lot of the time, you criticize it and
you disregard it -I was on campus the other day and
two girls had just found out University Police shot a
graduate student. But luckily, there are tons of you who
actually appreciate it.
For all of our critics, I'd like to remind you that stu-
dents run this paper, so mistakes are going to be made.
The important thing is we learn from them -and we
have. I've learned more about journalism in this mold-
infested building than I did in Weimer Hall (sorry to all
my professors I may have just offended).
I've learned to make tough decisions, like if we should
run something that could potentially offend our readers
(Haiti sexToons), to keep digging for the truth no matter
what and how to work with and respect a diverse group
of people with whom I may not always see eye-to-eye.
The people I work with aren't just my co-workers,
they're my family. We eat dinner together, take class-
es together and when we just can't get enough of eachn time at Alligator
other, we play Taboo or go out and
sing karaoke on the weekends. We
know most, if not all, of the person-
al details in each others lives.I When one of us succeeds (like
getting an internship with The New
Chelsea Keenan York Times or People magazine),
we cheer. When one of us has rela-
Editorial Notebook tionship problems, we offer advice.letters@alligatororg And when one of us is struggling
with family problems or a broken
heart, we comfort one another.
These are the people whom I will miss the most when
looking back on my college experience.
I want to say a few thanks to the people who made me
the journalist I am today, and then I'll end your misery.
Professor Mike Foley: Most probably know him as the
guy who interviewed Andy Samberg, but I see him as a
mentor. You helped me through tough times and always
gave me excellent advice. You're always on the Alliga-
tor's side and I can not thank you enough for that.
My favorite editor, Lauren Baker: Your annoying at-
tention to detail and constant berating of my work taught
me to be a better writer. You taught me how to be a tough,
fair editor and how to always get the story.
Student Government senators: Your ability to make
a two-hour meeting last five hours taught me to work
under pressure and on deadline. And your whining and
arguing taught me to sift through the crap and pick out
those small kernels of truth that actually matter.
My boyfriend and roommates: You all never got to see
me but always supported me. You all listened to me com-
plain about things you didn't care about and you even
offered advice. You all encouraged me every step of the
way.
Chelsea Keenan is a journalism senior and editor in chief
of the Alligator.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Tuesday's question:
Does Accent spend too much Are you going to be here over
money? the summer?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org75% YES
25% NO
20 TOTAL VOTES
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Tiger Woods deserves media attention
Caroline Hitiman recently wrote a letter to
the Editorial Board complaining about all the
attention Tiger Woods receives from the me-
dia. Woods receives attention from media sim-
ply because he is the most interesting athlete
in sports. Like Hitiman said, the media ratings
from the Masters went up 36 percent from
last year just because Woods was in the field.
I understand other golfers were performing
better, but when Woods heads into the final
round at the Masters only four strokes behind
the leader, it's definitely something to watch.
The most interesting thing to watch aside
from Woods pulling crazy shots to win is to
Columnsee Woods lose. Even when he is in last place,
it is entertaining to see how he handles failure.
Whether it is slamming clubs or holding up a
trophy, Tiger deserves airtime.
Patrick Mullen
Alligator reader
PETA employee thankful for editorial
Thank you, Editorial Board, for echoing the
call for compassion on factory farms. For years,
animal protection organizations have shown
the inherent cruelty in cutting the beaks off
egg-laying hens and confining them to spacesso small they can't even spread a single wing.
Battery cages will be illegal in the European
Union starting in 2012, and the U.S. would do
well to follow that example. However, sadly,
this is not the only area where McDonald's
is falling behind the times on animal welfare
standards.
The company has also repeatedly refused
to demand that suppliers use a more humane
method of slaughter known as controlled-
atmosphere killing, or CAK, which is increas-
ingly prevalent in Europe.
McDonald's, as one of the largest sellers
of chicken meat, has the responsibility and
the ability to demand that suppliers switch to
America's crazies becoming more visible,I don't want to scare anyone, but there are crazies walking
among us. Even worse, over the past year and a half, they
ave become more and more visible, showing up at rallies
across the nation to protest the government, and just about
anything in between that procreates.
One sect of the crazies, the Westboro Baptist Church of To-
peka, Kansas, showed up in Gainesville this past weekend to
protest homosexuals, Jews, Catholics, Methodists, Catholics
again and President Obama.
Watching them picketing the Hillel, I observed signs declar-
ing, "God Hates Your Children," "Your Rabbi is a Whore,"
"Antichrist Obama" and "Fags are the beast."
Looks like the congregants also hate decency.
But these people are batshit crazy. You simply can't com-
municate with them. The views they hold and the views of
mainstream America pass each other like ships in the night.
But ill-guided religious fanaticism is just a small part of the cra-
zies rising in this country. The Tea Party movement is another
part. Yes, the principles of the movement and the vast majorityof the movement's followers and lead-
ers are not crazy. On the contrary, they
are mostly wealthy and educated, as one
New York Times/CBS poll revealed last
week. And while the Tea Party move-
ment may be guilty of not only appeal-
Matthew Christ ing to the lowest common denomina-
letters@alligator org tors in our society, but relishing doing
so, their message of small government is
one that still deserves to be heard.
Unfortunately, more and more the vitriol in the movement's
outer fringe is getting out of hand. In March, right as health care
reform was entering the final legislative home stretch, tea par-
tiers in Washington, D.C., began hurling racial epithets at two
black congressmen, and howled sexual slurs at Barney Frank,
the openly gay congressman from Massachusetts. In another
case, a man protesting health care reform at a tea party rally
verbally accosted a man who told the gatherers he had Par-
kinson's disease. Chris Reichert, the uptight scolder, has sinceCAK.
Chickens raised for meat have their throats
cut while they are still conscious. Birds who
miss the mechanical blade or are otherwise
not killed by it are then scalded to death in
defeathering tanks. This occurs because there
are no federal laws regarding the treatment of
chickens or the way that they are killed.
The cruelty inherent in such practices is ob-
vious to anyone who doesn't have $1.2 billion
in quarterly profits to confuse them. For more
information about McDonald's cruelty to ani-
mals, visit McCruelty.com.
Drew Winter
peta2 college campaigns assistant
protesting everything
apologized for his actions, telling the Columbus Dispatch that
he "snapped." And just this past Monday, armed gun rights ac-
tivists in northern Virginia and unarmed activists in Washing-
ton, D.C., protested the government's supposed infringement
of the Second Amendment. Never mind that the White House
hasn't signaled any desire to curb gun rights since Obama took
office. Fittingly, the rally was held on the 15th anniversary of
the Oklahoma City bombing, a catastrophic event in American
history caused by delusional anti-government fanatics.
So it seems that this is the year of delusional voter anger.
And while it may be easy to dismiss the "patriots" who want
to take back the country from some great conspiratorial force
as only former high school misfits who have suddenly been
handed a megaphone and a flag from Walmart, we would all
do good to remember that in a climate of rage -no matter
how delusional -it only takes one nut from the fringe of these
movements to ruin a nice day.
Matt Christ is a political science and journalism sophomore. His
columns appear every other Wednesday.
r
GYM i
-Starting newI
classes May 1sti
-MMA classes
(3 levels)
-looking for group
fitness instructors for
our growing female
population!I--
201 NW 6th St. $t Spca
352-37-8400 membershipCareer Uncertain?
STUDY
ACUPUNCTURE
352-371-2833
www.dragonrises.edu
I help safe drivers save up to 15%.
Frugality is back. But it's not all bad. Some of us are actually
enjoying the hunt for new ways to save. Here's one: drive safely.
You can save up to 15%. And that's just for starters. Call me first
to get the discounts you deserve.
Eddie Dugger
(352) 375-7511
3720 Nw. 43 St., #100
Gainesville Q Allstate.
eddiedugger@allstate.com You're in good hands.
Auto Home Life Retirement
D Discounts are subject to terms, conditions and availab lity Actual savings will vary Allstate Fire and Casualty
Insurance Cornpany, Northbrook, IL ',c 2009 Allstate Insurance Cornpany
8, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010
The Magnolia Plantation, a bed and breakfast inn on Southeast Seventh Street, is
owned and operated by Cindy and Joe Montalto.Inn celebrates 125 years
By RACHAEL PINO
Alligator Staff Writer
Cindy Montalto, 55, sits on a bar stool at a
counter covered with papers while Lacy, her col-
lie, snoozes on the floor, not stressing as much as
her owner. Cindy's reading glasses, tangled in
her short blonde hair, should be on her face to
crunch numbers, but they remain atop her head.
She doesn't want to look. Today is bill-paying
day. This month's utilities cost $3,500.
"And that's with going around turning off all
the circuit breakers," Cindy said.
Tranquil music and constant interruption
alternate as more people bustle in and out of a
kitchen that's struggling to be an office.
"The music keeps my blood pressure down,"
said Cindy, who's been the innkeeper of The
Magnolia Plantation, a bed and breakfast in
downtown Gainesville, for the past 20 years. The
house will celebrate its 125th birthday in May.
The door opens yet again, letting in an attack
of cool air.
"It's a 5,400-square-foot home, and all I get is
a space heater," said Joe, Cindy's business part-
ner and husband of almost 33 years. The couple
lives on the inn's third floor, which also functions
as Joe's office for his engineering company.
Keeping the heat down and the lights off is
one of Cindy's tricks to keep the inn running
smoothly. Joe's cousin, Pat McCants, lives next
door in Camellia Rose, one of several other bed
and breakfast homes filling the historic district.
She said the couple has been running the inn for
so long that they make it look effortless.
"Nothing seems to ruffle their feathers," Mc-
Cants said. "They're so nonchalant about every-
thing."
Cindy is even nonchalant about the utilities
bill, which pays to power the main mansion and
nine surrounding cottages at the plantation.
Even with 20 years of experience, the Montal-
tos need to hire help to keep things flowing and
to keep themselves sane. Blair Mullins, the inn's
manager for about three years, prepares break-
fast every morning that lives up to the expecta-
tions of a bed and breakfast.
"We switch it up because, one, the guests get
bored, and two, we get bored," Mullins said,
leaning over a griddle of apple fritter French
toast and country ham. Southwest quiche is in
the oven. But Mullins isn't the main entertainer.
keep it
CM0L
Auto A/C
Starters
Alternators
Repair/Service
Foreign & Domestic
Free Electrical Check
with purchase
AAMAC
378-7676
508 8th Ave."The guests want to see the innkeeper, not the
manager," Mullins said. "If you're an introvert,
you're not gonna be an innkeeper. Don't try it."
Introverts, the Montaltos are not. However,
things haven't always run smoothly for the pair.
Cindy, a former real-estate paralegal, and Joe, a
civil engineer, didn't always dream of opening
an inn. The idea formed Maine in 1984.
The couple began thinking of cities in Florida
that would be more welcoming to a bed and
breakfast than Orlando, where they owned their
first home. While Vero Beach was Joe's home-
town and the site of the Montalto's wedding on
March 19, 1977, Gainesville had more history to
them. Joe, a graduate from UF, and Cindy, who
was in the process of converting to Catholicism
during their first wedding, remarried seven
months later at Gainesville's St. Augustine
Church. Gainesville just felt right, Cindy said.
In April 1990, the couple sought out Thad
Crowe, Gainesville's historic district representa-
tive, to assist them in finding a home.
"As we drove up, Joe thought it was perfect
and beautiful," Cindy said. "I thought, 'Oh my
God, I can't live in that thing,"' recalling her hor-
ror of seeing a dilapidated
Around couch on the home's second-Gainesville floor porch.
After deciding to buy the
house, the Montaltos took out a loan from the
city, which came with a 120-day time limit to fin-
ish the house's restorations.
The Magnolia Plantation opened May 3,1991,
just in time for UF's graduation rush. Now, two
decades later, Cindy doesn't have as many melt-
downs as in the beginning.
"There's more happy than, 'Why am I doing
this?' she said.
She recalled an anonymous letter placed in-
side the plantation's mailbox that reassured her
that this was her dream. Inside was a $500 gift
card with a note saying, "From a grateful guest
for a life-changing experience."
"It was what I needed to keep at it," she
said.
Since opening weekend, Cindy's enthusiasm
to make each guest's visit perfect hasn't waned,
and her number of guests has grown. She must
be doing something right, as they keep coming
back for more.
"I get so much repeat business, it's ridicu-
lous," she says.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 9
Timeline of the Student Shooting and its Aftermath
March 1
A University Police officer, UP Crisis
Response Team counselor Laura
Templeton and geography department
chairman Peter Waylen visit Kofi Adu-
Brempong, a 35-year-old Ghanan
graduate student, at his apartment
in Corry Village. Adu-Brempong had
been acting delusional and sent out
threatening e-mails to colleagues.
March 16
About 300 students, faculty and
Gainesville residents hold a protest and
demand that all charges against Adu-
Brempong be dropped and officer Smith
be suspended without pay.
Protesters hold a second rally and march
to the university police station. Lt. Robert
Wagner passes out complaint slips so
that the protesters can express their
Information compiled by Minch Minchin and Joey Flechas
....March 2
UPD sends officers to Corry Village after
they received a call that Adu-Bremong
was screaming in his apartment. After a
nearly 3-hour standoff, five UPD officers
break down the door to the apartment.
Fifty-two seconds after entering the
apartment, Officer Keith Smith shoots
Adu-Brempong. According to the police
report, Adu-Brempong was approaching
the officers with a metal rod.
March 12
Ten days after the incident, UF President
Bernie Machen releases a statement
to all UF faculty, staff and students,
explaining the events of March 2. He
also announced that an independent
safety review consultant firm, Margolis,
Healy & Associates, would aid the
Florida Department of Law Enforcement
in overseeing an investigation of the
icdent.
April 8
President Bernie Machen meets with
protesters to discuss demands.March 4
The Alachua County Sheriff's Office
reports that Adu-Brempong is in critical
condition after being shot in the face. He
is being treated at Shands at UF and is
under the custody of the Alachua County
Department of the Jail.
March 24
Patricia Telles-Irvin, the UF vice president
for student affairs, meets with protesters
to discuss demands.
April 15
The FDLE completes its investigation and
sends it to Florida State Attorney Bill
Cervone for review. The public is not
permitted to see the report until the state
attorney's office has determined what
legal actions will be taken.March 5
Adu-Brempong's charges are changed
to one count of aggravated assault
and one count of resisting arrest with
violence. He remains under the guard to
two sheriff's deputies at Shands.
March 30
Adu-Brempong gives his first interview to
Nathan Crabbe of the Gainesville Sun.
"They didn't have any business coming
into my home," he said. I wasn't doing
anything to anybody." Adu-Brempong's
family posts the $10,000 bail to keep
Adu-Brempong from being transferred
to jail.
April 20
Jose Soto, member of the protest
group called Justice for Kofi , posts a
10-minute video on YouTube showing
the scene outside Adu-Brempong's
apartment at the time of the shooting.
The video, which captures the moments
leading up the shooting, was filmed by
a neighbor. Adu-Brempong is no longer
listed as a patient at Shands at UF.
Erica Ervin / Alligator Staff
Alachua County
Cen us2010Attention UF Students!
The 2010 Census is here and
college students need to be counted
too. Funding for education and
public transportation depends on
Census data.
Don't be left out of the count! Contact the
Telephone Questionnaire Assistance line at
866-872-6868 to give your answers over the
phone.
"I'll just let my parents do it."
-NO! College students living away from home should not be counted on their parents' questionnaires. People should be counted
where they live and sleep most of the year. The Census is a snapshot of residents where they live on April 1st 2010. This
includes on-campus college and university residence halls, dorms, fraternities, sororities and other housing.
"I don't have time to sleep, let alone stop and pick up a Census form."
-Good news-you don't have to! Census questionnaires have been delivered or mailed to all residential addresses in the U.S.
in March 2010. Even if you're renting a house or apartment, census forms have been delivered to your address.
"Is this going to take a while?"
-It's quick! Fill out your 2010 Census in your spare time. The 2010 Census questionnaire is one of the shortest questionnaires
in history-10 questions, 10 minutes.
10, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010
Johnson steps down on May 1
JOHNSON, from page 1
May, Johnson said there is always more
work to be done.
"One thing that can always be im-
proved in Student Government is commu-
nication," Johnson said.
Johnson said one of his greatest efforts
while he was in office was to work with
members of his staff to shrink the informa-
tion gap between students and SG.
He said he worked more closely with
the press and created a Twitter account
and a Facebook fan page in order to keep
students informed about what is happen-
ing on the third floor of the Reitz Union.
"I think until you reach the point where
you're communicating with every single
student on campus, there's more work to
be done," Johnson said.
Even though students voted against
expanding the Reitz Union in the last elec-
tion, Johnson said he knows something has
to be done about the building in the near
future and hopes students will see that the
expansion is necessary to accommodate
the growing Student Body.
"I think we were able to start a discus-sion about a major issue on campus," John-
son said.
Despite the progress he's made as a stu-
dent politician, Johnson said he does not
plan to go into politics any time soon.
"It's not in my immediate future, that's
for sure," Johnson said.
He will begin working in corporate fi-
nance at General Electric in July.
When asked about the incident with
SNAP and the University Police Depart-
ment, Johnson did not comment.
Student Body President-elect Ashton
Charles said she hopes to continue John-
son's tradition of setting
Student and achieving tangibleGovernment goals that have a posi-
tive impact on campus.
She said Johnson has been a helpful
mentor to her as she prepares to take office
and has given her a lot of advice.
"I truly love UF, and he knows that, and
he has the same fervor for our university,"
Charles said.
As Johnson steps down, he offered
some advice to Charles, who will take of-
fice on May 1.
"Go with your heart, because that's
what I did," Johnson said.It spent $1,080 on limos for the
Great Religion Debate speakers
ACCENT, from page 1
and transportation are not fulfilled,
Laguna said.
Accent's approximately $500,000
budget is also used to co-sponsor
speaking events with other student
organizations, Laguna said.
Accent co-sponsored the Great Re-
ligion Debate with the Graham Center
for Public Service.
The debate was between Christo-
pher Hitchens, an atheist, and Dinesh
D'Souza, an author of books about
Christianity.
Accent spent $1,080 on limos for
the speakers, according to SG Finance
records.
Attermann said Accent likes to act
as a gracious host, which reflects well
on the UF community.Dinners with the speaker can oc-
casionally be arranged, but members
of Accent do not get to spend a lot of
one-on-one time with the speakers,
Attermann said.
The speakers require their privacy
and security, he said.
According to At-
termann, Accent
does not pay for any
alcoholic beverages
that are ordered at
these dinners.
Attermann Attermann said
the members of the
group like spending time with the
various speakers, whether they are at
UF to entertain or to pose some seri-
ous questions.
"We enjoy their insight," Atter-
mann said. "We enjoy their intellect
and experience and their wisdom."
Best Jewelry and Loan
523 NW 3rd Ave -Pwn Bokers
$2W,1,0NT0.jV
15 W. University Ave. -(352) 373-4841
Ho-s: M ~ F 9 .- 6 1p m
www.DTBarbershop.cm
Smile.
-y7
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us hep those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have va[id
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
A Biotest
From Nature for Lfe
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431EPRII FOR SUPPLIES!
April 22 -May 1, 2010
Bring your new and used school
es for area school children.
Look for a drop box in
the lobby of these
oatIs.
I pencils -pens -noteDOOKS * DaCKpaCKS .paper. glue calculators i iuncn DoxesUniversity Committee Applications Currently
Being Accepted for the 2010-2011 Academic Year
The University of Florida encourages student involvement through
participation and membership on committees that advise the adminis-
tration on important issues. A list of committees can be found on the
Provost's website at http://www.aa.ufl.edu/committees/#presidential.
If you are interested in being considered for an appointment to a
university committee complete the on line application at the following
website: http://www.dso.ufl.edu/vpsa/
Students eligible to serve on university committees will be selected
from this pool of applicants. Vacancies on committees that occur
during the year will be filled from this pool of applicants.
The deadline for application is Friday, June 11, 2010.
Eligibility requirements for Student Committees are the same as the
requirements for holding an elected or appointed position in a
student organization. For general requirements please go to
http://www.dso.ufl.edu/publications/activitiesappeals.php#1.
CONGRATULATIONS
to the 2010 inductees to
the University of Florida Hall of Fame.
Since 1921, the University of Florida Hall of Fame has recognized seniors,
graduate and professional students who have consistently demonstrated an
outstanding commitment to improving the University of Florida through
campus and community involvement, participation in organized campus
activities and scholastic achievement. Induction into the Hall of Fame is the
most prestigious honor awarded to a UF student. Please join us in recog-
nizing the 2010 Hall of Fame inductees.
Bryant Adibe
Adam Amir
Jason Attermann
Michael Brevda
Kamali-Ann Burke
Olvin Carias
Clay M. Carlton
Ashton Charles
Phillip Cheng
Anthony Fowler
Jordan Johnson
Maryam LagunaLauren Martin
Andres Martinez-Alegria
Clay Mathews
Matthew Michel
Chad Mizelle
Luis Nobriga
Nancy Padron
Allison Sirica
Gemma Spofforth
Sara Stout
Samuel Warfield
Brandon White
Jeremy Alexis Magruder
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010 1 ALLIGATOR, 11
SPECIAL REPORT
6 Gainesville residents seek $500M from Koppers
BY LYN KRAMER
Alligator Contributing Writer
As the 40th anniversary of Earth
Day approaches, attention turns
to a long-standing environmental
problem in the community.
The Cabot-Koppers Superfund
site, located on Northwest 23rd
Avenue, is the most polluted toxic
waste site in the county. Despite
statewide efforts to clean up the
site, there's still dirty work to be
done.
Residents of a neighborhood
on the edge of the polluted Florida
Superfund site sued the property
owners Tuesday, seeking at least
$500 million to decontaminate their
homes and monitor their health.
In the lawsuit filed Tuesday in
federal court in Gainesville, more
than a half-dozen plaintiffs claim
toxins from the site have contami-
nated their homes within a two-
mile radius of the property. They
are suing two Pittsburgh, Pa.-based
companies -Koppers Inc. and
Beazer East Inc. -along with Bos-
ton-based Cabot Corp.
They are seeking class-action
status for up to 25,000 people.
The lawsuit claims the chemi-
cals are creating an "elevated risk
of contracting serious latent dis-
eases, disorders and harm to the
physical health and well-being" ofthe residents. In addition, the com-
plaint claims the contamination has
caused home values to plummet.
The suit seeks damages to pay
for decontaminating homes and
to fund a program to monitor the
health of every resident in the com-
ing years.
"There's a lot more cleanup to be
done than has already been done,"
said Chris Bird, the Alachua County
environmental director. "It's prob-
ably going to be decades before it's
completely cleaned up."
With the help of the Florida De-
partment of Environmental Protec-
tion and the United States Environ-
mental Protection Agency Region
4, the 90-acre site has been under
investigation since 1983, Bird said.
"It's a complicated site," said
Kelsey Helton, the project manager
for the Florida Department of Envi-
ronmental Protection. "But we are
optimistic and anxious about find-
ing a remedy."
In May, a final feasibility study
report will be submitted to the En-
vironmental Protection Agency to
establish a solution for the Koppers
site, Helton said.
Upon choosing a remedy for the
site, the report is reviewed by the
EPA and feedback from the public
as well as the local and state gov-
ernment is considered.
Site investigators have recentlyfocused on the elevated levels of
dioxin, a chlorinated compound, in
the residential sites, Bird said.
Dioxin is highly toxic and has
very low concentration. The com-
pound is believed to have gotten on
the site through wind-blown dust,
he said.
Bird said he hopes this particu-
lar project will be completed in the
next year.
Other areas of concentration
include water and soil contamina-
tion.
"It's a complicated site,
but we are optimistic and
anxious about finding a
remedy."
Kelsey Helton
project manager for the Florida
Department of Environmental
Protection
Water contamination is con-
trolled by installing pumping wells
and filtering the water, Bird said.
Chemicals are also injected into the
water to destroy contamination.
"It's almost like chemotherapy,"
he said.
Soil contamination is removed
by scraping up the soil and replac-
ing the area with new soil.
Gainesville spokesman BobWoods said the city has spent $2
million so far to study the extent of
water contamination to the region's
underground aquifer.
"There are real concerns about
contamination of our water sup-
plies," Woods said.
Residents living in surrounding
residential areas have been actively
involved in the cleanup.
"We feel we've gotten a death
sentence," said Maria Parsons, a
resident of a neighborhood near the
site. "We're living with contaminat-
ed water, soil and air."
A walk through the neighbor-
hood, she said, is a walk through
decay and sickness.
"There's not enough outrage,"
Parsons said. "That's the problem."
Sandra Kennedy, 46, who lives
about a block from the site with her
husband and 10-year-old daugh-
ter, said her family moved in about
eight years ago but always thought
they were relatively safe inside
their home.
"We always thought the worst of
it was outside," Kennedy said, add-
ing that dust in her home recently
tested at more than 1,000 times
higher for toxins than deemed safe.
Monica Cooper, a former mayor
candidate, lives within a two-mile
radius of the Koppers site.
"I am just hoping for a com-
prehensive cleanup," Cooper said."And I will remain vigilant until
the cleaning process is completely
finished."
She is involved with the resi-
dents of the nearby Stephen Foster
neighborhood, who are vocally and
actively involved in the progress of
the site.
"I hope officials remain
strong and do what's best for the
Gainesville community," she said.
The newly elected mayor, Craig
Lowe, said although he is pleased
with the city's cleanup efforts so
far, the job is not over.
"As mayor, I will advocate to the
Environmental Protection Agency
and continue citizen support to
ensure the greatest outcome of the
Koppers cleanup," Lowe said.
Bird said after the site is com-
pletely cleaned up, it is possible it
can be redeveloped and reused.
"The site has a lot of potential,"
he said. "The future could look re-
ally bright for that."
The schedule and status of the
Cabot-Koppers Superfund site
will be discussed at a joint City of
Gainesville -Alachua County
Commission quarterly meeting.
The meeting, which will be
held at the County Administration
Building, 12 SE First St., will begin
at 1 p.m. on April 29.
The AP contributed to this story.
$ OFFJiffy Lube
Signature Service'13 Oil Change
No Coupon Needed! No expiration date to remember!
Just bring in a valid student ID to any Gainesville Jiffy Lube.
5 area locations.
For the Jiffy Lube nearest you please visit jiffylubesoutheast.com
S store for more details Notvaidwi another r.Resiionsmay pply ffy L be he rn if L be design
02010 Jiffy Lube InternationaI, Inc AlI rights reserved.
@r0:0 Free Welts & rafts6
Tor Laleefpm~so I? fthg w yoaStartzsat:O pm,
12, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010
LOCAL
Mayor reflects on
her years in office
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
On May 20, Pegeen Hanrahan
will officially carry out her final act
as Gainesville's mayor when she
hands the city keys to Craig Lowe.
For Hanrahan, who has served
as Gainesville's mayor for the past
six years, it won't be her first time
saying goodbye to an administra-
tive post -she served on the City
Commission from 1996 to 2002. But
it may be the hardest time.
"I've walked the walk before,
she said, referring to her previous
goodbye. "But there are things you
are going to miss -things you'll be
nostalgic about."
Looking back on her tenure
Tuesday, Hanrahan pointed to high
points during her time in office.
Her proudest accomplishment,
she said, was the development of
Gainesville's local parks.
Hanrahan also noted efforts in
regard to environmental causes and
equal-opportunity initiatives.
"People want to move here be-
cause we've protected and defended
the quality of life," she said.
Although she is pleased with theprogress she made as mayor, Han-
rahan said there are some things she
wishes she could have improved,
notably the city's relationship with
the police union.
Hanrahan said the city has put
forth an outstanding effort in its lim-
ited role in terms of the Cabot-Kop-
pers Superfund site cleanup issue,
which has drawn criticism during
her time in office.
She said it disappoints her how
some residents fault the city for not
doing enough when there is only so
much it can do in a federal matter.
"What the city of Gainesville has
done to clean up the Superfund site
is extraordinary," she said.
Hanrahan believes that the city
will be in good hands when Mayor-
elect Craig Lowe takes office.
"He's going to be an outstand-
ing mayor," she said. "I have no
doubt."
Although she believes he will
have to improve on some aspects of
being mayor of a city, such as engag-
ing residents, Hanrahan called him
one of the best politicians in dealing
with the internal workings of city
government and applauded his ef-
forts during his recent campaign.Mayor Pegeen Hanrahan speaks with an Alligator reporter on Tuesday afternoon in her City Hall office.
"I don't care how you slice it, it's
difficult to be a gay candidate in the
United States of America," she said.
For Hanrahan, life will go on at
the same fast pace it has during her
time as mayor. She plans to continue
focusing on conservation finance aswell as potentially signing a contract
with the Rockefeller Brothers Fund,
a philanthropic organization.
She also hopes to devote more
time to her husband, Tony Ma-
lone, and her children, Evyleen and
Quinn. She also has plans to com-pletely renovate her house.
Whatever the future brings, Han-
rahan will always have a soft spot
for the city that she has served.
"There's no better job than being
the mayor of your hometown," she
said.
APRIL 20 1 0
PAT R I C K
WILSON
MA OR,:
POLITIrCAL SCIENrCES
GRADUATION:
FALL 2 01 1With the ETS My Credentials Vault'" service
powered by Interfolio
The letter of recommendation is a top priority for graduate and professional school applicants. Now -here's an
easier way for letter writers and applicants to simplify the entire process.
ETS and Interfolio have created the My Credentials Vaults" service so that letter writers and applicants can
quickly and securey manage letters of recommendation. An easy-to-use, web-based tool, the My Credentials
Vault service helps streamline the entire process from initial request through delivery.
The My Credentials Vault service is FREE for letter writers.
One letter. One way. Many options. Letter writers can use any word processing software to write their confidential
letter; they can then securely upload their letter into the My Credentials Vault service. Letter writers can also
mail a hard copy of the letter if preferred. The applicant can then send that letter to multiple institutions.
A single system that helps keep everyone organized. During peak application times, requests for
letters of recommendation can really begin to pile uo. With the My Credentials Vault service,
letter writers and applicants can track letters in one centralized locatior -online, anytime.
Secure and confidential. The My Credentials Vault service is a safe, secure online Applicants
environment that upholds all confidentiality standards. Letter writers have access to Cn sign up for the
any letters they upload. Applicants can track and manage their letters, but they My Credentials Vault
cannot see the content of confidential recommendations. service today for a
low annual feeStart using the My Credentials Vault service today -and simplify the process for everyone. L o $19
To learn more, visit www.ets.org/mycv/uf
-nght ( 2010 by Eduational Testing Servce All nghtsved ETS, the ETS logo ad LISTENING LEAFNIN' ADINK
e enaara so d ar l Tesin9 b MYCREDENTIALsVAUL. i aservicemrk n S 1410 .
OTS. Listening. Learning. Leading?The Florida
Schola Cantorum
Sublime chant and the polyphonic treasures of the Church
For audition information
Call 352-273-1482
www.floridascholacantorum.org
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 13
SG gives group $7K
By ELIZABETH BEHRIMAN
Alligator Writer
The last Senate meeting of
the spring semester was a little
brighter than usual.
Senators passed a bill pro-
viding $7,200 in funding to the
American Solar Energy Society
during Tuesday night's meeting.
Members of the group will
travel to Madrid, Spain, in June
to compete in the Solar Decath-
lon, a sustainable house-building
competition.
UF and Virginia Tech are the
only two schools representing
the U.S. in the competition.
The group raised more than
$180,000 in its own fundraising
efforts but asked the Senate to
provide the additional funds so
more students from the group
could participate in the competi-
tion.
With the extra funds, 25 stu-
dents from the 125-student group
will be able to go on the trip this
summer.
"We've done a lot from ourside, so we're just asking for a
small part," said Derek Winning,
an architecture doctoral student
working on the project.
The group is constructing a
completely sustainable house,
imitating a traditional Florida
cracker house, which will run
only on solar energy.
"I know that the cost
seems like a lot, but
they really represent our
school very well."
Ben Meyers
Unite Party Senator
Unite Party Sen. Ben Meyers
said that, during their trip, the
group will represent UF as well
as the entire nation.
"I know that the cost seems
like a lot, but they really repre-
sent our school very well," Mey-
ers said.
Senators also passed a reso-
lution commemorating the 10th
anniversary of Pride Awareness
Month.
~wwgatord nhi,~wni ii
VWW~gatordi 1g m
~eSTUDENT LIFE
Students rally for third time
By CHELSEA KEENAN
Alligator Staff Writer
Their signs were more weath-
ered and their crowd has dwin-
dled since the first protest, but
the message of protesters was
just as strong during their third
march Tuesday afternoon.
About 70 UF students and
members of the Gainesville
community rallied for the third
time in response to the March
2 shooting of graduate student
Kofi Adu-Brempong by Univer-
04sity Police.
Holding up signs and chant-
ing "Whose streets? Our streets,"
the protesters took up a lane of
traffic on University Avenue as
they marched downtown to the
State Attorney's Office.
Two similar protests were
held March 16 and April 7, when
protesters met with the UF ad-
ministration and the University
Police Department.
Dave Schneider, one of the
event's organizers, said the
group had the same goals as the
' , e \% N \%* 1first two protests, but they also
wanted State Attorney Bill Cer-
vone to release the Florida De-
partment of Law Enforcement's
investigation immediately.
However, when protest-
ers arrived at the office, Spen-
cer Mann, spokesman for the
State Attorney's Office, greeted
marchers instead of Cervone,
who was in Tallahassee.
After about 15 minutes of an-
swering questions, Mann made
plans to meet the group at noon
today on the Plaza of Americas.
e * \ 40 %
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
smoke till you Choke .Pabst Pints
Hookah Specials ss Pabst Pitchers
$3.00 per person |2 Well rinls
Friday and Saturdaj, 9pm-close AL AYEEMY DAY
7 New Flatscreens for all your sports
352-378-5179 1 120 W. University Ave.I,
Mac's Auto Repair Shop
635 NW 1 3th Street #8
(352) 375-3334
Come Zn Fkn4 Get Your vehicle CJecke4
Out By ASE Certifie4 Techlnicians
We wifl match or beat any written estimate for repair
Monday -Friday 7am-5pm 
Saturday -8am-l2pm
S- --,
10%OFF
with ad on service work
-0 MV 79901L ---EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2010,
PARKING CITATIONS MUST BE
PAID OR APPEALED WITHIN
15 CALENDAR DAYS
FROM THE DATE OF ISSUE
(PREVIOUSLY 30 DAYS).
ADDITIONALLY, EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2010, LATE PAYMENT FEES
FOR CITATIONS WILL INCREASE FROM $5 TO $10.
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, PLEASE VISIT
www.parking.ufl.edu OR CALL (352) 392-PARK (7275).h
14, ALLIGATOR 0 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010
SUN-WED 11AM-3AM
THURS, FRI & SAT
11AM-4AM672-6111
FREE WIFI
NEXT TO SWEETBAY
34TH ST. PLAZAstreet Farmers
Live Baked &
Music
Fresh
www.jdoobies.com Prodi
Sign Up For Our Online Mailing List And 1
GET FREE STUFF 4 PMuce
7c -Goods
Crafts
Food
Community Plaza
I I I E. University Ave.
PM EVERY WEDNESDAYWE IVER
j. d bies
-Central Florida make
nfi -VCIN CFOoffice Cocft
-Art & drafting- Picture Framing -Printing -
Copy Center -Office Supplies .Furniture.
10% OFF
Art & Office Supplies. Valid only with coupon.
Offer excludes furniture, drawing boards,
sale items, and prepared art packages. See
store for details. Offer expires 01 / 11/2011.
10 NW 6th Street -Gainesville, FL 32601 -352-378-277ww !fop.bizTioga Town
Center S square
13005 W.
'Newberty Pd.On a quest to
make the world
a belier place
one vaegtablc
A a tme
farmcr' Market EfY Monday from 4 to 7 pm
-frcsh Producc and Plants i i
" Baked Good8 and food Faor llrinlf~ratioll Cnsil
iiifo@tioamiiiondiatiiiarket.coni" Crafe,, Clothing and More to rket c
-A Live Music wwwl.tkiflondax maktc'
COLD TON ' CC E R A
Become a fan of
"Cold Stone Creamery
of Gainesville"
and receive a coupon for
$1 off any purchase.
This week only!
Facebook
3443 SW Archer Rd
(352) 377-7520
3822 W Newberry Rd, Suite B
(352) 271-7437
Pac-a-Dorm
Sign-up today at
www.pacadorm.com and
receive a 20% discount!
Prices as low as
J--- $699 per month
and no long term
commitments
813-541-7730
www.pacadorm.comU
NW 39th Ave
z
w.AMeadowbrook
Golf Club
Bucking ham
West NewberrR-.990
Ln
7-v
DXOaks
MallPine Hill
EstatesNW 67th Pl
-A-)NW 53rdAve.
NW 16th Ave.
NW 8th Ave.
W. University AveNE 39tA ve
224- -(2
3 NE 23rd Ave.
L.
NE 16th Ave.
U -U TNGainesville
0,O
- I -I -
University
I__SW 24th Ave. _________ A
-L
Haile PlantationLu
Ka C-,
,0~~N
+E
s
0
:OPEN 24/7
L
N W:
:COME STUDY
WITH US!
SW 34th St. -Behind Hooters*
*
*0
*0
0
*0
0I
e 0
ALL STUDYING
& NO PLAYING
MAKES JILL A
DULL GIRL
COME JYAPE
q7gywlgfVs
, Butler Plaza -Next to M(Allister's Deli0
0
,0
e0
.0
a00C&MMNIC" i
\. MEDICAL CARE FOR EVERYONE
On Site:
" Labs
" X-Rays
" Ultrasounds
Walk-In's Welcome
S810 N.W.16th Ave
g 371-3220
0Ilergy Testing
D Testing/Treatment
pregnancy Testing
8am-9pm daily
Private & Confidential
ACCEPTING MOST
INSURANCERegional
Airport
232
E. University Ave Newnan
26 La kev. VI
,"-7n*1 t
Lu
Lu
SE 41StAeL/)m
NJHomesites
20
.\- -I-.
S.,
-I--
Saturday, May 8th
8:00 a.m.
12:00 p.m.
3:30 p.m./N
/
GAINESVILLE TARGET RANGE
1610 NW 65th Place
www.gainesvilletargetrange.com
Preregistration required:
352-359-2864
www.firstshots.org
First Shots is a program of The National Shooting Sports Foundationu
L4
Center of -
Campus
Center of
Service( Hours
Mon -Fri 8-5
Saturday -2
Call today
379-4686
or Walk In
Located on Ground Floor--
*Vintage Xpom
Serving the rO comIunity for over 10 years
.www.ManuelsVintageRoom.com
L
HAVE IT REVIEWED BY AN EXPERIENCED ATTORNEY
* LANDLORD/TENANT DISPUTES * EXPUNGE/SEAL CRIMINAL RECORDS
* PROPERTY DAMAGE * INSURANCE DISPUTES
*CONSUMER PROBLEMS *NAME CHANGE
*DIVORCE* TRAFFIC AND CRIMINAL CITATIONS
*STEP-PARENT ADOPTION POWER OF ATrORNEY
*LEASE REVIEWS *FREE WALK-IN NOTARY SERVICE
FIStudenit Legal ServicesU1 368 J. Wayne Reitz Union (352) 392-LAWS (5297)
Gainesville, FL32605 www.studentlegalservices.ufl.eduf247WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010 M ALLIGATOR, 15
DsKir' -IrN L- A. .-
(2 >
7II
M("
14
4ift6 4
of FL
un
-4-1u
00
2Ti a
c
0 0........
in:
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
8-16-25-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
*3801 SW 13th St
8-16-25-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
8-16-10-25-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
8-16-25-1
1 MONTH FREE!
Immediate availability
All Inclusive Student Living from $399
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
8-16-25-1
0
Cjrnssmqj
*Rates (d $379*
All inclusive & Fully Furnished
Or Get a New iPad!
TV or new sofa package
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
373-9009
8-16-10-25-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR, Fully Furn + All
Utils. Incl. 352-219-2879 or
www.CampusWalkUF.com 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND PROPERTIES
Sun Bay / Sun Key
1 or 2 Bedroom
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
$499/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Upgrades or Furniture extra
While they last or until 4-30-10!
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-1
Luxury Apartment Homes
Define the Good Life
2/2*4/4* All inclusive
Direct Bus Route to Campus
EnclaveUF.com * 376.0696
8-16-10-25-1
*$200 VISA GIFTCARDO
Townhouse & apts accross the street from UF
all-inclusive & fully furnished from $479/BR.
Sign this week & get a $200 visa giftcard!
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. 239-250-6149 5-11-10-79-1*Move in Today*
Rates ( $299!
2,3 & 4 bedroom suites
All inclusive & Fully Furnished
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
373-9009
8-16-10-25-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
2/2*3/3*4/4
Experience the Good Life
Text"Enclave" to 47464
8-16-10-25-1
REDUCED 1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $300/mo + $30 until.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished +
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 4-21-10-51-1
2 Blocks to UF $300/mo
Furnished bedroom in 4BD condo.
Rent includes utils, cable TV & internet.
378-4626 / 262-4290 8-16-10-25-1
$339 rm/mo all utils incl. 4BR/2BA Condo
at University Commons furnished W/D/TV/
Cable/Parking. Immediatley avl. summer/fall
Great Place Great Price 239.253.8701 or
email at: tom@moorelandscape.com 8-16-
10-36-1
4-4 condo will rent monthy, quarterly or
yearly. $500/month/room includes: washer-
dryer, dishwasher, private bathroom/bed-
room, walk-in closet, utilities, cable, wireless
internet, pool, gym, volleyball and basketball
courts. Living, dining and kitchen have wood-
en floors, bedrooms have nice clean carpets.
Bus services every 5-10 minutes. 352-213-
7059 5-20-10-30-1
ROOM FOR RENT Lg master suite in new
home, 15 min to VA, Shands & UF. NS, pro-
fessional only. Util, cable TV, garage & wire-
less internet incl.Kitchen & laundry access.
$500/mo. 352-219-3410 5-27-10-21-1
Townhome for rent.
Spacious 2 x 2.5 in Grantwood, a gated com-
munity. 5 minutes from campus. Contact
Eddie at 954-699-3665 for more information,
or to arrange a viewing. 5-25-10-19-1
4/4 Countryside Condo private bed/bath,incl
utilities, wd,cable,wireless int,poolgated
workout room, great bus rte,$400/mth all
in.Jeff @904-612-3944, will consider semes-
ter lease. 8-5-10-40-1
Spacious 4/4 fully furn condo in SW G'ville 5
mins to UF! Indiv. leases, $375/rm/mo. 3 bus
rates, close to shopping/food areas. Utils ind
up to $200/mo. $200 SD. Avail. immediately/
summer/fall. 352-514-3398 anu87@ufl.edu
6-17-10-26-1
3BR/3BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room + utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Bball, pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd FIr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, Sebastian 352-874-8905 4-21-
10-12-1
Female roommates needed for 3/3, own bed/
bath, furnished, Windsor Park, close to UF
on bus stop, pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $335,
1/3 utilities; looking for a clean and studious
roommates, 407-361-1154. 4-21-10-11-1
4BR/4BA furn. Countryside Apt. 2nd fIr, pool
view, inc cable, wi-fi internet, and std utilities.
All brms. avail in Aug. $395/BR/mo. flexible
terms avail. Call Chris at 941-726-2204 or
email raginriv@ufl.edu 4-21-10-8-1
4/4 Apt, walk to campus!
$500/month all inclusive
private baths, great location
Oxford Terrace
call 561-306-3852 4-21-10-5-1Jefferson 2nd Ave. Aug 2010-July 2011. 1
bed w/private bath in all inclusive furnished
2bed/2bath apt. Walk to UF and Downtown.
Reduced rent $595/month w/free parking
garage. Contact Alex 954-558-1918 4-21-
10-3-1
$299 Fully Furnished condo 10min to UF!
4BR/4BA spacious bedrooms & living area,
W/D in unit, great kitchen w/ appliances,
great bus rts.12 & 35 ten min to UF and
shopping/food.Discount for quick signing.
Lease starts fall. Call(941)232-1960
6-17-10-15-1
4bd/4ba in Countryside Condos. $350/
mo. Avail 08/01.Great locationvery clean!
Furnished,wireless+util incld,porch,lst
floor,2 min from UF,washer/dryer,bball
court,poolhot tub.kokonut@ufl.edu 6-3-
10-1
$275 +WALKING DISTANCE TO UF+
4BR/2BA condo at Univ. Commons. Privately
owned. Full size washer and dryer. Free ca-
ble TV with HBO. Free parking & on 5 bus
routes. $30/month utilities, 3rd floor, vaulted
ceilings, private balcony. No fees !! E -Mail
or call Brad @ 813-854-5628 5-25-10-6-1
PRICE NEGOTIABLE! $260/m.
FURNISHED.UTILITIES, INTERNET,
PRINTING AND TANNING FREE.
GATEWAY AT GLADES. CLOSE TO
SHOPPING. 5 MINUTES AWAY FROM
SCHOOL. SCIENCE MAJORS
(UNDERGRAD AND GRAD) AS
ROOMMATES. VERY IDEAL FOR
STUDYING. EMAIL ASHLEY AT
ashl388@ufl.edu OR CALL 904-415-2844.
4-21-1-1
Summer Studio Sublet. $300/month for May,
June, July. Separate kitchen and bath. 17th
Street and 3rd Avenue (behind the Swamp).
5 minute walk to campus. Can have furnished
without bed or unfurnished. 727-492-1453 or
wmattclement@gmail.com 5-20-5-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1 br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901 8-16-
10-25-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
-HUGE FLOOR PLANS-
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
8-16-10-25-2
Now Available Downtown!
Luxury 1, 2, and 3 Bedrooms
Alarm*Walk-in Closet*Pets OK
Stay Out Late & Walk Home!
Call today-don't wait! 338-0002
8-16-10-25-2
1 BR/1 BA $459-469 *2BRI1 BA $549-569
2/1's limited availability for Aug!
Quite community close to everything.
www.frederckgardens.com
Adopted pets live free!! 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
8-16-10-25-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 8-16-10-25-2Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
8-16-10-25-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 8-16-10-25-2
No depositfl!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
8-16-25-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
8-16-10-25-2
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www. thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
8-16-10-25-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
8-16-10-25-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOWor FALL 2010.
2/2 from $999 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
8-16-25-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
8-16-10-25-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 8-16-10-25-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$709 2/2-$809 3/2-$909
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
8-16-25-2
*More Play, Less Work@
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
BRING IN THIS AD FOR $0 MOVE IN FEES!
2/2s: From $799; 3/3s: From $959
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-16-10-25-2Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
8-16-10-25-2
Your Own Personal Trainer!
1 Bed-$599*2Bed-$729
4Bed-$949*A schools!
Beautiful Townhomes
Walk-in Closets*332-7401
8-16-15-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
8-16-10-25-2
Museum Walk
All Inclusive Roommate Matching -$439
3/3 Flats 2/2 Townhomes & UF LOCATION!
#117 Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave MuseumWalk.com
Call for Specials!*379-9255*
8-16-10-25-2
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
2BR/1 BA from $338/person
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
We <3 pets! Wood floors avail!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
8-16-10-25-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $635. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
8-16-10-25-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $515 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
8-16-10-25-2
$369
INCLUDES UTILITIES
1 month FREE, Move In TODAY!
24hr Amenities & Valet Trash!
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
8-16-25-2
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010 M ALLIGATOR, 17
For Rent r ohRnrnFor Rent For Rent For RentO nFnished unfnished ufurnished unurnished ufurnished
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
SUN KEY
2.1 or 1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
From $499/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Upgrades or Furniture extra
While they last or until 4-30-10!
Check out our unbelieveable
Band Width 30x10
352.376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland .info
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
8-16-10-25-2
S Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 8-16-
10-25-2FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO UF -AVAIL NOW & FALL!
*1BR $460- $495
* 2BR $485- $600
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -YOUR NEW HOME!
Unique LOFT floor plan only $595!
1/1 from $625 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning* Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis * 1 mile to UF
377-7401 * www.boardwalkapt.com
8-16-10-25-2
JUMBLE .a
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
.m a. 0
a 4111111100+ apts: Live by UF
Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br 2BR $420/br 1 BR $649
Studios $605 Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 5-11-10-79-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
4 1- NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-21-65-2
*One Month Free
Receive additional Month Free
w/ 48hr Look and Lease!
Pine Rush Villas
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1 bedroom from *$457
2 bedroom from *$558
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free
Receive additional Month Free
w/ 48hr Look and Lease!
Homestead Apts
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 bedroom 1 bath from *$549
2 bedroom 2 bath from *$641
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free
Receive additional Month Free
w/ 48hr Look and Lease!
Courtney Greens
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 *$525
Near Oaks Mall Near UF and Butler Plaza
Cyber Cafe and 24hr Fitness Center
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
5-1 1-10-64-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
8-16-25-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
8-16-10-25-2
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 2 bd/ 1 ba
Hardwood floors, must see
$900/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Great Parking! Walk to UF! 4BD/4.5 BA
Located near SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St.
Call today to view @ 352.373.7578
Union Properties www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
NEWLY REMODELED 1BRs
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
6-29-64-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 5-11-
10-48-2
P$0 LOS
OResort Lifestyle*
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
ALL INCLUSIVE PRICING!
2's: From $546/person; 3's: From $451/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-16-10-25-2
REDUCED:2BR HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -
Sorority Row/Norman Hall area. Wd firs,
new kitchen vinyl, Cent H/AC, DW, fenced
yard, wd deck, parking, $840/mo. Pets ok
Avail Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 Iv mssg
5-27-10-46-2REDUCED 3BR/2BA HOUSE 2BLKS to
UF -Sorority Row/Norman Hall area. W/D,
ice maker, ceramic tile. Cent H/AC, DW,
parking, fenced yard. $1350/mo. Pets ok.
Avail Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 Iv mssg
5-27-10-46-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area, remodeled baths, new:
stove, DW, disposal & AC, W/D, wd firs. cent
H/AC, parking. $2400/mo Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg
4-21-10-40-2
Houses Available for Fall!
2631 NW 1st Ave -$1845
402 NW 36th -$1425
315 NW 17th St. -$875
4 NW 25th St -$1499
717 NW 34th St -$1320
FREE UF Parking!
352.371.7777
4-21-10-71-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $650/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220. (leave
a voicemail) 4-21-32-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 5-11-10-114-2
$600, 2BR, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet school
& campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furn; Parking; 352 376
0080;352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-27-2
For a Limited Time Only! 1BR/1BA seperate
dining rm, Ig living rm, walk in closet, cent
H/AC, full kitchen, full bath. H20 & sewer
incl. Free pest control. Close to Oaks Mall,
Archer Rd & UF. $395/mo. 2 & 3 BDs avail
in several locations, dif floor plans. 215-7780
6-17-10-38-2
Walk to UF. Openings in April -Aug.
*2BR/2.5BA $800-850 @2BR/1 BA $420-450
@1BR/1BA $500-585 *studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
5-11-10-27-2
Available Immediately! Small 1/1
Efficiency apt. W/D avail, new paint & carpet.
10 min walk to UF. Perfect for international/
graduate students! $500/mo + utils. 284-0979
4-21-10-26-2
10houses.com
3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$1000 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
5-1 1-10-26-2
OFREAKS!! DOWNTOWN 414 SE 2nd St
2BR/1 BA DUPLEX apt w/loft, central heat,
window air, off-street parking, $620/mo,
SALSO: Studio/garage apt. $420/mo.
Call 352-373-6551 5-20-29-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
2.1 1/2 Bath Townhomes
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
$699/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
While they last or until 4-30-10!
Check out our unbelievable
Band Width 30x10
352.376.6720 or 352.376.7041
www~sunisland .info
4-21-10-25-2
SUN BAY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
From $499/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Upgrades or Furniture extra
While they last or until 4-30-10!
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-25-2
FREE MONTHS RENT 1BDs
1114 SW 7th Ave $650/mo
Spacious loft style, parking onsite.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-24-20 a 40.0, 0
0
18, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
Upscale Living without the Price!
2/2s @ $550, 3/3s @ 459
Know your roommates? As low as $383/each!
Villas w/ fenced yards available-we love pets!
Ask how to get $100 off per month for a year!
www.hiddenlakeuf.com or 352-374-3866
8-16-10-25-2
3bed/2bath Creeks Edge condo -just off NW
13th St. W/D, pool & clubhouse. Close to UF
and on bus route. Available August. Seeking
roommates $395/mo/ea. 727-463-0560
6-29-10-35-2
ARLINGTON SQUARE (2b/2ba) -$799/Mo,
Luxury Downtown APT, access to main RTS,
NO short-term. Avail 4/21/10, Call Sean,
239-410-1603 5-13-22-2
***HOUSE 4BR/2BA***
Available 8/1. Lovely, remodeled. W/D. Bike
to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. $1 100/mo.
373-1558, 246-8645, or 256-8370 5-11-10-
19-2
House,4BR,3BA,LR,FR,recently renovated.
2 Masters w/pvt bth. fenced in back yard.
garage. Off 34th. tander@bellsouth.net 954-
340-2732 5-13-10-20-2
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2
BR vintage apts. near UF & downtown. All
have wood floors, fans, & blinds. Pets pos-
sible. Rent from $575-$950/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com, 352-338-7670
5-11-10-7-2
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean 2 & 3
BR homes near UF. Some wood floors, all
with CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds, & lawn up-
keep. Rent @ $790-$1275/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com, 352-338-7670
5-11-10-17-2
2 Br Houses near 13th St. Walmart:
Beautiful vintage charmer 2ba $950
available now. Available May:
Pet Heaven, fenced yard 1ba $675
Call owner/agent 352-328-7474. 4-21-10-
16-2
TOP QUALITY -GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to cam-
pus -on N & E sides. Year lease, beginning
summer or fall. K & M Properties. 372-1509
4-21-10-15-2
JACKSON SQUARE CONDO -Annual
rental beginning 8/1/10. Immaculate, new,
2BR/2BA, 1 blk from UF. W/D in unit, un-
dercover parking. Call owner for details 561-
912-0190. $750/mo/room. 4-21-10-15-2
4BD/3BA HOUSE NEAR UF!
W/D, Central AC, Wood Floors. 3514 NW
7th Place. Available Aug. 1st. Call Manny at
352-317-4408 4-21-10-14-2
4BD/2BA HOUSE NEAR UF!
W/D, Available Aug. 1st. 610 NW 34th
Terrace. Call Manny at352-317-4408 4-21-
10-14-2
*WANT IT ALL?@
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
FURNITURE NOW INCLUDED!
ALL INCLUSIVE rates beginning at
2/2-$546/person, 3/3-$451/person
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-16-10-25-2
Beautiful Northwood Pool Home with large
1/2 acre lot. 3 bed, 2 bath has plenty of room
for summer fun while swimming or hanging
out in the hot tub. Washer Dryer included
with full 2 car garage and lots of storage.
Pets OK, call Jeffrey for more information.
352-246-5801 5-11-10-14-2
Spacious 1 BR apt for rent.
1 BR/1 BA apt near Oaks Mall.
Walk to mall, restaurant and coffee shops.
New appliances. Call 352-258-4695 4-21-
10-13-2
Homes Avail for Fall! Pets welcome!
Minutes to UF and Santa Fe.
4/2 3321 and 3236 NW 30 PL $1200/mon
4/2 5402 NW 25th PL $1200
Call April 352-514-1441 for more info! 4-21-
10-13-22BR/1BA cent heat mobile home.
Shady lot. From $300 -$450/mo
FIRST MONTH HALF PRICE incl water.
No pets. 4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887
5-11-10-13-2
AVAILABLE NOW & AUGUST
*2BR/1 BA fenced bkyd, cent H/AC $745/mo
*3BR/2BA fenced backyard. $1025/mo.
Gore-Rabell Real Estate 378-1387.
www.gore-rabell.com 4-21-10-13-2
APTS and HOMES for rent near UF!
Avail Summer and Fall, visit our website at
merrillmanagement.net or
Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494 x10
4-21-10-13-2
1BR 1BA Apt Grad II Apts
New carpet, paint. Avail Now
Or Fall 1236 Sw 4th Ave $540/mo
Central H &Air, Laundry Fac.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494
4-21-10-13-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue. St. Croix Apts
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
2BR 1BA, Wood Floors, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 or tazzie2l@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR or 2BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425-$550/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
8-16-10-37-2
Lovely 2 BE/21/2BA. NW 43rd Ave. Garage.
All appliances, W/D, internet,security, cable
included. Prefer quiet, stable residents. $999/
mo. Available June 1st. Long term lease
available. Ph. 941-776-1767. 5-20-10-15-2
*STUDENTS**
1,2,3,&4 bedroom Houses and Apartments
available for fall. Pets arranged. All near
campus. Call 371-3260 or 870-2760 4-21-
10-11-2
WOODS EDGE SOUTH- 2BR/2.5BA
Recently constructed townhomes, located
off of 34th St. Spacious living room and wide
kitchen area. Bay windows for breakfast
nook. Double master suites and large clos-
ets. Screened back porch. W/D, next to bus
stop, close to UF.
$550/mo/rm + utilities.
Call (305)799-7042 5-18-14-2
1 Bedroom/1 Bath Apartment for Rent.
$535. Available Immediately. Downstairs
Unit. Country Club Atmosphere. Towne
Parc Apartments, 2930 SW 23rd Terrace,
Gainesville. Cell: 217-553-6045. 5-11-10-
12-2
3BR/3BA Condo across st. from campus
on corner of Archer and 13th with all tile
floors and all appliances. $1500/month or
individual leases. Available summer 2010
call 989-980-2807 4-21-10-10-2
4Br/3Ba Large Home w/ 2 car gar, 8 min from
UF, large fenced yard, dogs ok. Exquisite
oaks & landscaping, wood & tile floors, new
appliances. $1,600/mo. 352-466-0358. Avail
summer or Aug. 3120 NW 31st Blvd. 4-21-
10-10-2Need creative/ open minded people for this
3 bedroom 2 bath house .you'll love this
property in itself close to all Hospital and
Musemum Rd $799/m Avail. April sq 1100
Contact Navyblueshirt@hotmail.com 4-21-
10-9-2
WALK TO UF -NW 6th Ave
3br/2ba adorable home, prvt bkyd,
Ig bdrms, new crpt, appl, a/c, w/d,
pvd drive, lawn/garb/pest incl.
$1650/mo avail aug 941-544-2427 5-11-
10-10-2
Townhouse Rental 4/2.5. Gated, clubouse,
Cricket Club -near Newberry & 1-75. $1200/
mo, 954-557-4769, baezwpa@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-9-2
POOL HOUSE
4BR/3BA @ 2816 W. University Ave. 1 mile
to UF. Avail for fall. $1700/mo. 327-2931 or
376-6183 5-11-10-10-2
Whispering Pines for fall: 2br/2ba with spa-
cious kitchens, breakfast bar, ceramic tile,
paddle fans, across from bus stop, especially
nice for grad students, includes monitored
alarm system, $840 edbaurmanagement.
com 352-375-7104 4-21-10-9-2
Affordable condo-Shellrock Villas, 2br/1.5ba
townhouse, paddle fans, walk-in closet, con-
venient to Oaks Mall/UF, avail May, $545
edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104
4-21-10-9-2
Beautiful Charleston Place, 3br/2.5 ba, simu-
lated wood floors, carpeted bedrooms, wash-
er, dryer, fully equipped kitchen, screened
porch, community pool, avail May, $1100
edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104
4-21-10-9-2
HOMES FOR RENT -CLOSE TO UF
3/2 630 NW 34th Terr. $1150/mo Pets ok
3/2 631 NW 36th St $1250/mo Pets ok
3/2 3404 NW 7th PI $1250/mo Pets ok
4/2 621 NW 35th St. $1250/mo Pets ok
Call Mike 352-665-7316 4-21-10-8-2
Cute studio for rent in the Duckpond area.
Monthly rent $395 ind elec & water. Sec
$450. Ideal for one person & possibly a small
pet. Call 352-371-3473 leave message.
5-27-10-14-2
Townhouse for rent 2BR/1.5BA w/ W/D hook-
ups. French doors open to private patio.
Remodeled kitchen & bathrooms. Monthly
rent $675. Sec $700. Pets ok. 4007 SW 26th
Terr. Apt B. Call 352-371-3473 leave mssg
5-27-10-14-2.
*4/3 18 NW36th St.** Close to campusall
appliances,W/D, cent, heat/air Avail. Aug.1
$1350 333-9874 5-11-10-9-2
*3401 NW 7th Place* 3/2 liv,din,fam rms.All
appliances W/D close to campus, large yd.
small pets ok avail Aug.1 $1325 333-9874
5-11-10-9-2
**4/2 3962 W University Ave.**close to cam-
pus, all appliances, W/D, hot tub, fire place,
screened porch, avail. Aug,1 $1375, 333-
9874 5-11-10-9-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**Near GHFC vaulted
ceilings, all appliances, W/D, garage, small
pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1250 333-9874
5-11-10-9-2
**4/2919 NW 10thAve.**Closetocampus,all
appliances,W/D,Cent.heat&air.Avil.Aug.1
$1375 333-9874 5-11-10-9-2
2 BLOCKS TO STADIUM
1913 NW 2ND AVE,
1BR/1 BA, freshly painted $600
1813 NW 2ND AVE
1BR new paint & flooring $475,
1BR wd floors, fireplace $525
No pets. Call 352-335-4790 or 352-214-3369
4-21-8-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered.
Rent $695/mo Phone (352) 359-8311
6-29-10-19-2Available now. HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo. All
4BR/2BA $1100/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183
4-21-10-6-2
FOR RENT
3, 4, 5, & 6 BD Houses
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424 4-21-10-5-2
CAMPUS EDGE
2/2 walking distance to UF, on bus route,
vaulted ceilings, gym, pool, W/D in unit.
$550, tv and internet incl. avail June '10. 901-
581-0135 or 901-237-1157 6-29-21-2
3BR/3BA House, Close to UF/Shands.
Newly remodeled in 2009. W/D, fenced back
yard, lawn maintence, pest control included
in rent. Grad students preferred. Available
August 5th, $1375/month. 352-246-5958.
5-20-10-10-2
Walk to UF 4/2 apt $295/room 1 year leases
start 8/16/10 No Pets
1740 NW 3rd PL Call 352-231-3002
4-21-10-6-2
Downsizing? Quiet 1 BR apt, 700+ sq ft, resi-
dental neighborhood, huge LR, patio, own
entrance & carport. $850 includes utilities,
NW 14th Ave & 20th St. 352-395-6250 or
332-1429 Kathy. 4-21-10-5-2
2 BR, 2.5 BA Townhouse. End Unit. $800
In secluded Brighton Park 1 block off SW
34th St. Near Publix and on bus lines. 1-2
miles to UF. Very well maintained unit. Non-
smokers only. 214-3820 4-21-10-5-2
Two blocks from UF Stadium
2 Bed 1 Bath, 1 Bed 1 Bath,
and Studio. Available August 1
352-377-2930 4-21-10-5-2
3 Male college students to share 4BR/4BA
Countryside condo, W/D, cable, hi-speed in-
ternet, 1st stop on UF bus rte. Utils included.
$450/mo. 863-634-1893. Available immedi-
ately. 4-21-10-5-2
Nice 2br, 2ba, W/D, tile / HW floors, Fenced,
yard, front parking; screened front deck.
Need a nice place to live in Gainesville at a
reasonable price. call! 407-433-1443. 5-18-
10-7-2
$525 for lbr/lba apt; near campus; spa-
cious; private patio; very quiet; greenspace;
cats allowed; prefer mature person or grad
student; 1807 NW 10th Street. (352) 376
0080; (352) 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
8-23-10-30-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
$579 mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
While they last or until 4-30-10!
Check out our unbelievable
Band Width 30x10
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-4-2
SUN BAY
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
from $499 mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
While they last or until 4-30-10!
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-4-2
SUN KEY
1.1 or 2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
$499/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Upgrades or Furniture extra
While they last or until 4-30-10!
Check our our unbelievable
Band Width 30x10
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-4-2
2 STORY TOWNHOUSE 1588 SQ FT
2BR/2BA, close to UF, across from GHFC
(5031 NW 1st Place) on bus rte, tennis, pool,
clubhouse. $975/mo Avail May 20th. Call
352-870-6906 5-11-10-5-2$1175 / BRAND NEW CONDO. WALK TO
UF / SHANDS 2BR/2BA unit available July
1st. Approx 1100 sq ft. Campus View South
Condos 1185 SW 9th Rd. W/D, parking incl.
352-337-1760. 5-11-10-5-2
3/3 for $329 plus utilities in The Polos. Need
someone to take over lease for Fall 2010.
Roommates are very nice. Walk-in closet,
W/D, 3 pools, 2 hot tubs, volleyball, racquet-
ball, tennis courts. Pet friendly. 813-601-3249.
4-21-10-3-2
Available August: Cute & Clean Vintage
4bd/2.5ba behind Applebee's. Bike to UF! Wd
firs, CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds. Huge rooms!
907 NW 11th Ave. $1650/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com 352-338-7670
5-11-10-4-2
3/2 house in Valwood
$900, avail 7/1/10
call Carolyn Quinones
C21 Classic Prop 352-331-2100x107
email:CarolynQC21@aol.com 5-11-10-3-2
Victoria Station 2/2.5
$800 avail 7/1/10
call Carolyn Quinones
C21 Classic Prop 352-331-2100x107
email:CarolynQC21@aol.com 5-11-10-3-2
Walk to UF, lots of free
parking, 1/1 $550 avail 8/1/10
call Carolyn Quinones
C21 Classic Prop 352-331-2100x107
email:CarolynQC21@aol.com 5-11-10-3-2
2/1 $575 avail 8/1/10, conv to
UF or SFC downtown campus
call Carolyn Quinones
C21 Classic Prop 352-331-2100x107
email:CarolynQC21@aol.com 5-11-10-3-2
Casablanca 3/2.5 $800 avail now
call Carolyn Quinones
C21 Classic Prop 352-331-2100x107
email:CarolynQC21@aol.com 5-11-10-3-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 5-11-
10-3-2
2/2 in Oakbook, 5 min walk to Shands, close
to campus. Updated kitchen appliances, 1st
floor apt, laundry room with w&d, pool front,
tile floor. Call Genevieve @392-5105 or gen-
vive@ufl.edu. 1210 SW 16th avenue 4-21-
10-1-2
2BR/2BA HUGENEW, Quality Condo in
Quiet Area. W/D in unit. Energy efficient
appliances. Available June 15, no rent un-
til July 1 $999 sshunkwigmai.com 352-
213-2366 4-21-10-1-2
3 bedroom townhome
Northwest Gainesville.
July Free 352-367-4240 8-16-25-2
Cypress Pointe condo, 3br, 2ba off SW 62
Blvd, newer appliances, fresh paint, pool,
avail now, $725 edbaurmanagement.com
352-375-7104 4-21-10-7-2
Treehouse condo, 2br, 2ba, new carpet, vi-
nyl, paddle fans, remodeled baths, on bus
line, pools & weight rm, avail now, $600 ed-
baurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 4-21-
10-7-2
Greenleaf, SW spacious townhouse, 2br,
2ba, loft room extra, vaulted ceiling, patio
and fenced yard, avail May, $700 edbaur-
management.com 352-375-7104 4-21-10-
7-2
Affordable, SW 2br, with new ceramic
tile & carpet, fireplace, ready now, $495
Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104
4-21-10-7-2
Colonial Oaks, SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse,
two screened porches, pet friendly, avail
now, $600 edbaurmanagement.com 352-
375-7104 4-21-10-7-2
WALK TO UF
3/2 House in Golfview Estates; a quiet com-
munity by the Law School, Athletic Fields,
and Golf Course. Available Aug 1.
*** $1475 mo.*** Call Craig 305-788-4103
4-21-10-7-2
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010 M ALLIGATOR, 19
For Rent Subleases Roommates Real Estateunfurnished Subleasest
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED: 3/2
Luxury Apartment! 2blocks to UF, applianc-
es incl, gourmet kitchen, granite counters, &
balcony. $620-AVAILABLE AUGUST!
lyr lease-sign today! 239-851-9783
4-21-10-1-2
-subleases
$429.4br/4ba. FullyFurnishedw/TV.Washer/
Dryer.Screened in balcony.May-Aug. w/ Aug
rent paid. 2 direct routes to campus. Cabana
Beach. $100 cash to sign. Lisa 407-808-
8607 4-21-6-3
Summer at Courtyards Apts for only $450 a
month! 1 BR in a 4BR apt. Townhouse, across
street from Business School! Furnished,
all-inclusive utilities. h.orourke@ufl.edu
4-21-6-3
CABANA BEACH. $300/mo(price negotiable-
->I pay over $500). May-Aug(anytime). First
floor, 2br/2br. On Bus Route 21. Beautiful
pool! Nice people. Phone at 352-318-1014.
Email at jsmyth@ufl.edu. 4-21-5-3Summer Sublease! 1BR/1 bath, University
House(NW13th and 7ave)-walking distance
from campus, pool, great roommates! $595/
month utilities/parking included, available
Summer A. 321-960-5255 4-21-10-5-3
Walk to UF and enjoy your privacy! Suite for
summer sublease at College Manor Suites.
Rent incl. utilities. No reasonable offer re-
fused. Call 850-298-8427 or email
abenaa7l@hotmail.com 4-21-10-3-3
CANOPY APT SUMMER SUBLEASE
Female wanted
1rm in 4br w/ prv bath
Brand New, great bus access
$565/month
863-676-5907 5-18-10-5-3
*****University Park Studios Apartment*****
1 BR/1 BA $575 per month (usual rate $665)
Sublease for Fall starting August
Luxury bathroom, pet friendly, free park-
ing, pool access, no roommates, WALKING
DISTANCE TO CAMPUS
Call (352) 871-8725 or email at rkeels@ufl.
edu 4-21-2-3
-*ww a
4040 Newber
Suite 950A
Gainesville, FL 3
1-888-889-9022
(352) 872-5120
Copyrighted Material 
*
Syndicated Content e
Available from Commercial News Providers
I
I
wUr~uI
IUI
3
ale
pI-
I$250 mo, 3/3 share, district on 62nd, priv
bath, w/d, internet, utililites incl, after May
1st all rooms will be vacant, may 1-july 30th.
avail for year long lease. 321-795-0382
4-21-10-1-3
1/1 in a 2/2 in Isabella Park. Available im-
mediately for summer/beyond. Rent is $400/
mo + 1/2 util. 8 min to UF, bus routes 9, 35, &
36. Please call 863-738-7200 or email me at
g8rvetl0@gmail.com 4-21-10-1-3
2bd/2ba. $400 NEGOTIABLE. Across from
the stadium. 2 minute walk to class and
midtown. Huge living room, big bedrooms.
Available May 4th until July 31st. Call 813-
6108671 or 954-8042830 4-21-10-1-3
OFRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
8-16-25-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES
IN FURN 4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF.
$290/mo ind elec, cable tv, internet, pool,
laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626
5-11-10-25-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
5-11-10-62-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsNVA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$325/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220
(leave a voicemail.) 4-21-32-4.
$400/mo Room for Rent plus elec, Rockwood
Villas TH, pvt bath, on bus route, w/d, free
internet, non-smoking, female only. Avail
Immed & Fall. 1st Mth Free w lyr lease.
ktellmann@ufl.edu/904-874-6877. 7-13-
10-45-4
Seeking roommates for 3 bed/ 2 ba quiet
condo at Creeks Edge. New flooring, recent
remodel,upstairs unit, washer/dryer, on bus-
line to campus, partial furnished. Available
Aug 1st. $395/mo. 727-463-0560 5-11-10-
28-4
Responsible and Clean Rommate needed
Asking $600, spacious room w/ private bath.
Fully furnished, 5 minutes from campus, ac-
cess to bus routes 9 & 35. Contact Eddie at
954-699-3665 for details or a viewing. 4-21-
10-14-4
Grad student looking for roommates for 4
bed/4 bath condo at University Terrace.
$400/room/month, inc. cable, internet, util.
On 2 bus routes, fully furnished. Tidiness
preferred. 352-514-3398 anu87@ufl.edu
6-17-10-26-4
Need FEMALE roommate! All-inclusive, fully-
furnished 1BR/1BA available in a 3BR/3BA
apt @ Windsor Park. Bus routes 9,34,35,36.
Contact me for RATES and INCENTIVES:
aptinfo4u@yahoo.com 4-21-13-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $350/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
4-21-10-11-4
3 Roommates needed for a 4/2 newly pur-
chased house (2400 sq ft) , Backyard, large
kitchen large patio. Fully furnished besides
bedrooms. 5min from UF. $499 including
utilities. Move in -May 15. call Shaun at 904-
838-8412 4-21-10-11-4
DUCKPOND -BIKE TO UF
Serious student/foreign grad. Fully furn small
room in quiet house. Close to downtown, on
bus line. Utils incl. $90/week. 352-514-3409
4-21-10-11-4
Clean and responsible roommate wanted!
4/2 new 1900SF house. Convenient location
for both UF and SFC. Pool, basketball, grill.
$475/month. Utilities included. Available
Aug 15th. Call Erik @ 954-937-9491
4-21-10-9-4Grad student looking for female room-
mates in fully furnished 4bed/4bath condo at
Countryside. $475/month. Inc. cable/inter-
net, utilities, W/D. On 2 bus routes. Contact
Megan 727-542-8155. 4-21-10-5-4
Need 2 female roommates for a 4bed/4bath
at Countryside. Indiv. leases. Furnished, ca-
ble, util, internet, wash/dry included. Access
to pool, gym and bus routes 9, 35, and 36.
$425 per month. Call (786)385-2839 4-21-
5-4
Roommate needed, Furnished house in
Duck Pond, 1.5 mi.to UF, $565/mo. utilities
included 561-715-0712 6-1-10-10-4
1 female roommate needed. Move in now.
Poolside 1/1 in 4/4 at Countryside. $425/mo./
OBO. Internet, W/D, great deal and location.
Call 386-676-9703 or nukkenl@aol.com
5-11-10-2-3
non-smoking female only, $425/mo
includes cable, internet, util.
spacious townhouse, suite, pool,
furnished, near butler plaza, 1-
yr leasecall gloria407-572-3637
I'm clean & fun!no pet,2br/2.5ba 5-13-3-411 ACRES -$24,900. ABANDONDED
UPSTATE NY FARM. Near state land,
stream, waterfall, pine woods, views! Build,
camp, great deer hunting! Solid investment!
(877)461-8812 www.newyorklandandlakes.
com 4-21-1-5
NEW LOG HOME AT THE LAKE & 5 AC
-$69,900 w/FREE Boat Slips Gorgeous,
ready to finish 2100 sf log home & beauti-
fully wooded 5 acre lake access parcel w/
free boat slips on private, recreational lake
in Tenn. Quiet, gated community. Excellent
financing. Call now (888)792-5253, x.2457
TN Land/Lakes, LLC 4-21-1-5
Grand Opening Sale! 7 ACRES with
DOCKABLE LAKEFRONT, $39,900. Sale
4/24/10 Wooded, park-like setting on one
of Alabama?s top recreational lakes. All
amenities completed. BOAT TO GULF OF
MEXICO! Excellent financing. Call now
(866)952-5302 x5408 4-21-1-5
CENTRAL GA 72 AC -$1,075/AC Planted
pine, Ulcohatchee Creek, paved road front-
age w/power. (478)987-9700 stregispaper.
com St. Regis Paper Co. 4-21-1-5
FurnishingsOFReal Estate ) 1
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Campus Edge / Somerest VillageWalk to
Shands/VA/class 2units, 2bd/2ba vault-
ed ceilings 2nd/3rd floor w/d in unit,best
locations parking. $8,000 tax credit.
$164,900/$132,900. Move in Ready 954-
439-2301 stedel@bellsouth.net 4-21-10-
41-5
Motivated. For sale by Owner. Must sell
beautiful 3bd/2b 1777 sf home in Cottages
of Country Way, Newberry, FL. Close to
schools. No HOA. Large lot.Asking $184,900.
(530) 613-6488 4-21-10-28-5
Westgate Manor, 85 Mobile home 14x60
2/1.5 remodeled full BA w/new toilet & vanity.
TV, bed, newer carpet, linoleum, frig, range,
nice fixtures. Vaulted ceiling, stone fireplace,
bay window, cent AC, $16.5K 617-335-1303
5-11-10-7-5
3/2 house in Archer. Above ground Pool.
Homes only area. No HOA. 25 minutes to
UF. Go to fsbo.com listing #136241 for more
details and pictures. $175,000 rhaynes@
hotmail.com or 407 453-4534 4-21-10-5-5
2001 2BR/2BA MOBILE HOME
in Oak Park Village. Inc appliances, 10x10
shed, awning. $11,000/OBO. 352-424-0687
5-11-10-4-5
20 Acre Ranches Near Growing El Paso
Texas. Only $12,900 $0 Down, $99 per/
mo. Owner Financing, No Credit Checks
Money Back Guarantee. Free Map/Pictures.
(800)755-8953 www.sunsetranches.com
4-21-1-5BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 8-16-10-25-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 8-16-10-25-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 8-16-10-25-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 8-16-10-25-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
8-16-25-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 8-16-10-25-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
8-16-10-25-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 8-16-
25-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 8-16-10-25-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
8-16-25-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 8-16-25-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
8-16-25-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 8-16-10-
25-6
20, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010
FFurnishings Motorcycles, Mopeds Autos Help Wanted Help Wanted
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With ***Ww.BuyMyScooter.com* 00 Ford Ranger, 158k, $7999 CASH the independ florida
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter 06 Chrysler PT Criuser, 46k $9999 CASH *
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 8-16-25-6 All on one site! Check the website or call 07 Chevy Cobalt, 24k $10,999 CASH
336-1271 for more info! 8-16-10-25-11 02 Volvo S60, 97k $8999 CASH
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New ___________________ 352-375-9090 4-21-71-12 DyieAvrsngPoutn
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031 GTROOGils#sevcfaltyWe 327590 4-1112Daytime Advertising Production
1 GATORMOTO Gville's #1 servicefacility. We The Independent Florida Alligator
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 sill repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail- Advertising Production Department
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 8-16-25-6 able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest SUN CITY AUTO SALES is accepting student applications.
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we Bring W2 and drive home today! Duties include graphic design and
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275 Over 150 cars in stock organizational layout. Will
8-16-10-25-11 Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans train, but experience with Adobe InDesign,o 352-338-1999 4-21-55-12 Photoshop and Illustrator is preferred.
ASi**SCOOTER RENTALS** Fnendly work environment, flexible sched-
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras Rent for a day, week, month or semester. ule, with hours between 9 am -5 pm M-F.
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops Students can rent to own! A one-year commitment is expected.
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075 NS4L.com 352-336-1271 8-16-10-25-11 Fill out an application at the front desk of
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7 he Alligator, 1105 W University Ave'
CIF _Wanted M-F 9 am -5 pm.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS Include avalablone calls pleaand refer-
Network specialists ences. Previous applicants aref
We buy computers and laptops e lcoeo apply
37Workng and Non-W reet FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS * LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS: with current schedule. EOE
4-21-10-69-7 ORunning or not!e * Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS * ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
\ Over 15 yr svc to UF students OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 8-16- the independ floridaO F Bicycles J Call Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12 25-13 a] Ii dnior
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
2 Bicycle Racks for sale for vehicles. 1 rack
for a Jeep Wrangler to attach to rear tire
$50.00 barely used. 1 bike rack for sedan-
-trunk mounted assembly for any vehicle
$40.00.Call 352-219-3391 4-21-3-9
C Fo r Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 8-16-10-25-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie -373-5929 4-21-18-10
ALL CASH VENDING! Do you earn $800 in a
day? 25 Local Machines and Candy $9,995.
(888)629-9968 B02000033 CALL US: We
will not be undersold! 4-21-1-10
PUBLIC AUCTION Over 400 Travel Trailers,
Mobile Homes & Park Homes May 1st
Carencro, LA Internet Bidding Available! NO
MINIMUM PRICE!! www.hendersonauctions.
com (225)686-2252 Lic# 136 4-21-1-10
FREE 6-Room DISH Network Satellite
System! FREE HD-DVR! $19.99/mo, 120+
Digital Channels (for 1 year.) Call Now
-$400 Signup BONUS! (888)593-7040.
4-21-1-10
Motorcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
8-16-10-25-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 8-16-10-
25-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-16-10-25-11CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
8-16-25-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
5-27-09-124-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699
94 Chevy 1500 $999
92 Chrysler Cirrus $999
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
93 Ford F150 $1999
98 Ford Explorer $1999
96 Mits Galant $1999
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Nissan Stanza $1499
98 Pontiac Transport $1499
97 Plymouth Voyager $1999
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2999
99 Olds Alero $2999
99 Pontiac Grand Am $2999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
99 Chrysler Sebring $2500
01 Dodge Neon $2500
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Mustang, 40k, $5500 CASH
03 Chevy Venture, 143k, $6900 CASH
05 Jeep Liberty, 105k, $6999 CASH
05 Saturn Ion, 123k, $7999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
06 Ford Taurus, 40k, $8900 CASH
05 VW Jetta, 111k, $8999 CASH
05 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
05 Chevy Trailblazer, 135k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-16-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948. 4-21-10-72-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 4-21-
10-72-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
Sthe independent floridaalligator
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this summer and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org by April 23th.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production Department is accepting
student applications. Applicants should have
a summer availability of
Mondays and Wednesdays between
6:00 pm and 1:00 am.
Duties include page layout and design.
Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment
is expected. Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator, 1105 W
University Ave, M-F 9 am -5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are
welcome to reapply with current schedule.
EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 8-16-10-25-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
8-16-10-25-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 8-16-25-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 8-16-10-
25-14
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male summer camp counselors ages 18 and
up. FEYC is an over-night camp located off
of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL. The camp
runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please contact Krys
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352
455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have a fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
Start securing your career today!
Join UF ARMY ROTC!
Register for MSL 1001 and 1001L
Call 392-1395 today to learn about
jobs available as an Army officer!
8-5-10-50-14
STAY IN GAINESVILLE
CAREER POSITIONS
(with benefits)
MARKETING/SALES REPS
ADMIN ASST
TECH SUPPORT
ACCOUNTING EDITOR
RESEARCH ASST
SOFTWARE TESTER
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
(PT also available)
Apply online at http://www.gleim.com
4-21-10-17-14
MASTER HYPNOTIST
Seeks intern w/excellent computer, internet
& interpersonal skills. Phone Richard in AM
352-949-0813 4-21-10-15-14
WINDOW BLIND INSTALLERS NEEDED
Independent contractors. Call immediately
339-4600 4-21-10-14-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable, writ-
ing skills a must, bookkeeping skills a plus.
Call Carrillo & Carrillo, PA @352-371-4000.
6-8-10-21-14
Fun summer jobs! Earn Great Pay! City of
Gainesville Parks/Rec Dept. is now hiring for
seasonal Recreation and Aquatics positions!
Apply online at www.cityofgainesville.jobs
AA/EO/DFWP 5-11-10-12-14
Ever think about joining the Army?
Ever considered being an officer?
If you have 2-3 years left at UF you
may have an opportunity through
Army ROTC Call 392-ARMY!
5-27-10-32-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Help wanted for wait staff and hostesses.
Experience required. Apply in person be-
tween 2pm and 4pm at 7038 NW 10th place.
4-21-10-10-14
LAW STUDENT-
EXCELLENT WRITING SKILLS.
1 year+ commitment. Resume to: 626N.E.1st
Street,32601or paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14
FRENCH TUTOR-TEMPORARY-
Family visiting France in summer. Please
include salary requirement. Resume to
paulsrothstein@yahoo.com. 4-21-10-10-14
GUITAR INSTRUCTOR-
two middle school children-beginners. Prefer
home instruction. Resume to
paulsrothstein@yahoo.com. 4-21-10-10-
14
CLEANER/GARDENER-
P/T, flex- house. Thorough and conscienten-
tous. Pay competitive. Resume to:
paulsrothstein@yahoo.com 4-21-10-10-14
OFFICE ASS'T-
F/T or part-time- love numbers, passion for
organization and fitness. Eye for detail. 1
year+ commitment. Resume to: 626N.E.1st
Street,32601or paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14
POLITICAL COORDINATOR / GRASS
ROOTS ALACHUA COUNTY ELECTIONS
Resume to paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14
HOUSEKEEPING -CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available
Mon-Fri, 10am -5pm. $7.25/hr, experience
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323
for more info and interview. 4-21-10-9-14
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010 M ALLIGATOR, 21
F Help Wanted Help Wanted services Health Services Evntotices
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Full or part time. Some weekends,holidays.
Experience preferred. Apply in person
at Jonesville Animal Hospital 14145 W.
Newberry Rd. Newberry. 4-21-10-7-14
PET PARADISE RESORT
Newberry, FL. Now accepting resumes
for entry level management position.
Experienece required. Send resume to:
m c o o I i c a n @ p e t p a ra d i s e c o r p. co m
5-11-10-8-14
Build your own online business from your
laptop. Fifty year old company.
Contact John, 352-219-0871, or
John@JCantlon.com 5-27-10-11-14
BRIDAL CONSULTANT/STYLIST
Solutions Bridal
PT+ Commission
Fax Resume to:
352-374-7293
4-21-5-14
CARETAKER -GREAT OPPORTUNITY for
psych, special ed or applied behavior majors
to obtain state of the art intervention skills
& knowledge working with severly autistic
young man in home & community based set-
ting. Must be motivated, reliable and make a
one year commitment. Hours TBA, compe-
tive wage. Fax resume to BH @352-375-4268
4-21-10-5-14
Now Hiring qualified women's J.O. Coach
For level 7 gymnastics team. Facility is lo-
cated in Starke. Please send resum with
references to
usagymnasticsofflorida@earthink.net 4-21-
10-5-14
BARTENDERS NEEDED
Earn $150-$250 per shift. FT/PT No experi-
ence required. Will train. Call now 352-678-
5246 x 701 5-11-10-5-14
Nanny for 10 month old baby girl needed.
Must be available from 8-5 at least 2 full
weekdays each week. Submit resume and
availability this summer and fall (if known) to
nannyingville@gmail.com. 4-21-10-4-14
Part Time work for potential full time income
w/ flex. hours for self-starter. Attractive com-
missions for creating membership leads for
established martial arts studio. Apply via e-
mail to schafriska@aol.com 4-21-10-3-14
The Caffeine Bar @ Ben & Jerry's is seek-
ing outgoing, motivated individuals with their
own transportation. Must thrive in a fast
paced working environment and appreciate
cleanliness and organization.
Email resumes & class schedule to:
jen@catergainesville.com 4-21-3-14
Interviewing NOW for jobs
beginning August 16th
Leave for the summer & know
you are coming back to a job!
SCHOOL BOARD OF ALACHUA COUNTY
AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM-
VARIOUS LOCATIONS-
* ENERGETIC PEOPLE TO TEACH
OUTDOOR GAMES -$10/hr -BA desired or
successful exp. working w/ children.
* CREATIVE PEOPLE TO TEACH ARTS
& CRAFTS -$10/hr -BA desired or success-
ful exp. working w/ children.
* Girl Scout Leaders, Tennis Instructors,
Dance Instructors & 4-H Leaders
Hours required -
M,T,Th,F -1:45-5:30, Wed, -12:30-5:30pm
DRUG TESTING REQUIRED -
BACKGROUND CHECK CONDUCTED -
AA/EOE
CALL 955-7766 FOR INFORMATION.
Apply online www.sbac.edu or
at Kirby Smith 620 E. University Ave. 4-21-
3-14Seeking a Clinical Support Specialist for
Gainesville, Fl. Salary: 28-30K
Requirements
B.A. level in behavioral science
Good organizational, communication and
customer service skills
Computer literate
Responsible work habits with minimal super-
vision
Responsibilities
Interface telephonically with master level cli-
nicians to assist with referrals, with providers
setting up appointments, members providing
referrals, Follow-up calls to members ensur-
ing the referral was appropriate and Daily
data entry of all activities
Find providers in rural areas (web search)
Send or fax
HMSA -Resumes
20811 Kelly Rd
Eastpointe, MT 48021
P R E M I E R
Premier Collegiate
Are you looking for a
fun and professional job?
Get paid to be a social butterfly
while working with UF Orgs.
We are HIRING IMMEDIATELY
Sales, Customer Service
and Internship positions
Submit your resume NOW to:
jobs@premiercollegiate.com
www.premiercollegiate.com
5-11-10-3-14
E X E C U T I V E
Premier Executive
Want to work in a fast paced
and exciting marketing firm?
We are HIRING IMMEDIATELY
Account Executives and
Customer Service Reps
High expectations with great opportunity!
Submit your resume NOW to:
jobs@premiercorporations.com
www.premierexecutive.com
5-11-10-3-14
Seeking a Clinical Support Specialist for July
in Gainesville, Fl. Salary: 28-30K
REQUIREMENTS
ORA. level in behavioral science
OGood organizational, communication and
customer service skills
*Computer literate
OResponsible work habits with minimal
supervision
RESPONSIBILITIES
Interface telephonically with master level cli-
nicians to assist with referrals, with providers
setting up appointments, members providing
referrals. Follow-up calls to members ensur-
ing the referral was appropriate and Daily
data entry of all activities Find providers in
rural areas (web search)
SEND OR FAX
HMSA -Resumes
20811 Kelly Rd Eastpointe, MI 48021
586-773-0953 4-21-10-2-14
W & Th Babysitter NEEDED 13-16hrs/wk;
Prefer commitment for 6mos-1 year or more.
$10/hr, college students ONLY please.
5 & 7 y/o, must have reliable transportation
Email resume, pix, and reference contacts
(3)
to mamavaw@gmail.com 4-21-1-14
CLERICAL/TECHNICIAN POSITION
FT/PT
Please apply in person.
Institute of Veterinary Spec.
3603 NW 98th St, Suite A 4-21-1-14
Drivers -FOOD TANKER DRIVERS
NEEDED OTR positions available NOW!
CDL-A w/Tanker REQ'D. Outstanding pay
& Benefits! TEAMS WELCOME!! Call a re-
cruiter TODAY! (877)484-3042 www.oak-
leytransport.com 4-21-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment School.
3wk training program. Backhoes, Bulldozers,
Trackhoes. Local job placement asst. Start
digging dirt NOW. (866)362-6497 4-21-1-
14'IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 8-16-09-25-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruction;
15 minutes from UF. Charlie at 373-5929.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-
15
Local Immigration Attorney -Marriage
Green Cards/Fiance Visas/Naturalization
Matters -$295.00 Attorney Fees Plus Costs
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
6-1-45-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding. Owner
housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 6-3-10-
30-15
KEN GARVIN APPLIANCE SERVICE
10YEARS EXPERIENCE 8AM-8PM 7 DAYS
LOW RATES ALL BRANDS STUDENT
SPECIAL $40 SERVICE CALL PLUS
PARTS WWW.KENGARVIN.COM 338-1708
4-21-20-15
ATTN GARDENERS!
I will till your gardens for less than you can
rent a tiller! Call Chauncy Gardener 352-
214-1767. Chauncy Gardener Gardening
Service. 41 years of gardening service!
4-21-10-15
THE SALON "0" SPECIALS
2720 NW 6TH STREET.352 672 6339
HIGHLIGHTS $35 10 FOILS.
MENS CUTS: $10
GOOD TIL 05/30 5-27-10-12-15
CASH NOW! Getcash for your structured set-
tlement or annuity payments. High payouts.
Call J.G. Wentworth. 1-866-SETTLEMENT
(1-866-738-8536). Rated A+ by the Better
Business Bureau. 4-21-1-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging?
Need $500-4500, 000+ +with in 48/hrs? Low
rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today!
Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 4-21-1-15
Advertising that Works. Put your ad in Over
100 Papers throughout Florida for one LOW
RATE! Call (866)742-1373 or visit: www.
florida-classifieds.com 4-21-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING -Train for high
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA
approved program. Financial aid if qualified -
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of
Maintenance (866)314-3769. 4-21-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
8-16-25-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
Grieving the loss of someone?
National Students of AMF
Join our Facebook group:
"Gator Students of AMF"
TalkAboutLoss.org 4-21-43-16
A Woman's Answer
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716 8-24-74-16
ARE YOU PREGNANT? CONSIDERING
ADOPTION? Loving married couple seeks
to adopt. Will be full-time mom (age 36) and
devoted dad. Financial security. EXPENSES
PAID. Kim/Bill (888)399-3255 FL Bar#
0150789 4-21-1-16
Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
8-16-25-18NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning
Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville
Urbanized Area announces a public meeting
to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: May 10, 2010 at 3:00 p.m.
PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium,
County Administration
Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regluar Business Meeting
of MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by
calling 352-955-2200, visiting our website
at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transporation -
MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-
lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place,
Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-
ability, familial status, religious status, marital
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.
Persons who require special accommoda-
tions under the Americans with Disabilities
Act or persons who require translation ser-
vice (free of charge) should contact Marlie
Sanderson at 352-955-2200, extension 103,
at least seven (7) days before the public
meeting. 4-21-1-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
8-16-10-25-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
WLt O Tickets
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love5$ student tkts, 352-375-HIPP
Monday, April 26, 6 pm
Mistresses of many voices
dance/theater/music performance 4-21-10-
7-22
WJZZRides
Asian male, 70 years old, professional, slim,
tall, dark. Seeking a white feamle with fair
hair between the ages of 50-70 years old.
Write to P.O Box 1823 Keystone Heights, FL
32656 4-21-10-10-19 GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -AlsoG I Event Notices Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
FREE SPAYS FOR STRAYS!
Operation Catnip will provide free spay/
neuter, vaccines, & treatment for fleas, ear
mites, & worms to unowned, stray or feral
cats from mobile home parks in Alachua
County. Volunteers are needed to help with
trapping & transportation of cats. To volun-
teer or request spay/neuter for homeless
cats call (352)380-0940. 4-21-18-20WI ZPets
FOUND: DOG
Medium-sized, brown & white, male (intact),
corgi/beagle mix? Found Fri, 4/9 south of the
town of Archer. Very friendly. 352-529-9107
4-21-3-24
Sports
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Maddox poised to rival Tucker's freshman success
He homered in all three games last weekend
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
tjett@alligator org
Preston Tucker set the stan-
dard for first-year Florida play-
ers.
Tucker was named the Fresh-
man Hitter of the Year last season
after leading the Gators in home
runs, RBIs and batting average.
"It was the best freshman sea-
son that I've ever seen anyone
have," UF coach Kevin O'Sullivan
said in the preseason.
But, just one year removed
from Tucker's historic freshman
campaign, designated hitter Aus-
tin Maddox is threatening to raise
the first-year bar even higher.
Maddox homered in each
game of No. 7 Florida's (25-10,
10-5 Southeastern Conference)
series against Kentucky last
weekend, and the freshman will
try to extend his long-ball streak
when the Gators travel to play
South Florida (16-19, 8-4 Big East)
tonight at 7.
"I'm seeing the ball real well
right now," said Maddox, who
was named the SEC Freshman
Hitter of the Week and leads theGators with 12 home runs, 42
RBIs and a .369 average.
If Florida wins enough in the
postseason to play 64 games like
the team did last year, Maddox
is on pace to hit 22 homers and
drive in 77 runs. In 2009, Tuckerhit 15 long balls and drove in a
school-record 85 RBIs while hit-
ting .364.
One difference between the
two players is their plate disci-
pline.
Maddox has only drawn threewalks and has struck.
one more punch out
recorded during the
season.
But O'Sullivan i
cerned.
"He's not Nolan
O'Sullivan said, refe
Gators leadoff hitter
Harrison Diamond
UF's Preston Tucker (right) was named Freshman Hitter of the Year last season after batting
15 home runs and 85 RBIs. Austin Maddox is hitting .369 and is on pace for 22 homers an
No. 4 Florida falls to FlU
0 PITCHER ENSLEY GAMMEL TOOK
HER FIRST LOSS OF THE SEASON.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Writer
The rain seemed to dampen more than
just the field Tuesday night.
For No. 4 Florida (34-6, 14-3 Southeastern
Conference), Tuesday's doubleheader was
shortened to just a single 8-3 loss to FIU (30-
15, 11-5 Sun Belt Conference) in front of the
few fans who weathered the rain at Katie Sea-
shole Pressly Stadium.
Freshman Ensley Gammel shouldered
the loss for the Gators, dropping her record
to 10-1 on the season. Gammel gave up five
runs on eight hits in 3.2 innings of action.
"We didn't pitch very well," UF coach
Tim Walton said. "Not by lack of effort but
just not locating our pitches and not doing as
good a job as we needed to."
FIU jumped out to an early 1-0 lead, scor-ing on a double steal in the top of the first.
After UF answered back with two of its
own in the bottom of the inning, FIU tied the
game with an RBI double in the top of the sec-
ond and then took back the lead with a solo
home run from Ashley McClain in the third.
The Golden Panthers' offense consistently
padded their lead, adding two more runs in
the fourth to extend their lead to 5-2.
Corrie Brooks cut the deficit to two when
she led off the fourth with her
seventh home run of the season.
But, as was the case in everySoftball other inning, the Gators were
only able to muster one hit.
After the fourth inning the
rain started to fall, leading to slippery soft-
balls and control issues for both sides.
What followed was a scoreless fifth before
FIU tacked on three more insurance runs in
the sixth against relief pitcher Erin Schup-
pert, who walked three in the frame.
SEE SOFTBALL, PAGE 28Columnists th
By BOBBY CALLOVI
Bobby's World
bcallovi@alligator org
When Mike McCall told then-
Sports Editor Bryan Jones that he
should give me a job at the Alliga-
tor despite having no experience, he
thought he was doing me a favor.
But he wasn't doing me a favor;
he was doing the paper and all of
its readers a favor. For the past three
years, I have given the Alligator the
best coverage of sports, or any other
topic for that matter, it has ever had.
In a study that I made up, it was
found that there is a 40 percent drop
off in readership on days when I do
not have an article in the paper.
So McCall deserves a thank you.
Certainly, not from me though, butout 23 times, drawn 26 walks this year. "If he
than Tucker takes a walk instead of a hit, that
whole 2009 might cost us a few runs."
The coaching staff also wants
s not con- Maddox to swing at anything he
thinks he can hit, the freshman
Fontana," added.
rring to the "They've told me since Day 1,
r who has 'Be aggressive,"' Maddox said.
"That's what I'm doing. That's
what kind of hitter I am.
"I walk up there, and if I get a
pitch around the zone I'm going
to hack at it."
Maddox has solidified himself
as the team's power hitter, but
he has started every game in his
first year yet questions still linger
about his durability.
Most highly recruited preps
play all year, but they split time
between their high school team
and an AAU squad.
Playing one long season with-
out any breaks wore Tucker out
last season.
"I was pretty exhausted," he
said. "(The freshmen) are, prob-
ably not just yet, but are going to
start wearing down."
Tucker talked to Maddox and
the other newcomers about pre-
ga.364 with paring for "the grind," even if
that helps Maddox in his race
d 77 RBIs. against Tucker 2009.
anks nobody
from all the
readers who
only got to ex-
perience my
greatness be-
cause of him.
Bobby Callovi In fact, I re-
Bobby's World ally have no
bcallovi@alligator org one to thank
for my rise to
prominence
asd I say goodbye to the Alligator.
My first full semester at the paper,
it was McCall along with Phil Kegler
who were in charge of the sports sec-
tion, attempting to "help" me.
They thought they would try to
critique my writing and give pointers
to a writer new to the field.
Again, their intentions were off.
SEE BOBBY, PAGE 28
alligatorSports Podcast
EWe will continue producing
podcasts while the paper is on
break, including the 100th episode
spectacular, so make sure to keep
checking for new episodes.alligatorSports.org
E We will continue covering all the UF sports
competing during the break. Gymnastics
writer Tom Green will be cover all three days
of the NCAA Championships starting Thurs-
day. Check out the website forstoirs.TEEING OFF WITH BOBBY CALLOVI
U Former Gator Joakim Noah is taking some heat for insulting the city of Cleve-
land by asking "What's so good about Cleveland." Clearly, he never watched The
Drew Carey Show, or he would know that "Cleveland Rocks," but seriously, who
vacations in Cleveland. .I will now do my best Phil Kegler impression. I can't
wait for the NFL Draft this weekend. I really hope Ryan Stamper gets drafted.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 23
Gators prepare for SEC Tourney
0 THE MEN'S AND WOMEN'S SQUADS HAVE
FIRST-ROUND BYES AND WON'T PLAY THEIR
FIRST MATCHES UNTIL FRIDAY.
By ANDREW OLSON
Alligator Writer
The Gators tennis teams are both excited for the
Southeastern Conference Tournament, they just
don't know who they will play yet.
The No. 3 women's team (21-2, 11-0 SEC) is the
No. 1 seed at the tournament in Athens, Ga., and get
a first-round bye from Thursday's action. Friday, it
will face either No. 9-seed Alabama or No. 8-seed
LSU at 10 a.m.
UF has the advantage of playing on a court it has
already won at this season. On April 11, the Gators
defeated then-No. 14 Georgia 6-1.
"Everybody did a great job," No. 11 freshman
Lauren Embree said. "The crowd was against us, but
we came out and won against a good team."
Embree heads into Friday with a 13-match win-
ning streak at the No. 1 position in singles.
It does not get any easier for opponents to beat
the Gators at the next spot down. SEC Freshman of
the Week No. 7 Allie Will posted a 20-0 record in
singles this dual-match season.Thanks to the success of Embree and Will, the ex-
pectations are high going into the postseason for the
Gators.
"Any (upcoming) match we don't win would be a
disappointment," UF women's coach Roland Thorn-
qvist said.
The No. 6 men's squad (17-3, 9-1 SEC) will be the
No. 2 seed at the SEC Tournament in Lexington, Ky.
UF goes into the tournament with a 9-1 record in
conference play, but men's coach Andy Jackson does
not want to talk about a rematch with the one team
that got the best of the Gators.
"It's way too early to talk about (a
possible rematch with) Tennessee,"
Jackson said.
The men's squad has also hadWomen's success on the court they will be
Tenn is playing on at the SEC Tournament
in Lexington, defeating then-No. 10
Kentucky 4-3 there on April 4.
The only way Florida faces the Volunteers is if
both teams make the tournament championship
match Sunday.
UF will face either No. 7-seed Vanderbilt or No.
10-seed Mississippi State on Friday at noon. The
Gators swept the Commodores 7-0 earlier this year,
and their match against the Bulldogs was rained out
and never played them this season.Steven H. Keys/ Alligator Staff
UF freshman Allie Will finished the dual-match season 20-0, earn-
ing her the No. 7 ranking.
A great paying job
in a clinical lab -
that's for me.
Sign-up today for the new
Bachelor's of Applied Science
in Clinical Laboratory Science
Will involve clinical rotations
in local hospitals and clinics
Starting salaries after graduation
exceed $50,000
Taught at new center in
Alachua, the Charles R.
and Nancy V. Perry Center
for Emerging Technologies
across from biotech park
Main campus tours
Mon.- Fri. at 10 a.m.
and 2 p. m
FS SANTAFE::C 0 L L E G E
THE SMART CHOICE.
www.sfcollege.edu
352.395.5000I ALTERNATOR , ST RTERS& BATTERIES
I $0FF ANY REPAIR OR SERVICE
378-4440
GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF any one GNC Product
Cannot be combined One Coupon per customer
3914 SW Archer Rd
Dily Spec~ias 377-6020 Exp 4/3OI1O
r
EXAMS
bky Ind en' O omeiii)
N % , Corner of
NWl3thSt.
S & 39th Ave.
Near Publix
EYECARE
I EXPRESS 1
L (352)375-6133
C=
ONLY6S
BLOCKS
FROMUF!
352.338.7467
Contact us for other specials available.
kBig Ron's m
Yoga College
TOTAL MIND AND BODY WORKOUT
An exciting, challenging, hardworking,
effective yoga class, Bikram-dyled aiha
Yoga is desi ned to work every muscle,
joint, gland, and organ in your body.
DAILY CLASSES FOR ALL FITNESS LEVELS
Monday-Friday: 9:00am and 6:30pm Basic Yoga
Saturday: 10:00am and 4:00pm Saturday: 12:00 noonSunday: 10:00am and 6:30pm
www.bigronsyoga.com
24, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010WhwW Wrj _.2
By TOM GREEN
Alligator WriterR eaching the top of the college gym-
nastics world is a no easy feat. Only
our teams have won the national
title in the sport's previous 28 years -Utah,
Georgia, Alabama and UCLA.
Florida hasn't been able to join that elite
club, but the experienced gymnasts on this
year's team have come close, finishing
fourth in the NCAA
Super Six in 2008
and 2009 and third in
2007.
But this season, with
the NCAA Champion-
ships in Gainesville, the
second-seeded Gators (15-
2, 5-1 Southeastern Confer-
ence) believe this is their year
to finally get over that hump
and take home the school's
first title.
And getting over that
hump begins Thursday
night at 7 when the Gators
will compete in the second
session of team qualifying
for the Super Six compe-
tition Friday against
Alabama, Arkansas,
Missouri, Stanford
and Michigan.
"We have to
take it one day at
a time, but if we are ca-
pable and do what we can
do and hit to the best of our
ability, I feel we genuinely
have a chance to win the
national championship,"
UF coach Rhonda Faehnsaid.
The team has had that mentality all
year, dating back to the preseason. The
gymnasts came into season with a set of
goals, starting with improving each week
and winning the SEC title.
They were able to check that one off the
list last month in Jacksonville when they
rallied from a slow start on vault to win
the SEC title.
Next on the
list of goals was
winning their
regional compe-
tition -another
one they knocked
out after rallying ICE = 
.
from a rough per-
formance on floor
in Salt Lake City
to take home UF's
11th regional title
and sixth in a row.
After accomplish-
ing those two goals, only one remains for
the Gators: winning an NCAA title.
This year's team believes it will be able
to do what the teams before it failed to,
and it knows this season is different from
years past.
One of the differences is a lack of com-
placency, something seniors Amanda Cas-
tillo and Rebekah Zaiser said set in after
the team won the SEC title in 2007. As a
result, the team faltered down the stretch
of its postseason run.
"Last time we won SECs, we had an
easy regional and a lot of people went into
it half-heartedly and we couldn't pull it
back together for nationals," Zaiser said.IThat year, Florida was ranked first most
of the season, but mistakes on the bars and
floor cost it in the Super Six and the Gators
finished third.
But the focus is evident this season in
practice and during competition. Since the
SEC Championships, Faehn has said the
team has been "pushing for perfection,"
"not missing anything" and "kicking butt"
in training.
Meanwhile, in competi-
tion, the team has scored
above 197 in five of its last
six meets, including a sea-
son-best 197.675 in region-
al competition. To put that
into perspective, the team's
all-time high in NCAA Su-
per Six meets is 197.225,
which it scored in 2007.
The gymnasts all feel
they are maturing at the
right time and getting better
each week. Faehn sees that
too, but she and the gymnasts still think
the team hasn't reached its potential.
"That's the crazy thing. We definitely
haven't had our best meet yet. We can still
do better, absolutely," Faehn said.
Several factors have contributed to the
growth and maturity as the season has
progressed.
A large part of that is that the team is fi-
nally healthy this season. Last year, Gators
had to cope with injuries that ended the
season early for Castillo, Zaiser and soph-
omore Nicole Ellis and only eight Gators
competed in the Super Six.
But now, the roster is at full strength,
even with senior Maranda Smith battling
The UF gymnastics team finished in the top four at each of the last three NCAA Championships but has never broken through to
win a national title. The Gators hope that will change in front of a home crowd this weekend when UF hosts the NCAA Super Six.pain in her shoulder and shin, and Faehn
feels confident in her lineups from top to
bottom, as 11 Gators have earned at least a
share of an event title this season.
"You need at least four really good
scores," Faehn said. "You expect your last
few girls to bring in the big numbers, but
when you have your third, fourth, fifth
and sixth girl -or even second -going
up, that's what the difference is in winning
a title. Every team is going to have one or
two great athletes, but it's the team that
has four, five and six great athletes that's
the one that's going to win a title."
With a lineup that combines youthful
inexperience (more than 50 percent of rou-
tines coming from freshmen) and senior
leadership -five seniors on the roster -
Florida could have found the perfect reci-
pe for a championship this season.
While some may think having a pre-
dominantly freshman lineup could hinder
the team's success, Faehn said that isn't
the case with this team.
"This freshman class hasn't shown any
concern or any nerves so far under any of
the pressure situations they've been a part
of in SEC Championships and regionals,"
Faehn said. "They didn't know what to ex-
pect in those situations and they did phe-
nomenal. We're expecting the same thing
from them."
?i D F -
But if the team hopes to stamp its mem-
bership to that elite group and win its first
NCAA title, it will have to get past three
members of that club -No. 1 seed UCLA,
No. 3 seed Alabama and No. 5 seed Utah
-and that will be no easy task.
It should help the freshmen that their
first experiences at NCAA Championships
will be in the confines of the O'Connell
Center.
"It will ease their nerves a bit," Smith
said.
For Smith and the other seniors, it will
be their last chance to compete in college
and their final time in Gainesville
"It's going to make us feel more com-
fortable just to be at home and not in a
foreign place," Castillo said. "You know
every corner, and it makes it more com-
fortable to compete in."
But the importance of having the NCAA
Championships in Gainesville extends be-
yond the familiarity the athletes have with
the O'Connell Center.
In a large meet where there are gym-
nasts on every apparatus, having a friend-
ly crowd can be quite an advantage.
"It's a very big factor because our ath-
letes feed off of that energy, and if we see
a sea of orange and blue when we look
up in the stands, our athletes get so much
energy and they want to perform," Faehn
said. "When the crowd roars, it just gets
so exciting and it makes the whole atmo-
sphere really special."
With everything seeming to go in Flori-
da's favor leading up to the NCAA Cham-
pionships, the Gators are confident this is
their year to make it to the top of the col-
lege gymnastics world. However, Faehn
said her team is smart enough to not let
outside factors get in its head and to keep
taking competitions one day at a time like
it has all season.
"You can't get complacent, you can't
trust success and you can't get cocky,"
Castillo said. "You can't let anything get
to your head, and it all comes back to the
practice gym. We just need to keep on
pushing and if we do what we've been do-
ing all season, there's no reason why we
can't bring home the national title."
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 25
I 09 %q, .1 01-41rV%*9 V 4- '9 VN
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
N'to f% " .1119# 9 0
o 9 h ,j *t0 #9
- ul
Please use trash cans and clean up spills in libraries that allow food.GT Motorcars
Specializing in Collision Repairs
on All Makes
Mention this ad
and receivea
student discount 371-0215
33 SE 13th Road
www.GT-motorcars.con
ATTENTION ALLIGATOR
ADVERTISERS
The Alligator will not be publishing
from Thursday, April 22th through
Monday, May 10th.
The Deadline for
Tuesday, May 11th is:
Friday, May 6th by 4:00pm
for both Display and Classified Advertising.
Display Classifieds
376.4482 373.3463 alligatorF'
9*4 VV
26, ALLIGATOR 0 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010
Penn Relays gives UF another chance to win steeplechase
0 JULIE NORTHCUP WON THE RACE
AT FLORIDA RELAYS.
By RYAN BUTLER
Alligator Writer
Of the dozens of events at the prestigious
Penn Relays, only one leaves footprints.
The No. 1 men's and No. 5 women's UF
track and field teams begin competing at the
116th Penn Relays on Thursday. UF athletes
are expected to contend for first-place finishes
in several jumps and relays races on the men's
side. They should also contend in jumps,
throws and distance events on the women's
side, including the steeplechase.
"Its neat to tell people you run steeple-
chase because of their reactions," senior Julie
Northrup said. "They want to see you eat it,
and its exciting to watch."
Like the 10,000-meter run and 5,000-me-
ter, the steeplechase involves long distances
around the track. But the 3,000-meter event in-
cludes five barriers (36 inches for men, 30 for
women) and a 12 foot-long slope full of water.
Runners must clear 28 barriers over the course
of the race and five more that require runners
to plunge into nearly two feet of water.
"There's nothing like jumping over the wa-
ter barrier and grinding though it," Northrupsaid. "You can pass people even if they're fast-
er than you in a 3K."
The race is unique for distance runners be-
cause it is the only event that requires more
than the disciplines of running. Athletes must
adjust for the hurdles and the extra water-
weight in their shoes.
"Youhave to expect everything," Northrup
said. "You can't get upset about a mess-up be-
cause it happens eventually."
James Uthmeier experienced that first-
hand at the 2010 Florida Relays. Holding the
third position midway through the race, Uth-
meier crashed into a barrier and withdrew
from the race two laps later.
Northrup won the steeplechase at the
Florida Relays in a personal-
record 10:29:22. She finished
second in last year's Penn
Relays and will be a favorite
Track to win along with teammate
Genevieve LaCaze, who won
the steeplechase at the 2009 Florida Relays.
Only offered in the outdoor season, the
steeplechase gives the defending SEC Indoor
Champions another event they can score team
points in. With many of their athletes improv-
ing from the indoor season, the event could be
the difference in improving the Gators' fourth-
place finish at the indoor championships in
the outdoor nationals.UF senior
week.Julie Northrup will compete in the steeplechase at the Penn Relays this
A0 I ID
Shnd-1 4M-0 Mn -t.-rsa
COUNSELORS
/WANTED!
APPLY ONLINE
Coed
Overnight Camp
TR AMPS.com 800.258.2267
SAFETY BELTS.]
SMART FROM THE START-*Jc3 ErIy Eird lfcor GrcdLatic3 m
I S24 MW I Z3t M-. CQ iriIIe, F"L"
3E.Z373.I )7"BECOME A YOGA TEACHER AND CHANGE YOUR LIFE"
200 Hour Yoga Teacher Training
Yoga Alliance Certified
Next One Month Intensive Begins May 18th
www. inspirationyogainstitute. com
(352) 870-7645 -Alachua, Florida
TRaKI OU.
Special thanks to the students in the
Advertising department for making
this semester so successful!
Sat
iepkaie CH.
JuLP a
PAxexGassaoK&a
aoutltRe
Qaistipa
Max
aoqgatubations to ou gaduatitg seioKs!
Good luck in the future! We will miss you!
Zogja
Maddie. a aA
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 27
YOUTH IS SERVED
L
Steven H. Keys / Alligator Staff
UF first-year players Sakou Bangoura Jr., Nassim Slilam and Bob Van Overbeek have provided the Gators the stability they needed at the Nos. 4-6 spots in singles play. The trio
finished SEC play with a combined 23-4 record, which included seven match-clinching victories for Florida.
By ANDREW OLSON
Alligator Writer
Expectations were high when Bob Van
Overbeek, Sekou Bangoura, Jr., and Nas-
sim Slilam joined the Gators men's tennis
team.
"Our incoming freshmen this spring
make a big difference in our expectations,"
UF coach Andy Jackson said before the
season.
The team set goals before the year: win
the Southeastern Conference East, win
the SEC Tournament and win the NCAA
Tournament.
Instead of being overwhelmed by the
pressure of being ranked No. 11, the fresh-
men bought into the championship expec-
tations for the 2010 season.
"They're the kind of guys who probably
saw the No. 11 ranking and said, 'There are
10 teams better than us?"' Jackson said.
In the early ITA polls, the SEC had the
most teams in the top-25. Conference play
did not begin until March.
For the Gators to find out if 10 teams
deserved to be ranked higher than they
were, they needed to accomplish a goal
that preceded the other three: make it to
the ITA tournament in Charlottesville, Va.
UF was one of 15 schools to host ITA
Kick-Off Weekend in January. At each site,
four schools would compete in a weekend
tournament with the 18 winners squaring
off in Charlottesville two weeks later.
To qualify for Charlottesville, UF de-
feated then-unranked and current-No. 24
Georgia Tech 7-0.
The trip to Virginia brought the team
together. An early loss was avenged and
a good-natured prank amused teammates
and coaches alike.
AN EARLY OPPORTUNITY FOR REVENGE
Looking back on the regular season,
Van Overbeek and Bangoura -"Kou-
Kou" as he's been nicknamed by Gators
women's tennis freshman Lauren Embree-bring up one opponent more than the
others: Baylor.
The second dual match of their colle-
giate careers meant a trip to Waco, Tex.,
on Jan. 24 to face the then-No. 6 team in
the country on its home court.
"We were nervous as hell," Van Over-
beek said.
The result was a 5-2 loss for Florida.
Van Overbeek, Bangoura and Slilam all
lost their matches in straight sets.
On Feb. 12, Florida and the freshmen
had the opportunity to avenge their loss.
Two of the first-year players made sure
UF came out on the winning side of the re-
match.hofer, a freshman. When a fire alarm went
off in the hotel, Federhofer saw an oppor-
tunity to have some fun with the French-
speaker in his room.
"The fire alarm goes off in the hotel
right after Nass got out of the shower,"
Van Overbeek retells the story. "Billy says
to him 'Nass! Fire! We have to go!' Most
of us just kind of casually made our way
down to the lobby. Nass is the first one of
us down to this crowded lobby full of peo-
ple. He's in just a towel -no clothes on
-all these people looking at him. Coach
(Jackson) walked up to him, paused and
said 'I like it Nass.'"'
They're the kind of guys who probably
saw the No. 11 ranking and said 'there
are 10 teams better than us?'
Andy Jackson
UF men's tennis coach
In Waco, Bangoura lost 6-4, 6-4 on the
No. 3 court to Attila Bucko. In Charlottes-
ville, he was moved to the No. 5 spot for
the first time all season.
It proved to be a good fit as Bangoura
defeated Roberto Maytin 3-6, 6-4, 6-1.
"Baylor was definitely a turning point
for us," Bangoura said.
At the No. 6 position, Slilam had the
opportunity to avenge his loss 6-4, 6-0 in
Waco to Maros Horny. In Charlottesville,
he defeated Horny 6-4, 3-6, 6-1 for the
clinching win.
Slilam continued to shine in the tourna-
ment, earning a spot on the all-tournament
team.
But his teammates are quick to recall a
less flattering account of Slilam's trip to
Virgina.
Slilam's roommate for the trip to Vir-
ginia was North Miami native Billy Feder-SLILAM'S ADJUSTMENT
At this point in the season, Slilam is past
the language and culture barrier that had
him race for the hotel lobby in a towel.
Slilam insists "my English is terrible,"
but Van Overbeek, Bangoura and others
are now able to communicate with him in
English and relate to him off the court.
"When I first got here, I naturally hung
out with (fellow Frenchmen) Alex (Lacro-
ix) and Antoine (Benneteau)," Slilam said.
"Now, I hang out with everybody."
Slilam's transition from Paris to UF has
been aided by being surrounded with peo-
ple who knew what he was going through.
Besides team leaders Lacroix and Ben-
neteau, assistant coach Jeremy Bayon, who
recruited Slilam, also made the adjustment
to life at a SEC university (Mississippi
State) as a French-speaking tennis player.Slilam currently dates a fellow internation-
al student-athlete: Gators women's tennis
senior Marrit Boonstra (The Netherlands).
STABILITY IN THE TOUGHEST CONFERENCE
On the court, Slilam has led the way for
his fellow first-year Gators.
At that important match in Charlottes-
ville against Baylor, Jackson placed Van
Overbeek and Bangoura at Nos. 4 and 5
in singles. The rest of the season, the trio
of Van Overbeek, Bangoura and Slilam
would dominate from Nos. 4-6. Van Over-
beek and Bangoura have earned a com-
bined five SEC Freshman of the Week hon-
ors after the Baylor match.
In SEC play, the three went 23-4, includ-
ing seven victory-clinching wins.
One of the most important clinching
wins of the season came April 11 against
rival Georgia.
Florida led the then-No. 8 Bulldogs 3-2
as Van Overbeek and Benneteau were in
tight matches that could have gone either
way.
The team gathered near court No. 4 to
cheer on Van Overbeek in the third set.
Slilam frequently motioned to the crowd
to make noise and cheer for the freshman.
When Van Overbeek took the set 6-4 to
clinch the win over UGA, he was mobbed
by Slilam and the rest of the team.
"At this point in the season, we don't
like to think of the team as 'French guys'
and 'in-state guys,"' Jackson said. "We like
to see them all as Gators."
This group of Gators heads to Lexing-
ton, Ky., as the No. 2 seed in the SEC Tour-
nament with hopes of a rematch against
Tennessee, their lone conference loss. The
first-year players' contributions mean
two of three goals for the season are still
obtainable: SEC Tournament champions
and NCAA champions. Having risen five
spots since the first poll in January with
a chance to bring some hardware back to
Gainesville, these three first-year contribu-
tors have exceeded expectations.
28, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010
w t.t w[
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersRain cancels second game
SOFTBALL, from page 22 "They want to win, they're
hungry, and there's no quit."
The Gators got leadoff runners
aboard in the sixth and seventh
but never got anything going af-
ter that, ensuring the 8-3 defeat.
"When you're so used to win-
ning so many times, there's really
no answer for it," Walton said.
"We work hard, we play well, we
hit some balls well today and did
some good things, and defensive-
ly we made a couple nice plays.GammelAfter play-
ing through the
rain for the last
hour of Game 1,
it was decided
that the forecast
was too forebod-
ing to attempt
to squeeze in a
nightcap. No makeup is being
scheduled.
BOBBY, from page 22
All they were doing was witnessing the begin-
ning of The Next Big Thing in sports writing
and taking notes on what they could be doing
better.
Then, it was former Alligator writer Nick
Zaccardi who jumped on the Bobby Callovi
bandwagon. He would give me "feedback" on
my stories without me even asking him.
He was more like a school girl who just got
to meet Justin Bieber than an older writer.
My stories would just come back with com-
ments like, "Great Job," "You're Amazing," "I
wish I was this good," and "I want to have
your children."
Poor guy still can't catch a break in the in-
dustry and is still living with his parents while
waiting for his first job offer.
Once I get out of this place, I will make sure
to help him out.The next person to join my fan club was Ya-
hoo! Sports NFL writer Jason Cole. I decided
to take his sports reporting class here at UF to
pass on some advice to other future journalists
who were aspiring to be as good as me. There
was only so much I can do for those kids. Af-
ter all, I have so much natural ability that just
can't be taught.
Little did I know, it wasn't just the students
trying to learn from me.
Cole also wanted some tips. Although he
was once a great journalist, he has lost a step or
two and was looking for a way to rejuvenate
his career.
For those people who took that class with
me, all of those things he taught us about be-
ing sports writers were actually advice I gave
him before every class. Sorry Jason, I know I
promised to keep it a secret but it is about time
I get the credit I deserve. I can no longer allow
you to continue your Milli Vanilli routine and
take credit for something that is not yours.Finally, and most surprisingly, professor
Mike Foley became the most recent addition to
people who are trying to join my entourage in
an attempt to get something out of the money
machine that is my career.
Usually, Foley sticks to the news sections of
the paper and doesn't worry too much about
sports, so you can imagine, I was somewhat
surprised -but when you are this good, you
can't be too surprised when someone is just
trying to use you for their own gain -when
Foley began sucking up to me.
Students having been kissing his ass for
years in hopes of him getting them a job,
which was obvious because he knew from ex-
perience that a courtesy laugh at all my jokes
would butter me up.
I still wasn't sure what he would get out of
being in my corner, but his intentions became
clear when he recommended me for an intern-
ship at his former employer the St. Petersburg
Times.He can't help himself but to spew out praise
for the paper in every one of his class periods,
and he just want to use me as an example as
one of the greats his paper produced.
I have yet to decide whether I want to grant
the old man his last wish from me.
Other people in the Bobby Callovi Fan
Club who were not mentioned specifically in
this column include: Kyle Maistri, Adam Ber-
ry, my mom and dad, my girlfriend, professor
Norm Lewis and anyone who has ever read
one of my stories.
While currently I can only label them as ad-
mirers, the young writers at the Alligator that
were lucky enough to get my golden touch
such as Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett, Greg Luca
and the five writers I hired out this semester
have the ability to become half the writer I am,
which is still a damn good thing.
So to all of you that have lived vicariously
through me for the last three years, you're
welcome.
SHCC@SHANDS
For students:
Primary Care
Allergy Injection Clinic
Immunizations
For employees:
Occupational Medicine
Workers' Compensation
Services
Travel Clinic and Needlestick
Care available for students
and employees
Call 352-392-0627
Become our fan on Facebook
UF Student Health Care Center
