the independent florida
the_
Avenue m~-
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 121 We Inform. You Decide.
Ben Folds fills
Phillips Center
0 1,577 PEOPLE ATTENDED THE CONCERT.
By GABRIELLE FALCONEIRI
Alligator Contributing Writer
Leaving behind green beer and St. Patrick's Day festivities,
1,577 people headed to the Phillips Center for the Performing
Arts on Wednesday night to watch a sold-out Ben Folds per-
formance.
Folds is a singer, pianist and songwriter known for his clev-
er, tongue-in-cheek lyrics.
Folk-rock guitarist Zach Williams played a 30-minute open-
ing set and told the audience he shared their excitement about
seeing Folds.
Folds walked on stage and broke into the first few minutes of
"Free Coffee" from the album "Way to Normal" before moving
into "Annie Waits" from the album "Rockin' the Suburbs."
"Play some 'Picture Window' stuff," a fan shouted between
songs.
"You know the new album," Folds laughed. "That makes
me really happy, when people request songs that haven't been
released yet."
Folds also played the hit single "Brick," which he recorded
with his former band, Ben Folds Five.
The concert was in honor of Jewish Awareness month and
co-sponsored by Student Government Productions Music and
Entertainment and the Jewish Student Union.
Folds was paid $35,240 to perform, according to Student
Government Finance.
Shakespeare hits park
By ANDREW PANTAZI
Alligator Contributing Writer
There will be eavesdropping,
matchmaking and lying on the Plaza
of the Americas today, Saturday and
Sunday.
At least that's what JamieLynn Buc-
ci is hoping for.
Bucci, a history junior, is the head
director for Shakespeare in the Park's
performance of "Much Ado About
Nothing."
Shakespeare in the Park became an
official UF organization two years ago
and performs Shakespeare plays on
the Plaza of the Americas each year.
This year's performances will take
place at 6 p.m. Thursday, Saturday
U UF football
coach Urban Meyer
returned to the field
for the first day of
spring practice,
ending much of the
speculation over
his future after
three months of
uncertainty.
See Story, Page 20.and Sunday. There will also be a mati-
nee showing at 1 p.m. on Saturday.
Joseph Sweeney, Shakespeare in the
Park's president, said he hopes at least
100 people will watch each of the per-
formances.
The number of people attending the
show has increased each
On year, Sweeney said.
Campus Allison Griner, co-di-
rector of the performance
and an actor in the show, said this per-
formance's actors are especially ener-
getic during their outdoor practices.
"I think the best inadvertent market-
ing technique was practicing outside
because all the people walking by
seem to notice the people yelling at
each other," Griner said.ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
Although Tuesday's city election saw
an encouraging increase in voter turnout
from the last mayoral race, election of-
ficials see room for improvement.
Their disappointment is directed at
the 62,456 registered voters who failed
to make it to the polls, particularly in the
on-campus precincts.
Of the 13,525 people registered to
vote at the Reitz Union, the Performing
Arts Center and the Florida Museum of
Natural History, 501, or about 4 percent,
came out to vote.
"I'm pretty sure everyone wants to
have their voice heard," said Pam Car-
penter, Alachua County Supervisor of
Elections. "I just don't understand."
Because there is no question on the
Officers involved in grad student shooting placed on administrative duty
The five University Police officers in-
volved in the March 2 shooting of UF gradu-
ate student Kofi Adu-Brempong were placed
on administrative duty under UPD policy.
They've been promoted from the paid ad-
ministrative leave they were on following the
shooting, which is also standard procedure,
said UF spokesman Steve Orlando. Any fur-
ther disciplinary action would be premature
until the invesitgation ends, he said.
One of the demands presented to UF ad-ministration by protesters Tuesday called
for the firing of officer Keith Smith, who was
verbally reprimanded last year for the harass-
ment of residents in a known prostitution
area by Gainesville police officers.
"I think the U.S. holds [itself] to a high
standard in the justice system that people are
innocent until proven guilty," said freshman
Alexandra Bargoot. "Administrative duty is
an appropriate position for him right now."
-KATHERINE BEIN10Recycle'
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010
Voter turnout disappoints
ballot that asks for student identifica-
tion, there is no exact indication of how
many students turned out at the campus
precincts.
Carpenter said apathy may be the cul-
prit behind the low turnout.
LoweUCity Commissioner
Craig Lowe received the
most votes in each of the
three precincts, gaining
253 votes.
Monica Leadon Coo-
per had the second-
highest total with 116
votes, followed by Don
Marsh, who will be challenging Lowe
in the April 13 runoff election, Richard
Selwach and Ozzy Angulo.
For more information, visit elections.
alachua.fl.us.
TOday
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 10
CLASSIFIEDS 15 Partly
CROSSWORD 19 cloudy
SPORTS 20 66/43
visit www.alligator.orgTimmy 2.0
Former UF quarterback Tim Tebow shows off his improved mechanics and new throwing motion for
NFL coaches and scouts at UF's Pro Scout Day in The Swamp on Wednesday. Tebow and other UF pro
prospects, including Joe Haden and Brandon Spikes, worked out for teams. See story, page 23.
1 LOCAL
ga
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
The Society of Professional
Journalists' First Amendment
Free Food Festival
Friday, 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.
The Plaza of the Americas
Eat free or live free. You can't
do both. Sign away your First
Amendment rights for free lunch
at the Society of Professional
Journalists' Free Food Festival. It
will certainly be the most excit-
ing and shocking lunch you will
ever have.
DU Got Talent?
Tonight, 6:30
Skyy Nightclub
Delta Upsilon philanthropy
DU Got Talent? tickets are $6 at
the door, and all proceeds ben-
efit the Boys and Girls Club of
Alachua County. All are wel-
come and invited to come out
for a night of talent and fun. For
inquiries, please contact Bryan
Griffin at 707-234-5242.
The Constitutionalization of
the EU Workshop
Saturday, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Dauer Hall 215
International speakers Marco
Brunazzo and Sergio Fabbrini of
the University of Trento, Andre
Glencross of the University of
Pennsylvania, Joseph Jupille ofthe University of Colorado, Dan
Kelemen of Rutgers University
and Andres Malamud of the
University of Lisbon. The main
topic will be discussed in a
comparative (American) per-
spective.For more information,
go to http://www.ces.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
And want to see it in this
space? Send an e-mail with
"What's Happening" in the
subject line to efuggetta@al-
ligator.org. Please model your
submissions after the events
listed above. Improperly for-
matted "What's Happening"
submissions may not appear in
the paper. News releases will
not appear in the paper.cc
cc-o
_-CCD
0>0 -
C)CD
a,
-)-
-o
.-a the independent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 121 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Flonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
N NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
cc.
"IDEEC-0
E-
CDL:.
:cEc
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
Free Trip to elgaq C A$ H
TAM PA rd 4 '0 1Tues & Sat GO LD /
Call for details 352-219-8778 Butler Plaza Newberry SBuare s J e n o
Signature Shuttle 3351232 332-3937
SUNIVERS"T Y OF FLOR BA BASEBALLMana
Manag
Assis
Assis
alligatorEditor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
ging Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
ing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
tant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner,jmisner@alligator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, ctillo@alligator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
tant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
rSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligatororg
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Holly Kane, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
Andrew Pantazi, Paul Runnestrand,
Colin Simmons, Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
Operation Beautiful fights negative body image
Hunter Sizemore/ Alligator Staff
Caitlin Boyle, founder of the Web site Operation Beautiful, smiles as a crowd member snaps her photo
following Boyle's talk Wednesday evening.---BY LYN KRAMER
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 30 students learned about
the definition of beauty and the pow-
er of anonymous notes at the Opera-
tion Beautiful Forum on Wednesday
night in Anderson Hall.
The forum was presented by the
Women's Leadership Council and
Alpha Kappa Delta Phi.
Operation Beautiful, a Web site
and movement started in June 2009,
encourages people to post inspi-
rational notes in public places for
other people to find, said founder
Caitlin Boyle.
"Beauty is deeper than just what
you see in the mirror," Boyle said.
"It's how you feel about yourself
inside."
After having a bad day last year,
the 25-year-old wanted to do some-
thing uplifting for someone else, she
said. She found a small piece of pa-
per in her purse and used it to write
an inspirational message.
"I wrote,'You are beautiful,' on it
and posted it on the mirror in a pub-
lic bathroom," Boyle said. "Then I
took a picture of the note and put it
on my blog."
Student group holds mock First Amendment protest
The event promoted Friday's Free Food Festival
By JAMEL F. LANGLEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Dressed in military fatigues and boots,
UF Society of Professional Journalists
President April Dudash led a mock protest
of the First Amendment to the Constitu-
tion Wednesday afternoon on Turlington
Plaza.
Nine members of the organization
joined Dudash in a protest against free-dom of religion, speech, press, petition will use tape and other barriers to estab-
and assembly.
The students meant for their demon-
stration to be ironic -they protested their
right to protest.
Dudash said the intent was to promote
the group's second annual First Amend-
ment Free Food Festival on Friday, Du-
dash said.
From 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., 30 SPJ members
and comedy group Theatre Strike Forcelish their own "country,"
equipped with guards, on
the Plaza of the Americas,
she said.
Students will have the
opportunity to sign away
their First Amendment
lash rights for free lunch on
the plaza.
Dudash said the organization wantedto bring awareness on this issue in a radi-
cal way.
"Exchanging rights for a sandwich is
ridiculous," Dudash said. "People need to
realize how important their rights are."
The First Amendment Free Food Fes-
tival originated with the Florida Atlantic
University chapter of SPJ and has since
spread to five other universities, including
UF.
Last year, the event brought close to 300
participants and more than 100 spectators,
Dudash said.
Dance Marathon
5K Miracle Run
presented by Cox Communications
Benefiting Children's Miracle Network
at Shands Children's Hospital at UF COX
U U
Register at www.floridaDM.org
Register in advance for $15 at our Web site,
or on the day of the event for $20 starting at 6:30 a.m.
at the Commuter Lot on the UF campus. Participants
will receive a T-shirt & water bottle while supplies last.
Professional timing services will be provided.
Additional support provided by: LIFEs uh & K55 053 PH
A copy of the official registration and financial information may be obtained from the division of
consumer services by calling toll free 1-800-435-7352 within the state Registration does not imply
endorsement, approval, or recommendation by the stateALTERNATOR ST RTERS& BATTERIES GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
FAr 25% UFF any one GNC Product$5 OFp ANY REPAIR OR -EmVICE Cannot be combined One Coupon per customer.
I ops ald* adwiches* Smoothies T3914 SW Archer Rd
*C OA A A y availble at Butler Plaza loct j384-9497 2 University Ave. j 3r cis377 6020Exp3
J 1/0
C=
p2% ONLY 6
BLOCKS
rROvr ur
352.338.7467
Contact us for other specials available.Two days later, her e-mail was
flooded with at least 50 messages
from women responding to the
Post-it post.
She received messages from
women living in New York, Cali-
fornia and Canada. She also got a
response from a female soldier fight-
ing inlIraq.
"It started from just a random
moment of inspiration, but then it
spread like wildfire," Boyle said.
Bowie Stephens, a member of Al-
pha Kappa Delta Phi
On and a public relations
Campus senior, said the forum
sent out a positive
message for women.
"It's okay to be yourself, and
women need to know and believe
that," she said.
Karim Hirani, a UF freshman,
said his perspective about beauty
had definitely been changed.
"I had no idea that 99 percent of
magazine photos were altered using
Photoshop," he said.
"Operation Beautiful: The Book"
willbe released to regular bookstores
in August. It will be a compilation of
125 notes and tips from women of
all types and backgrounds.
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010
Candidates talk finance
By MINCH MINCHIN
Alligator Writer
Richard Selwach will sell you a hand-
gun, but he won't take a handout. Craig
Lowe bought enough stamps to mail
23,672 first-class letters. Ozzy Angulo
preferred to campaign by city bus.
Not only did Gainesville's five may-
oral candidates have differing views on
how to manage the city budget, they also
had differing views on how to manage
campaign finances.
By law, candidates must submit cam-
paign financial reports to the Supervisor
of Elections Office on everything -from
the $60 Don Marsh paid to attend the
Rotary Club of Gainesville's Wild Game
Feast to Craig Lowe's $76.51 trip to ABC
Fine Wine and Spirits for refreshments
for a fundraiser.
Candidates must also report all dona-
tions received.
Craig Lowe's campaign accumulated
more funds than any other candidate.
Nearly 500 businesses and individu-als contributed a total of $33,459.41 to
Lowe's campaign between September 2
and March 11.
Mayor Pegeen Hanrahan was among
Lowe's donors, giving $100 to the former
city commissioner's campaign.
Richard Selwach contributed $10,300
to his own campaign efforts but did not
take one dollar in outside donations.
Monica Leadon Cooper received
$10,435, and Don Marsh
Local brought in $7,729. Angulo
NewS raised $415.05 -$54 went
to buying 18 bus fares.
Fundraising will continue for Lowe
and Marsh, the two run-off candidates.
Lowe's campaign spokesman, Eric
Conrad, said although he was pleased
with the amount of funds coming into
the campaign, Lowe will likely hold
additional fundraisers during the next
month.
Marsh passed out donation slips at
his post-election party Tuesday night.
"I really need to make some money,"
he said.II
p., Ji~Z~
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
umuiPPn BROKEN EMBRACES
*m *W1W taring Penelope Cruz Final night! 6:15 & 8:5pmP amESVILLE ENVIRONMENTAL FILM AND ART FESTIVALcinema Starts tomorrow! Visit gefaf.org for films and showtimes.
Tickets and Information 352-375-HIPP I THEHIPP.ORG
I help safe drivers save up to 15%.
Frugality is back. But it's not all bad. Some of us are actually
enjoying the hunt for new ways to save. Here's one: drive safely.
You can save up to 15%. And that's just for starters. Call me first
to get the discounts you deserve.
Eddie Dugger
(352) 375-7511
3720 Nw. 43 St., #100
Gainesville
eddiedugger@allstate.com You're in good hands.
Auto Home Life RetirementTell us with an essay, photo or video and you could win a gift
certificate to Sports Marketing, Gainesville's answer to all your
sports and diploma needs.
1st place -$400 2nd place -$300 3rd place -$200
Deadline for entries: Noon, Thursday, April 1, 2010.
Finalists will be selected by a panel of Alligator employees and voted on by Alligator readers. Online
polls will be open from midnight Monday, April 5 to 11:59 p.m. Thursday, April 8.
Submit entries to contest@alligator.org
Visit www.alligator.org/gradtab for official rules.
99 SW 34th St. in the Publix
Westgate Shopping Center
www.sportsmarketingintl.com
Participants must be UF seniors graduating in Spring 2010 to be eligible. Deadline for submission is 12 p.m. April 1. Essay submissions may not exceed
500 words. Photo submissions may not exceed five photos. Video submissions may not exceed 2:30 minutes (150 seconds) in length. E-mail submissions
to contest@alligator.org or drop them off on CD to 1105 W. University Ave. All submissions will be automatically entered in the contest. Finalists will
be chosen by a panel of Alligator judges. Finalists will be displayed on the website for public vote from midnight April 5 to 11:59 p.m. April 8. The three
submissions with the most votes will be announced as winners. Winners will be notified prior to April 12. Winners will be announced in the April 12
Grad Tab Special Section. Positive ID required to collect winnings. Officers, directors, employees & their family members of the Alligator, or affiliates
of the contest are not eligible to enter contest. You do not need to be present to win. Grand prize cash value: $400. Prizes are non-transferrable. Gratuity
and sales tax not included. Prizes must be claimed by April 30, 2010. No purchase necessary to enter. By submitting an entry, you are agreeing to these
terms and conditions. Visit www.alligator.org/gradtab for details.
I the independent florida
Discounts are subject to terms, conditions and availab lity Actual savings will vary Allstate Fire and CasualtyInsurance Cornpany, Northbrook, IL 2009 Allstate Insurance Cornpany%1. 1,
0 d&
1P '00 ltiltso fooll
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Mobile museum outlines Fla. farmworkers' poverty
Lauren Joos / Aiigator
Jasmine Harris, a public relations sophomore, walks through the Florida Modern-Day Slavery
Museum Wednesday afternoon at Library West.By ERIN O'DEA
Alligator Contributing Writer
A plain white delivery truck with pic-
tures of fruit was parked near Library
West on Wednesday, but the inside of the
truck was less plain -chain and news
clippings with the word "slavery" in ev-
ery headline covered the walls.
The truck was once used to haul toma-
to crates from Immokalee, Fla. It served as
the centerpiece for a Florida Modern-Day
Slavery Museum exhibit that stopped at
UF after driving to colleges and commu-
nity centers across Florida for the past 2
1/2 weeks.
The museum was organized by the
Coalition of Immokalee Workers, the
Student/Farmworker Alliance and UF
CHISPAS, an organization that address-
es immigrant-community issues. Its pur-
pose is to inform students about the pov-
erty among Florida farmworkers.
According to the museum's display,
most of the tomatoes in Florida are grown
by workers who receive as low as 40 centsfor each 32-pound bucket they pick.
Rachel lannelli, an anthropology grad-
uate student, said she did not realize the
extent of the farmworkers' mistreatment.
"It makes me not want to have toma-
toes on my sandwich," lannelli said.
The exhibit was not just intended to
educate students about Florida farm-
workers.
"It makes me not want to have
tomatoes on my sandwich."
Rachel lannelli
UF graduate student
Richard Blake, a member of UF's
chapter of the Student/Farmworker Al-
liance, said the exhibit also told people
about the Farmworker Freedom March
that will take place from April 16 to 18.
Participants will march 25 miles from
Tampa to the Publix corporate headquar-
ters in Lakeland.
"It's not that people don't care," Blake
said. "It's just that they lack access to the
information."
UF clinic offers free screenings to check hearing problems
Screenings will take place in March and April
By KELLY MORGAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 20 people attended UF's
Speech and Hearing Clinic, locat-
ed at 1405 NW 13th St., to receive
a free hearing screening Wednes-day.
"It gives people an easy way
to make sure their hearing is nor-
mal," said Dr. Ryan Baker, a clini-
cal audiologist. "It's also a quick
and easy way for early identifica-
tion of a hearing problem."Patricia Kricos, a UF professor
specializing in com-
PUbliC municative disorders,
Health recommends getting
screened at least ev-
ery three years, adding that the
amount of screening needed de-
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShield
of Florida
F Ar er3-t 39 .W. d Afe0373-0775
Form Number: 18533-599SU 3669 S.W. 2nd Avenuepends on a person's lifestyle.
Kricos said about half of the
people screened have a legitimate
hearing problem, while the other
half shows up because of con-
cern.
"A lot of people come because
they've noticed they're hearing
words wrong or having trouble
hearing at work or in the class-room," she said.
But hearing loss is not always
to blame, Kricos said. Auditory
processing problems, which occur
when a person's brain struggles to
process sound, may be the cause.
Three more screenings are
scheduled for this semester:
March 31, April 7 and April 28.
No appointment is necessary.
OrangeTree
Established in 1968
Gjiavd Opeittg S,'GO
M ok g0 -.Apit 9
$1 DOGS*
L toppgs etra
$4 COMBO -Located at
Dog, Chips,&B, :3420 SW Archer Rd.
Sd Butter PlazaI pla dog (between Target Copy
II bag chp and --ock3uster)
1 116 z.draft bee rI 352-379-8733
-tPi1g exr Limit 10 prcso eHEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
'. rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATESAre you really really
ridiculously good looking?
Alpha Omicron Pi's
Mr. UF man-pageant
Friday March 19th at 7:30 pm
Reitz Grand Ballroom
Cost is $5 to attend
Proceeds benefit The Arthritis Foundation and
The Cystic Fibrosis Foundation
UP ~ ~ I - z ' -L
Short of Cash? Donate Plasma! Thousands do.
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6th St Gainesville (352) 378-9204
"Where It Pays to Care"
-9L /IC79-
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010
Editorial
Hawhyii
Birther bill may do
more harm than goodMore than a year after Barack Obama was elected
president, his home state is finally trying to grow
a pair.
The Hawaiian House Judiciary Committee saw a bill
Tuesday that would allow officials to ignore people who ha-
rass them for proof Obama was born there.
But while we understand where they're coming from,
it's a mistake for Hawaii to put on the giant Nicole Ritchie
glasses and hide from this.
Sure, we've been sick of the birthers since 2008, and we're
glad the Hawaiian government is admitting its annoyance.
It's time to stop with the conspiracy theories and admit that
Obama is our president.
And the fact is that whether the crazies like it or not, they
have no right to see the president's birth certificate.
Here's the big however.
It might be a good idea to let them see. It would, at least
a little bit, legitimize him in their eyes, and, for our sanity,
shut them up.
Don't get us wrong -we absolutely do not doubt Obama
was born in Hawaii and is legitimately our president. We all
saw the certificate online last year and read analyses that sup-
ported its legitimacy. Hawaii Department of Health director
Chiyome Fukino has testified that she saw it in person.
But Obama should just release the documents already,
and Hawaii should encourage him to do so. Stonewalling the
public on the issue isn't going to make anything easier for the
president or his birth state.
St. Hacktrick's Day
n a society that goes out
of its way to celebrate the
mediocre -Applebee's
restaurants, allowing the De-
troit Lions to be televised on
Thanksgiving Day, '80s mu-
sic -we really outdo our-
selves on March 17.
Typically, if you're a ce-
lebrity kidnap victim, you get
a picture montage to Sarah
McLachlan, a Lifetime "Mov-
ie of the Week" and an inter-
view with Diane Sawyer.
Why then does a tea-sip-
ping redcoat from the fifth
century by the name of Pat-
rick who was kidnapped by
a bunch of Irish raiders get
America's biggest cirrhosis
celebration?
Chasing snakes out of a
potato patch does not give
you the divine right to be the
ambassador for alcoholism. If
that was the case, we should
all be passed out in a puke-
filled gutter in remembranceof Samuel Jackson month.
Now we're not going to
be the puritanical parent and
wag our finger at you for
taking an ungodly amount
of Irish car bombs and cab-
bage to the face. In fact, we
encourage it and only extend
our deepest sympathies to
the souls stuck in elevators
and crowded spaces with
these pseudo-O'Malleys and
McFinnigans.
As you go stumbling to
your classes at the crack of
2 p.m., your mouth tasting
of Guinness, cigarettes and
drunken shame, we just want
to kindly remind you that no
matter how much green you
threw on or how hard you
tried to blast your eardrums
with Flogging Molly, you
were essentially rolling out
the red carpet for a screening
of Rocky V/Gigli/any film
with Rob Schneider as the
protagonist.
0l the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University A , or send them to PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458O pno
r-)OF 7bCIN makE AC F 4 (tE LE-SS oq/N IAIkC
V@J CU I ec, C ) SHOA~ U t C tay
7 /T
ANtP I-A / CT~ A
oday roughly marks the one-year anniversary of theunquestioned pinnacle of Barack Obama's presidency
-the bracket he filled out for last year's NCAA Men's
Basketball Tournament. Mired in the muck of a massively
unsatisfying and restive term as the leader of the free world,
President Obama now must re-calibrate his approach and
perhaps use the basketball acumen of his inner circle to a
decided political advantage.
Faced with understandably stiff opposition for virtually
every single thing he has done or said in the last ten months
or so, Obama probably pines for the halcyon days only a
year ago when he was simply reviled for his racial makeup,
his father's religion and the lack of underdogs in his pro-
jected Sweet 16. Come to think of it, one of the first signs
of trouble was when Obama bowed down when greeting
the Tar Heels coach during their White House champion-
ship fete.
It is a shopworn anecdote in political journalism that
Obama plays basketball, but the way roundball dominates
Washington right now is truly unprecedented. Basketball is
the key to understanding how President Obama got to the
critical point he now occupies, and recent foreign-policy mis-
steps have their roots in basketball-based decision making.
For instance, Obama's reticence to meet with British Prime
Minister Gordon Brown and the Dalai Lama both stem from
their admittedly terrible dribbling skills.
Lobbyists and politicians used to making deals during
relaxing golfing junkets at tropical resorts are now squeez-
ing into some hightops and practicing their low-post moves
in dingy gyms across the country. Insurance companies
have undoubtedly been saddled with a huge uptick in the
number of knee and hip surgeries for plodding ex-golfers
pushing their bodies past the breaking point playing pickupALLIGATOR
www.aIIigato r.org/opinions
; ,6 Lt-
-Cly sE Si m i tF4 f ;fl c
-J1 F10
A
hLX
basketball, paradoxically exacerbat-
ing the health care conundrum they
seek to exploit with basketball-based
access to political power.
Much has been written about the
ballers closest to Obama and their
Tommy Maple now-legendary pickup games at theletters@alligator org nexus of political power in America,
but virtually nothing has been writ-
ten about the real story behind how Obama dropped the ball
on health care. Nancy Pelosi, aching for a chance to shine as
Speaker of the House, challenged Obama to a game of one
on one for the right to spearhead health care legislation.
Obama laughed off the challenge, but Pelosi was dead-
ly serious about the game -going so far as to break the
clavicle of an aide for receiving a text message during one
of Nancy's free throws. Wearing a $4,000 dress and 3-inch
heels, Pelosi fouled and scrapped her way to a tie with the
President at game point. After unleashing a sick, Tim Hard-
away-level crossover and almost breaking Obama's ankles,
Nasty Nancy rose up and splashed a wet jumper from fif-
teen feet to win the game.
Pelosi glared down at the fallen President with a slightly
more deranged stare than usual and walked off the court
without saying a word, inextricably linking the fortunes
of two pioneering politicians with a single inspired perfor-
mance. With the way the voting public currently feels about
Pelosi and Obama, though, the best political move for both
of them may be to quietly ship Pelosi off to political trouble
zones China and Israel with a basketball and direct orders to
ball out and make it rain for America.
Tommy Maple is an international relations graduate student.
His columns appear on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Wednesday's question:
Did you wear green for Did you vote in Tuesday's city
St. Patrick's Day? election?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org45% YES
55% NO
72 TOTAL VOTESColumn
Columnist ties basketball to politics
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Alligator missed important point in
Adu-Brempong case
Much of the Alligator coverage in the past
two weeks has dealt with the actions of the
University Police during the tragic shooting
of graduate student Kofi Adu-Brempong. But
another, equally great tragedy is the scant
coverage of the extremely poor response to a
man suffering from poor mental health.
It appears that on the day of the shooting
there was no trained mental health profes-
sional speaking to Adu-Brempong, only his
faculty adviser. University Police seemed
to be centered on preserving public safety,
which is the primary goal of a police depart-
ment. On the other hand, the primary goal of
a mental health professional trained in crisis
intervention is to keep the afflicted individual
safe and to diffuse situations with words.
With the media's focus largely on the ac-
tions of the police once inside Adu-Brem-
pong's apartment (which, make no mistake,
is important), the broader question is being
ignored: Why weren't the police officers ac-
companied by a mental health professional
when they knew Adu-Brempong was delu-
sional and unstable? Does UPD have staff in
place to help work through these situations?
If it does, why wasn't anyone sent to Corry
Village trained in crisis intervention? This
certainly won't be the last time a UF student
threatens to hurt himself or herself. We must
answer these questions and work to improveour response to people with
ideally before there is anotho
urge the Alligator and its re
answers to these questions
weeks ahead.
ME.
Alligator coverage on Ad
case is shameful
The Alligator's coverage
of UF graduate student Kofi
has been shameful. The story
ed not as a front-page head
ed, but buried deep within
pressing development grab
headline that day?
Alligator alumnus and N
porter Carl Hiaasen had giv
tional, unpaid talk the day b
shot by campus police -P
author has chat with small
font headline on the front
Alligator.
Following a day of stud
the shooting of a fellow stu
tor again gave the headline a
to the Gainesville mayoral r
voter apathy is a problem, b
fect opportunity to headline:mental illness -the Alligator dropped the ball. For shame, Al-
er similar crisis. I ligator.
aders to seek the Speaking on behalf of the Alligator Edi-
in the days and torial Board, Jared Misner opined: "We at
the editorial board don't feel we have the
Nick Mildebrath authority to recommend firing a public offi-
3 CLAS cial, but we do question why the officer who
shot Adu-Brempong, Keith Smith, who was
involved in a 2009 incident in which police
officers harassed and threw eggs at residents,
u-Brempong was even in this position."
If the Alligator must seek authority for its
of the shooting opinions, it is no longer truly independent.
Adu-Brempong What the Alligator has become is yellow.
Oas And Misner and the rest of the editorial staff
line, as warrant- are yellow journalists.
the paper. What I feel it likely that Mr. Hiaasen, the take-
ed the front page no-prisoners, hard-hitting, muckraking re-
porter that the Alligator staffers so dearly
iami Herald re- admire, would not be impressed. For shame,
imnrovisa- Alligator.
efore. Student is
age 4. Reporter/
crowd -large-
age. For shame,
ent protest over
dent, the Alliga-
way -this time
ace. Yes, student
ut given the per-
student activism,Rob Robins
Senior Biologist,
Florida Museum of Natural History
Editor's note: The initial story on the
shooting of Kofi Adu-Brempong ap-
peared on Page 4 only because all oth-
er pages had been sent to the printer
when the Alligator received information.
Had information been available earlier,
the story absolutely would have ap-peared on the front page.
ME.
A Letter to the City Commission:
The City Commission works for us, the
taxpayers, just like the police are supposed
to.
I talked myself blue in the face a little over
a year ago about how the police who threw
eggs at blacks in the Porters district should
have lost their jobs. They were either racist
or too immature to wear a badge and carry a
gun. When the police union didn't fire them,
you should have overturned their decision
and done it yourselves.
If they wanted to try to sue someone, you
should have told them, "Bring it on; sue the
taxpayers. Good luck, because you work for
them just like us."This time, I guarantee you
a successful lawsuit will be filed against the
University Police, and rightfully so because
you guys didn't do your jobs.
This time, you've put me and others like
myself in the difficult position of trying not to
be judgmental, and I hate that. But, this time,
instead of getting hit in the face with an egg,
the victim this time, Kofi Adu-Brempong, was
shot by one of the same cops who threw eggs
last year. Thanks for not doing your jobs.
John Davies
Gainesville Resident
7Mac s Auto Repair Shop
635 NW 1 3th Street #H
(352) 375-3334
Come In And Get Youy Vehicle CheCked
Out By ASE Certified Technicians
We will match or beat any written estimate for repair
Monday -Friday 7am-Spm
Saturday -8am-l2pm
10%OFF
with ad on service work
MV 79901
From the American Red Cross comes.
CPR-a-Thon 
&
Prepare Fair 2010!
CPR Training Saturday, March 20th
8 am-Noon OR 1 pm-5 pm
Adult CPR Certification for Only $15-
To Register: Go to www.activecom and search for event #1840715
For more information, Call the North Central Florida Chapter at
352-376-4669, or come by 1724 NE 2nd St Gainesville, FL 32609
Hilton UF Conference Center
1714 SW 34th St. Gainesville, FL 32607
Join us for the Prepare Fair
from 10 am-2 pm.
Free to the public.
*Pre-Registrtion cost $15, day of$20C$W Rf0
tozALL WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTERS
ABORTIONS
* Abortion by Pill n's
(RU-486) ieatth
* Early & Late Term terms
Abortions
* Morning After Pill
* Birth Control & Gyn Services
" Insurance & Credit Cards Accepted
www.abortiongainesville.com
1135 NW 23rd Ave Suite N
352-378-9191
1-800-869-0440
- B
FREERIDESURF SHOP
WWW.FREERIDESURFSHORCOM
420 NW 13TH ST 373-SURF(7873)
Career Uncertain?
STUDY
ACUPUNCTURE
WISES
t
NTA
352-371-2833
www.dragonrises.edu
8, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010
Same-sex couples
get say in Census
By MELINDA CARSTENSEN
Alligator Contributing Writer
For the first time in history, gay
and lesbian couples will be count-
ed on the U.S. Census form.
The results could raise aware-
ness about poverty levels, hom-
eownership information and other
issues present among the LGBT
community.
The 2010 form is no different
from the one distributed 10 years
ago. But unlike in 2000, same-sex
couples who identify themselves
as husbands or wives will be
counted as so.
"This year, the [U.S.] Census
Bureau is not going to 'unmarry'
those couples," said Naomi Gold-
berg, a sexual orientation research-
er at the Williams Institute, a think
tank at the UCLA School of Law.
The Department of Commerce
under the Obama administration
finalized the change last summerwhen it announced the 1996 De-
fense Of Marriage Act would not
prevent the federal government
from tabulating same-sex marriage
statistics in 2010 as it did in 2000
under the Bush administration.
That year, when the census did
not count married same-sex cou-
ples, not one state issued same-sex
marriage licenses.
National Since then, five
News states, plus the Dis-
trict of Columbia,
legalized same-sex marriage.
Vanessa Macoy, an organizer
for the National Gay and Les-
bian Task Force's Queer the Cen-
sus campaign, said although the
change is an improvement, the
form is not detailed enough.
The main goal of the Queer the
Census campaign is to add a ques-
tion specific to sexual orientation
to the form.
For more information about the
Queer the Census campaign, visit
www.queerthecensus.org.
0
Copyrighted Material'41op
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
0
A great
haircut is
as simple
as a stop
at the Reitz
between
classes.
Offering Men's &
Women's Services
Call today
379-4686
or Walk In
Located on Ground Floor
a1lga o'~ orts
Tune in for the latest Gators
sports news and analysis from our
beet writers and columnists.
Check it nut nn alligatnrSpcrts urg nr
subscribe on Tunes."Look Fit for Spring Break!
Swing Dresses for -Easter -Spring Rush -Graduation
Now Open!
1642
UI- UIIP~ 1 0 0 Do
nive Ave!IVedtu IFIPP/ FlIgdatdIIan
The Beer is Always Greener.
St. Patrick's Day revelers wait in line outside of Mother's Pub & Grill on West University Av-
enue in hopes of throwing back green beer Wednesday night.
k ; ,
7;o
737-926
muA LILLY PULITZER VIA SM13P
rM
ei
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 9
IF ? A ,o 6
I,, ~) ~f'V%
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Avalwbl rmablw rAvailable from Commercial News Providers
Come
watch
our MLB
package
on42"
50g Draft Specials 50g PBR's s TV'9pm -Close 6pm -12am Hospitality DayKaraoke, Trivia 3-4-1 Wells8pm -close 1250 W. University Ave. STAll you can eat wings Located @ University 64 13th $1 Domestic Drafts
7pm -close @ the Holiday Inn valid proof required
stuaent Livi116 Guide
Spriiag 2010
Li1TODAY 1 10 a.m.- 2 p.m.
Reitz Union Colonnade
Explore a range of summer employment options at
Summer Job Fair. Employers from different industries
across the country will attend.
www.crc.ufl.edu/summerjob
Summer Job Fair is for UF students and alumni only.
Career Resource CenterUFI UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
First Floor J.Wayne ReitzUnionIw wcr fledu 1392-16011 Division oftudentAffairsIEducatingLeadersforaGlobalCommunity
GET IN THE BEST SHAPE OF YOUR LIFE
Big Ron's
Yoga College
TOTAL MIND AND BODY WORKOUT
An exciting, challenging, hardworkin,
effective yoga ciass, Bikram-dtyled flaiha
Yoga is desi ned to work every muscle,
joint, glan , and organ in your body.
DAILY CLASSES FOR ALL FITNESS LEVELS
Monday-Friday: 9:00am and 6:30pm Basic Yoga
Saturday: 10:00am and 4:00pm Saturday: 12:00 noonSunday: 10:00am and 6:30pm
5 19-D NW 1 Oth Ave, Gainesville3527597'(I
By advertising in the
Student Living Guide,
you will reach over
50,000 readers who
are looking for new
apartments, condos,
furniture, appliances,
household items and
more!
th~ ~ i i f-d
al ---i-i-- I' orCall your sales rep today.
376-4482 .... SE corner of NW e
theAvenue thursday, march 18, 2010
unfolding Ben Folds
U,
M
ip
Ben Folds plays to a sold-out crowd at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. The show was sponsored by
Student Government Music and Entertainment Productions and Jewish Awareness Month. We got an Avenue
exclusive Q&A with the artist.
page 11
SFC dance show
hits the stage
By LAUREN GOLD
avenue contributing writer
The lights go down, and the curtain goes up. It's showtime.
Dancers will take the stage this weekend at "Elements of
Style 2010," Santa Fe College's annual dance performance.
The performance will showcase dancers from the past two
semesters and will introduce Rodney A. Brown, the new assis-
tant professor and artistic director of dance.
"This show is goingto be amazing," Brown said. "It goesfrom
comedy to classical. There's hip-hop. It's a show for everyone."
Brown said one of the solos is a new work titled "Odd Bird
merrikore," which features a live accompaniment of music by
famous jazz musician Keith Jarrett.
Alora Haynes, chair of the dance program, said that Brown
has proven himself as the most exciting addition to the dance
program.
"People will recognize how riveting Rodney's choreography
is," Haynes said. "It really captures your attention. You're never
aware of time. It's like a good film. It has an impact on you."
The show will begin at 7:30 p.m. on Saturday at the Phillips
Center for the Performing Arts. General admission is $12 and
free for Sante Fe College students and faculty.
For more information, contact Brown at 352-395-5674.By ASHLEY ROSS
avenue editor
Admit it. Although your birth date falls in the late eighties
or (gasp!) nineties, you still love the puffy-bright-tracksuit-side-
ponytail-wearing-"Breakfast Club"-loving generation.
But to reminisce about the 1980s, you don't need to slip on
a pair of leg warmers or shimmy into a unitard. On March 26, a
movie so ludicrous in idea but so well played on screen will hit
theaters bringingyou back to the eighties.
"Hot Tub Time Machine" follows four best friends (John Cu-
sack, Rob Corddry, Craig Robinson and Clark Duke) who are
bored with their everyday lives and take a ski trip to blow off some
steam. But after a long night of drinking in a hottub, the guys find
themselves transported to 1986.
DuringSpring Break, MGM Studios flew me out to Lake Tahoe
for the film's press junket. And upon arrival, I was whisked awayto
a Winterfest 1980s party to mingle with the cast of the movie.
First on my list of stars to meet was Duke, who's known for
his role as Dale on ABC Family's "Greek." As soon as I mentioned
I came from UF, Duke placed his drink down and immediately
started Gator chomping.
Crispin Glover ("Alice in Wonderland," "Back to the Future")
was also in attendance, but his mood was far from chipper due to
a red-bull-and-vodka spill on his pinstripe suit earlier that night.
Corddry ("What Happens in Vegas," "The DailyShow") cheered
up the party by taking ridiculous pictures with fans and remind-THIS WEEK:
PG 13: Summer music festivals
are selling out fast. We fill you
in on which ones are worth the
splurge.
PG 14: Sip on sweet spring beers
this season.
ONLINE: A recap of the Harvest
of Hope music festival.
REGULA RS:
SEX: Porn has ruined what really
happens in the sack, page 14.
FASHION: Splish-splash into
rain boots, page 14.
COMING UP:
If you had to choose between
giving up oral sex or cheese for
your the rest of your life, what
would you pick?
Having a rough time getting
back into the swing of things
after Spring Break? There's no
better way to procrastinate than
with YouTube videos. Some of
our favorites: Handsome Men's
Club with Jimmy Kimmel, the
new Lady Gaga "Telephone"
video and Very Mary Kate.
ing every journalist how hungover he'd be at interviews the next
morning. And Robinson ("The Office," "Pineapple Express") stole
the show as he rightfully sported a Dunder Mifflin jacket and
broke it down on stage performing his rendition of "Jessie's Girl."
The movie has been said to be the hybrid of "Knocked Up"
and "The Hangover." Lizzy Caplan, well-known as Janis Ian from
"Mean Girls," said she wishes critics wouldn't compare the film
to others so fans can make their own decision about its laugh-
factor. You be the judge when it hits theaters March 26.
KOD MChwain fl 2UUq Metro-uoIawyn-Mayer btuios inc.
Craig Robinson as Nick, Rob Cordrry as Lou, John Cusack as Adam and
Clark Duke as Jacob Visit kicksomepast com for the movie trailerEgisao "o T
Eighties babies will love "Hot Tub"
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010*ALLIGATOR, 11
Exclusive: Folds Q&A
GABRIELLE FALCONEIRI
avenue writer
Singer, songwriter Ben Folds per-
formed last night at the Phillips Center
for the Performing Arts. Read here for
his take on a cappella versus pop and
how he designs his set lists.
You recorded a CD of college a
cappella groups covering your songs.
How did that come about?
A friend sent me a link of one of
my songs being done by a university
a cappella group, specifically a Colum-
bia University group. And it was really
good. I knew immediately that I want-
ed to make a record out of it.
Why do you think a cappella as a
genre is important to integrate into
pop music?
Well because I think it doesn't,
as much, focus on a celebrity and
a personality. It's more about the
music in general. I also think it's re-
ally good when you can do something
that doesn't require money, instru-
ments, material, anything. It's funny
to me that people consider it a bit of
a novelty kind of music. I would think
that auto-tuned, computerized dance
tracks with a model that's been Pho-
toshopped beyond recognition shouldbe novel.
What comes first, the melody or
the lyrics?
Music almost always comes first.
My association with the melody seems
to be really strong. So I don't have to
work atthat really hard. What I do have
to work at is trying to find out what it
means. Even if it's an instrumental
song it's going to mean something
abstractly at least. I go about trying to
haphazardly find the lyrics that don't
destroy the melody.
Do you have a method to design-
ing your set list?
Well, it's always different. Like right
now, because I haven't played in three
months, it all seems new to me. I don't
really have a method, but when I get
bored I start really shifting it up a lot,
and people seem to be really happy
about that.
Any songs that are your go-to?I like to have a song called "Not the
Same" somewhere toward the end of
the set because it's a three-part har-
mony, and people do itso well. It's kind
of like a treat for me because I'll never
get tired of hearing 2,000 to 3,000
people singing three-part harmony. I
get sick of the song, but I don't get sick
of what it causes.Don't bake, fake to keep tan
By ALLISON BANKO
avenue writer
You may be freshly bronzed from those Spring
Break fiascoes in the sun, but soon the honey-
moon will be as done as your reputation from
that night out in Cabo. However, your tan (existing
as your one bit of dignity from that vacation) will
soon disappear-causing you to resemble more of
a "Twilight" vampire than Jessica Alba's doppel-
ganger.
What ever is a hopeful bronze to do? Fake it.
Spray-tanning salons in Gainesville offer the most
unique of methods in faux tanning. No worries,
you won't walk out looking like a Cheeto. Local sa-
lons have just the equipment to make your spray
tan look as little like Snooki as possible.
Planet Beach and LAETanningand Boutique of-
fer the Mystic Tanningservice. The Mystic Tanning
booth allows tanners to customize their 30-sec-
ond spraytan by choosingfrom cartridges ranging
from the aroma of the spray to the shade of your
tan-even offering a "glow" shade for those that
are the palest of pales. Planet Beach also offers a
unique Hydration Station, which is a warm steam
bath used before your spray-tan session.
The bath allows pores to open in order to ac-
celerate your tan and cause it to seep deeper into
the skin layers, thus making your tan last longer.
LAE Tanning and Boutique and Tan USA utilize
airbrush tanning, a spray tan applied by a tech-
nician. While airbrush tanning takes longer than
the under-a-minute Mystic Tanning, it allows for
a more personalized experience. LAE uses all-
natural, hypoallergenic products with a special
"no oranging" factor. Tan USA also offers the per-
sonal airbrush system and makes sure that your
tanning experience is custom fit to you-allowing
customers to even just get their faces sprayed for
that sun-kissed look.
Where to Fake it:
+ Planet Beach
3439 W University Avenue 352-335-3123
Tanning Technique: Mystic UV Free Spray Tan-
ning, Hydration Station
Price: Under $30
*Unique Hydration Station allows for a longer
lasting, more even tan.+ LAE Tanning and Boutique
1636 W University, 352- 381-0040
Tanning Technique: Mystic UV Free Spray Tan
ning, Airbrush
Price: Under $30
*Airbrush technicians trained in Los Angeles
+ Tan USA
6783 W Newberry Road, 352-331-8266
Tanning Technique: Airbrush
Price: Under $30
*Coupons running all the time, never expire
rTanning trick s
of the Trade
*Before your spray-tan session
Exfoliate, shave and remove all makeup and deodorant
+ After your spray-tan session
Wait at least six hours before showering; the longer you
wait, the better
Moisturize to get the most out of your tan
* Too scared to start the spray?
Try a gradual tanner, which serves as a regular lotion with
hints of self-tanner to gradually build a subtle glow
-U,
Erica Ervin/ Alligator Staff
Ben Folds prefers a cappella music to the popular synthesized tunes Above, he
serenades a full crowd at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts Wednesday
16,000 UF Students
id o theCor AlcholChoose Not to Drink Alcohol
For more information call 352-273-4450
or visit us at gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu
Produced by: University of Florida GatorWell Health Promotion Seviceskeep it
CM0L
Auto A/C
Starters
Alternators
Repair/Service
Foreign & Domestic
Free Electrical Check
with purchase
AAMAC
378-7676
508 8th Ave.
12, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010
Splurge on tickets now, summer fests sell out
By MICHELLE PROFIS $269.00 and can be purchased at
avenue writer coachella.com.
arnercan
Cafe Gordens
For over a third of a century,
the Original World Famous
Cafe Gardens has been serving
Gators with delicious food and
a large selection of beers and
wines. Located just across from
campus near the Florida Book
Store, this quaint landmark es-
tablishment with award winning
courtyard dining is perfect for
any date or gathering. For live
music schedule, call 376-2233.
Hours: Mon-Wed 11lam-l Opm,
Thurs-Sat 11am-1am,
Sun Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave. Join us on
Thursday late nights for "Mid-
night in the Garden" with Food
& Drink specials and DJ.
cafegardens.net
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and
Stacks. The only way to
describe the Stack is that it
is outrageously delicious! Its
uniquely different presenta-
tion -three 6 inch flour tortillas
stacked high with fresh grilled
ingredients and just the right
accent of cheese -is strangely
inviting to ones palate. Come
out and try our 1/3 lb Burgers,
steak seasoned Panchos &
Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the The Home Grown
and Homemade Black Bean
Hummus! Now serving draft and
red Stripe beers! We deliver!
Open late to serve your late
night cravings!
Sun-Wed:11am-3am. Thurs -
Sat: 11 am-4am. 34th St. Plaza
(Sweetbay)@ 2124 SW 34th St.
672-6111
www.jdoobies.com
The Swornp
Restaurant
The Swamp Restaurant has
been the gathering place for ga-
tors of all ages for the past 15
years. It's your first stop in town
& your last chance to see Gator
memorabilia for as far back as
1994. Our food and staff are
award winning. Always make
the Swamp your only stop for
lunch, dinner and drinks on our
famous front lawn. The Swamp
Restaurant-Where Gators
gather. Open 11 :O0am-2:O0am.
Daily food and drink specials
and happy hour from 4-8pm.
www.swamprestaurant.com
1642 W. University Avenue
(352) 37-SWAMP
barbecue
David's BBQ
MARCH MADNESS $5.99 Pork
Plate All day everyday at David's
BBQ. Voted #1 in Gainesville.
Mon-Sat 7am-9pm. Drive thru
until 9:30. FREE WIFI. 352-
373-2022. Have Gatorfood.com
deliver David's BBQ to you!breakfast 6
ulnch
43rd Street Deli and
Breakfast House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to
for over 25 years -we probably
served your parents. Biggest
4 egg omelette, French toast,
and daily specials. Not full yet?
Have lunch with us & enjoy a
large selection of sandwiches,
the best Reuben, gyros, and
soup all at a reasonable price.
Vegetarian? Not a problem. We
have a selection that is sure to
fulfill your needs. We now offer
free WiFi! Open All day Every
day 7am-3pm. 4401 NW 25th
Place 373-2927. 3483 Williston
Rd 373-5656. Conveniently
located off 1-75
The Yearin9
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog legs,
and alligator, as well as USDA
Prime beef, seafood, grits, greens
& hush puppies. Open Thursday
& Friday 5pm-1 Opm, Saturday
12pm-1Opm & Sunday 12pm-
8:30pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999
www.theyearlingrestaurant.com
cuban
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous CubanSandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301
*fozen treat's
D'Lites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
d'licious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly without
the diet taste. We also feature a
whole array of cookies, chips, andI
various grocery treats that appeal
to Atkins@, Weight Watchers@,
and other dieters. Our every day
daily specials make shopping
at D'Lites a special value!
Come weigh your options at
the Marketplace Plaza at NW
16th Blvd. and 43rd St. (next tothe Hollywood Video) or at thefrozen treotf65
Shoppes of Williston at S.W. 34th
Street and Williston Rd. (next to
Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!
Korma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts,
loose leaf teas, and beer, with
lots of vegan options. Now open
24 hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
blocks east of campus at 1025 W.
University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve frozen
yogurt as a healthy dessert
alternative. Our yogurt has 0%
fat and contains live and active
cultures. Choose any combination
of 8 different flavors and over 30
toppings. Everything for just 45
cents an ounce. 3841 SW Archer
Rd (next to Bento Red) Open
from noon to midnight daily!
tolan
Manuel's Vintage
Room
This family owned restaurant is
perfect for dinner any day of the
week. Come in and check out
one of the best wine lists in town.
Ask questions and learn while
you wait for the chef to put out
nothing but goodness from the
kitchen using fresh, simple, and
local ingredients. Try the Early
Dinner Sunday, Tuesday-Thurs-
day 5-7pm. $3 wines/$1 0 bottles.
$10 Menu. Ask about our Monday
Wine Dinners and private parties
for lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
St. (352)375-7372
ndion (6
vegetarian
hGreen Mango
The best Indian food in Gaines-
ville. Serving Gainesville since
1991. The best Samosas in
Florida. Offering many vegan
dishes. We are specialized in
catering any group size. Delivery
available-free delivery on any
purchase over $251Open 7 days
Mon-Sat 11:30am-9pm, Sunday
1 pm-8pm. Call 352-505-6200.
7625 W Newberry Rd
omoican
Caribbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
and oxtail. Opened Mon thru
Thurs 11am-7:30pm, Fri& Sat
11 am-11:45pm
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
352-374-8111japanese
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a hip,
trendy atmosphere. Two great
locations with outside eating.
Open every day for carry-out
or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.
e Wastdy e
Cabono Cove Keg
West Grill
Open for lunch and dinner.
Full martini and mojito bar.
Voted nicest outdoor dining.
Try one of our 1/2 gourmet
salads for under $5.
COUPON -DATE NIGHT -
COUPON
Save $5 off your next visit of
$25 or more.
Online ordering & delivery
available.
Call ahead seating.
2410 NW 43rd Street
Gainesville
352-377-3278
Please visit us online at www.
cabanacove.net for additional
savings and coupons.
1"1chine5e
Green Plantains
The best MoFongo, churrasco,
& chofan in town. $5 To-Go
Dinners. Mon-Sat from 4pm.
Don't miss out $4.95 dinner +
soda on Thursday, student night
from 4pm- 1 Opm. Visit us atI5150 SW 34th Street at the new
Publix Shopping Center 7 days
a week. We cater. Check us out
on Gatorfood.com
352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.com
localorganic
THE JONES
Gainesville's own independently
owned community restaurant
dedicated to bringing sustain-
able, local, and organic food
to the table. Oh, and it's really
yummy. Herbivores, carnivores,
& omnivores welcome! NOW
SERVING DINNER EVERY
NIGHT! New hours: open every
day 8am-1Opm. Check out our
facebook page for specials and
events. 401 NE 23rd Avenue.
352.373.6777ocalW
organic
New Deal Cofe
BURGERS! BURGERS!
BURGERS!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burger! This 12oz burger
is Naturally Aged and Fresh
Ground. CHEAP Wines $5/
Glass and 20 bottles under $20.
OPEN LATE servering HUGE
Martini's and cakes to DIE for!
Mon-Thurs. 11am-1Opm. Fri &
Sat. 11lam-1 1pm
371-4418
newdealcafegainesville.com
Real Food Made By Real
Chefs.You Should Feel Guilty
If You Haven't Eaten Here Yet!
Mexican
Boca Fiesta
Best Margaritas in Town!
Fresh-squeezed + all natural!
Tasty tacos, burritos, nachos!
Cheap beer, full bar, open late!
Now serving brunch!
232 SE 1st St Downtown
336-TACO!
n eighborhoodbar8grl
Foroh's on the
Avenue
Farah's on the Avenue
now celebrating 30 years
in Gainesville! Located on
University Avenue, between
Modern Age and Bank of
America, just minutes from UF.
Farah's is newly remodeled and
offers a cozy, fun atmosphere
with a fireplace, the area's
largest indoor atrium and an
open air patio. Farah's also
boasts a full bar and seven newFlat screen TVs airing a variety
N of sports programming. The
extensive menu features award-
winning wings and burgers as
well as vegetarian and vegan
fare. Perfect for private events
or casual dining. Now offering
"smoke till you choke" hookah
specials on Friday and Saturday
and drink specials all week
long, including $1.50 Pabst, $5
pitchers, $2 wells.
Hours: MO&TU 11am-1Opm,
WE & TH 11am-12am,
FR & SAT 11 am-2am.
1120 W. University Ave. 378-5179.vegetarian
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade, meals,
sandwiches, soups, home-baked
desserts. Brunch Weekends.
Specials: Cupcake Mon.,
Southern Cooking Tues., Greek
Wed 6pm, Ethiopian Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 1Oam-8pm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
vietnamese
Soigon Legend
Delicious traditional Vietnamese
cuisine with popular Asian
favorites. Pho-Banh Xeo, Banh
Tom Ha-Noi. Enjoy great food
at great prices. Family owned
restaurant. Next to Holiday Inn.
Vietnamese subs-pork,chicken, &
tofu. Dine-in or take out. Catering
available. Mon-Sat 10:30am-
9:30pm, Sun 11:30am-9pm,
374-0934,1228W. Univ Ave
I
IQgk pddg p I
[ r 0(G IMusic festivals. The one event
where you can ignore the jacked-up
water bottle prices and smelly bath-
rooms (or lack thereof) and just kick
back and enjoy being in the middle
of nowhere, surrounded by thou-
sands of people who want and love
the exact same thing you do: good
music. The music festival season
is fast approaching, and tickets are
selling out quickly. Whether you're
a seasoned music festival expert,
or you've been itching to try one,
here are some of the music festivals
worth checking out in 2010:
*Coachella
April 16 to 18//indio, Calif.
Headliners- MGMT, Muse, Goril-
laz, Vampire Weekend, LCD Sound-
sytem, Passion Pit, Wale, David
Guetta, Corrine Bailey Ray, Thom
Yorke, Sly Stone, The Dead Weather,
Phoenix, Matt & Kim
Be wary of- Unlike the majority
of summer festivals that are located
on fields or farms, Coachella sets up
camp in Southern Cali's Colorado
Desert, where temperatures are
known to climb above 100 degrees
and clouds or shade is scarce. The
flip side? Cooler evening weather al-
lows for unparalleled stargazing far
away from the city lights.
Why You Should Go- In efforts to
keep their lineup fresh and exciting,
organizers rarely will book an art-
ist who has performed in previous
years: Only 21 artists have played at
Coachella more than twice over the
10 years of the festival. Attendees
range from all groups, which con-
tributes to the friendly and relaxed
atmosphere of the festival.
Ticket Info- All tickets are gen-
eral admission. Festival passes are*Summer Camp
May 28 to 30//Chillicothe, I//.
Headliners- Umphrey's McGee,
moe., STS9, The Avett Brothers,
Keller Williams, Gov't Mule, Yonder
Mountain String Band, Pretty Lights,
Bassnectar, Victor Wooten
Bonus Factor- The festival is
hosting a battle-of-the-bands con-
test where local bands from all over
the country can be nominated for a
spot in the lineup. Visit the festival's
Web site to either vote for a local
band or nominate one of your own.
Why You Should Go- Started in
2001, the festival's first year's at-
tendance neared 1,000. Now in its
eighth year, the jam band music
festival has more than 10,000 at-
tendees flocking to the small town
of Chillicothe.
Ticket Info- Three-day tickets are
on sale for $150, but tickets are
nearly sold out. Visit summercamp-
festival.com to purchase.
*Sasquatch! Music Festival
May 29 to 31//George, Wash.
Headliners- My Morning Jacket,
Vampire Weekend, Massive Attack,
The National, MGMT, The Temper
Trap, OK Go, Public Enemy, Edward
Sharpe & The Magnetic Zeros, Pave-
ment, Ween, Kid Cudi, Dr. Dog, They
Might Be Giants, City and Colour
Bonus Factor- Esurance, the
auto insurance provider, joined with
Sasquatch three years ago in hopes
of creating a sustainable music
festival. This means recycling, eco-
friendly signage and energy-efficient
lighting have all been introduced in
order to increase the festival's sus-
tainability.
Why You Should Go- Known to
some as THE indie music festival,
xToovio o
-Sasquatch was founded in 2002
with the aim of appealing to the
eclectic masses: Past performers
have included stars from Kanye
West to Coldplay to Nine Inch Nails.
Catering to the diverse spirits of the
Pacific Northwest, Sasquatch aims
to gather hippies and hipsters alike
to its stages.
Ticket Info- All tickets are gen-
eral admission. Single day tickets
start at $70 and three-day tickets
start at $210 and can be purchased
at sasquatchfestival.com
+Bonnaroo
June 10 to 13//Manchester,
Tenn.
Headliners- Dave Matthews
Band, Kings of Leon, Stevie Wonder,
Jay-Z, Tenacious D, Weezer, Phoe-
nix, Norah Jones, The Flaming Lips,
Zac Brown Band, Damien Marley
and Nas
Bonus Factor- When your ears
start to ring from all the music,
check out the festival's impressive
Courtesy of C. Taylor Brothers
Fans relax in the atmosphere of Bonaroo 2009 This year's headliners include Dave
Matthews Band, Kings of Leon, Stevie Wonder, Jay-Z, Tenacious D, Weezer, Phoenix,
Norah Jones, The Flaming Lips, Zac Brown Band, Damien Marley and Nas
Andy Samberg
makes waves
By AMELIA MARTY
avenue contributing writer
Mr. Pibb and Red Vines? Crazy delicious.
According to Andy Samberg, anyway.
The shaggy-haired Internet sensation and "SNL' fun-
nyman will take the Center stage at the O'Connell Center
on Tuesday. The event is sponsored by Accent Speakers
Bureau and Jewish Awareness Month.
Samberg's been working on his brand of quirky,
sometimes bizarre comedy with partners (and long-time
friends) Jorma Taccone and Akiva Schaffer, both of who
are now writers on "SNL."
The trio, known collectively as The Lonely Island, has
since worked together on such viral hits as "Lazy Sun-
day," "D**k in a Box," and the Emmy-nominated "Moth-
erlove."
Samberg himself has taken to the big screen in roles
such as the quick-talking younger brother in "I Love You,
Man" and as a wannabe stunt man in "Hot Rod." He
has also performed stand-up in New York and Los An-
geles and was featured on Comedy Central's "Premium
Blend."
The event is free and open to the public. Doors will
open at 7 p.m. and the show starts at8.0cracker
cuilsine
I
ITHURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010 + ALLIGATOR, 13
lineup of comedians including Co-
nan O'Brien, Aziz Ansari, Margaret
Cho, Doug Benson and Greg Giral-
do.
Why You Should Go- Bonnaroo
swept into the summer concert
scene in 2002 and has been hailed
as the "Ultimate Over-The-Top Sum-
mer Festival" by Rolling Stone maga-
zine. Lovers of indie rock, hip-hop,
Americana and other alternative
music camp out during the four-day
festival on a 700-acre farm. Most
people traipse around, sharing ev-
erything from their breakfast burrito
to their toilet paper and even their
freshly rolled joint.
Ticket Info- General admission
tickets start at $234.50. After these
tickets sell out, prices increase by
$15. All tickets are four-day passes
and can be purchased at bonnaroo.
com.
Check out Wakarusa at wa-
karusa.com, an intimate festival in
Arkansas that includes hiking and
yoga.
14, ALLIGATOR *THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010
Too much porn can make the actual bedroom a bore
By MICHAEL PERRONNE
avenue writer
He says.
Great sex is in danger. Thanks to
the rampant availability of pornogra-
phy online and the wild sexual encoun-
ters it depicts, sex is beginning to fall
short of our expectations.
Don't get me wrong; I have nothing
against porn. I think that whackingthe
salami is healthy and in most cases,
necessaryto maintain one's sanity. Myproblem with porn is how it can condi-
tion us -guys especially -into think-
ing that the situations we see on our
computer screens are the norm.
As young lads, porn tricks us by of-
fering a welcome respite from the Vic-
toria's Secret catalogs and blurred nip-
ples on TV. The first time I saw people
having sex on camera, my face nearly
melted off like the Nazis in "Raiders of
the Lost Ark."
But apart from opening up a Pan-
dora's box of blow jobs and anal sex,porn can significantly harm our future
sexual health.
First, your premature ejaculation
problems are probably a result of your
Usain Bolt-like jack sessions. When
finding the material you need is as ef-
fortless as logging onto YouPorn, no
real effort is needed to get your rocks
off. Couple that with the fear of getting
caught by parents or roommates, and
you are essentially training your penis
like an Olympic sprinter.
The content of today's porn canmake the actual deed, for some, seem
lackluster. It's hard to not get swept
up by all the fake boobs, tattoos and
piercings. The chicks are definitely a
lot hotter, but they are much less real.
And with all the yelling, spitting and
slapping, the girls are much more ani-
mated than in the porn of the past.
Eventually the line of expectations
gets blurred, and guys get swept up in
this false sense of sexual reality. I hate
to break it, but the pizza girl is not go-
ing to grind on you just because youwhip out your Johnson instead of giv-
ing her a tip. Porn can pigeonhole guys
into getting aroused by only a certain
type of woman. If your thing online is
busty Asian girls or red-headed ampu-
tees, you may be severely limitingyour-
self when you get out and tryto pick up
actual chicks.
Sex, like any skill, takes education
and practice. Use porn as a way to
raise your sexual awareness, but don't
let it become your only window into the
world of sex.
Spring brings ne v beer Tired of slippery Rainbows and soggy Nikes? Slip
By RICHARD 0. STEHLI (very old breeds of hops grown in specific .----- into a pair of galoshes. They are fabulous for walking
avenue writer regions of Germany and the Czech Re- around campus on rainy days and even more fun
public), Noble Pils has an extremely fresh, e\e for splashing in puddles. But better yet, they come
With the first day of spring on Saturday, natural hop taste. \ei 1, in style.
it's time to trade in yur heavy warming Last weekend's Beerfest 2010 in Tam-
stouts and porters for lighter, crisper spring
fare. Here are a few suggestions for what
you can drink as the days get longer:
Chances are, you've had Magic Hat
before, but until very recently you couldn't
buy it in 12 oz bottles around Gainesville.
Along with 6-packs of No. 9, the brewery's
flagship brew, and Vinyl, a spring seasonal
amber lager, you can now buy Spring Fever,
a variety pack. The pack features three
bottles each of No. 9, Vinyl, the brand new
Odd Notion-an unfiltered, hoppy wheat
beer available only this spring-, and Lucky
Kat, an English Ale.
Samuel Adams also has the new Noble
Pils. Featuring all five of the noble hopspa showcased some of the best breweries
and homebrewers in Florida. Swamp Head
Brewery walked away with an impressive
bronze and three silver medals. The com-
Behind pany also won two gold
B n medals for Midnight Oil,
a coffee-infused oatmeal
stout, and a barrel aged
version of 10-10-10, a hoptastic Double
IPA. You can savor the award-winning fla-
vors of Midnight Oil at Salty Dog Saloon,
Market Street Pub and Common Grounds.
In celebration of the Beerfest victory, for a
very limited time, Stubbies will have 10-10-
10 on tap. But be warned -it is notfor the
faint of heart.
L ACES
7To LUNCH ACAREEREM W~
IIBecause of the large
availability of rain
boots, there are styles
for everyone. Flowers
and tie-dye for the
hippie; whales and --
plaid for the preppy; ..-
solids to go with .'re n 3. Target plot
anything; and polka .J CreW .s e
dots for the fun-loving.
Here are just a few -. -. 4 e "re ---
favorites. irt udry Printed -Pbell
dye -tie
Erica Ervin / Alligator Staff
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
*3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
1 MONTH FREE!
Immediate availability
All Inclusive Student Living from $399
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-1
-0 ]
FULLY LOADED @ $379
2, 3 & 4 BEDROOM SUITES
Get a 42" TV, 19.95 to sign!
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, University Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1
Experience Why We
Define the Good Life
2/2*4/4*All Inclusive
Filling Fast for Fall!
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST Townhouse near UF,
Shands, shopping; easy access. 2BR/2.5BA;
great for student/family. Only $750/mo; short-
term lease available. Renovated & ready! Ed
305-972-6432 3-24-10-85-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net& utils. 239-250-6149 4-2-10-65-1
LUXURY 2STORY TOWNHS. 2B/2.5Ba
F Roomate Wntd for Master Bedrm! FULLY
FURN. 2 min to UF, Great bus routes & park-
ing, Pool/gym, Free wifi, All utils incl. Avail
May 1st. $540 786-246-3049 3-26-39-14/4 COUNTRYSIDE APTS. Spacious 4 bed-
room close to UF! Close to major shopping
areas and located on 3 bus routes that go to
center of UF. Every room has full bathroom
& large walk-in closets. Entire place is fur-
nished. High efficiency W/D. Rent is $400/
room/month. Utilities included! SD $200.
Available June or August. Call (305) 799-
7042 3-25-30-1
Larligte nP A r T Sl11 T -
MOVE IN TODAY!
2/2*3/3*4/4
Experience the Good Life
Text "Enclave" to 47464
4-21-09-71-1
REDUCED 1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $300/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished +
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 3-24-10-31-1
Spacious 4/4 fully furnished condo available
in SW G'ville area 5 minutes to UF! Indiv.
leases, $375/room/mo. On 3 bus routes
and close to major shopping/food areas.
Utilities incl. up to $200/mo. $200 SD. Avail.
immediately/summer/fall. (352) 262-0628
3-31-10-16-1
2 Blocks to UF $290/mo
Furnished bedroom in 4BD condo.
Rent includes utils, cable TV & internet.
378-4626 / 262-4290 4-21-10-31-1
3BE/3BA clean and quiet condo for rent. All
utilities included. $400/room or $1000/apt. 1
mile from UF. 2 bus routes available. Must
see!! Call Dory 954-816-1468. 3-19-10-5-1
Student Rental, Univ. Terr. Gnsvll.,1 bed-
room bedroom available immediately in
4/4apt 280/mo.,bed, desk and dresser,
walk in clos., full bath. Share fully equipped
kitchen,wash/dry, util. and internet. Cent
A/C, ground floor, quiet, owner Ph.352-472-
9778/305-299-3485 3-22-10-5-1
Spacious 1 BR apt for rent.
1 BR/1 BA apt near Oaks Mall.
Walk to mall, restaurant and coffee shops.
New appliances. Call 352-258-4695 3-23-
10-10-1
LAKEFRONT COTTAGE
23 mi E of Gainesville off FI 20.
Rural and rustic. Prefer mo-to-mo lease.
$250 per month. Call 717-503-0999
3-19-3-1
$339- Fully Furnished fairly new condo
4Br/4Ba spacious bedrooms & living area,
w/d in unit, great kitchen, great bus rts12
& 35 ten min to UF & shopping Discounted
rent Avail. Start fall. 941-232-1960
4-13-1-2-1
$339 rm/mo 4BR/2BA Condo at University
Commons furnished W/D/TV/Cable/Parking
Immediatley avl. spring/summer/fall
Great Place Great Price 239.253.8701 4-5-
10-14-1
4-4 condo will rent monthy, quarterly or
yearly. $500/month/room includes: washer-
dryer, dishwasher, private bathroom/bed-
room, walk-in closet, utilities, cable, wireless
internet, pool, gym, volleyball and basketball
courts. Living, dining and kitchen have wood-
en floors, bedrooms have nice clean carpets.
Bus services every 5-10 minutes. 352-213-
7059 5-20-10-30-11BR/1BA. $850 per month (everything in-
cluded). Covered parking behind unit. Less
than one block from campus. Call for more
details, 724-974-9591. 4-8-16-1
For RentF unfurnis hed
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901 4-21-
10-71-2
*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
THIS FALL LIVE DOWNTOWN!
Live where you play, love where you live
Studios*Ones*Twos*Threes
Big city living without the big city price
Limited availability! 352-338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
AFFORDABLE RATES! QUIET COMMUNITY!
www.frederickgardens.com
1 BR/1 BA $469 * 2BR/1 BA $569
Great Move-In Fee Specials!!!
Adopted pets live free!! 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOWor FALL 2010.
2/2 from $999 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$699 2/2-$799 3/2-$899
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464
4-21-71-2
@1 MONTH FREE@
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
Special applies to Immediate Move Ins
2/2's: From $799; 3/3's: From $979
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
Great School Districts!
HUGE 1 Bed- $595!
2 Bed- $729*4 Bed- $949
Tennis*Pool*Basketball
Call TODAY*332-7401
4-21-71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$549
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
SORORITY ROW 2BR
2BR/2.5BA for $1199
W/D & utils included. We <3 pets!
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $505 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$369 INCLUDES UTILITIES
1 month FREE, Move In TODAY!
24hr Amenities & Valet Trash!
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
1BRI 1 Mo free 2BR 2 Mo free
if everyone is full time undergrad at UF.
3 Mo free if full time grad at UF.
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-22,3 & 4'S READY NOW! *LYONS SPECIAL*
Individual & Fully Furnished @ $349 $99 1st month's rent 377-8797
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009 4-21-09-71-2
4-21-10-30-1
16, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
WALK TO UF -AVAIL NOW & FALL!
*1BR $460- $495
* 2BR $485- $600
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -YOUR NEW HOME!
Unique LOFT floor plan only $595!
1/1 from $625 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning* Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis * 1 mile to UF
377-7401 * www.boardwalkapt.com
4-21-09-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
3Affordable & Luxury 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br *2BR $420/br 1 BIR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $540;
1BR $465. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $490;
2BR $590 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 4-2-10-65-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Cal 376-1111
4-21-65-2
* One Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1 bedroom from *$457 2 bedroom from *$558
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 bedroom 1 bath from *$549
2 bedroom 2 bath from *$641
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Additional $200 off next month
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 *$549
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
5-11-10-64-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Clean modern
4BR/2BA (accessable from all BRs) house.
fenced backyard, pets ok, fireplace, W/D
provided, wooded pvt big yard. $1425/mo,
cent H/AC. 2606 NW 34th St. 352-339-2342
3-19-10-30-2
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 2 bd/ 1 ba
Hardwood floors, must see
$900/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Large 5 Bedrm House**
1 full & 3-1/2 baths
Plant Atriums, Unique floorplan, W/D
Plenty of Parking, 8 blocks N of UF
$2,500/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Great Parking! Walk to UF! 4BD/4.5 BA
Located near SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St.
Call today to view @ 352.373.7578
Union Properties www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BID WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
NEWLY REMODELED 1BRs
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-23BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio-
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
3-31-36-2
2BR/1 BA cent heat mobile home.
Shady lot. From $300 -$450/mo
First month half price ind water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887 3-31-36-2
705 NW 10th Avenue <9Blks from UF
3BR/1 BA, 8rooms + 400 sq.ft.porch, Central
A/C, W/D, $1,250 + util. Avail. Aug. 275-
1259, ATucker458@aol.com 4-2-10-37-2
WALK ONE BLOCK TO CAMPUS!
1, 2, 3, and 4 BR units available now and
for Fall 2010. Locations between SW 1st
ave, SW 5th ave & SW 12th St. Call Kinetic
Properties at 352-337-9600 (no dogs please)
3-19-10-25-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 3-19-
10-25-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 3-22-
10-25-2Baxter Cottage 2 blks to UF campus, 1013
SW 4 Ave 2BR/1 BA, Bright, clean, complete-
ly remodeled, 500 sq ft, Cent AC/Ht,wood
firs, DW, W/D, NS, NPets. $450+util. Lease
runs thru 7/1/10 ATucker458@aol.com 4-2-
10-33-2
2BR/2.5BA townhouse condo, 1 mi from
UF on bus route. Inc W/D, community club-
house, pool & fitness center. Wired for inter-
net & security sys. $878/mo. Avail 5/1 or 8/1.
Call/text 332-8841 lindalu@gatorhomes.com
3-22-10-20-2
OResort Lifestyle*
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
2's: From $479/person; 3's: From $399/person
Includes FREE Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-42-2
2BR HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area. Wood floors, new kitchen
vinyl, Cent H/AC, DW, fenced yard, wood
deck, parking, $1080/mo. Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 Iv mssg 4-21-
10-40-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority
Row/Norman Hall area. W/D, ice maker, ce-
ramic tile. Cent H/AC, DW, parking, fenced
yard. $1545/mo. Pets extra? Avail Aug 16. 1
yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 4-21-10-40-2
HUGE4BR/2BA2BLKStoUF-SororityRow/
Norman Hall area, remodeled baths, new:
stove, DW, disposal & AC, W/D, wd firs. cent
H/AC, parking. $2400/mo Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg
4-21-10-40-2
Houses Available for Fall!
2631 NW 1st Ave -$1845
402 NW 36th -$1425
315 NW 17th St. -$875
4 NW 25th St -$1499
717 NW 34th St -$1320
FREE UF Parking!
352.371.7777
4-21-71-2
3 br/1ba house near corner sw 34 st & nw 8
av separate dining & living areas, new kitch-
en, carport, wd/hook up, storage shed, front
lawn and fenced back yard. Water included
in rent. $945/mo -call 258-4184 3-26-18-2
APTS and HOMES for rent near UF!
Avail Summer and Fall, visit our website at
merrillmanagement.net or
Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494 x10
3-30-10-19-2
1
t-2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue. St. Croix Apts
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
2BR 1BA, Wood Floors, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 or tazzie2l@bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
3BR 1.5 BA Home off NW 16th
Ave. Tile Floors, Laundry Hkups,
Central H & Air. $750/Mo
319 NW 16th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
***HOUSE 4BR/2BA***
Available 8/1. Lovely, remodeled. W/D. Bike
to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. $1200/
mo. 373-1558, 246-8645, or 256-8370 3-23-
10-13-2
Hidden gem 2/2 walk to shands/VA
just renovated/wood floor/new paint
w/d pool balcony free parking,water
REDUCED $850/mo.352-281-0733
thuy carroll@yahoo.com 3-25-10-15-2
2BR/1.5BA upstairs/downstairs. Half carpet,
half tile. Pet friendly. Close to Bus routes 9,
34, and 36. $625/mo 352-275-4889 3-19-
10-11-2
I MOTNTEDE
Scott Sweeten
White Male
(DOB 02/19/57); 5'03",
180 lbs, Red Hair,
Blue Eyes
Wanted for:
Felony DUI and
Refusing DUI Test
Adter License
SuspendedALACHUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOP
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 17
For Rent For Rent For RentF 
unfurnshd unfShases Utesfurnished_ unfurnished ]a unfurnished L_ l
$199 Move-In Special
$500-$700 2BR/1BA
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or 352-505-9264 4-16-10-
30-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $700/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220. (leave
a voicemail) 3-31-17-2
Available now. HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo. All
4BR/2BA $1100/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183
3-22-10-10-2
Like Rural Living? Horses? Barn
Eff Apt, Stalls Avail, Loft Bed
W/D provided, Pets OK, 15 Ac
Jonesville, $400 Apt, $150/Stall
Whole Oper $1350 954-292-2244
3-18-10-7-2
CHARMING 3BR/2BA HOUSE
Walk to UF. Near law school. Small pet ok.
No smoking. Available for fall. Want $1295/
mo. OPEN HOUSE MARCH 20, 11am -
2pm. 352-371-0601 3-19-10-6-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 4-2-10-100-2
$600, 2BR, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet school
& campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furn; Parking; 352 376
0080;352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-27-2Walk to campus, 1022 SW 4th Ave. -3/3-
1200 mo & 4/4-1600 mo 3/2 house- 1015 NE
5th PI, fenced yd-$995 mo 4/4 house- 2010
SW 11th Terr-$1250 mo Near law college,
2732 SW 3rd PI-3/2 house-$1250 mo All in-
clude cent A/C, W/D hkups
Edbaurmanagement.com
4121 NW 37th PL- 352-375-7104 4-21-10-
27-2
Homes Avail for Fall! Pets welcome!
4/2 3321 and 3236 NW 30 PL $1200/mon
3/2 3320 NW 30th PL $975/mon
4/2 5402 NW 25th PL $1200
Call April 352-514-1441 for more info! 4-1-
10-13-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**Near GHFC vaulted
ceilings, all appliances, W/D, garage, small
pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1325 333-9874
4-6-10-15-2
*3401 NW 7th Place* 3/2 liv,din,fam rms.All
appliances W/D close to campus, large yd.
small pets ok avail Aug.1 $1375 333-9874
4-6-10-15-2
3BR 2BA W/den Home, 1200sf,
Available Now
Corner lot close to Vet/Medical schools
Tile floors,washer/dryer/dishwasher/garbage
disp. Fenced back yard/fireplace/central
H&A, pets ok. 2826 SW 39th Ave Call Mike
@ 850-497-2714 3-23-10-5-2
Brand new remodeled personal apartment
in a house walking distance from campus.
Right next to Frat Row and Law School.
Private bathroom, kitchen, family room, and
bedroom. Worth $800, discounted to $650
base rate. Contact david.argov@ufl.edu or
954-304-5880. 3-18-2-2
Fora Limited Time Only! 1BR/1BA seperate
dining rm, Ig living rm, walk in closet, cent
H/AC, full kitchen, full bath. H20 & sewer
incl. Free pest control. Close to Oaks Mall,
Archer Rd & UF. $395/mo. 2 & 3 BDs avail
in several locations, dif floor plans. 215-7780
6-17-10-38-20* Very Nice 1BR 0*
Full bath, living room, dining room, full kitch-
en, in-law suite, w/ W/D, cable, all utils incl.
$750/mo near Haile. (352) 367-0372
4-13-10-20-2
OClose to UF 2BR House. Yard, W/D, wa-
ter incl. Pets ok. 618 NW 14th Ave $900/mo
Avail Aug 1st 561-350-1552
@1/1 apt in duplex, Irg yard, W/D hk up. Pets
ok. 1/2 mo free. 608 NW 24th Ave $500/mo
3-30-10-2
*1 BR Home On A Hill*
13"x23" living room w/view, kitchen seats 6,
huge patio, no pets, near NW 14th Ave
& UF, utilities paid, quiet person $850
(352) 395-6250 or 332-1429 4-2-10-13-2
Walk to UF. Openings in April -Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@ gmail.com
4-21-10-26-2
Available Immediately! Small 1/1
Efficiency apt. W/D avail, new paint & carpet.
10 min walk to UF. Perfect for international/
graduate students! $500/mo + utils. 284-0979
4-21-10-26-2
The English House, Available now, 5 blks
from UF, Ig rooms for rent, ind leases, utili-
ties included. call today for more info and to
reserve yours for fall.
call 352-226-4111 3-23-10-5-2
Pretty House on a private 2-acre cul-de-sac
plot. 3 Bedroom/3 Full Bathrooms+Office
Room+Huge Screen Room. 2400 sq.ft.
15 mins. drive from UF. Near 43rd St/441.
Availability May 15th. $1500. 352-226-7658
3-19-10-3-2
**4/2 3962 W University Ave.**close to cam-
pus, all appliances, W/D, hot tub, fire place,
screened porch, avail. Aug,1 $1450, 333-
9874 4-6-10-15-2
2BR/2BA New,Big,condo,near UF/Shands.
Small quiet complex. $1200/mo+deposit.
Avail June/July. Balconyfree parking,
dishwasher, deluxe applianceslaundry IN
UNIT. Pets considered-fee. Over 1400 sq ft.
352-213-2366,sshunkwi@gmail.com 3-30-
10-10-2
10houses.com
3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$1000 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
5-11-10-26-2
**4/3 18 NW36th St.** Close to campus all
Available from Commercial News Providers cent, heat/air Avail. Aug.1
$1425 333-9874 4-7-10-15-2
**4/2 919 NW 1Oth Ave.**Close to campus,all
appliances,W/D,Cent.heat&air.Avi.Aug.1
$1450 333-9874 4-7-10-15-2
*********4 Blks 2 UF*********
3/2 cute, clean historic house. Hdwd, tile,
cntrl A/C, W/D. Don't delay; it always rents
quickly. $1425/mo. Avail Aug. 1102 NW 4th
Ave Off-street parking. 828-216-2565 3-24-
10-5-2
FREAKS!! DOWNTOWN 414 SE 2nd St
2BR/1 BA DUPLEX apt w/loft, central heat,
window air, off-street parking, convenient ac-
cess to everything. $630/mo, 1st, last, $600
dep. Call 352-373-6551 3-26-7-2
1/1 just 6 blocks from UF! Wood floors,
washer/dryer, walk-in closet, very private
development, close to bus. Call Charlene
Dinkla today (Realtor) (352) 665-4106 to
take a look! 3-24-10-5-2
Barn Eff Apt, Loft Q Bed, Washer/dryer $400
Pets OK, Stalls Also Available, Jonesville,
Prop 15 Acres 954-292-2244 3-31-10-10-2DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
$575/mo OBO furnished/unfurnished 1/1
directly behind Midtown at College Park.
Walking distance to UF. Parking includ-
ed. Female or male. Call 305-587-1122
3-26-10-3
Luxury 1 Bedroom Single for Sublease.
Female only Building. Furnished, all-inclu-
sive (utilities, cable, & ethernet). Private bath
and Kitchenette. $550.00/mo available May
1st thru August 305 776-3632 3-23-10-5-3
Amazing 1 bedroom in a 2/1.5 townhouse
w/ balcony in room. 5 blks to campus behind
chipotle. Sublease starting May 1st-July w/
option to renew. $450+ utl. call 772-418-4041
or email tsinger@ufl.edu 3-23-10-5-3
TRENDY URBAN STYLE LOFT
lbd/lba in 3bd/3.5ba LOFTS OASIS condo
for summer sublease. Rent $433/mo. Lease
may be extended for full yr if desired. Call
904-982-3206 or email brit1013@ufl.edu.
3-23-5-3
Room available for the ENTIRE SUMMER
(summer C 2010) at University Commons
Apartments, very close to campus! $380
per month with ALL UTILITIES INCLUDED.
Email Jackie at yaqui109@ufl.edu & I can
send you pics, show you the apt and room,
and more 3-23-4-3
Sublease for 1 bed/1 bath in the Polos of
Gainesville. Available May 1st -Aug 7th.
Price incls internet service. Kept very clean.
4 Bus routes to campus & 3 pools for the
summer heat! Pets allowed. 941-447-4495
3-26-10-7-3
$595 OBO a 1/1 in a 4/4. May 1st-August
13th. Fully furnished. Walk to campus. Price
includes internet, cable, + utilities. Females
only. Call Chase (850)228-5660 3-24-1 0-
5-3
lRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES
IN FURN 4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF.
$290/mo incl elec, cable tv, internet, pool,
laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626
4-21-09-71-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
3-19-10-38-4Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $350/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
3-26-10-35-4
Female wanted to share new 3BR/3BA home
near campus(SW area)2400sf. On bus route.
Washer & dryer included. Furnished, except
your bedroom. $395 plus utilities. Serious,
non-smoking students only. 813-610-1698
3-18-10-4
STUDENT NEEDED
New townhome, W/D, clubhouse, pool, gat-
ed, packing, bus route. $350 + utilities. 727-
729-1561 3-31-19-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room -utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Bball, pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd FIr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, or 352-636-4814 3-31-10-18-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsNA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$350/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220
(leave a voicemail.) 3-31-17-4.
3 Female Roommates needed beginning
summer A, 375+utilities, 4/4 condo, walk in
closets, pool +hot tub, fitness center, on bus
route, Countryside Apts. washer and dryer.
561-719-5558 3-19-10-7-4
$400/mo Room for Rent plus elec, Rockwood
Villas TH, pvt bath, on bus route, w/d, free
internet, non-smoking, female only. Avail
Immed & Fall. 1st Mth Free w lyr lease.
ktellmann@ufl.edu/904-874-6877. 7-13-
10-45-4
Seeking roommates for 3 bed/ 2 ba quiet
condo at Creeks Edge. New flooring, recent
remodel,upstairs unit, washer/dryer, on bus-
line to campus, partial furnished. Available
Aug 1st. $395/mo. 727-463-0560 5-11-10-
28-4
Clean, quiet furn. room to rent
at nw 16th av & 43rd st. on bus
line near uf,sante fe. Pool,
tennis, near libraryshopping.
$500 inc. util. 352-378-8732. 3-19-10-2-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Campus Edge / Somerest VillageWalk to
Shands/VA/class 2units, 2bd/2ba vault-
ed ceilings 2nd/3rd floor w/d in unitbest
locations parking. $8,000 tax credit.
$164,900/$132,900. Move in Ready 954-
439-2301 stedel@bellsouth.net 4-21-10-
41-5
GAINESVILLE $199,000
3BR/2.5BA, large yard
Double (+) garage
3794 SW 56th Rd.
352-494-8848 3-22-10-10-5Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
18, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010
F Real Estate Computers Autos Wanted Help Wanted
Motivated. For sale by Owner. Must sell
beautiful 3bd/2b 1777 sf home in Cottages
of Country Way, Newberry, FL. Close to
schools. No HOA. Large lot. Asking $184,900.
(530) 613-6488 4-21-10-28-5CERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECHO
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
33 1052 O7
fl hFurnishings 7jBycles
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror , Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
EF For Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure Guaranteedr 60 sec to UF
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
Black Magic Herbal Incense -start your own
business selling. 100% LEGAL. Call 561-
370-9427 for more information. Similar to
Serenity, K2 and other spice products. $300
will get you started making $$$$ 3-19-10-
5-10
WFotorcIes Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***www BuLyMyScooter cOm***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
ELECTRIC SCOOTER
No insurance/registration needed
Inexpensive to own & operate
Assembled/free delivery/guaranty
American Electric Bike Co
www.greenscootersoncampus.com
4-16-10-25-11
MOTOR SCOOTER
w/silver trim. 150cc, 4-stroke, air-cooled
Will do 50 mph, 1100 miles. $900.
Call 337-1784 3-23-10-5-11
2007 KAWASAKI NINJA 500
Garage-kept, never dropped. All mainte-
nance done. Very, very clean. 720 miles.
$3500. Call anytime 352-214-5191 4-13-
10-20-11OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
3-31-09-103-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699
94 Chevy 1500 $999
92 Chrysler Cirrus $999
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
93 Ford F150 $1999
98 Ford Explorer $1999
96 Mits Galant $1999
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Nissan Stanza $1499
98 Pontiac Transport $1499
97 Plymouth Voyager $1999
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2999
99 Olds Alero $2999
99 Pontiac Grand Am $2999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
99 Chrysler Sebring $2500
01 Dodge Neon $2500
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Mustang, 40k, $5500 CASH
03 Chevy Venture, 143k, $6900 CASH
05 Jeep Liberty, 105k, $6999 CASH
05 Saturn Ion, 123k, $7999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
06 Ford Taurus, 40k, $8900 CASH
05 VW Jetta, 111k, $8999 CASH
05 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
05 Chevy Trailblazer, 135k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Ranger, 158k, $7999 CASH
06 Chrysler PT Criuser, 46k $9999 CASH
07 Chevy Cobalt, 24k $10,999 CASH
02 Volvo S60, 97k $8999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
WFWanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
30,000 NIPPED & COUNTING!
Operation Catnip is gearing up to sterilize
its 30,000th cat. Please join us in the effort
to end euthanasia of homeless cats in our
community. Bring in a stray or feral cat for
spay/neuter on March 28th -enjoy refresh-
ments, door prizes & a very special gift for
the person who brings in lucky cat number
30,000. Please call for an appointment (352)
380-0940. 3-26-10-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948. 3-26-10-72-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 3-26-
10-72-13
WFHelpWanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
LATE NIGHT DRIVERS
$15-$17/hr 10pm -4am.
Apply @ gatordominos.com 4-21-10-60-14
Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have a fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
OSOATTENTION SMOKERS!@@
SODo you want to quit smoking?@
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking
cessation study. You may be compensated.
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic 328-6603 or
email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com 3-29-
30-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable.
Writing skills a must, accounting skills a plus.
Call Carrillo & Carrillo @ 352-371-4000.
3-29-10-20-14
HIRING STYLIST AND NAIL TECHS!!!
LOCATION: THE SALON 0" EXPERIENCE;
ON NW 6TH ST GAINESVILLE, FL 32609.
50% COMMISSION OR RENTAL IF
DESIRED. CONTACT SALON MANAGER
MRS. CAROYLN 0 AT 352-284-1320 OR
352-672-6339. 4-1-23-14
Sales rep for Internet finance company.
Must be able to work independently & meet
deadlines. Strong attention to detail, organi-
zational, & research skills are a must. Sales
exp is helpful. Salary starts at $24k/year +
commission. Excellent earning potential
for motivated individuals. Email resume to
jobs nationaltechmark.com or fax to 1-866-
728-4579. Put Financial Sales" in subject
line. 3-18-10-10-14
a
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
J Help Wanted Help Wanted f Help Wanted Services nnections
LEASING AGENT FT
Friendly, energetic person. Experience
preferred. Hourly & bonus. Great benefits.
Must be avail. weekends. Apply in person.
Spyglass or Hunters Crossing Apts. DFWP
4-21-10-29-14
Build your own online business from your
laptop. Fifty year old company. Contact John,
352-219-0871, or John@JCantlon.com
4-12-10-20-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Evenings &
weekends. Fax resume to 373-2230 3-30-
10-10-14
Best P/T job in Gainesville! Interesting
varied office/ PA job for MATURE, depend-
able self-starter w/ EXCELLENT computer
skills. Bondable. Flex hrs. $9/hr + commis-
sion. NO SALES.
Resumes: wootenl@bellsouth.net
3-23-10-5-14
SWIM COACH- GATOR SWIM CLUB
Love swimming, love kids!
PT/Summer position -Pay hourly/negotiable
Located on campus, 2 satellite locations
Call (352)-278-6346 3-23-10-5-14
Start securing your career today!
Join UF ARMY ROTC!
Register for MSL 1001 and 1001L
Call 392-1395 today to learn about
jobs available as an Army officer!
8-5-10-50-14Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with
a love for children to staff its summer day
camp program. Positions in the camp are
available in our Middle School day camp
and our elementary school age day camp
offered at Oak Hall. Individuals for the day
camp should be available to work daily
from June 7-July 30 (June 21-July 23 for
Middle School). Interested applicants should
submit a resume to Jeff Malloy, Oak Hall
School 8009 SW 14th Avenue Gainesville,
FL 32607 or via e-mail at malloy@oakhall.
org by March 26th. Interview information
regarding group interview on March 27th will
be sent out upon receipt.
3-26-10-8-14
CHILD CARE. Weekday afternoons and oc-
casional weekend days or evenings. Reliable
car required. Respond to: seekinghelp.
school@gmail.com 3-26-10-8-14
Successful 20-year-old software company
located in Gainesville, Fl, seeks experi-
enced individual to join our technical support
department in helping customers over the
phone with software problems. Great bene-
fits (health, dental, simple IRA) and excellent
working environment. Must be able to work
full time rotating shifts: 8:30am to 6pm M-F.
Saturday 10am-2pm. Resumes to: employ-
ment@elitesoftware.com 3-18-10-2-14
Admin Asst
Tech Support
Sales Rep
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Provi
I
-~ I
IeIFUN SUMMER JOB ON CAMPUS
Seeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-
dents to help with meal plan sales from
May -July on UF campus. Approx. 20 hrs.
a week, $10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible
hours and evenings plus free meals! Must
enjoy interacting with others in a professional
manner and have a positive attitude. Retail,
customer service or volunteer experience a
plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com
3-22-4-14
Typist for professional office near campus.
As needed basis. Must be fast/accurate/de-
pendable. Send email to
psychpractice@yahoo.com 3-19-10-3-14
3 NANNIES to start ASAP:
T/TH 2:30-6:30 AND Wed 8-6
ages 3 & 6, 18+hrs @ $10.50/hr;
M-F 20 hrs btwn 9-6pm $9/hr infant;
W thru SAT 8-6pm: 40hrs @ $10/hr;
14mon old, travel req /expenses paid;
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com 3-24-10-
6-14
2 NANNIES to start APR 26:
MWF 20-30 hrs; 3 & 7yrs old; $10.50/hr;
M-TH 1:45 -5/5:30; W at 12:30;
ages 7 & 10; $10.50/hr for 15hrs/wk;
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com 3-24-
10-6-14
Morning NANNY starts May 3 $$
7am to noon/ M-F; lyr commit
8wk old infant ! inf exp required;
3-30-10-10-14 Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com 3-24-10-
6-14
Ever think about joining the Army?
Ever considered being an officer?
If you have 2-3 years left at UF you
may have an opportunity through
Army ROTC Call 392-ARMY!
5-27-10-32-14
CERTIFIED DENTAL ASSISTANT with ex-
panded functions and great xray skills. Good
work ethic and desire to help disadvantaged
children a must. 4 day work week/40 hours
avail, competitive wage. Fax resume to
CSPS @ 352-375-4268 3-23-5-14
GREAT OPPORTUNITY for psych, special
ed or applied behavior majors to obtain state
of the art intervention skills & knowledge
working with severly autistic young man in
home & community based setting. Must be
motivated, reliable and make a one year
commitment. Hours TBA, competive wage.
Fax resume to BH @352-375-4268 3-23-
5-14
Nanny for 9 month old neededjers Infant experience and references required
Email resume and availability to nanny-
ingville@gmail.com 3-23-10-5-14
Group Fitness Instructors needed.
We need high energy people who are certi-
fied to teach group fitness classes (Zumba
and yoga). Contact Steve at Powerhouse
Gym at 352-373-4439 or www.baileysgym.com
3-30-10-10-14
TCBY at Thornebrook Village
Now hiring all shifts. Apply in person only -no
phone calls. 4-21-25-14
In Home Care for 30 yr old woman (NW)
Temp 3rd shift Respite care possible 1st or
2nd shift permananent. CNA training is a
plus. email eileen@coworkersinc.com 3-23-
10-4-14I
I.
/
IWAITPERSONS
Experienced & friendly. Evenings & week-
ends. Apply in person at NAPOLATANOS
606 NW 75th St. 3-24-10-5-14
Need on-call Macintosh expert, troubleshoot-
ing both software and hardware. Phone as-
sistance and onsite help near Tower Square.
$15/hr plus $5 gas money for onsite. Email
qualifications barbaragcox@gmail.com
3-18-10-2-14IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-
15
Local Immigration Attorney -Marriage
Green Cards/Fiance Visas/Naturalization
Matters -$295.00 Attorney Fees Plus Costs
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
6-1-45-15
House/Apt Cleaning!! Too busy? Messy
roommates? I'm here to vanish this problem
from your life! Contact Rachel 352-246-2773
3-23-10-5-15
Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
Grieving the loss of someone?
National Students of AMF
Join our Facebook group:
"Gator Students of AMF"
TalkAboutLoss.org 4-21-43-16
A Woman's Answer
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
R f_ IWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
Male professional, 70 years old, tall, from Sri
Lanka seeking white female, fair hair, 60-80
years old. Animals okay.
Write to MFP P.O. Box 1823, FI 32656
3-26-19-19
i Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from UF Teaching
Center. M-R, March 22 -25 from 5:00- 7:00
p.m. Verbal sessions on M & W, Math on T
& R. Call 392-2010 to register and learn the
room location. 3-22-4-20
Do you have 2 years left at UF? Ever
think about being an Army officer?
Free entry to Gainesville Rock gym
2-6 PM 1 APR from Army ROTC
704 S. Main St. Call 392-ARMY
3-31-10-11-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
o il Rides
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
eerra s
352-376-2716 8-24-74-16 W I t I
l Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
@ 2 yr old male Boxer named Macado, AKC
certified, fawn color with black mask & white
markings. Ears and tail cut, declawed, well
trained, very obedient. $400/OBO (386) 496-
1058 3-23-10-10-24
20, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010
TimRi0gidl:I .I
UF goes dancing despite low expectations
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
a berry@a Iligator org
On paper, Florida should prob-
ably be playing in the National In-
vitation Tournament for the third-
straight year.
The Gators' field-goal percentage
(44.4) is their lowest since 1998, and
the team's three-point percentage is
even worse: 31.3, the worst UF has
shot from the outside in more than
20 years.
In reality, the Gators overcame a
lengthy list of have-nots and why-
nots to make the NCAA Tourna-
ment for the first time since winning
back-to-back national champion-
ships in 2006 and 2007.
Of the three Florida teams that
have taken the O'Connell Center
floor since Joakim Noah, Al Hor-
ford, Corey Brewer, Lee Humphrey
and Taurean Green left, this year's
squad arguably had the most excus-
es for playing in the NIT rather than
the Big Dance.
Injuries? Check. Forward Adam
Allen sat out all year with a knee
injury, and center Kenny Kadji had
season-ending back surgery on Feb.
10 after playing limited minutes in
early nonconference play.
Lack of depth? Absolutely. Due
to injuries, transfers and a few
misses on the recruiting trail, the
Gators have been forced to employ
an eight-man rotation in which only
six players see a majority of the min-
utes.
Inexperience? That, too. Sopho-
more Erving Walker is in his first
full year at point guard, and fresh-
man guard Kenny Boynton played
32.6 minutes per game.
On top of that, UF coach Billy
Donovan has essentially built his
team around role players after the
early departures of his two biggest
stars, Marreese Speights and Nick
Calathes, who left for professional
careers.
"Really, it probably should have
taken a lot longer with what we've
lost the last three years," Donovan
said. "These kids deserve a lot of
credit -with a team that did not
have a lot of depth and a team that
had no experience in the backcourt.
For them to do what they did, I'm
just really proud."
So, how is it that this version of
the UF men's basketball team has
overcome the odds and put together
a Tournament-worthy season?
It's not an easy question to an-
swer, especially for those who have
followed the Gators' up-and-down
year as it has unfolded, but Tennes-
see coach Bruce Pearl had a simple,
succinct response.
"Chemistry, confidence, tough-
ness, size," Pearl said on Feb. 22, a
day before UF topped UT 75-62 -
one of the most impressive lines
on the Gators' NCAA Tournament
r6sum6.
With that formula, Donovan
has his team playing above its level
-and right back into the NCAA
Tournament.0hliiislti'y
The Gators had to do one thing
first before everything else could
fall into place.
Grow up.
The previous two years, young
players were thrust into leadership
roles before they were ready, and
the team suffered as a result.
Donovan said UF could hard-
ly practice in 2007-08, given the
squad's abysmal work ethic. Last
season, the work ethic improved,
but the players still had no idea
what it took to win.
"I wouldn't say we had bad
chemistry last year," Walker said.
"But this year with guys being more
mature and understanding their
roles better, that brought us togeth-
er more."
That group mentality has shown
on the floor as well, as the Gators
have been a more balanced team
than in previous years, when every-
thing ran through Calathes.
All five of UF's starters are scor-
ing in double figures this year, and
the margin between the top scorer,
Boynton, and fifth-leading scorer,
Vernon Macklin, is just 3.2 points.
That number is surprisingly sim-
ilar to the 2005-06 and 2006-07 na-
tional championship teams (3.3 and
3.0, respectively). By comparison,
that margin for the 2007-08 Gators
was 6.8, and the gap widened in
2008-09 to 8.3 points.
All six players averaging more
than 13 minutes per game have led
the team in scoring in at least one
game this year, and each starter has
dropped the most points in at least
four games.
That kind of offensive balance
has allowed the Gators to overcome
their occasionally woeful shooting,
something they couldn't do the last
two years.
"I know we're not shooting the
ball great, but we're capable of do-ing that, and we've got guys who
can score the basketball," forward
Chandler Parsons said.
(hiifido11eii
Florida entered the most impor-
tant stretch of its season with noth-
ing to lose and a chip on its shoul-
der.
The Gators hadn't beaten FSU
in three years, and Michigan State
was the second-ranked team in the
country. They had to play both dur-
ing the last week of November.
By the time it was over, UF
had shocked the college basketball
world, shutting down the Semi-
noles 68-52 and upending the Spar-
tans 77-74 in Atlantic City, N.J.
Those two wins were the Gators'
strongest argument for returning
to the NCAA Tournament -two
games most people counted as guar-
anteed losses before the season.
"You always want to challenge
yourself," Parsons said. "Those are
great teams that really made us bet-
ter. Win or lose, we're going to get
better from playing the best compe-
tition."
Despite a few bad losses, some
lengthy losing streaks and the un-
characteristically low shooting
numbers, Donovan encouraged
his players to keep trusting their
shots -an attitude that permeated
through the rest of the team.
"I'd attribute that to Billy prepar-
ing us, not giving up on us and forc-
ing confidence -making us believe
we could do it," Walker said.
UF entered the season as an un-
derdog -unranked, unheralded
and picked to finish fifth in the
Southeastern Conference East -
but accomplished what most people
thought it couldn't.
Even after silencing their doubt-
ers, the Gators are taking that atti-
tude into the NCAA Tournament.
"We want to go like we havesomething to prove," Parsons said.
"We want to go with a chip on our
shoulder, with a hunter mentality
and like we're the underdog. We
want to shock the world."
Toughness
It wasn't always easy for the
Gators to maintain that level of con-
fidence, though. The team suffered
plenty of setbacks over the last two
years.
Amid the early departures, late-
season collapses and disappointing
finishes, Donovan kicked them out
of their luxurious practice facility
during the postseason in 2008. After
the 2008-09 season, he told them to
stay in Gainesville for both summer
sessions so they could get a better
idea of what it took to succeed at the
college level.
"When they got here, as much
as I tried to explain and tell them,
they thought they were next in line
to win it all," Donovan said. "They
just thought it was going to happen
without having any clue of what
goes into winning."
As difficult as his first two sea-
sons were, Parsons said the team
needed those wake-up calls.
"They make us tougher," Par-
sons said. "They make us under-
stand how important everything is.
I think they bring us closer as a team
and make us a much better team."
That mental toughness helped
turn the Gators into the team they
are this season. When things didn't
go their way, and especially when
their shots weren't falling, they dis-
played a resiliency that had been
missing.
And this season, the only reason
UF has overcome its circumstances
and its own flaws has been its de-
fense.
While the Gators' shooting has
been almost historically poor by
program standards, their ability to
slow down opponents has been just
as good.
F- _
I U
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF's postseason fate may have turned out differently if not for two game-winning buzzer-beaters by
forward Chandler Parsons (center). Parsons hit a 75-footer to beat N.C. State and a three-pointer to top
South Carolina, two wins that helped the Gators overcome the 1-4 ending to their season.UF is allowing 65.4 points per
game entering the Tournament -
better than the previous two years,
and better than all but four teams
(2003,2005-07) in school history dat-
ing back to 1968.
The renewed commitment to
defense the Gators made in the off-
season has paid serious dividends
on the court, as they are forcing op-
ponents to shoot just 42.9 percent
from the field and 32.1 percent from
three-point range.
By focusing on defense, they
have stayed close with every op-
ponent, even when facing deeper,
more talented teams.
"A year ago or two years ago, we
wouldn't even be in those games.
We'd be losing by double digits,"
forward Dan Werner said. "It's all
about the defense, the stops and the
toughness we have."
Sie
Before the season started, Mack-
lin was the X-factor for Florida's
frontcourt: If he was effective, ev-
eryone would reap the benefits.
Although he has struggled at
times, the redshirt junior center
started all 33 games for the Gators,
and his presence sparked some of
the changes Donovan had hoped
for.
UF is 13-4 this season when
Macklin scores in double digits, but
perhaps his greatest contribution
has been what he has allowed his
teammates to do in their more natu-
ral positions.
Alex Tyus, playing at the power
forward spot, went on a tear during
the middle of the season, putting up
15.5 points and 7.4 rebounds over a
13-game span.
And Parsons, who finally came
into his own on the wing, picked up
where Tyus left off, averaging 17.7
points and 8.4 boards in the seven
games following Tyus' impressive
streak.
Down the stretch, Parsons devel-
oped into one of the most versatile
players in the SEC, as he has proven
capable of playing four positions,
seen some time running the point
and led the team in rebounds.
"When I think of Werner, Par-
sons, Tyus and Vernon Macklin,
what these kids have done and the
changes and the growth I've seen,
it will go down for me as one of
the most special teams I've ever
coached," Donovan said.
Even with all the pieces falling
together -the improved chemistry,
newfound maturity, renewed com-
mitment to defense and more tradi-
tional lineup -the Gators wouldn't
have made it this far without a little
luck on their side.
If the rest of the teams on the
bubble hadn't struggled down the
stretch, if Parsons' 75-foot miracle
heave at N.C. State didn't find its
way in or if his game-winner against
South Carolina had been slightly off,
the Gators' 1-4 close to the regular
season would have likely kept them
out of the NCAA Tournament.
But a little luck went a long
way for Florida, putting the Gators
where they thought they belonged
all year: back in the Big Dance.
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 21
UF WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
Gators host WNIT opener
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@alligator org
It's not the NCAA Tournament, but the
Women's National Invitation Tournament
will at least offer the Gators a shot at re-
demption tonight at 7.
UF (14-16, 7-9 Southeastern Conference)
hosts in-state rival and defending WNIT
champion USF (15-15, 6-10 Big East Confer-
ence) in the first-round, earning home-court
advantage by virtue of having a higher seed
within its conference than any other team
left out of the Big Dance.
That means one more chance in the
O'Connell Center for the five UF seniors
who lost to Alabama on Senior Day. But the
time off has given the whole team chance to
mull over how the season ended.
"You want to feel differently than you
did the last time you were on the court," UF
coach Amanda Butler said. "I think that's
still fresh in their mind at this point. We
would love to be in that NCAA field."
Instead, the Gators are in the WNIT
bracket but should feel more confident. Inthe two weeks since their last game, center
Azania Stewart -who missed five games
late in the regular season -to continue to
recover, and Butler said she expects Stewart
to play.
Home-court advantage coupled with
Stewart's improved health are factors con-
tributing to the team's appreciation for an-
other game.
"You want to feel differently than
you did the last time you were on
the court."
Amanda Butler
UF women's basketball coach
"I'm glad we can just play again
at home," senior Sharielle Smith said.
"Me being a senior too, it's horrible los-
ing at home, your last game at home
-or thinking it was your last game.
This is just another championship opportu-
nity, of course we would love to be in the
NCAA tournament. We weren't able to, so
now we have to go from where we are and
try and end the season as best as we can."Women set for NCAAs
By MATT RUBIN
Alligator Writer
From the time the members of
the Florida women's swimming and
diving teams competed in their first
meet of the season, they've had one
goal: win a national championship.
For 14 of them, the time to reach
that goal is now.
Twelve swimmers and two div-
ers will begin competition today and
represent their teammates at the 2010
Women's NCAA Swimming Cham-
pionships, hosted by Purdue in West
Lafayette, Ind. The three-day event
will conclude Saturday.
Though the team failed to win the
Southeastern Conference this year, it
still has a shot at the national title.
"Each meet is one in itself," UF
coach Gregg Troy said. "We refo-
cused on what we had to change."
Of the 12 swimmers, nine are
freshmen or sophomores.
The other three are seniors -Gemma Spofforth, Liz Kemp and
Stephanie Napier -who have com-
peted at the NCAAs for three years.
The three-time defending national
champion in the 200-yard backstroke
and a two-time defending champion
in the 100-yard backstroke, Spof-
forth became the only swimmer
in SEC history to win both races in
three-straight years. For all her ac-
complishments, Spofforth might be
the most nervous
as she begins her
last meet.
She's dedicat-
Swimming ingthemeettoher
mother, who died
of cancer in 2007.
"I had a little bit of a mental
breakdown on Monday," Spofforth
said. "I have huge support around
here and back home."
Divers Kara Salamone and Mon-
ica Dodson will also compete after
qualifying at the NCAA Zone B Div-
ing Championships on March 14.
.pi Thefirst250
V<7' FREEpizzac
* Sr]Rebehh ei
-I A
ceUt id seevefieeadmissionwithaGatori
2010
uF). ~J ~AII I -
UFStudents receive
)urtsofflomin&s
ate2@6l5pra
StephenCOconnellCenter
2110n
Savin
good
feel g352.
371.
4644
1 /2 Off Pool for Students
Everyday Until 9:00
Thursday All Day
$3 Wells
$4.25 Crown, Absolut
or Gold Schlager
Best Place to
Play Pool in Town! 8
Smile.
As1y
g lives is not only a
thing, it makes you
ood too.
SA mso isw FREE! ies--
Trst 50 kids club members to sigon-up wli~l
help-form a pre-game tunnel for the'te',am.
Call 8OQ73-GATOR:
Ac m ie ion i fR E E ._Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
ABiotest
From Nature tor Lfe
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431*SeniorNght &NE
V-r Friday March19th @7PM
AITCI111B1 U
22, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010
Brantley takes reigns at quarterback
FOOT, from page 23
time away."
Addazio played a big role in
hiring the new assistants, while
Meyer kept the highly touted
recruiting class together in a
time of uncertainty.
Even during that span,
Heater was confident in Mey-
er's ability to scale back his
intensity in order to remain onthe field.
"I know him as a per-
son," Heater said. "I know his
strength and his
focus, and trying
to just restruc-
ture a little bit,Football rewire a little
bit. He's a very
willful guy. A very disciplined
guy.
Now, Meyer's job will be tosmoothly transition the pro-
gram out of the Tim Tebow era
and into the John Brantley era.
Brantley will be counted on
to step out of Tebow's shadow
and into an immediate leader-
ship role.
"It's hard to be a leader
when the other guy is around.
The other guy is so overwhelm-
ing, Tim (is)," Meyer said. "It's
his huddle now."
Ha den flies, Spikes flops in 40-yard dash
PRO DAY, from page 23
thers head coach John Fox said. "It's kind of like my
golf game, sometimes I tweak my swing some too.
He has great abilities, and I think he showed that
today."
Coaches Eric Mangini (Cleveland Browns),
Raheem Morris (Tampa Bay Buccanneers), Tom
Coughlin (New York Giants) and Mike Tomlin
(Pittsburgh Steelers) were also on hand, along with
Jacksonville Jaguars general manager Gene Smith
and Browns President Mike Holmgren.
They watched as former Gators worked out, ran
the 40-yard dash and performed positional drills -
most notably cornerback Joe Haden, defensive end
Carlos Dunlap and linebacker Brandon Spikes.
McShay singled out Haden as the top perform-
er. After the best time he could muster at the NFL
Combine was a 4.57, Haden's athletic ability was
called into question.But on a damp field in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium,
Haden removed the monkey from his back with
runs of 4.39 and 4.41 seconds.
"It was a little bit wet, but I was going to run
it if it was snowing because I had to get that time
down," he said.
Dunlap also posted an im-
pressive workout, improving his
40 time, bench press and broad
jump. The South Carolina na-
tive then spent a half hour doing
drills with Panthers' defensive
line coach Brian Baker.
Meanwhile, Spikes may have
Haden hurt his draft stock, as he failed
to post a run better than five sec-
onds.
"It's tough because he's a really good football
player, and 40 times don't define the football play-
er, but it's going to hurt him," McShay said.Stopping Fredette is main task
HOOPS, from page 22
West Conference Tournament.
"As much as I have great,
great respect for Wall, Downey,
(Dee) Bost and a lot of those
other great point guards, those
guys can't get 50 in a college
game like this guy can," Don-
ovan said. "They can't get to
the free-throw line 24 times a
game. So this guy, to me, is one
of the best-kept secrets in col-
lege basketball."
Although Fredette has been
a scoring machine for the Cou-
gars this year, they have plenty
of other high-percentage out-
side shooters alongside him.
As a team, BYU is shooting 48.6
percent from the field and 41.9
percent from beyond the arc.
Of the BYU players who
have taken more than 10 three-
point attempts, the lowest-per-
centage shooter, Tyler Haws,
is making 36.8 percent of his
threes.
Parsons, the Gators' most ef-
ficient shooter from beyond thearc, is hitting 36.7 percent of his
three-point attempts.
"I've seen a lot of different
defenses, but we have a very
talented team," Fredette said.
"If they just try to take away
me, we've got a lot of other
guys who can score the basket-
ball."
Parsons said the keys to
stopping the Cougars are tak-
ing away the three-point line
and getting back in transition.
UF struggled to defend from
beyond the arc against Missis-
sippi State in its last game, giv-
ing up 10 three-pointers on 20
attempts.
The most effective way to
contain Fredette from going off
against the Gators would likely
be to put freshman guard Ken-
ny Boynton on him, but Dono-
van said UF would have to do
more than just that.
"Fredette has seen the best
defenders on everybody's team,
and it's not going to be Kenny
Boynton's job to stop him,"
Donovan said. "We've got to
do it collectively as a team."
'Delicious food madb
Snacks and Beer
ban San ches Plates Pas more
Downtown M 8 sec,371-2000 next urty Nelly's
Put Your Fork Down!
worth your ife. you'redftig at
souns, uatyour fork down andexit the building immediately'
"+. NFPACheeburger Cbeeburger M ARCI
EXPRESS SPECIAiS
2 FREE PANCAKES WITH THE PURCHASE OF
COFFEE, ORANGE JUICE, OR APPLE JUICE
5 PIECE COMBO FOR $5
AFTER 4PM
FREE GATOR BURGER NIGHT WITH
PURCHASE OF FRIES AND DRINK AFTER 4PM 40
FREE SHAKE UPGRADE WITH
PURCHASE OF ANY COMBO AFTER 3PMSchool Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 1 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.com
SPRING HOUSING FAIR
brought to you by Student Government Housing Affairs Cabinet
Reitz Union-Colonnade
Marcth 25th 10 am -1 pm
F
Sports
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Gators open spring practice with Meyer on sidelines
UF head coach Urban Meyer talks with new starting quarterback John Brantley during the
Gators' first spring practice at the football practice fields on Wednesday afternoon.0 MEYER HANDED CONTROL OF
SPECIAL TEAMS TO DJ. DURKIN.
By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kmaitstri@alligator org
When Florida coach Urban Meyer an-
nounced that he would be taking a leave
of absence rather than retire from coach-
ing all together after health concerns, he
said his gut feeling was that he would be
back for the start of the 2010 season.
He made his return Wednesday in-
stead, well before that time marker.
UF opened its spring practice schedule
under a cloudy gray sky in Gainesville,
and Meyer could be found in his usual
spot on the field. He directed the pro-
ceedings but admitted to feeling himself
hold back from time to time.
"Springtime I'm usually like this,"
Meyer said. "Let the guys coach, and let
everybody do their job, and see what we
got.",
Meyer declined to talk in depth about
the current status of his health, saying
only "I feel fine, and I feel good."
During special teams drills, he de-
ferred a little more responsibility than
normal to assistant coaches -D.J. Dur-
kin in particular -and he was rarelyloud on the field.
The most emotion he showed was
during a non-contact passing drill when
tight end Desmond Parks and freshman
cornerback Jaylen Watkins collided after
closing on a ball from different direc-
tions.
While numerous assistant coaches
yelled at the shaken-up players to get
off the ground, Meyer simply showed
his approval of the effort by screaming,
"Yeah! Yeah!"
"He's back, he's doing great, he's on
fire," co-defensive coordinator Chuck
Heater said. "He's really excited about
getting back today. This is a duck to wa-
ter. If you're a coach .this is why you
do what you do."
With four new assistant coaches -
Durkin, Stan Drayton, Zach Azzanni and
Teryl Austin -being integrated into the
system this season, it was important to
have strong leadership from the top.
Meyer has always provided that as a
head coach, but Heater said the program
didn't lose it when he was forced to take
his leave of absence.
"There were some really Herculean
efforts by some people," Heater said.
"Steve Addazio has done a phenomenal
job of just leading this thing in coaches
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 22
UF PRO SCOUT DAY
Tebow shows new form
By MIKE McCALL
Alligator Staff Writer
mmccall@alligator org
Tim Tebow finally got a chance
to answer his critics, and he capped
it off by meeting with one of his big-
gest.After completing passing drills
at Florida's Pro Scout Day, Tebow
stopped for an interview and hand-
shake with ESPN analyst Todd Mc-
Shay, perhaps the most vocal detrac-
tor of his throwing motion.
"I just try to treat everyone like I
like to be treated," Tebow joked.
McShay and others will have
less to pick at after Wednesday's
performance, when Tebow showed
75 NFL personnel -including five
head coaches and two general man-
agers -a more compact delivery
without the oft-criticized looping
windup he used in college.
"I think it was a good first step,"
McShay said. "He still has a long
way to go, and none of it is battle-
tested in game experience,but I thinkif you're a team seriously consider-
ing drafting him, today was positive
in that you saw he accepted he has
to work on certain areas, he's been
working on them and he's making
strides."
"He doesn't lack in the
work ethic department,
so whatever needs to be
done, he'll do it."
John Fox
Carolina Panthers head coach
Tebow said improving his deliv-
ery wasn't a focus during his college
career because he was having suc-
cess and winning games, but he had
no problem making adjustments
once it was clear he needed to.
And his willingness to change
has scored points with NFL coaches
and scouts.
"He doesn't lack in the work eth-
ic department, so whatever needs to
be done, he'll do it," Carolina Pan-
SEE PRO DAY, PAGE 22BYU poses tough test for UF
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
OKLAHOMA CITY -About 10 minutes
after the initial excitement of making the
NCAA Tournament wore off, Chandler Par-
sons came to a harsh realization about his
team's next opponent.
"Once I figured out where, when and who
we were playing, I started watching film on
[BYU] and realized just how good of a team
they are, how good of a year they've had, how
good Jimmer Fredette is," Parsons said.
Back in the field of 65 for the first time
since winning back-to-back national titles,
10th-seeded Florida (21-12) will take on No.
7 BYU (29-5) in the Ford Center in Oklahoma
City today at 12:20 p.m. to kick off the first
round of the Tournament.
The Cougars, who received their fourth-
straight at-large bid this season, are led by
Fredette, the 6-foot-2 point guard from GlensFalls, N.Y.
Fredette is averaging 21.7 points and 4.7
assists per game in his junior season, and his
prolific scoring has drawn plenty of attention
from UF coach Billy Donovan.
"We had a chance to see a lot of great point
guards in John Wall and Devan Downey, and
I don't think either one of those two guys
impacts a college game like
Jimmer Fredette does," Don-
ovan said. "He has a totally
different effect level on aMen's game."
Basketball Fredette has been hard to
stop all year, and he is shoot-
ing 45.8 percent from the field, 44.8 percent
from three-point range and 89.6 percent from
the free-throw line.
Earlier this season, he set a BYU record
by scoring 49 points against Arizona, and he
scored 45 points on 23-of-24 shooting from
the free-throw line last week in the Mountain
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 22
ANOTHER WORKOUT SET
U Former Gators Ryan Stamper,
Brandon James and Jermaine Cun-
ningham were unable to perform at
Pro Day because of injuries, and they
will hold a separate workout April 7.alligatorSports.org
E The softball team swept a doubleheader
with Auburn after Kelsey Bruder's walk-off
double, and the men's tennis team led FSU
2-0 before rain forced play to be suspended
indefinitely. Check the Web site for stories.TEEING OFF WITH MIKE McCALL
El know Pro Day is serious, but it was still St. Patty's Day. While I was watching
players run the 40-yard dash, I was hoping a coach would pinch them for not
wearing green. Carlos Dunlap dropped one of my favorite quotes of all time
Wednesday: "I don't want to sound cocky or confident, but I'm the humblest guy
there is." It takes talent to brag about being humble.
24, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010
UF LACROSSE
Bruns' big r
By TONI-ANN MILLER
Alligator Writer
It was the Ashley Bruns Show in Donald
R. Dizney Stadium on Wednesday night.
The freshman attacker led the Gators
(4-3, 0-1 American Lacrosse Conference)
with six goals -a new career high -
and four assists in Florida's 22-3 win over
Marist. The win ended UF's two-game los-
ing streak.
Five of her six scores were unassisted
as Bruns had her way with the defense
throughout the match, often rolling from
behind the goal and dumping the ball into
the net.
"It took us six games to get there,
but we finally saw a game where
we played a solid 60 minutes, so
I'm really proud of this group and
of their effort tonight."
Amanda O'Leary
UF coach
Bruns credited the defense and the rest
of her teammates for her performance on
the night.
"You can't do anything without each
other," she said. "It's not just me."
UF coach Amanda O'Leary said Bruns
is the Gators' point guard whose work
ethic has been the key to her success on
the field.
"She didn't force a lot of shots, so I wasight leads
really excited for her effort and the fact
that, if you look at her shooting percent-
age, it was very high," O'Leary said. "She
was feeding the ball, she was putting goals
in the back of the net, and that's really
what we ask from her."
Bruns has been doing extra shooting inFIorida to rout of Marist
practice and her success in games earlier
in the season has helped boost her confi-
dence.
It wasn't just Bruns who did the scoring
though. Attacker Caroline Cochran and
Midfielders Colby Rhea and Julie Schindel
each added three scores while midfielder
Matt Tripp /Alligator Staff
Ashley Bruns scores a goal during the Gators' 22-3 win against Marist on Wednesday
night in Gainesville.Brittany Dashiell accounted for two more
goals.
Midfielder Kitty Cullen aided the scor-
ing, dishing out three assists Wednesday
night.
UF got off to a slow start, taking almost
six minutes to score its first goal, but after
that, the Gators started to pour it on, scor-
ing five goals over the next 15 minutes to
take a 6-0 lead with just more than 10 min-
utes remaining in the first half.
With just one second left in the half,
Bruns buried the ball in the net on a bro-
ken play to give the Gators a commanding
12-2 lead at the break.
The second half was even less diffi-
cult for UF because the Red Foxes could
not slow O'Leary's squad on offense. UF
reeled off nine goals before Marist mid-
fielder Morgan Dillon scored the team's
third and final goal.
O'Leary said she was ecstatic at how
her team rebounded after suffering back-
to-back losses.
"It took us six games to get there, but
we finally saw a game where we played
a solid 60 minutes, so I'm really proud
of this group and of their effort tonight,"
O'Leary said. "They were really unselfish.
Offensively, they moved the ball around.
"A lot of different people were able to
score. Defensively, they played as a team
which was something that we've been re-
ally trying to pride ourselves on, playing
more as a defensive unit versus seven in-
dividuals."
Building a Healthy Foundation for the Gator Nation
The Student Health Care Center's licensed and
board-certified medical professionals are available 24/7.
UF students can use our personalized services:
Primary Care
Acute Care &Trauma Clinic
Psychiatry Services
Physical Therapy
" Sports Medicine
* Women's Clinic
Travel Clinic
Allergy Injection Clinic" Dermatology Clinic
" Mole Screenings
* Massage Therapy
" Immunizations
" Full-Service Pharmacy
* Clinical Laboratory
* Radiology & EKG
* Nutrition Services
Phone first to make an appointment:
(352) 392-1161
UF IStudent Health Care CenterU
U
U
U
U
U
