We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 104 NUMBER 75 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2010Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Urban Meyer’s desire to spend more time with his 
family drove his decision to retire. 
page 2How will Meyer’s retirement affect 
UF’s upcoming recruiting class?
page 3UF athletics director Jeremy Foley (above left) will hire 
a new football coach for the third time in his tenure. 
page 4AP PhotoBy MIKE McCALL
Alligator Staff Writer
mmccall@alligator.org
Urban Meyer already has his eyes on a 
new coaching job.
Instead of marshalling college 
football players for a multi-million-dollar 
salary, he plans to coach his son’s baseball 
team in the spring — as an assistant.
Meyer’s decision about his future came 
down to family vs. football, and after choos-
ing the latter a year ago, he changed course 
by stepping down as Florida’s coach on 
Wednesday to spend more time with his 
wife, Shelley, and children, Nicki, Gigi and Nate.
“At the end of the day, I’m very con-
vinced you’re going to be judged as a hus-band and father, not on how many bowl 
games you’ve won,” Meyer said. “I’ve not 
seen my two girls play high school sports, and they’re both very talented, Division-I 
volleyball players. … I can’t get that time 
back.”
“I made a commitment to them recently 
that I’m going to get to enjoy the best years of their life, and that’s right now.”
After six seasons, 64 wins and two national 
championships, Meyer shouldn’t have a hard time landing that baseball gig — or any other job — in Gainesville.
But as he leaves the Gators, they face a 
tough road back to the national prominence he led them to. Following a regular-season-ending loss to Florida State, Meyer talked about the need to rebuild the program, a pro-cess he won’t be around to handle.
“He took us to a new level — a level that 
will maybe be reached again but never ex-ceeded,” UF President Bernie Machen said.
Wednesday marked the second time in a 
year that Meyer has resigned. Last December, he changed his mind a day later. But this time, he seemed resolute.
Meyer said he began having thoughts of 
retirement over the weekend, and he decided to call it quits after talks with Machen and athletics director Jeremy Foley on Tuesday. 
“I don’t think (Meyer will change his mind) 
this time,” Foley said, adding he wasn’t sur -
prised by Meyer’s choice. “I’m at peace with his decision because he’s at peace. Last year, that was not the case. “My office is next to his, and I’ve seen how 
he’s been this year and the efforts he’s put for -
ward, and I know this is not a knee-jerk reac-tion to being 7-5, trust me. He’s at peace with his life, his family and what he wants to do. I didn’t try to talk him out of it.”
His players didn’t either.Meyer met with his team Wednesday 
afternoon and will coach the Gators in the Outback Bowl against Penn State on Jan. 1. Seniors Ahmad Black and Mike Pouncey, who stood beside Meyer during most of the televised press conference, both said they backed the decision.
The tougher sell will be to UF’s 77 players 
who are redshirt sophomores or younger.
“I think everybody is pretty much support-
ive of his decision,” Pouncey said. “Of course, all the young guys are going to worry about who’s coming in next, but all those guys have 
good relationships with their position coach-
es. Florida is going to be Florida, like always, 
and I think we’ll move forward and be a good program.”
Much of that hinges on the next coach. 
Meyer’s retirement sent rumors flying about who his successor would be, but Foley said he has yet to contact anyone about the vacancy.
Foley’s goal is to make a hire in the next 
two and a half weeks. He said he’d begin compiling a list of candidates today and that no current UF assistants had expressed inter -
est.
After heading two coaching searches that 
yielded drastically different results — Ron 
Zook in 2002 and Meyer in 2004 — he feels 
prepared for what’s ahead.“The first time, and no disrespect, I didn’t 
know what I was doing,” Foley said. “I’m not talking about the end result, I’m talking about the interest, the scrutiny, people tracking air -
planes and looking at it. 
“I have a great staff, and I’m not doing this 
by myself. But after 35 years (at UF), I know a lot about this place. I talk about culture, this place and this community, and I think I’ll bring that more to the table than I could the first time.”
In the meantime, the focus will be on re-
cruiting.
Meyer hauled in one of the nation’s best 
classes last year despite his leave of absence, and he said he’d be making phone calls right away.
He added that the program “has to be 
fixed,” a fact that adds some sting to his exit.
“I think Florida deserves the best, and 
I’m not sure we gave them our best this 
year,” Meyer said. “But there’s never per -
fect timing.”THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2010 n EXTRA, ALLIGATOR, 3
Urban 
      Development2, ALLIGATOR, EXTRA n THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2010
Dec. 4, 2004
Meyer leaves Utah and signs a 
seven-year, $14 million deal with 
Florida, choosing the Gators over a chance to coach at Notre Dame.Dec. 2, 2006
Meyer leads Florida past Arkansas 
for the Southeastern Conference Championship, and No. 2 USC falls to UCLA to open a spot for the Gators in the BCS Championship Game.Jan. 8, 2007
The Gators roll over heavily 
favored Ohio State, 41-14, to win the school’s first national title since 1996.
Jan 1, 2008
Florida falls to 
Michigan, 41-35, in the Capitol One Bowl to cap a 9-4 campaign.Jan. 8, 2009
Florida tops Oklahoma 
24-14, giving Meyer his sec -
ond national title in three seasons.Dec. 5, 2009
The No. 1 Gators lose 
to Alabama in the SEC Championship, ending a 22-game win streak and their hopes of a repeat title.Jan. 1, 2010
With Meyer at 
the helm, the Gators trounce Cincinnati 51-24 in the Sugar Bowl.Nov. 18, 2010
When asked if he’ll return for the 
2011 season, Meyer says “absolute -
ly,” adding that “nothing” would get in the way of that plan.Jan. 1, 2006
The Gators top Iowa 31-24 in the 
Outback Bowl to finish 9-3 in Meyer’s 
first season.Dec. 6, 2009
Meyer is treated at a Gainesville 
hospital early in the morning. Florida 
officials said it was for dehydration, but other reports surfaced that he had experienced chest pains.
Dec. 26, 2009
Meyer informs his 
players after practice 
that he will be step-ping down for health reasons. Dec. 27, 2009
Meyer announces 
he will take a leave of absence instead.Sept. 27, 2008
UF loses to Ole Miss at home, a wake-up call that 
led to a 414-97 margin of victory over the team’s final eight regular-season games.March 17, 2010
Meyer coaches the 
Gators in their first spring practice.Dec. 8, 2010
Meyer resigns as Florida’s 
coach after six seasons and a 
7-5 campaign in 2010, citing a desire to spend more time with his family.Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Coach Urban Meyer won 64 games, two national championships and two Southeastern Conference titles in six seasons as UF’s head 
coach. He will coach his last game for the Gators on Jan. 1 against Penn State in the Outback Bowl.
This wasn’t supposed to happen 
this way.
Urban Meyer was in line to be-
come the greatest UF football coach of all time and possibly one of the greatest coaches ever. 
Now just six seasons into his dream 
run with the Gators that earned him a spot next to the premier coaches in col-lege football and lifted him to stardom, Meyer is gone.
But his abrupt exit shouldn’t change 
anything. 
Meyer has already created his legacy 
and it’s as impressive as any other coach college football has ever seen. 
If you scan down the list of accom-
plishments during his six-year tenure in Gainesville, you’ll find a 64-15 re-cord, two national championships, two SEC championships, three BCS bowl wins, another non-BCS bowl win and a Heisman Trophy winner.
Again, that list was compiled in just 
six seasons.
What Meyer did in his short stint in 
Gainesville will be hard to replicate — even UF president Bernie Machen real-izes that.
“He took us to another level,” Machen 
said at Wednesday’s press conference. “A level that will maybe be reached again, but never exceeded.”
Meyer’s legacy at Florida shouldn’t 
be tarnished because of his desire to spend more time with his family.But one thing 
that could be ques-tioned is Meyer’s decision-making  skills. 
At about this 
time last season, Meyer decided he wanted to step down because of health and family 
reasons. That decision was probably the best one. The choice he made just days later to make it a temporary leave of ab-sence wasn’t smart.
Still, Meyer’s faults shouldn’t ruin 
the way Gators fans see him.
In Steve Spurrier’s 12 seasons at Florida (if you are bad at math, that’s twice the length of Meyer’s stay), he won just one national championship. And despite Spurrier’s choice to leave for the NFL and then coach South Carolina, another SEC school, he is still loved and respected in Gainesville.
Meyer deserves the same treatment. 
I understand that fans are surprised by his resignation, but let’s all take a step back and realize what Meyer accom-plished.
I know UF is planning to build 
bronze statues of Spurrier, Tim Tebow and Danny Wuerffel soon. One should be built for Meyer, too.
After all, he accomplished more than 
any of those men.
Meyer steps down as Florida coachAbrupt departure shouldn’t tarnish Meyer’s legacy at Florida
Dec. 13, 2005
St. Augustine Nease High quar -
terback Tim Tebow commits to play for Meyer at UF, joining a recruit-ing class that would also include Brandon Spikes and Percy Harvin.He cited his   family as reason for leaving
Anthony Chiang
Chiang Reaction
achiang@alligator.org
Twitter: @Chiang_Reaction
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
For the second time in as many 
seasons, the status of UF’s recruit-
ing class is in question.
Florida’s 2011 class currently 
has 17 oral commitments and is ranked by Rivals.com as the ninth-best class in the nation, but that could change with Urban Meyer’s decision to resign as coach.
When Meyer took a leave of ab-
sence last year — just more than a month before National Signing Day — the Gators not only kept their class intact, but managed to put together the No. 2 class in the country.
“I think to some degree, and 
this is a credit to Urban Meyer and his staff, they’ve gotten Florida to the level where kids are identify-ing with Florida every bit as much as they are identifying with Urban Meyer,” ESPN recruiting analyst Tom Luginbill said.
Whether the Gators can do the 
same this year remains to be seen, but Luginbill said he couldn’t think of an instance when a dra-matic coaching change like this has caused a recruiting class to fall apart.
As the news of Meyer’s decision 
spread, many UF oral commits were caught off guard and limited their comments as they tried to make sense of the situation.
“I was disappointed and con-
fused,” Plantation High four-star linebacker Ryan Shazier said.
Shazier, who said he spoke to 
other recruits Wednesday as the news circulated, said some are talking about taking visits to other schools — something he discussed with his family and will do, despite saying he remains committed to UF. He still plans to take his official visit to Gainesville this weekend.
M e a n w h i l e , 
Mary Driskel, the mother of Oviedo Hagerty High four-star quarterback Jeff Driskel — the 
nation’s top-rated passer — said the family is trying to process the news and declined to comment fur -
ther on her son’s commitment.
Driskel and nine other com-
mits planned to enroll early at UF in January, so whoever athletics director Jeremy Foley hires could factor into which recruits, if any, decide to decommit.
UF assistant coaches were out 
on the recruiting trail Wednesday when Foley made calls to inform them of Meyer’s decision.
All of the Gators’ assistant 
coaches are still under contract, and will remain with the team for the time being, though the new head coach could bring in his own staff.
However, the current staff’s 
strong relationships with the re-cruits could help keep the class together.
With Foley hoping to have a 
new coach hired within two to two and a half weeks, Luginbill said he thinks Mississippi State coach and former UF offensive coordinator Dan Mullen would be a candidate who could also keep the Gators’ re-cruiting class intact.
“[Mullen] has an intimate 
knowledge of the university and the landscape of the state of Florida and the landscape of the south-east region of the United States,” Luginbill said. “There’s an iden-tity with him and the University of Florida that may ease the transition a little bit.”
Most recruits aren’t making 
hasty decisions regarding their commitment to UF, though. While Luginbill said coaches 
from other schools will start to pursue UF’s recruits, like sharks circling when chum is thrown, he doesn’t see the Gators losing any-
one right away. 
“Florida is strong enough to 
withstand something like this,” Luginbill said. “Could they lose 
some guys? Absolutely, they could, 
especially with the resurgence in recruiting of Florida State. I think you’ll see this thing work its way 
out for the positive.”
UF’s recruiting 
class now in limbo
Alligator File Photo
After Urban Meyer’s decision to step down, the status of UF’s 2011 class is in doubt. The class is currently 
ranked ninth by Rivals.com
“At the end of the day, I’m very con -
vinced you’re going to be judged as 
a husband and father, not on how 
many bowl games you’ve won.”
Urban Meyer
UF football coachRecruitingSee video coverage 
at www.alligator.org
Mike McCall / Alligator Staff4, ALLIGATOR, EXTRA n THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2010
Who’s Next?
UF AD Jeremy Foley hasn't announced a list of candidates, 
but here's a rundown of a few names being thrown around.
Charlie Strong Dan Mullen Bob Stoops Chris Petersen Mike Shanahan Jim Harbaugh
Age 50 38 50 46 58 46
1 year
Louisville
6 — 62 years
Mississippi State
13 — 1112 years
Oklahoma
128 — 315 years
Boise State
60 — 517 years
Raiders, Broncos, Redskins
151 — 1057 years
San Diego, Stanford
57 — 27
Defensive Coordinator from 
2002-09, held coaching 
positions at UF at three 
other points in careerHead Coaching
Experience
Ties to UF
Potential
RoadblocksOffensive Coordinator
 from 2005-08Defensive Coordinator
from 1996-98NoneOffensive Coordinator
from 1980-83None
Only one year into Louisville 
careerOnly two years into MSU careerOklahoma is also a premier 
college jobNo BCS school head coaching 
experienceWhy come back to coach in 
college?Only coaching experience came on 
the West CoastSee what others 
are saying and 
cast your vote at 
alligator.orgBy TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
tjett@alligator.org
 
Once again, UF athletics director Jeremy Foley’s most hectic 
time of year will coincide with the holidays.
Coach Urban Meyer’s resignation Wednesday — just more than two weeks before Christmas — leaves Foley with a foot-
ball head coaching position to fill for the second time in the last 
347 days. Meyer announced he would retire last Dec. 26, but he 
changed his mind the next day.
“He owes me a Christmas vacation from last year, and now 
he’s going to owe me another one,” Foley said, joking. “He’ll be at home sipping eggnog, and I’ll be out on an airplane         somewhere.”
Most high school prospects will sign letters of intent in 
about two months, meaning Foley will have to act fast if he wants Florida to land another top-five recruiting class. As long as that void exists, opposing coaches will be able to attack the 
Gators’ perceived lack of stability.
Rumors have already begun to swirl about who Foley will 
hire. Within hours of Meyer’s resignation, Foley said he re-
ceived several text messages and e-mails insinuating he had 
already hired the next UF coach.
But Foley said he has yet to contact a candidate, choosing 
to dedicate Wednesday to working with Meyer before starting 
the search today. He acknowledged the need to fill the void quick, and he hopes to have a new coach within about two and a half weeks.
At the same time, he does not want to rush his decision.“Coaching searches, I don’t care if it's football, baseball, 
gymnastics, whatever, you’ve got to get in front of them,” Fo-ley said. “You need to find out if they’re a fit. Not just can they coach, but if they’re a fit for this institution, for this community, 
for this athletic program. … Sometimes people think deals get 
cut in the back room. That’s got to happen face-to-face.”  
Some speculate that Mississippi State’s Dan Mullen and 
Louisville’s Charlie Strong will be at the top of Foley’s list, as 
both served under Meyer during the ‘06 and ‘08 championship 
seasons. Mullen left after 2008, and Strong was hired by the 
Cardinals at the end of last season.
If Florida’s new coach is part of a team playing in a January 
bowl game, Foley said he will allow him to stick with that team 
until after its finale. In January 2005, one month after Meyer 
was hired, he coached Utah through the Utes’ 35-7 win against 
Pittsburgh in the Fiesta Bowl.
Mississippi State will play Michigan in the Gator Bowl on 
Jan. 1. Louisville will play Southern Miss in the St. Petersburg Bowl on Dec. 21.
Uncertainty for assistants: Foley said he called or left voice 
mails Wednesday for every assistant coach, many of whom are 
on recruiting trips. While he said he supports all of Meyer’s as-
sistants, Foley recognized that their careers in Gainesville may 
be finished.
“When there’s a coaching change such as this, certainly 
there’s some turmoil — recruiting turmoil, fan turmoil, player turmoil. And assistant coaches is the same way,” he said. “Ev-
erybody knows a new coach is going to bring in some of his staff as well, so I’m sure there’s some change in the future.”
Foley said no current UF assistant has expressed interest in 
succeeding Meyer yet.Foley to begin coaching search immediately
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF athletics director Jeremy Foley said he has not contacted anybody about the open job as of Wednesday. But he 
hopes to hire a new coach within about two and a half weeks.
Kyle Maistri / Alligator Staff