We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 104 ISSUE 66 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2010Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Coach Urban 
Meyer and the 
Gators will try to ex-
tend their six-game 
winning streak 
against the Semi-
onles on Saturday. 
UF will enter the 
in-state showdown 
as an underdog.
See Story, Page 14.n An Alligator 
reporter got to know 
a walk-on player for 
the Florida Gators. 
Read about what 
it’s like to be one 
of the Gators on 
Page 5. n THE DRINK WILL NO 
LONGER CONTAIN ENERGY-BOOSTING INGREDIENTS.
By ESTEE BECK
Alligator Contributing Writer
Lance Behn said he only gets it 
once a week. 
Zack Daly gets it two or three 
times a week. 
Seth Fricks, maybe four or five 
times. 
But what they have in common 
is that they’ll be getting it a little 
longer when the rest of the coun-try won’t be.
UF students and beverage lov-
ers around the country are stock-ing up on any remaining Four Loko, the alcoholic energy drink that has raised controversy over its health effects.
In response to recent legal con-
troversy, makers of Four Loko agreed to remove the energy-boosting ingredients from the 
drink — caffeine, taurine and 
guarana — making it merely an-other malt beverage on the mar -
ket. 
Since the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration requested that all alcoholic energy drinks cease dis-tribution last week, shipments of 
Four Loko have been halted, but 
sales have not stopped.The country’s very last caffein-
ated Four Lokos have been flying off the shelves. Daly, whose favorite flavor 
“hands down” is orange, began stocking up on the drink the min-ute the store clerk told him of Four 
Loko’s fate.  
“I was like, ‘Oh, crap,’ and I ran 
back to the fridge and grabbed a 
bunch,” he said.
He’s up to a stockpile of about 
15 cans and said he plans to drink all of them  himself. 
Beverage stores around 
Gainesville are either out of stock 
or running low on the energy-in-
fused Loko. As of Tuesday after -
noon, area ABC Fine Wine & Spir -
its still had them in stock, except 
for the one on Archer Road. The 
Campus Store, on 13th Street and University Avenue, was sold out, and only two flavors of Four Loko remained at Gator Beverage:  wa-
termelon and fruit punch.
“We’ve sold the hell out of 
them,” said James Thurston, a 
Gator Beverage employee. Thur -
ston said he sold about nine cases Thursday night and four or five cases Saturday. 
Gator Beverage owner Mark 
Barnett is not sure if the store will carry the energy-free Loko. He be-
lieves that Four Loko may suffer 
the same fate as Sparks, a beverage that was once an alcoholic energy drink that is now just an alcoholic beverage.
J-E-L-L-Uh-Oh: Gelatin, pudding cups spill in Iowa
RUDD, Iowa (AP) — Northern Iowa authorities say 
they’ve cleaned up a slippery mess after a tipped semitrailer 
spilled Jell-O and pudding cups across a county road.
The Floyd County sheriff’s office says 52 pallets of gel-
atin and pudding fell from the trailer when its top ripped open near Rudd early Tuesday. It took crews three hours to clean up the debris.
The sheriff’s office says 39-year-old semitrailer driver 
Eric Young of Charleston, S.C., wasn’t able to make a turn and went into the ditch where the rig rolled onto its side.Damage to the semitrailer is estimated at $50,000.
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 16Sunny
83/55
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
A single lemonade-flavored Four Loko remains at a University Avenue BP gas station on Tuesday night.
Students scramble to stock up on Four Loko
SEE LOKO, p AgE 8
By KARINA LISENBEE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Her brother smoked marijuana. Her 
aunt drank alcohol. She ate food. 
For Ellen, compulsive eating was like a 
drug and made her life unmanageable. 
Food was her outlet of choice for es-
capism — her remedy for a bad day . 
“At least it was legal,” she would say 
to herself. “At least I’m not poisoning my lungs with tar or my liver with toxins.”
Ellen is one of about 54,000 members 
of Overeaters Anonymous, a worldwide 
fellowship that has found 
a solution to the problems arising from overeating. 
There are more than 6,500 
meeting groups in about 75 countries. 
“We’re proud of how far OA has come 
in the last 50 years and the thousands of Overeaters tempted 
by holiday offerings
SEE OVEREATERS, p AgE 8THANKSgIVINg
Some UF students will be left out in the 
cold this Thanksgiving. 
The Hub and the Reitz Union shut down 
today at 3 p.m., and some UF students who are far away from home may have to face 
the Thanksgiving holiday all alone.
Debra Anderson, the international stu-
dent services coordinator,  said the Thanks-
giving holidays are some of the loneliest days for international students.
There are 4,900 international students 
on campus, and most of them are graduate students. For the past nine years, Anderson has been hosting a get-together for some of 
them at her house. She invited 70 this year.
“The majority don’t get into a U.S. home 
and experience a Thanksgiving,” she said.
Shubhendu Bhasin, a 28-year-old Ph.D 
student in mechanical engineering, said he spent his last three Thanksgivings with one 
of his professors. Bhasin said this year that 
wasn’t an option, so he plans to work on his 
research or visit St. Augustine beach.
Movie theaters will be open over the 
holidays but the Oaks Mall will be closed on Thursday. It will open again at 6 a.m. Friday 
morning. RTS buses will not runThursday 
or Friday.
— JON SILMANSome stay for holiday
“The majority don’t get into a 
U.S. home and experience a 
Thanksgiving.”
Debra Anderson
international student services coordinator NewsLocalNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 104 ISSUE 66 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2010
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Emily Fuggetta, 
  efuggetta@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Stefania Ferro, sferro@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Matt Harringer, 
  mharringer@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Anthony Chiang, 
  achiang@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Tyler Jett, tjett@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Jared Misner, jmisner@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Emily Fuggetta, Paul Runnestrand,   
  Stefania Ferro, Jared Misner
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editors Lane Nieset, lnieset@alligator.org, 
  C.J. Pruner, cpruner@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Alison Schwartz
  aschwartz@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Kyle Maistri, Corey McCall, 
  Mike McCall, Amanda Milligan, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Nicole Deck, 
  Safid Deen, Desiree Farnum, 
  Olivia Feldman, Greg Fink, 
  Josh Isom, Emily Morrow, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Briana Seymour,   
  Matthew Watts, Hannah Winston
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
 Display Advertising Clerk Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives  Samantha Albright, Joshua Andersen,  
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Niko Pifferetti, Jocelyne Sanchez,   
  Alexander Silva, Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.BRIEFS
2011 Women’s History Month 
Committee Applications Deadline
Today, 5 p.m.Women’s History Month is a 
time to celebrate and promote 
leadership and pride among the women on the UF cam-pus. This year, the Women’s History Month Committee, in partnership with the Women’s Leadership Council, the Center for Leadership and Service and the Dean of Students Office, will 
develop events in March. Those 
interested in being a part of the committee can contact Yasmina Dardari at ufwhm2011@gmail.com. Applications are due  to-day by 5 p.m. to the front desk in the Center for Leadership Service located in the Dean of Students Office on the third 
floor of Peabody Hall. 
Graduate Christian Fellowship 
Thanksgiving Dinner
Thursday, 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.St. Andrew’s Episcopal ChurchCome join the Graduate Christian Fellowship for our annual Thanksgiving din-
ner. All are invited for a free 
Thanksgiving dinner at the St. Andrew’s Episcopal Church, 2715 NW 39th Ave. After the dinner we will be going out for dessert and a movie. 
RUB Entertainment presents 
“Brick” Reitz Union AuditoriumNov . 29, Dec. 1 and 2, 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m.A teenage loner (Joseph Gainesville Chamber Orchestra 
playing both Johann Sebastian 
Bach’s Brandenburg Concertos No. 5 and No. 6. Flute, violin, violas, harpsichord, cello and bass all make music together under the Christmas tree in the Thomas Center courtyard. Tickets are available at the door. A reception for the musi-
cians follows. 
Annual Lessons & Carols 
Performance
Dec. 12, 11 a.m. and 7 p.m.United Church of GainesvilleSpend some time reveling in the beauty of traditional and non-traditional Christmas mu-sic offered by our instrumental-
ists and our adult, youth and 
children’s choirs interspersed with the story of Jesus’ birth.  Join us at the United Church of Gainesville’s annual service of Lessons and Carols.  Call 378-3500 for more information.Gordon-Levitt) pushes his 
way into the underworld of 
a high school crime ring to investigate the disappearance of his ex-girlfriend.  This en-tertaining homage to noirs past has been slickly and compellingly updated to a contemporary high school setting. Admission is free.
Gainesville “Gifts” Back
Dec. 2, 9 p.m.The WarehouseJoin the Pledge 5 Foundation 
on Dec. 2 for our annual 
Toys for Tots benefit concert, Gainesville “Gifts” Back. The show will feature Gainesville singers, dancers and comedi-ans.  Join us at The Warehouse in  downtown Gainesville at 9 p.m., and bring a toy for free admission to the show. So 
grab your friends, grab a toy 
and enjoy the show while bringing joy. Visit facebook.com/pledge5 for details and updates. This event is 18 and up.
Gainesville Chamber 
Orchestra: “Bach Home for 
the Holidays”
Dec. 2Thomas CenterEnjoy musicians from the 
THURSDAY FRIDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
SUNNY
79/51SUNNY
76/45RAIN
84/54SUNNY
84/57SUNNY
83/55
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2010 n ALLIGATOR, 3
Steven H. Keys / Alligator Staff
Signs left behind
Signs remain in front of City Hall on Tuesday night after a hunger strike to raise awareness for the homeless.
A semi-automatic rifle was stolen from a Gainesville 
Police officer’s home, and authorities are offering a 
$1,000 reward for its return.
Cpl. Adebowale Alade left his southeast Gainesville 
home at about 3:30 a.m. Friday and returned midday Monday to find his door kicked in and his AR-15 semi-automatic rifle missing. 
The rifle, Alade’s private weapon not issued by GPD, 
was loaded, said GPD spokeswoman Tscharna Senn.
“All guns are dangerous, but rifles have a greater pro-
pensity to hurt or kill,” Senn said. Right now, the rifle is a semi-automatic, which means the gun will automatically reload but only fire one shot per trigger pull, but 
Senn said it could easily be converted to an automatic firearm, or machine gun, which will fire rounds continu-ously with a single pull of the trigger.
In order to recover the gun, a $1,000 reward is being 
offered by the Alachua County Gun Bounty Program, which allows citizens to anonymously report informa-
tion on stolen weapons or crimes involving them.
The caller will receive a PIN and the location of a local 
bank where he or she can collect the reward money.
Those with information about this gun or other crimes 
should contact 352-372-7867.
— KATIE EMMETSOfficer’s home 
burgled, loaded rifle missing
NewsLocalALACHUA COUNTY COMMISSION
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Contributing Writer
After about two hours of debate, 
the Alachua County Commission 
didn’t reach a decision on whether to approve Sheriff Sadie Darnell’s appeal for about $500,000 more than 
her approved budget.
But  J. K. Irby, the Alachua County 
court clerk, offered a solution to the 
dispute — the Commission might be able to give the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office some unused funds budgeted for constitutional officers, 
which includes the department.
Irby said he isn’t sure how much 
money is left in that part of the bud-
get, but he initially thought there could be about $300,000. He said his accountants are figuring out the amount and said there may be some “wiggle room.”
The Commission will discuss his 
suggestion at its Dec. 7 meeting.
The sheriff suggested that the 
Commission fund her request by using some of the surplus that her office returned from the last fiscal 
year, which was about $700,000. 
Darnell said 
she was disap-
pointed that the 
issue hasn’t been resolved yet, but said she will be at the meeting to see what happens.
She said she 
needs the money 
to compensate for increased state re-tirement rates and county insurance rates. 
“Believe me when I say it, I can-
not absorb the half a million dollar cut,” she said.
Commissioner Rodney Long said 
that in order to approve Darnell’s re-quest, the Commission would need to rewrite about three budget poli-cies.
Commissioner Paula DeLaney 
offered to sit down with Darnell to discuss a compromise.
Then, Irby quietly gave his sug-
gestion about seeing if unused money from the constitutional offi-
cer’s part of the budget could go to 
the sheriff’s office, which would be within current policies.
The Commission agreed that his 
suggestion was the best way to re-solve a disagreement that has lasted more than four months and has left both sides frustrated.
“Why are we just hearing about 
it now?” Commissioner Mike Byerly said. “This would have been a good solution to the problem four months ago.”
Clerk suggests solution to sheriff’s budget problem
Darnell
  By CHELSEA HULL
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  UF scholarship recipients will 
have the opportunity to ofﬁ  cially 
become a part of the university’s re-
corded history.
  This month, the Samuel Proc-
tor Oral History Program began 
interviewing students who were awarded the Florida Opportunity Scholarship. These ﬁ  rst-generation college students would otherwise not have been able to attend college due to the ﬁ  nancial burden, and 
in the interviews they discuss the 
impact the scholarship has had on their lives. 
  Paul Ortiz, director of the pro-
gram, said he plans to make these interviews a regular part of the program’s work. Interviews will be digitized and available at the George A. Smathers Library and as 
podcasts on iTunes.   “The Florida Opportunity Schol-
ars personify what the University of 
Florida is all about,” he said. “We are an institution devoted to equal-ity, and that is one of the reasons the oral history project is proud to be a part of this endeavor.”
  Leslie Pendleton, director of the 
Florida Opportunity Scholars Pro-gram, said there are about 1,400 ﬁ  rst-generation college students 
who currently receive the scholar-ship.
  It was Pendleton’s idea to record 
the histories of scholars. 
  “I think having them document-
ed with the rest of the university’s 
oral histories helps them be a part of the living history of UF,” she said.
  Pendleton then helped identify 
students like Shelby Powell to be a part of the project.
  Powell, a 23-year-old from Palm 
Bay, was one of the ﬁ  rst students to receive the Florida Opportunity Scholarship and graduated in 2010. 
  In his interview, Powell talked 
about what his life would have been like without the scholarship. 
  “I think when you give a group 
of individuals an opportunity they 
otherwise wouldn’t have had, it’s 
bound to produce a story,” he said. “The stories you get through FOS are very different than stories you would hear from a family that has generations of UF scholars.” 
  By MICHELLE KLUG
 Alligator Contributing Writer 
 
  Many households may be doing without one of 
Thanksgiving’s traditions this year, and it’s not the 
cranberry sauce. 
  More households are substituting meat with a 
vegetarian option or providing fake turkeys for their 
guests who do not eat meat. Natural food stores and grocery stores in Gainesville are carrying these veg-
etarian options for Thanksgiving. 
  For UF student Casey Kochey, this will be his ﬁ  rst 
vegetarian Thanksgiving. He will be joined by his 
grandfather and cousin, both of whom are vegetar-
ians.
  For Thanksgiving dinner they will be making two 
types of stufﬁ  ng: one with chicken broth and one 
without.
  Seth Tibbott, the president of Turtle Island Foods 
Inc., the company that manufactures the Tofurky, said that he has seen a rapid increase in Tofurky sales ev-ery year since 1995. 
  The company, Tibbott said, is up 10 percent this 
year in shipments. In 1995, they sold 500 Tofurkys. That number jumped to 340,000 in 2009. 
  “The southeast has always been a strong region for 
us,” he said. “Publix, in particular, is a big customer.” 
  “This is the busiest time of the year for us,” said 
Heather Lindseth of Turtle Island Foods.
  She said all natural food stores and most grocery 
stores in Gainesville will be carrying the Tofurky Feast and the Tofurky Roast and can usually be found in the 
produce department. 
  The Tofurky Roast is an imitation turkey made 
from organic soybeans and comes with gravy. The To-
furky Feast contains the Tofurky Roast, rice, stufﬁ  ng, imitation jerky and chocolate cake — all organic. 
  Marlyn Moser of Mother Earth Market, 521 NW 
13th St., said they are carrying the Feast for $31.59 and the Roast for $18.69. 
  Kathy Whipple, assistant manager at Ward’s Super-
market, located at 515 NW 23rd Ave., said they will be carrying three different brands of imitation turkey: Quorn, Field Roast and Tofurky. 4, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2010
“I think having them docu-
mented with the rest of the 
university’s oral histories 
helps them be a part of the 
living history of UF.”
Leslie Pendleton
Director of Florida Opportunity 
Scholars Program More families 
opt for meatless Thanksgivings First-gen students share storiesON CAMPUS
n IT WILL BE LOCATED IN MARSTON LIBRARY 
STARTING IN APRIL.  
By GABRIELA GONZALEZ
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 There is a coral reef in the Marston Science Library, 
and it’s made entirely out of crocheted scarves. 
  UF is preparing to host its own crocheted coral reef 
exhibit in April 2011 until October 2011 as a front-
glass display in the library, according to Denise Ben-
nett, librarian at the Marston Library.
  The exhibit is modeled after the worldwide Hyper-
bolic Crochet Coral Reef project, created by Margaret 
and Christine Wertheim, of the Institute for Figuring in Los Angeles in 2003. 
  Jessica York, a staff member for Smathers Library 
East, learned about the project at a retirement party where the tables were decorated with coral pieces. 
  She did not know how to crochet, but she’s been 
working on her green spiral for about seven weeks.
  “It’s an excellent way to learn to crochet,” she said. “Corals are not uniform. You can mess up because it’s not like a scarf for your loved one.”  
  The Institute for Figuring helps express and pro-
mote the concept of the coral reef by having its exhibit travel around the world. Because the exhibit usually 
goes to large cities such as Dublin or Sydney, UF de-
cided to build its own.
  So far, only art museums and the Smithsonian In-
stitution have done their own exhibits. 
UF is the ﬁ  rst university to do one. 
  The project, Bennett said, brings 
art, science and geometry together. 
The exhibit complements the “Elegance of Science” 
exhibit currently being displayed at Marston. 
  Bennett is very excited to share the exhibit with 
the university. The UF exhibit is different from the other exhibits, she said, because it focuses on what is unique to Florida and the Caribbean. 
  One of the Floridian pieces is a staghorn coral 
which is like a bush, she said. There are also some bleached corals which will serve to display man’s im-pact on the environment.  Crocheted coral reef to be displayed
UFProjects
  By GEORGE PAPPAS
 Alligator Contributing Writer 
 
  Three hundred pounds of tur-
key, 100 pounds of potatoes and a 
cornucopia of dressings and des-
serts could have satisﬁ  ed all of the pilgrims at the ﬁ  rst Thanksgiving in Plymouth. 
  And it will keep about 500 of 
Gainesville’s homeless people from going hungry Thursday, when the St. Francis House welcomes them for a Thanksgiving feast. 
  Although the majority of the 
food has already been donated, the shelter and soup kitchen still needs food donations to cater the holiday meal for those who would 
be unable to celebrate otherwise. 
  “It’s pretty humbling to sit here 
and see the things that many of us 
will take for granted are what a lot 
of these folks depend on,” said Lee 
Smith, the director of operations at the St. Francis House. “You count your blessings. We want to see that nobody goes without something,” 
  Alexandra Dati, a sophomore 
nutrition student at UF, volun-teered at St. Francis House ﬁ  ve or six hours per week last fall and said she was moved by the experi-ence. 
  “If people have the means to 
have a huge feast for themselves, at least give back so that somebody else can have one, too,” she said. 
  According to Kent Vann, the executive director of St. Francis House, preparing the feast in the soup kitchen resembles an assem-
bly line more than it does Mom’s 
kitchen. 
Feeding 500 people involves 
about 200 volunteers from United Way and the Gainesville commu-
nity. They start coming in Thanks-
giving Day at 7 a.m. and cook for three hours.
  There is a separate cooking sta-
tion for every Thanksgiving fa-vorite. At one station, volunteers baste, bake and carve the turkey. Another group assembles the stufﬁ  ng and the next presides over 
a vat of mashed potatoes. Some 
volunteers donate homemade cookies, and pecan, pumpkin and sweet potato pies. 
  “We get the greatest response 
about the layout of the entire meal. We like to do the traditional meal, and it looks and tastes good. But it takes every bit of help for it to 
come together,” Vann said.  St. Francis House prepares for busy day
It will serve about 500 people
“If people have the means 
to have a huge feast for 
themselves, at least give 
back so that somebody else 
can have one too.”
Alexandra Dati
Nutrition Student at UFBy ANDREW PANTAZI
Alligator Contributing Writer
The coaches want 100 push-ups, 100 sit-ups 
and 100 squats. Then they want 100 inverted rows.  
Sweat forms on his forehead and his muscles screech, but Bren-
den Bice pays his body no mind. There is no backing down — 
no giving up. However long it takes, he’ll finish the workout. 
Besides, his coach won’t give him the luxury of quitting.  
Twenty-five minutes. That’s about the time it takes to watch “The Office.” That’s how long it takes to finish those four work-outs that started at 5:45 a.m. Compared to other workouts, this is a day at the park. But he still has to push to finish. And that’s after 35 minutes of conditioning and weight lifting. 
Then, the “other” No. 21 can worry about school.  
n  n  n
It was different for Bice back home. 
In Londonderry, N.H., pick-up football captains chose him 
first. Those captains never had to choose between him and 
Ahmad Black. 
In seventh grade, he took a career assessment test. It told 
him that he should become a doctor; he picked advertising. 
He already quizzed his dad about commercials and marketing campaigns. He resolved, at 12, to work for an advertising firm.
That was the year he started playing Pop Warner football.In 2008, he was a National Merit Award finalist. His senior 
year, top-tier schools such as Dartmouth College and the Uni-versity of Pennsylvania accepted him. Those schools, however, weren’t his top choices. UF, a school known more for middle 
linebackers than Mensa members, was his top choice.
Now he’s a Gators football play-
er, even if he doesn’t play on Saturdays.  
School was never a lot of work, but football is.
   
n  n  n
Being a walk-on goes like this: You won’t be highly val-
ued. Most likely , you will never play a down in any game. The benefits are few but the punishment is more than any rational 
person would bargain for. You will get beat up — essentially legally assaulted on a repeated basis. Your job is to get up and take it again — or else.
The coaches would rather have you quit now; it would save 
them the time and money . With all the x-rays, blood tests and hours of coaching, you represent a drain on their resources.
But if you do make it as a walk-on, and if the Gators do win 
a national championship, you get a ring; something every col-
lege football athlete desires but very few receive.
About 30 or 40 people showed up to that initial meeting. 
About half returned for the tryout.
There, the coaches run the potential tackling dummies 
through a series of drills that turned young bodies into walking 
car accidents. Only about half finish the tryout, which consist of jumping drills, bench presses, a 40-yard dash and other sprint-ing and conditioning drills.
Some vomit and can’t finish. Bice was one of those people. 
“Well, that sucks for me,” he thought. Players who puke, he 
thought, don’t play for the Gators.
But they took him.
How long did the tryout last? “Forever.”The real fun, however, was just about to begin. n  n  n
Despite what the numbers may tell you, not all walk-ons are 
doomed to practice-squad purgatory. 
Some walk-ons, such as Kerwin Bell, Chris Doering, John 
James and Louis Oliver, achieve success and have their names forever etched in Gators football history
Gary Beemer will not be one of those players, but  those 
who attended last Saturday’s game against Appalachian State sure remember him. A walk-on defensive tackle, the coaches put Beemer in as a running back in the fourth quarter where he scored his first, and only, Gators touchdown of his career.
Next year, if Bice comes back, Beemer will be his weightlift-
ing coach.
n  n  n
Wednesday morning, three minutes after class starts, the 
Gators walk-on slips in just in time to sign the roll.
Bice gets comfortable. Other students are already zoning 
out. A student listens to “Break Your Heart” with his head-
phones. Other students text, chat and peruse Facebook.
The professor is saying something about the independent 
and dependent variables of qualitative research surveys.
Bice stays focused – or at least he tries. Twenty minutes in, 
his head begins to nod.
A second later, his shoulders snap back in his seat.
Must. Stay. Awake.Sure, he cares about his classes. After all, he got a B+ on that 
public relations test. But it’s not the same as football.This fall, the practices looked like thrashings. After one es-
pecially brutal one, he told his dad about the kickoff drill where he was blindsided by one of the top-ranked freshmen.
“Did you learn anything from it?,” his dad asked.
“Oh yeah,” Bice replied.
“Is it tougher than you thought?”“Oh, no,” he said.Practices like those and early morning workouts are why 
Bice walked with his back and arms straight, his knees unbend-ing, almost like he was balancing plates on his head. Moving any muscles to relax hurts too much.
His first practice of the season left black-and-blue marks up 
and down both of his arms. The next day, he showed his room-
mates — his way of showing what it means to be a Gator.
Even if he wanted to quit, there’s that $300 fine levied 
against players who quit before Jan. 1. But money isn’t the is-
sue; he just wants to finish.
Whatever it takes, he keeps going.At the Appalachian State game, when fellow walk-on 
Beemer scored a touchdown, Bice was standing on the side-line wearing his Gators jersey over street clothes. It was the first game that the team let him on the sideline. After the game, he 
signed 14 autographs to children and grown men.
“I felt bad because I was devaluing their magazines and 
hats,” he said.
Ask him why he keeps working so hard as a walk-on, and 
he’ll give you different answers.
Sometimes, he says he just wanted the sweatshirt. Another 
time, he’ll say he wants his future son to know his dad played 
for Florida.
But the truth is probably simpler.
“I want to be able to say, ‘I play for the Gators,’ and leave it 
at that,” he said.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2010 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Andrew Pantazi / Alligator Photographer
Gators football walk-on Brenden Bice poses for a photo in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. The 21-year-old advertising junior tried 
out for the team in August. Walk-on players don’t receive scholarships and are mostly used on the practice squad.
For football walk-on, big sacrifices yield little glory
COMMUNITY OUTREACH
By KIMBERLY DEVITT  
Alligator Contributing Writer 
When Lucianna Grasso learned that 
about 90 percent of the students at the A. 
Quinn Jones Center were eligible for free or reduced lunch, she knew she wanted to do something to help the students and their families. 
Grasso, a fourth-year family, youth and 
community sciences major at UF, worked with Enlace Student Organization to orga-nize a food drive to benefit the children and families from the A. Quinn Jones Center, a K-12 school for emotionally handicapped children. 
Enlace will be collecting canned goods 
and non-perishable items through Dec. 3 at three sites on UF’s campus.
So far, the group has collected about 50 
cans and other nonperishable food items. They hope to collect at least 200 cans by Dec. 3, she said. 
Peter Huber, a guidance counselor at the 
center said that 90 percent of the families of the students on campus are at or below the poverty level. 
Many of the students are homeless or dis-
placed, he said.
The school provides a free therapeutic and educational environment for students with emotional handicaps. The donations from the food drive will directly benefit the students and their families at the center, he said.
“It’s no secret that poverty and mental ill-
ness go hand-in-hand,” Huber said. 
Gabrielle Williams, a fundraising direc-
tor and a third-year health education and behavior major, said she was unaware of the fact that so many of the students at the cen-ter were in such a difficult position. 
“You have people struggling to get some-
thing to eat,” she said. “It broke my heart and I wanted to do something about it.”
“Thanksgiving is coming up and some of 
these people don’t even have a table to sit at,” she said. 
Individuals may drop off cans and other 
nonperishable food items at the Reitz Union Colonnade weekdays between 10:40 a.m. and 2:45 p.m. Items may also be dropped of at Norman Hall Room 186 and Norman Hall Room G315 during regular school hours.
Student organization gathers food to give to local youth 
“It’s no secret that poverty and 
mental illness go hand-in-hand.”
Peter Huber
Guidance counselorHe turned down ivy-league schools to playThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2010
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Emily Fuggetta 
EDITORPaul RunnestrandStefania FerroMANAGING EDITORSJared MisnerOPINIONS EDITOR
89 TOTAL VOTES82% YES
18% NOTuesday’s question: Should students lose Bright Futures as punishment for cheating?Today’s question: Are you stocking up on Four Loko?Why I’m thankful for print journalism
Since I began writing this column at the beginning 
of the year, I’ve had a few regrets. 
But all things considered, I’m thankful to have 
a weekly column in the nation’s largest student-run news-
paper.
It’s interesting to write today’s column. Classes are 
still in session the day before Thanksgiving, but most 
students have begun to make their treks back home or have long since been home. 
It only makes sense that eyeballs will glance across 
these pages since there are only about 17 students still in Gainesville today. And although the paper is pub-lished in its entirety online, I’m thankful that print, at the time I write this, is still a very viable market for news media.
This is a tad counterintuitive to what we’ve been 
told. 
Daily circulation is down nationwide, revenues are 
down, competition is up and the move to online publi-
cation is still churning. 
However, in Gainesville, print seems to reign su-
preme, be it through a copy left on an RTS bus or 
throughout the city, where the bright orange boxes are as ubiquitous as an oxford on Fraternity Row. And for 
that I’m thankful.
But why does this student-run newspaper seem to 
buck the trend? 
Perhaps it’s ease of use. Copies are available nearly 
everywhere on campus and throughout the city, allow-
ing a student to grab one before class, outside his or her dorm room or apartment, outside a dining hall or restaurant and outside the gym after a workout. It al-most seems too easy to pick up a newspaper and stay informed about the local happen-ings on campus. And for that, I’m also thankful.
When I landed the job as a col-
umnist, most people were sup-portive, but naysayers made their voices loud and clear. 
Why would I want to work in 
a dying industry? No one reads 
newspapers anymore.
I’ve also written for blogs, so I’ve written for both 
sets of media, and there’s just something more alluring 
about the printed word. 
The feel and smell of newsprint, the strict deadline 
that stories and columns are held to and the refreshing 
notion that some of the news printed has since expired 
is something I can’t yet part with.  And I’m thankful for 
that.
My father worked for his college radio station, so 
perhaps it’s genetic. 
Our family is drawn to the traditional, old-fashioned 
kind of lifestyle.
I try not to limit myself just to the printed word — I 
enjoy converging media in cyberspace. 
My dad and I also love baseball, a sport most people 
consider passe and boring, but we still cling to its tradi-tion.
The death knell may be sounding for newspapers in 
some places, but I’m thankful I can still pick up a news-paper when I want one. 
I’m thankful to still have the written word.Sean Quinn is a first-year political science major. His 
column appears every Wednesday.Leafy Green
Good news for driv-
ers looking to stick it to the gas-guzzling 
Man: The Environmental Protection Agency labeled the soon-to-be-released Nis-san Leaf as the best midsize vehicle for fuel efficiency and 
best car for the environment 
as the Leaf clocks in at about 99 miles per gallon.
It’s too bad the number of 
people who are going to be cruising around in a swanky new Leaf will probably be 
less than the number of peo-
ple traversing the town in a military-style Hummer.
The lack of available in-
frastructure to charge the 
Leaf, which runs largely on 
electricity, will make the car extremely difficult to market to an American public who is 
still largely unfamiliar with 
the concept of plugging a car in before driving it.
Additionally, the Leaf and other electric vehicles can only sustain themselves for short travels, so don’t expect Nissan’s newest installment to get you from Miami to 
Gainesville.
But Nissan should be 
praised as it releases its elec-
trically chic Leaf next month. 
Its attempt to reduce fossil 
fuel dependence and gaso-line-guzzling cars is a step in the right direction.
But our global warming 
dilemma won’t be solved un-less the electricity generated for the electric cars comes 
from renewable sources, in-
cluding wind or solar.
Our gasoline addiction 
won’t be solved until electric 
cars become more market-
able and the American public becomes more informed.
Keep on trucking, Nissan. 
Every revolution has to start somewhere. It’s time to turn over a new Leaf.Picture Perfect
Photographers shouldn’t 
manipulate kids’ photos
 
We airbrush models and magazine centerfolds with-
out much thought. Beauty, we’re told, is only skin-deep, and our models need to represent the image 
of perfection.
And the lines of just whom we can mold into that model of 
perfection are becoming more blurred, according to a recent report.
Increasingly, the New York Times says, school photogra-
phers are digitally manipulating school portraits of children to erase bodily imperfections, including acne marks, blemishes, moles and other unbecoming traits that don’t conform to tra-ditional beauty.
Children’s perceptions of physical beauty have been 
warped long before any school portrait has been taken. From 
the Disney effect on what constitutes beauty to the thousands 
of advertisements they have been exposed to, their concepts of beauty have been defined before they even enter elementary school. And now, those children’s very own pictures might be altered to fit a more beautiful standard.
But when a photographer takes it into his or her own hands 
to change a child’s image without parental consent, more harm is done to that child than had ever been imagined.
In effect, with the altering of a child’s photo, we are telling 
our children beauty really is only skin deep, and, unfortunate-ly, you just don’t make the cut.
Children need to be taught lessons of the variety of beauty 
and the inability to truly define what that word means. Ma-nipulating anyone’s photo, magazine model or child, to ad-here to any socially prescribed definition of the word, sends a very ugly message.
Sean Quinn
letters@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2010 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
When it comes to Thanksgiving break I 
suffer from delusions of grandeur.
I am now a junior at Georgetown 
U. And as cringe-worthy as that statement is for me (i.e., I am old, the real world is impend-
ing and other similar existential dilemmas), it 
does carry with it an innate sense of know-how. Pre-registration makes a little more sense to me these days and I have grown more adept at cob-bling together creative meals at Leo’s. But when it comes to booking my flight home for Thanksgiv-ing, I am pitifully inept. Every year I manage to book my flight under the assumption that none of my classes will be cancelled. In short, I am clue-
less. And so, as I write this, I am acridly bitter be-
cause this year my flight home arrives at O’Hare International Airport at 9:30 p.m. on Wednesday night. It’s my own fault. Even my parents are em-barrassed by my naivete. “Margaret, no one goes to class on the Wednesday before Thanksgiving. Who are you kidding?”
This also means I am cutting into valuable 
time that could be spent checking off my annual 
“Thanksgiving To Do List.” For all intents and 
purposes, Thanksgiving is a glorified long week-end. But the way I plan for it, you’d think I had a three-month sabbatical ahead of me. I always expect that I will manage to accomplish any num-ber of things: catching up with friends from home, stopping by all my favorite restaurants, 
starting my holiday shopping, getting my hair cut and doctor’s appointment in — and still finding time to savor the chance to sit on the couch and do large, glorious amounts of nothing.
I think I do this to myself — lay the anticipation 
on thick, as if basting my own turkey or slathering cream cheese frosting on pumpkin pie — because I believe so strongly in the value of Thanksgiving both as a wonderful respite before the anxiety of finals and as a holiday. For a holiday that today holds no religious affiliation (unless a collective expression of gratitude has been tethered down by dogma now too), it boasts well-established 
and refreshingly simple traditions. And truth be 
told, I find the consistency in the celebration of Thanksgiving remarkably comforting.
I relish in imagining the Thanksgiving dinners 
taking place across the nation: the requisite essen-tials in the turkey (or tofurkey), the beautiful table settings and the tedious dishwashing they result 
in, the cranberries, the stuffing and the gathering 
together of families by blood or by choice.
By Margaret Delaney is a student at Georgetown 
University. Read the whole column at UWire.com This Thanksgiving, everything’s gravyUWire
Margaret Delaney
UWire
The majority of the Demo-
crats and Republicans that populate this city’s 
institutions are career profes-sionals and public servants. For 
the most part, their expertise has 
served us well. Yet my worry is 
that maybe, somewhere, there is 
another Abraham Lincoln. Some-one we would mock, someone 
who didn’t go to an Ivy League 
school, someone who made it on 
his or her own.
Like Lincoln, they could 
change everything. They could 
right the wrongs and redraw 
America’s path forward. Real-
istically, even Lincoln couldn’t 
make it today, and that saddens me deeply. Lincoln’s story is the 
story of this nation and what it 
should be — but isn’t anymore. 
There will be no more Lincolns 
because our political system punishes those who are willing 
to speak the truth and make the 
tough decisions. Who’s brave 
enough to put tomorrow before 
today?
Families across the country 
have spent the past two years altering their spending habits. 
Some have taken on another job, 
others have downsized to small-
er homes. People are doing more 
with less, as they shop for the 
best deals and cut entertainment 
costs. There’s a growing feeling 
that the same sort of waist trim-
ming should be applied here in 
Washington.
To close the annual budget 
deficit and reduce the national 
debt, shared sacrifice is a neces-
sity. It’s ludicrous to think that 
we could have continued our 
tired tradition of more spending, 
more borrowing and less taxes 
without paying a price. The cru-
elty of making promises we can’t 
keep is immeasurable.
The co-chairs of President Ba-
rack Obama’s National Commis-
sion on Fiscal Responsibility and 
Reform, former Republican Sen-
ator Alan Simpson and Clinton 
White House Chief of Staff Er -
skine Bowles, recently released 
their proposal for addressing our fiscal mess. Their blueprint, 
which is separate from the com-
mission’s larger report due out 
Dec. 1, calls for spending caps 
on major domestic and defense programs. They want a simpli-
fied tax code that reduces overall 
rates and closes loopholes. On 
health care, they emphasize mal-
practice reform and long-term cost containment. Retirement p e n s i o n s for federal w o r k e r s would be 
slashed and the Social Security 
age would be raised to achieve 
the program’s solvency. Every-
body would take a hit.
Although predictable, par -
tisan reaction to the proposal 
was distressing. House Speaker 
Nancy Pelosi declared the terms 
“unacceptable.” AFL-CIO Presi-
dent Richard Trumka said that the co-chairs had essentially told 
working Americans to “drop 
dead.” To those politicians who 
subscribe to his no-tax pledge, 
Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform, 
warned that the plan didn’t pass 
the test. Here’s a timeless rule 
to help you cut through the po-
litical haze: Any idea, policy, or proposal that conservatives and 
liberals bash is probably the best 
course of action.
Selling a plan in Congress 
that lays out nearly $4 trillion in deficit reduction through 2020 
will be infinitely difficult. The 
co-chairs knew that they were 
asking so much of legislators 
who, for so long, had done so 
little.  The purpose was to start a 
discussion, to get people, as New 
York Times columnist David 
Brooks put it, “to look beyond 
their short-term financial inter -
est to see the long-term national 
threat.” Right now, politicians 
have no incentives to make the 
hard bargains. They are elected 
to produce immediate results, so 
few find supporting unpopular 
cuts or tax hikes very worth-
while.
In the current environment, 
I don’t have much hope for the 
recommendations of the presi-
dent’s commission. I do believe 
that the group’s report, coupled 
with emerging plans from other 
fiscal commissions in the policy 
realm, will successfully raise the 
tenor of the debate over how we 
want to leave the world to our 
children and grandchildren. I 
doubt that something along the lines of Brazil’s Fiscal Crimes 
Law, which bars politicians who 
overspend from running for re-
election, will catch on in the U.S. 
I’m waiting for a show of brav-ery from leaders who want to 
tackle these problems before a 
grave meltdown puts everyone 
on notice.
Michael Stubel is a student at 
American University.Fixing today without 
regard for tomorrowcauses problemsUWire
Michael Stubel
UWire
8, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2010
AP Photo
Ready for Freedom
Members of Tampa’s Lowry Park Zoo and the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission 
prepare manatee TECO 2 for release Tuesday in Apollo Beach, Fla. The zoo planned to release three manatees back into the wild.
Professor: Four Loko is still dangerous because of alcohol content
Thurston, however, thinks the 12-percent 
alcohol content will keep Four Loko sales 
steady if it does make a comeback.
But Paul Doering, a UF professor in the 
department of pharmacotherapy and trans-lational research, isn’t sold on the drink be-
ing any less harmful once the energy buzz is gone. He’s concerned about the alcohol con-
tent and thinks that students will continue to seek out another type of energy boost. 
“I don’t think it’s going to do a bit of 
good at all,” Doering said. “People will still use alcohol in dangerous ways.”
He said the only reason the caffeine is a 
concern is that someone would stay awake 
longer and drink more than he would with-
out it. 
But that’s precisely why some students 
love it. 
Lance Behn, a UF alumnus and first-year graduate student, said he bought four cases the first night Four Loko makers announced 
their decision. 
“I stopped at four because that was all I 
could fit in my trunk,” Behn 
said. He plans to keep his 48 
cans for himself and share 
them among good friends 
once it’s gone for good. 
“Every frat boy and his mom walked in 
here asking for cases of Four Loko,” said Mike Coaches, who works at University Li-quors. 
On Monday afternoon, the store had less 
than a case in stock. 
As for Fricks, an interior design junior, 
he plans to stock enough Four Loko to last 
him a year. 
“I’m going loco buying Four Loko,” 
Fricks said. “I’m cutting into my frat budget 
to buy enough Four Loko to make it to 2012, baby.”LOKO , from page 1
The group will meet on 
Thanksgiving for support
people who have found recovery and fulfillment because of it,” 
said Naomi Lippel, managing director. “We look forward to in-creasing public awareness and providing hope and resources to those who continue to suffer from this disease.”
And on this fourth Thursday in November, it will not just 
be a pleasant holiday to embrace a full table of food and family . Members like Ellen will be faced with the challenge — to over -
eat or not to overeat. 
“Thanksgiving is a feast day, that’s what it’s for,” said Ellen. 
“But for people who have a problem with food, it helps us get together and support each other.” 
For those struggling with overeating, the group meets ev-
ery Monday at noon at the Sid Martin Biotechnology Incubator, 12085 Research Drive. All ages are welcome, and it’s free. 
Overeaters Anonymous helps people with any eating dis-
order, including binging, bulimia and anorexia. The meetings deal with how to get through the holidays without eating com-pulsively and how to have a healthy relationship with food.
“Food was my obsession and my life,” said member Nadine. 
“Now I have peace and serenity in my life and a healthier rela-
tionship with food. I’m happier because of it.”OVEREATERS , from page 1
“Thanksgiving is a feast day ... But for people 
who have a problem with food, it helps us get 
together and support each other.”
Ellen
Member of Overeaters AnonymousNewsNationalClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2010
$380 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-8-10-74-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
12-8-74-1
Greenwich Green 2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352.372.8100
12-8-10-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-8-74-1
Gainesville Place
Now leasing for 2011-2012!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
 (352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-8-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $379***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
12-8-10-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-8-10-74-1
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
Student Friendly 4/4's 
$424 for EVERYTHING
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-8-74-1COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$350.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED 
NO MOVE IN COST. 
WE DO SEMESTER LEASING
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty
11-26-10-90-1
ONLY $410/person
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES
3Bedroom/3Bathroom
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-8-10-74-1
MOVE-IN TODAY!
All-Inclusive Student Living from $424
4/4's with Roommate Matching
GainesvillePlace.com -- (352) 271-3131
12-8-74-1
1/1 avail. in 4/4 Countryside condo on SW 
23rd. Fully furnished, W/D, includes utilities 
cap. $300 dep. $400/mo. Call 352-514-3398   
12-8-21-1
Fully Furnished 2 BDRM 1BA Wood floors in 
LR. All new BA w/tile floor. Newly carpeted 
BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit. appli -
ances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable avail -
able. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $735/mo. 
Call 727-423-9463   11-24-10-7-1
Sublease for Spring 2011. Private bed/bath in 
furnished 2/2.5 apartment. Very nice,updated and large. $427 a month. Definitely worth seeing! Female preferred. Call 850-375-9311.    11-30-10-5-1
4/4 Condo available immediately for move-
in. $375/mo. Walk-in closets, Washer/dryer, less than 5 miles from campus (Williston & SW 23rd St.), Bus routes 35 & 9, call 813-368-5325 for more info, questions, viewing.    11-30-5-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901        12-8-10-74-2Arbor Park
2 1\2B. $549 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
12-8-10-74-2 
Studios $599 Downtown location
Arlington 352-338-0002
12-8-10-74-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
12-8-10-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-8-10-74-2
Pinetree Gardens
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
12-8-10-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, 
fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term 
available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-8-10-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-8-10-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-8-09-168-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-8-10-74-2
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
*NEWLY UPGRADED APT HOMES*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-8-10-74-2Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
12-8-10-74-2 
Cobblestone
3/3 Twnhme $1059
Cable and internet included
Call now 352-377-2801
12-8-74-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
12-8-10-74-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        12-8-10-74-2
Madison Pointe
2 Bed 2 Bath $869
One Month Free
Call 352-372-040012-8-74-2
●3/3 Only $899/month●
Mention This Ad To Receive
$0 MOVE IN FEES!!
3 Bus Routes (9,34,35) & Great Amenities!
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-8-10-74-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
12-8-10-74-2
The A  School District!
1Bed-$599*2Bed-$779
4Bed-$1099*Pool*Tennis
Townhomes*Walk in Closets
Personal Trainer*332-7401
12-8-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-8-10-74-2$499 ALL INCLUSIVE
Steps from SW Rec.
1room available in 3/3
Female Roommate Match
(352) 379-9255
12-8-10-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-8-10-74-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
12-8-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-8-10-74-2
SUN KEY
2.1  bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $550/mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352.376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-8-10-74-2
● Amazing Rent on 1 and 2BR apts.
Ranging from $390 to $545.Sorry no pets or Section 8.Madison on 20th. 335-7066      12-8-10-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2010
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $540.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
12-8-10-74-2
WALK TO UF!
● Studios $295-$325●1BR $425● 2BR $700 - 1 MONTH FREE RENT!Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com             12-8-10-74-2
 2 & 3 BR   Huge Floorplans!
·         2/2 from $659 * 3/2 from $779
·         Washer/Dryers * Pets Loved!·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness!
·         Call Now! * 377-7401
12-8-10-74-2
Renting Now!!
We have REAL 1/1s
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE-1 MO FREE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
11-30-10-68-2
LOOK!! NEAR U.F. 
Many properties available near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
12-8-10-74-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
12-810-74-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $699 2/2's from $799
3/3's from $899
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-8-10-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-8-10-74-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
2.1 1/2 Bath Townhome
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $499/mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352.376.6720 or 352.376.7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2
SUN BAY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $550/mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2
2/2 & 3/3 RMM
Walk In ClosetsPrivate BathroomsCable w/HBO & ShowtimeFull size W/DPet friendly352-374-3866                   12-8-10-74-2Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
12-8-10-74-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhouse
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $550 mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2
SUN BAY
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $399 mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2
SUN KEY
1.1  bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $550/mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2
NAPIER GRANT
"HUGE" 2 BR/1BA
Starting at $575.
W/D hookups. Pets OK
Walk to Vet School
352-377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/napiergrant
Text: napiergrant@65374
12-8-10-74-2
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$350.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED 
NO MOVE IN COST. 
WE DO SEMESTER LEASING
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty
11-26-10-90-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   12-8-10-93-2
ONLY $394
Gainesville Place Apts.
Move-In TODAY
4/4's with Utilities Included
352-271-3131 
12-8-74-2
GATOR GREAT!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
12-8-10-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs  
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.  
Must see! Call 332-7700
12-8-74-2
● Walk to UF ●
Sorority Row Area
2/1 1000SF
$750/mo 352-375-8256
12-8-10-69-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
Modern 2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across 
from Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, Rent Neg. K&M Properties 372-1509      11-30-10-50-2
1BR/1BA, full kitchen. Near UF. H2O & sewer incl. $475/mo.
Call 352-332-8481 or 352-359-1644   11-30-10-44-2$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   12-8-
10-41-2
2 Months Free!
Sundowne Villas
Studio *$430 and 1/1 *$457
Located behind Butler Plaza
Pet friendly No weight limits!
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
12-8-10-37-2
One Month Free!
Courtney Greens
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 *$499
Near Oaks Mall Near UF and Butler Plaza
Cyber Cafe and 24hr Fitness Center
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
12-8-10-37-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$447
2/1 *$548
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
12-8-10-37-2
2 Months Free
Sunrise Villas
One Bedroom Villa *$428
Near UF and Shand's
Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Ph. 372-4835  www.gremco.com
12-8-10-37-2
Creekside Villas! Off NW 13th by Lowes
1/1 laminate floors, vinyl floor in kitchen, re-
modeled bathroom, washer/dryer $525/mo 
incl water, sewer, trash, $400 dep 352-562-6509    12-8-10-30-2
Campus Walk Apartments
All Inclusive Individual Leases
4 Bedroom Townhomes and flats
Located on UF campus
**Call for Specials** 
Semester Leases available!
(352) 376-0828
(Rental office at Homestead Apts.)
www.gremco.com 
12-8-10-27-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceilingfans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, security.No dogs. 538-1550 aprleve@aol.com   1-5-10-22-2
HISTORIC HOUSES ● 3BR/1.5 BA front 
porch, ceiling fans, hardwood floors. $1280/
mo 222 NW 4th Ave. ● 3BR/1BA 923 SE 4th 
St. Large yard, $1000/mo 1st, last, sec. No dogs. aprleve@aol.com or 352-538-1550   1-5-10-22-2
●POOL HOUSE 4BR/3BA 2816 W University 
Ave 1 mi to UF. Fenced-in nice backyard. W/D, DW. $1450/mo Negotiable.●3BR2BA 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo.327-2931, 376-6183    12-8-10-21-2
3 bed remodeled home. Walk to UF. Amazing 
quality. New appliances, kitchen, bathrooms. Washer dryer included. Next to park. Good for graduate couple or faculty. $1,350 month. Call Greg @ (352)514-2039   11-24-10-11-2
$100 TO MOVE IN.
Background check and must qualify. Quiet, 
clean, lots of green space. 1BR apt. $375/mo. 352-372-6881 or 352-213-3901    11-24-10-10-2
1 BLK TO UF! Behind Leonardos 
Pizza.  2BR 1 BA AptsCentral H & Air, 1234 Sw 1st Ave- $650/Mo   Call Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494     12-8-10-18-2$475 per Month  2BR 1BA Apts
3  BLKS TO UF! 840 Sq. Ft. 
Large Rooms,  Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. 
Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  
St. Croix Apts, Call Merrill Management Inc. 
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie21@bellsouth.net     12-8-10-18-2
2BR 1BA Apt  3 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo  Window A/C,
Nat Gas Ht. 216 SW 12th Street.  
Call Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494     
12-8-10-18-2
EFFECIENCY -2 Rooms(not bedrooms)
Shared Bathroom, Window A/C
Carpet, Across from UF Stadium
1830 NW 1st Avenue  $295/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494     
12-8-10-18-2
GRAD II APTS
1236 SW 4th Avenue
1BR 1BA Apt 1 BLK to UF
Central H & Air, Inclds
Wtr, Swg, Pest Contrl 
$500/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 x10       12-8-10-18-2
●EFFICIENCY APT with sitting area on 20 
acres, internet-cable-utility included. 1602 
SW Williston Rd. $600 
●Also newly finished efficiency, 2046 NW 
14th Ave. $550. 332-1429, 395-6250 Kathy.   
11-30-10-12-2
3 Bed. 3 Bath Duplex located near SFCC.
Newer unit with all tile floors. Most pets wel-come. $900.00 per month.
Rent now and get 2nd month free.
352-359-4619.    11-30-10-10-2
●Quaint NW 3br house, ceramic tile through-
out, washer/dryer, includes yard care & some utilities, small pet ok, ●Renovated NW 2br, 2ba home with ga-
rage, new appliances, interior paint, & car-
pet, $800/mo
●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo
●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-
closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year 
lease, $700/mo●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr 
lease
●NW 2br flat with utility rm, close to 
Millhopper & Hunters Crossing shopping, li-brary & banks. Affordable for retired folks or the young professional, $620 includes yard 
care
●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida 
rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and tennis courts. $1000★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
12-8-10-11-2
2 BR 2 Bath Duplex located near SFCC. 
Very clean unit with all tile floors. Most pets 
Welcome. Large fenced yard. $650.00 Rent 
now and get second month free. 352-359-
4619.    11-30-10-10-2
TUMBLING CREEK CONDOS
1BR/1BA. Close to campus. $550/mo, $550 
dep. 352-493-3487 or ronrobis@gmail.com   12-8-10-16-2
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2010 n ALLIGATOR, 11
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF Full-Time Grad Students only
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
1-5-10-13-2
●●1BR/1BA APARTMENT●●
Cent heat/air, new carpet/paint, new applianc -
es, new cabinets. 1109 NW 41st Ave. $500/
mo. www.AndreeRealty.com 352-375-2900    1-5-10-13-2 
Spring housing available
The Estates has limited spring spaces avail-
able. Apply online at www.theestatesuf.com 
or call 352.692.1313.
12-8-10-10-2
●●●4BR/2BA HOUSE●●●
One mile to UF, offers fenced yard, washer/
dryer, lawn service, pest control included. $1150/mo ANDREE REALTY 352-375-2900    1-5-10-13-2
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-8-74-4
female roommate to live in new huge house 
w/ fenced in backyard and private pool.All in-
clusive $515/mo. Room available December 
31. Joyce 941-724-0961. House pics and 
info: tinyurl.com/mbs77r    11-24-17-4
Furnished Room sublet
$400/mo + 1/4 utils,
incl cable & internet, Casablanca West, 4 bus routes. Serious student roommates. (772) 538-5458                         12-2-20-4
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA upgraded condo 
at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, W/D, 
internet, cable TV, great parking & pool. Avail 
immed. $425/mo1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-792912-8-10-24-4
Female seeking same $385+1/3 utl (Wrls int, 
Sat tv, & GRU). Room for rent in 3/2 house 
in NW neighborhoods, quiet area. Avail now.
Pet friendly, W/D, wood flrs, fenced yard.
Bus route 8. Jessica 352-222-6900   1-12-
10-30-4
Roommate wanted- Share nice clean NW 
area 3 Br, 2 bath single family home with two 
senior UF students- fenced back yard- wash-er/ dryer-fireplace- $320 mo. & 1/3 utilities. Call Jon-321-537-5640    11-29-10-10-4LARGE BEDROOM, PRIVATE BATH in 
3/3 townhome. Share with 2 UF Seniors. 
Washer/dryer, pool, tennis. Screened porch 
faces trees. On bus route. $395 plus 1/3 utili-
ties. 301-305-6206.   11-24-10-5-4
Avail. Dec - 5 Blocks to UF Great House;
2 Roommates Needed; N/S - 4 Bed/2Ba 
House $450/mo ea + 1/3 Util Sandy 352-
359-8484    12-1-10-7-4
Males seeking same,$400 + 1/4 GRU. Room 
for rent in large 4/2 house. Close to campus 
+ bus route. Call Laurie 352-332-9491   11-
30-10-6-4
Walk to campus! Need 1 female to rent room 
in 4/2 @ Royal Village Dec./Jan. - Aug. 2011. 
Dec. & Aug. already paid for. $529/mo., utils 
incl. Bus routes to UF & SFC. Great ame-
nities, 3 friendly roommates! Call Erin 786-
556-1590.    12-1-5-4
look for female rmmt in 3/3 @ hidden lakes 
incl util,cable,internet,w/d,pool,tanning,gym locate on bus route 5 min uf $437/mon avail mid dec call deb 352-438-4692    12-8-10-10-4
 
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551   
12-8-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4 
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,  
University Realty at 352-219-2879.  12-8-
74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL 2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-355112-8-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS - New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879   12-8-74-5Absolute Real Estate Auction online bid-
ding/live www.abalauction.com 3BD/2BA 
SF Home, Leon County (850)510-2501 Abal 
Auction Real Estate AB2387 AU3239    11-
24-1-5
NC MOUNTAINS- Cabin Shell, 2+ acres with 
great view, very private, big trees, waterfalls 
& large public lake nearby, $99,500 Bank fi-
nancing (866)275-0442   11-24-1-5
BANK ORDERED ONSITE AUCTIONS: 
677± acres. Commercial, timber and hunting 
land. Hamilton, Gilchrist and Clay counties. 
December 2nd and 3rd. Visit RowellAuctions.
com -AU479/AB296   11-24-1-5
NC MOUNTAINS- Cabin Shell, 2+ acres with 
great view, very private, big trees, waterfalls 
& large public lake nearby, $99,500 Bank fi-
nancing (866)275-0442   11-24-1-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-8-10-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-8-10-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-8-10-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-8-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 
(352) 372-7490      12-8-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail 
$1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    12-8-74-6FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      12-8-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still 
in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
12-8-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  12-8-74-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     12-8-10-74-6
CHERRY BEDROOM SET. Solid Wood, nev-
er used, brand new in factory boxes. English Dovetail. Original cost $4500. Sell for $895. 
Can deliver. Call Tom (813)600-3653    11-
24-1-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
12-8-10-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-8-10-74-7
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-8-10-74-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-8-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-8-74-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-8-10-74-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-8-10-74-11
★★★GatorMoto★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No le-git shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275 GatorMoto.com  12-8-10-74-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  12-8-10-74-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   12-8-10-74-11
12, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2010
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  12-8-
10-74-11
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
!NOW OFFERS FREE PICK UP!
For Motorcycles & Scooters for the
remainder of 2010. In Gainesville only.
Call 352-377-6974     518 SE 2nd St, 
12-8-74-11`
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 15 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    12-8-74-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-8-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
12-8-74-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
12-8-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
12-8-10-56-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $149997 Pontiac Transport $149996 Chevy Blazer $1999352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $199998 Ford Expolorer $199997 Lincoln Town car $1999352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $499999 Ford F150 $599998 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit checkMove  vehicles $500 & up!352-375-9090     12-8-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay hereCars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans30 day warranty352-375-9090     12-8-73-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $590002 Chevy Camero $699903 Ford Taurus $6999352-375-9090       12-8-73-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $899903 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      12-8-73-12LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243.  12-8-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-8-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and 
for walks and shopping as needed. We’ll 
have lots of fun! And you will make a new 
friend!  Contact 219-6948.   12-2-10-74-13
BE A BLESSING TO ME, AND COME HELP 
ME LEARN TO RAKE KNIT, 2 Wednesday 
evenings a month. The things we will make 
WILL BE SENT TO HAITI AND OTHER 
PLACES. Call 352-219-6948.     12-2-10-
74-13
St. Francis House is a
homeless shelter and soup kitchen located 
in downtown Gainesville and
we are looking for help from
volunteers like you. St. Francis House is in 
need of donations such as razors, body  
wash, soap and toothbrushes.
If you are interested in helping
please contact:
Jared Salter at (352) 378-9079
or by email at:
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
10-3-6-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-8-10-74-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs12-8-10-74-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and Communication skills. PC skills needed. Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G. 352-371-5888 x 111                  12-8-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-8-10-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-8-10-74-14
HIRING 50 DRIVERS
Domino’s is hiring drivers for all shifts.  Applicants must have 1 ticket maximum in the last 3 years, a 2003 or newer car and a positive attitude.  $12-$15 per hour.  Apply at gatordominos.com.    12-8-10-74-14STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys    12-
8-10-74-14
 Earn $1000-3200 per month to 
drive our car with ads.
www.AdCarDriver.com   12-8-10-32-14
Academy Medical is offering an internship to 
help build out its technology infrastructure. 
Candidates must have strong IT skills includ -
ing SQL. Previous experience with building online databases is a plus. 20 hours week @ 
$15/hr. Please send resumes to rob@acade -
mymedical.net. Questions call Rob Fischetti 
at 804-690-4422.   1-5-10-21-14
CNAs who believe in compassionate care & 
uncompromising services are encouraged to 
apply on-line at http://ck546.ersp.biz/employ -
ment. Strict background checks/drug screen. 12hr shifts, days, nights & wkends avail.   12-
6-10-14-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply 
in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 
NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 
9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    12-2-10-10-14
FT NANNY needed M-F start by JAN;
min 2 wks/mon for 80hrs;  travel w/ mom;
3yr old / 9 mon; $12/hr; exp; good refs;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    12-1-
10-9-14
BARN HELP
Sundays only in exchange for lessons 
at Hunter/Jumper facility. EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 352-359-4149   12-2-10-10-1
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE 
NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. $7.50/hr + incen -
tives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 NW 13th St   12-3-10-10-14
PT Tennis Clay-Court & Gen Maintenance 
Haile Plantation C.C. 6:30-9:30am shift + 1 wkend day. Must be mostly avail during win-ter break, be reliabe/responsibe. Tennis exp + G'ville residence a+. Bob 335-4105   11-24-10-5-14
ASAP! New Pay Increase! 34-40 cpm. 
Excellent Benefits Need CDL-A & 3 mos re-cent OTR. (877)258-8782 www.meltontruck.com    11-24-1-14
Colonial Life seeks entrepreneurial profes-
sional with sales experience to become a District Manager. Life/Health license is re-quired. Substantial earnings potential. Please contact meredith.brewer@coloniallife.com or call (904)424-5697    11-24-1-14
Drivers - FOOD TANKER DRIVERS NEEDED 
OTR positions available NOW! CDL-A w/ Tanker REQ'D. Outstanding pay & Benefits! Call a recruiter TODAY! (877)882-6537 www.oakleytransport.com    11-24-1-14
Drivers / Solo & Teams $2,000.00 Sign 
On Bonus 100% O/Op - Contractor Co. Dedicated Reefer Fleet Run California & Eastern Half U.S. Call (800)237-8288 or visit www.suncocarriers.com    11-24-1-14
Drivers Earn up to 49¢/mi! 1 year minimum 
OTR experience qualifies you to be a trainer for our fleet! Call: (888)417-7564 CRST EXPEDITED www.JoinCRST.com    11-24-1-14
INSURANCE REPRESENTATIVE NEEDED. 
Most earn $50K-$100K or more. Call our branch office at (866)896-1555. Ask for Dennis Mayfield or email dmayfield@in -
sphereis.com. Visit www.insphereis-pensa -
cola.com.    11-24-1-14
Drivers Hornady Transportation Miles Money 
& Home Time! Start up to .42 cpm Sign on Bonus Available Great Benefits!! Great Hometime!! OTR Experience Req’d. No felo-nies Lease Purchase Available (800)441-4271 X FL-100    11-24-1-14THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-8-74-16
A Woman's Answer
Think you might be pregnant?Testing, confidential advisingReferrals352-376-2716        12-8-74-16
★HYPNOTHERAPY★
Lose weight!  Better Grades!
Get subconscious on your side!
www.spiritofhypnosis.com
11-24-10-30-16
● NATURAL HERBS HELP ACNE ●
DR. YANG ACUPUNCTURE
352-328-9325 www.dryangacupuncture.com
901 NW 8th Ave, Suite B-11, Gainesville11-29-10-5-16
VIAGRA 100MG and CIALIS 20mg!! 40 Pills + 
4 FREE for only $99. #1 Male Enhancement, 
Discreet Shipping. Save $500 Buy The Blue 
Pill Now! (888)777-9242    11-24-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-8-74-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
12-8-11-18
Sign up now @ codepinkgators@gmail.com 
Make a panel for the Peace Ribbon Project www.codepinkalert.org/peaceribbonFREE WORKSHOP Nov 30 5:30-8 pm UF Reitz B60 Max 48 peaceful hearts.   11-29-10-4-2
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-8-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-8-10-74-21
LOST VIDEO CAMERA
Panasonic SDR H40 42x
Last seen at the bathouses Sat 10/9/10
Any info call (850) 543-3762
REWARD $500
1-6-25-25
FOUND: DOG
NE near Roper Park.~70lbs, mostly black 
with white tips on feet. Took him to shelter. Contact Animal Services and/or call me at 682-6982   11-30-3-25IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-8-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-8-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-8-74-15
FREE HORSES FOR
TLC HORSEBOARD
Call Charlie at 352-278-1925.12-8-74-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES/UHAUL
$39 storage units/mo. Student discounts available. UHaul truck/trailer rentals. No line, no waiting. Call 24/7, 352-373-6294  
minimaxiwarehouse.com       12-8-74-15
Do You Need a Photographer?
Weddings ●Events ● Posters ● Slideshows
Gator Alum $100/hr You keep the digital files
www.mrdigital.biz  352-672-5206
12-8-10-74-15
NEED A DOG WALKER?
Aloha Pet Sitting & Dog Walking
(352) 792-5598
www.AlohaPetSitting.info
Licensed, Insured, Bonded   12-6-10-15-15
CASH NOW! Cash for your structured 
settlement or annuity payments. Call J.G. Wentworth. 1-866-SETTLEMENT (1-866-738-8536). Rated A+ by the Better Business Bureau.    11-24-1-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.com.    11-24-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA approved program. Financial aid if qualified - Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (866)314-3769..    11-24-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. SCHEV certified. Call (877)206-5165, www.Centura.us.com.    11-24-1-15
"Can You Dig It?" Heavy Equipment School. 
3wk training program. Backhoes, Bulldozers, Trackhoes. Local Job placement asst. Start digging dirt Now. (866)362-6497.    11-24-1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-8-74-16
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2010 n ALLIGATOR, 13
AP Photo
Miami Heat forward Udonis Haslem could miss the rest of the regu-
lar season after undergoing surgery on his left foot.
NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
 
MIAMI — Heat forward Udo-
nis Haslem may miss the remain-
der of the regular season after 
having surgery to repair a torn ligament in his left foot, and free agent Erick Dampier has been 
signed to help fill the void that 
creates.
Haslem had surgery Tuesday, 
the same day Dampier took a physical with the Heat — the last 
hurdle before a contract could be 
signed. 
Dampier practiced with the 
Heat that afternoon.
Haslem ruptured the Lisfranc 
ligament in his foot, which con-nects arch bones to the ones lead-ing to his toes. 
His recovery could take more 
than four months. 
The Heat may consider apply-
ing for an injury exception if the determination is that Haslem’s 
season is over.
Dampier worked out in Sep-
tember for Miami, which decided 
at that time not to offer him a contract.
To make room for Dampier, 
the Heat waived guard Jerry Stackhouse, whose contract was not guaranteed.
At 8-6, the Heat entered Tues-
day tied for the fourth-best record in the Eastern Conference and the 10th-best mark in the NBA.
That record is not exactly what a team filled with superstars 
wanted.
And the words Heat President 
Pat Riley once famously said — 
“No rebounds, no rings” — are 
resonating again, especially after 
an embarrassing home loss to In-diana on Monday night.
Since the moment Haslem was 
carried off in Memphis with his 
foot injury, opponents have out-
rebounded Miami 64-44, includ-ing 20-7 on the offensive glass. LeBron James (5.4 per game) and 
Chris Bosh (7.2 per game) are on 
pace for career-lows in rebound-ing.
Take away Haslem, and the 
Heat don’t have 
anyone ranked among the NBA’s top 37 rebounders this 
season.
Those num-
bers aren’t the 
only red flags, 
either. 
Miami ranks last in the league 
with 33 points in the paint per game, and Dwyane Wade had the worst shooting night of his career 
in the loss to Indiana — 1 for 13 
from the field, 1 for 5 from the foul line — in a three-point per -
formance.
So for some help, at least in 
the big-man realm, the Heat are turning to Dampier, who’s had interest from Charlotte, Phoenix, Houston, Toronto, Portland and Miami in the past two months alone yet hasn’t been on the court 
for anyone this season.
For weeks, Dampier had been 
saying he wanted to be in Miami, 
and ultimately got that wish. 
He worked out for Riley and 
Heat coach Erik Spoelstra in Sep-tember but was not offered a con-tract. 
When Haslem got hurt, it 
didn’t take long for Dampier to reclaim a spot on Miami’s radar screen.
Dampier showed flashes of 
dominance last season with Dal-las — 14 points and 20 rebounds against Houston, 14 points and 18 rebounds against Charlotte, and maybe most notably, a 20-point, 
17-rebound effort in Miami last 
Dec. 11.
But in his final 20 games last 
season — 12 as a starter — he 
averaged three points and 4.9 re-
bounds, never scoring more than nine points. 
Dallas traded him in July to 
Charlotte, which wiped out the 
voidable $13 million final season 
of his deal in a salary-cap move.
The 36-year-old Stackhouse 
scored 12 points in seven games 
for Miami, on 3 for 12 shooting. 
He was in the Heat starting 
lineup on Saturday in Memphis, 
a fill-in for Dwyane Wade, who sat that game out with a sprained 
left wrist.Heat sign Dampier to replace injured Haslem
AP Photo
Miami quarterback Jacory Harris has not played since Oct. 
30, when he suffered a concussion against Virginia.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
 
CORAL GABLES — Miami coach Randy Shannon has 
tried to snuff out all talk of a quarterback dilemma for 
weeks, insisting Jacory Harris would return to his starting 
job when healthy.
Harris is now healthy.
And there’s no guarantee — not yet, anyway — of his 
return to the Hurricanes’ lineup.
Shannon said Tuesday that he’ll wait to see what Har -
ris and Stephen Morris do in practice this week before a 
decision is made on who starts Saturday’s home regular-
season finale against South Florida (6-4).
“If he’s sharp and crisp, we’ll go with him. If he’s not, 
we’ll have to go with Stephen,” Shannon said. “He knows 
it, and he’s going to work hard this week in practice.”
Morris has started the last three games for Miami (7-
4) while Harris recovered from a concussion, going 2-1 
and leading the Hurricanes to at least 464 yards of offense in each outing. But Morris also threw three interceptions in the last 9 minutes of Saturday’s loss to Virginia Tech, 
which raised Shannon’s ire.
Still, those giveaways alone won’t be the deciding fac-
tor on whether Harris plays this weekend.
“There’s something people do not realize,” Shannon 
said. “Jacory’s cleared medically. But he’s missed some 
time. We’ve got to get him back into it and everything. It’s like anything, you’ve got to get both of them ready. Who-ever has the best practice, that’s who you go with.”
This game will play a large role in dictating which 
bowls the Hurricanes and Bulls get chosen for, and per -
haps decide some recruiting battles, but will have little else besides pride at stake.
Still, Shannon said the Hurricanes are treating it like 
any other game, so he’s not taking the quarterback deci-sion lightly.
Harris has been doing some light throws for about two 
weeks and was part of practices last week but was barely part of the game plan for Virginia Tech. He was listed as questionable, though he would have played only in an 
emergency situation.
Harris hasn’t played since getting knocked out of Mi-
ami’s loss at Virginia on Oct. 30.
“I’ll put it to you like this,” Shannon said. “Say a guy 
comes back from a sprained knee ligament. He’s got to get back in a rhythm, got to practice well, got to get back into 
it. That’s where Jacory is right now.”
Harris, who has thrown the second-most touchdowns 
in Miami history, has completed 132 of 245 passes for 1,646 yards with 14 touchdowns and 11 interceptions this 
season. Morris — who was the fourth-stringer and a red-
shirt candidate before Harris got injured — has completed 52 of 103 passes for 880 yards, with five touchdowns and seven interceptions.
As a team, Miami’s 21 interceptions this season are tied 
with Buffalo for tops in the nation.Hurricanes undecided on starting QBDampier
Harris, Morris battling for 
playing time in practice
“There’s something people do not realize. 
Jacory’s cleared medically. But he’s missed 
some time. We’ve got to get him back into it 
and everything. It’s like anything, you’ve got to 
get both of them ready. Whoever has the best 
practice, that’s who you go with.”
Randy Shannon
Miami coachBy MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
Coach Amanda Butler stuck to her word, and the Gators 
came out running against North Florida on Tuesday in the 
O’Connell Center. But the start wasn’t what they envisioned.
UF began the game with three early turnovers and didn’t 
put its first points on the board until more than 2-1/2 minutes in. Through 10 minutes, the Gators had more turnovers (8) than points (7). 
The Gators (3-1) recovered to defeat UNF 54-51, but the 
game left Butler with many questions as her team prepares for its second road trip of the season.
After criticizing the team’s shot selection in its last-second 
defeat against DePaul, Florida was again plagued by poor deci-sions on the offensive end. “I never felt like we set the tone,” Butler said. “We’ve got 
to work on our feel for the game. We continually tried to make plays from the 3-point line. But when the shot is not falling you’ve got to find something else to do.”
A 10-1 run for UNF (1-3) put the Ospreys ahead 16-7 mid-
way through the first half and forced Florida 
to abandon the press and try to get back in 
the game with its size inside.
The Gators responded with five straight 
baskets in the paint heading into halftime, and UNF’s lead was closed to 25-20. 
The fast pace returned at the start of the 
second half, and the Gators capitalized on 
steals by Jennifer George and Lanita Bartley to turn the five-
point deficit into a five-point lead with 15 minutes left to play. 
Despite holding a clear size advantage, the Gators attempt-ed just 10 shots from inside the paint, contributing to a season-
low 33.3 field goal percentage. Poor shooting was a trend and UNF’s 29.8 percent showing helped the Gators stay in the 
game.
UNF fought to stay close, but post players George and Aza-
nia Stewart helped make the difference. 
Stewart hit the floor battling for loose balls multiple times 
in the final minutes and pitched in four of Florida’s final six 
points. George added two pivotal rebounds and two key as-sists in the final 3:43 to add to her totals of 13 points, 10 boards and four assists.
After UF switched to zone defense, they held UNF to just 
four points over the last 6:32. 
“Our team did a great job of adjusting, knowing there were 
four shooters out there and really understanding how big those boards were,” Butler said. 
Stewart matched George’s double-double performance 
with 12 points and 13 rebounds for her second double-double in four games. UF HAS WON SIX STRAIGHT AGAINST FSU.
By MIKE McCALL
Alligator Staff Writer
mmccall@alligator.org
 
The distance between bad and worse for the Gators’ season 
comes down to Saturday in Tallahassee.
Florida doesn’t have much to take comfort in from its 7-4 
record, but a win against No. 22 Florida State would be a warm 
blanket to carry UF through a trophy-less winter.
The flipside would put the final nail in a disappointing cam-
paign, dooming Florida to a mediocre bowl game and snuffing 
out years of bragging rights. That’s an almost unthinkable re-sult for the Gators, who have won six straight against their big-gest rival, including all five under coach Urban Meyer, who’s 17-1 against FSU, Georgia, Tennessee and Miami.
The streak is the main focus for the game, as UF is out of 
the Southeastern Conference race and the Seminoles’ hopes for 
an Atlantic Coast Conference Championship appearance rest 
solely on N.C. State losing to Maryland this weekend.
“I think if you were to ask, for 99 percent of the team it’s 
about pride,” UF defensive tackle Terron Sanders said. “Yeah, we want to get to a better bowl game, but for the most part it’s about pride.
“We don’t want to be the team to lose to this team under 
coach Meyer. That’s for sure.”
But after winning the last three meetings by an average of 30 
points, the Gators enter the matchup as underdogs for the first time in Meyer’s tenure.
The ’Noles (8-3, 6-2 ACC) aren’t world-beaters by any mea-
sure, but a BCS Bowl berth is still on the table if they win an ACC title. That, along with some renewed fire under first-year coach Jimbo Fisher and playing in Doak Campbell Stadium, should give FSU confidence in the face of the streak.
Meanwhile, the Gators have to find motivation without na-
tional championship or Heisman Trophy aspirations to keep 
alive — two factors that were present in the last four seasons.
“This year, we really have to focus on what’s at stake,” cen-
ter Mike Pouncey said. “This is the biggest game of the year.”
Florida can elevate its bowl status with a victory , which 
would be its only triumph over a ranked team this season. And 
as always, there are recruits hanging in the balance.
“That question comes up every year, and it’s absolutely cor -rect,” Meyer said. “The last few years we’ve kind of done well. But make no mistake about it, the quality of athlete on [FSU] is as good as anybody in the country.
“That’s a key component of recruiting. They get theirs, we 
get ours, and there are a lot of guys on the fence right now.”
Four years ago, Pouncey and safety Ahmad Black were on 
that fence.
Lifelong FSU fans, the Lakeland High teammates dreamed 
of wearing garnet and gold until a visit to Gainesville and fel-low Lakeland star Chris Rainey swayed them.
Pouncey said his mother cried when he and his brother 
Maurkice committed to play at Florida.
“Our whole family grew up Florida State fans,” Pouncey 
said. “We were up there every weekend, and they just got to like the town and the coaches. I guess that was their first love. 
… One weekend (visiting UF) changed our whole life.”
Now, one weekend in Tallahassee can change the percep-
tion of the Gators’ season.14, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2010
Alligator File photo
Coach Urban Meyer (right) is 17-1 against FSU, Georgia, Tennessee and Miami in his time at Florida. The Gators will 
enter Saturday’s matchup with the Seminoles as underdogs for the first time under Meyer.
Gators hope to continue dominance over Seminoles
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer
 
November weather usually 
doesn’t bode well for outdoor swim-
ming. But with Tallahassee tempera-tures in the low 70s, the Seminoles hosted the Gators roof-less.
The FSU swimming and diving 
team competed against the Gators on Tuesday in its new outdoor Morcom Aquatic Center. While the facility was fresh, the Gators’ perfor -
mance was anything but. UF’s men’s and women’s teams fell to FSU 184 to 116 and 187 to 113, respectively. 
“Hats off to FSU,” coach Gregg 
Troy said. “They have a very good team and are in championship form. We are not as good as they are right now.” 
The women’s side was without 
three-time SEC Swimmer of the Week Elizabeth Beisel and junior Te-resa Crippen due to the 2010 Golden Goggle Awards in New York City Monday night. Both U.S. National Team members were nominees in the event.
“Elizabeth and Teresa are ranked 
in the top 10 in the world, so of 
course it was go-
ing to be a dif-ficult dual meet since they both score in any event they would be placed in,” junior Shara Stafford said.
Stafford took the 100-yard back-
stroke, 200-yard individual medley and 100-yard butterfly, while fellow junior Sarah Bateman won the 50-yard freestyle and 100-yard breast-stroke. Sophomore Jamie Bohunicky also stepped up, topping the ’Noles in the 200- and 500-yard freestyle.  
Men also struggle: Though 
men’s senior captain Conor Dwyer won his third SEC Swimmer of the Week honor, the Seminoles out-matched the men’s squad. Dwyer pulled out wins in the 200-and 500-yard freestyle, while fellow senior Brett Fraser nabbed the 200-yard backstroke and 100-yard butterfly. However, key swimmers including Jeffrey Raymond, Scott Sommer and Marco Loughran were absent from the meet. 
Both the men’s and women’s 
squads are in the midst of their try-ing training season, differing from FSU’s fall training approach. 
“[FSU] decided to fully rest and 
wear suits for a dual meet at the end of November,” Fraser said. “We didn’t alter our rigorous regimen just to beat them.”
Shorthanded Florida teams fall to FSU in road meetuF SWIMMING
Women's
Bask etballTroy
UF runs past North Florida in ugly offensive struggle
George, Stewart turn in double-double performancesBy MATT RUBIN
Alligator Writer
 
Florida has one last opportu-
nity to improve aspects of its game 
before the start of the NCAA Tour -
nament.
The No. 1 Gators (26-1, 19-0 
Southeastern Conference) will take 
on South Carolina (7-22, 4-15 SEC) Friday at 7 p.m. in Columbia, S.C.
If the Gators win, they will be-
come the first team since 2003 to go undefeated in the SEC. The last team to do so was a Florida squad 
that lost in the national champion-
ship match.
“Now we’re in a position Friday 
night to do something that hasn’t been done since ’03, and that is to go undefeated in the league,” coach 
Mary Wise said. “I was one of the 
people who said I don’t know if you’ll see an undefeated SEC team again. There’s too much parity, too 
many good players and a double 
round-robin is just grueling.”
With the SEC title already in 
the hands of the Orange and Blue, Friday’s match against the Game-
cocks will be for pride and a top 
seed in the NCAA Tournament.
“We’re playing for a lot on Fri-
day night, and Sunday we’ll sit 
back and wait,” Wise said. “If we 
can win Friday night we’ll feel real confident that we’ll be one of the top four seeds in the country going into the tournament.”
The Gators met the Gamecocks 
in Gainesville on Oct. 27. Florida won easily in straight sets 3-0 (25-20, 25-17, 25-13).
The team knows not to take Fri-
day’s match for granted and wants to do what the 2003 Gators did. 
“It’s important that we play 
well in every match,” senior mid-
dle blocker Lauren Bledsoe said. 
“You can’t take any opponent for granted because that would be the one match that you don’t see com -
ing. We need to go ahead and real-ly work hard for South Carolina.” 
“They’re really a good team. 
They play good defense, so we’re going to have to work really hard 
when playing them. Every match 
is important when we have a goal of going undefeated.”
Florida will once again look to 
senior outside hitter Callie Riv-ers. Rivers, who was named SEC Offensive Player of the Week for her performances last week, hit an errorless .524 with 11 kills, four 
service aces and five digs against 
South Carolina earlier in the sea-son.
With a win Friday, the Gators 
will extend their winning streak to 22 matches, the second-longest run in the nation.
“It’s a huge deal to go undefeat-
ed,” Bledsoe said. “It would mean 
everything and that is something 
that’s really cool.”WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2010 n  ALLIGATOR, 15
who can avoid making any controversial remarks with a line of 
questioning that pertains to the Erin Andrews peephole inci-dent is OK in my book.
I have trust in this man to lead the Tigers to a convincing 
win against the Razorbacks. On the other hand, Tyler has trust in Bobby Petrino, who was called a “gutless bastard” by his defensive coordinator in Atlanta.
— ANTHONY CHIANG
Now on to the picks!Breaking away from the pack with a 67-50 record is Gator -
bait.net’s Keith “Quit your day job” Niebuhr. Nothing against your writing skills, but with this kind of record, you should be gambling full time.
In second with a 61-56 record is the Miami Herald’s Joe 
“DEFCON 1” Goodman, who was presumably too flustered by the Miami Heat’s recent run of poor form to answer his phone/texts/e-mails. When you divorced the Gators, you promised  not to divorce little brother Mike McCall, too. Coming in third with a 54-58 record is alligatorSports editor 
Anthony “It makes me look weak, but it’s just so tasty” Chiang, who ordered a gingerbread coffee with his boy during a two-for-one Starbucks holiday sale.
Tied with Anthony is alligatorSports’ Kyle “Come at me 
like a man, no DMs!” Maistri, who’s still fuming from a war of words on Twitter with ESPN NBA analyst Ric Bucher, who refused to do battle out in the open and only responded with direct messages.
Dropping down to fifth with a 58-59 record is alligatorSports 
assistant editor Tyler “Friends don’t exclude friends from Taco Tuesdaze” Jett, who spent Tuesday moping around after the other three columnists went to Tijuana Flats without him. Sorry buddy, from now on everyone will run every culinary adven-ture by you first.
In sixth place with a 57-60 record is The Gainesville Sun’s 
Edward “It was on the teleprompter!” Aschoff, who said “you know” 18 times during his six-minute weekly recruiting show.
Tied with Edward is alligatorSports’ Mike “Pop ‘n’ Lock” 
McCall, who missed Monday’s press conference after locking his keys in his shaggin’ wagon.And in dead-ass last place with a piss-poor record of 54-68 
is FightinGators.com’s Cody “I see Liz Lemon everywhere” Jones, who mistakenly bought NetFlix and watched “30 Rock” for 18 straight hours last weekend.
PICKS , from page 16
  AC   TJ   KM  MM
Auburn (+4.5) at Alabama    BAMA   BAMA  AU  BAMA
Arizona (+19.5) at Oregon   OU  ZONA  ZONA  OU    
Boise State (-14) at Nevada        BOISE  BOISE  BOISE  BOISE
LSU (+4) at Arkansas    LSU  ARK  ARK  LSU
Miss. State (-2.5) at Miss.      MISS  MSU  MSU  MSU
Florida (+2.5) at FSU    FSU  FSU  FSU  FSU
South Carolina (-2.5) at Clemson  SC  SC  SC  SC
N.C. State (-2.5) at Maryland   UM  NCSU  NCSU  NCSU
GA Tech (+12.5) at Georgia    TECH  UGA  UGA  UGA
Oklahoma (+2.5) at OSU  OSU  OSU  OSU  OSU
  EA  JG  CJ  KN
Auburn (+4.5) at Alabama    AU   BAMA  AU  BAMA
Arizona (+19.5) at Oregon   OU  ZONA  ZONA  ZONA    
Boise State (-14) at Nevada        BOISE  BOISE  BOISE  BOISE
LSU (+4) at Arkansas    LSU  ARK  LSU  ARK
Miss. State (-2.5) at Miss.      MISS  MSU  MSU  MSU
Florida (+2.5) at FSU    FSU  FSU  FSU  UF
South Carolina (-2.5) at Clemson  SC  SC  SC  SC
N.C. State (-2.5) at Maryland   NCSU  NCSU  UM  NCSU
GA Tech (+12.5) at Georgia    UGA  UGA  UGA  TECH
Oklahoma (+2.5) at OSU  OSU  OSU  OU  OUSaj Guevara / Alligator
Senior middle blocker Lauren Bledsoe and the Gators have won 21 
consecutive matches.
UF VOLLEYBALL
Gators look to run table in SEC
basically when my shot wasn’t falling I just kept playing.”
Tuesday’s game was a reversal from Florida’s normal 
style of play this year, as the Gators struggled in the first 20 
minutes before turning it on in the second half. 
UF took a two-point lead into break and then outscored 
the Owls 45-34 down the stretch after 
watching their second-half production 
dip in three of their first four games. 
A lot of that had to do with some new 
things Florida Atlantic did on offense that Tyus and Macklin weren’t prepared for. 
At halftime, Donovan and his team 
made the necessary changes, which allowed them to extend 
the lead down the stretch. 
“(FAU) made some adjustments and tweaks inside their 
offense that kind of exploited the way we were guarding, 
and it really put Alex and Vernon in a tough spot,” Dono-
van said. “Alex and Vernon really adjusted very, very well in the second half.”Donovan initiated success 
with halftime adjustments
HOOPS , from page 16
Addazio not concerned about 
freshmen’s struggles
games cost about $60 compared 
to about $140 for this Saturday, Mason Pastore of SeatGeek.com predicts.
Gators thinking bowl projec-
tions: UF takes on No. 22 Florida 
State in the last regular-season game Saturday with no chance of a BCS bowl game berth, so what’s motivating the Gators?
“We look at this like our 
bowl game,” senior center Mike Pouncey said. “If we win this game, we’ll be in a better bowl game, so we want to win this 
game for our fans and for our -
selves.”
A win against FSU would set 
UF up in a better bowl game, be 
it the Chick-fil-A Bowl in Atlanta or the Outback Bowl in Tampa. 
Addazio OK with progress 
of freshmen: UF coach Urban Meyer has stated that his team’s freshman class didn’t develop into playmakers at as fast of a pace as he hoped, but Addazio said it doesn’t concern him in the long term.
The Gators have ranked in 
the nation’s top 10 all season 
for highest number of true 
freshmen used.
“You can 
wish some 
guys come 
along faster, but it’s not how you start, it’s how you 
finish,” Addazio said. “I don’t think that’s going to change, I just think that in recent years there seems to be more attention on it because there is so much more hype on players coming 
out of high school than there 
used to be.”NOTE , from page 16
Addazio
Men's
Bask etballSports
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Picks 
Column
UF SWIMMING AND DIVINGSITE: Doak S. Campbell Stadium, 
Tallahassee, (cap. 82,300)
KICKOFF: Saturday 3:30 p.m.
TV/RADIO: ABC/WRUF AM850
Like classes this week, we have de-
cided to keep this edition of the alliga-
torSports Brand Picks Column short.
Because of Thursday’s holiday, we 
also decided to write something nice about each picks column contestant for a change. 
But of course our dark souls could 
not handle being polite, so here we are: insulting each other once again and holding grudges during this little break.
We had to cancel the annual Florida 
beat writers dinner as a result, but it was worth it.
While those who can get along with 
friends and family will be spending this Saturday in your old living room watching Arkansas vs. LSU, we will be too busy hating each other like the pilgrims and Indians AFTER their fun get-to-know-you meal. 
But, in the spirit of the holiday, al-
ligatorSports columnists Anthony Chiang and Tyler Jett made like the French and Indians and tried to actu-ally get along. We let them cordially debate this game.
Arkansas (-4) will cover the Thanks-
giving spread because …
The Razorbacks are the safe bet. 
They’re at home. Ryan Mallett’s on fire. Bobby Petrino looks like the baby who advertises for Quizno’s.
But Chiang likes LSU because he 
loves risks. He got back into gambling (if that was legal) recently , and he’s been playing parlays all over the place.
And nobody is a riskier pick than 
Les Miles. The grass don’t taste good in Arkansas.
— TYLER JETT
LSU (+4) will get lucky again be-
cause ... 
I love me some Les Miles. Any man 
UF TENNIS INSIDEBy GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
Vernon Macklin entered 
Tuesday’s game with serious 
questions about the status of his 
injured right knee, and for 20 minutes it looked like those con-cerns might be justified. 
But then the senior center 
exploded for nine second-half rebounds, propelling No. 16 Florida (4-1) to a 79-66 victory over Florida Atlantic (3-3) in the 
O’Connell Center. 
“I thought Vernon did a 
pretty good job for us,” coach 
Billy Donovan said. “Vernon 
rebounded the ball much better 
in the second half. He did some very, very good things for us.”
Of Macklin’s 11 rebounds — a 
new career high — six came on 
the offensive end. 
The senior also chipped in 
five points and all of the team’s 
three blocks amidst speculation 
that he would be deactivated fol-
lowing the game due to lingering tendonitis in his right knee. 
Macklin said he doesn’t plan 
to miss any games because rest-
ing in practice and limiting his 
minutes would likely bring about the same result. 
“I rest enough,” Macklin said. 
“I play like 21 minutes a game. I rest in practice and I do treat-ment, so it’s about the same thing.”
For the game, UF grabbed 18 
offensive boards en route to a 45-30 advantage on the glass and 
an 18-4 edge in second-chance 
points. 
Florida’s interior dominance 
led to a 36-18 advantage in points in the paint. 
“Rebounding is a big part of 
the game,” senior Alex Tyus said. “We just tried to rebound well and go to the glass on offense.”
Twelve of Florida’s points in the paint came from Tyus, who scored 19 in the game. 
He also added seven re-
bounds and an assist in just 25 
minutes of play. 
Sophomore Kenny Boynton 
led the Gators in scoring, record-
ing 21 points despite shooting just 2 of 7 from behind the arc. 
To compensate for these 
struggles, Boynton started tak-ing the ball inside. He was able to score on a variety of lay-ups and floaters or get to the line and knock down some free throws. 
“I was talking to coach Dono-
van earlier today and he told me when my outside shot is not falling he doesn’t want me to get down,” Boynton said. “So         
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF center Vernon Macklin played through a knee injury to grab a career-high 11 rebounds against 
FAU on Tuesday. He also added five points and three blocks.
UF BASKETBALLMacklin helps power Gators to victory
n THE GATORS RANK 71ST IN THE 
NATION IN TOTAL OFFENSE.
By ANTHONY CHIANG, 
TYLER JETT, KYLE MAISTRI 
and MIKE McCALL
Alligator Staff Writers
 
Despite the Gators’ well-documented 
struggles this season (they rank 71st in the 
nation for total offense), offensive coordina-
tor Steve Addazio said his players have not 
strayed from the plan.“They have complete faith and trust,” he 
said. “They watch the tape. They know. You come in here and watch the tape on Sundays and you surely see what was set out to do, 
what happened, what didn’t happen. There are no myster -
ies there.”
Addazio says none of the 
players have approached him about their frustrations with his scheme, but he knows it’s 
normal for players to talk about the unit’s in-efficiencies amongst themselves.
Even UF running back Emmanuel Moody admitted teammates have been increasingly vocal because of the rough season.
“Everyone has their opinion on why 
we’re losing,” he said.
UF-FSU a hot ticket: SeatGeek.com, a 
search engine forecasting ticket prices for 
future events, predicts Saturday’s Florida-
Florida State game will be the 10th-best-sell-ing college football rivalry this season, based on how ticket sales for the game compare with the average ticket sales at Doak Camp-bell Stadium.
The average ticket for FSU’s first six home Players still cooperating with Addazio
SEE NOTE, PAGE 15Football
nSenior Conor Dwyer and freshman Elizabeth Beisel both earned SEC Swim -
mer of the Week honors Tuesday. Dwyer won the award for the third time in his 
career, and Beisel was honored for the third time this season.n The UF women’s basketball team 
got off to a rough start against UNF on Tuesday. The Gators won 54-51, but coach Amanda Butler was un -
happy with their performance.  n Sophomores Sekou Bangoura Jr. and 
Allie Will will represent the United States in the fifth annual Master’U BNP Paribas, an international college competition in Rouen, France from Dec. 9-12SEE PICKS, PAGE 15SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15