0 the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 109 We Inform. You Decide.
SPECIAL REPORT
Student Alliance
injunction denied
By MINCH MINCHIN
Alligator Writer
The Student Alliance party's at-
tempt to halt the use of public fund-
ing to promote the Renew Your Re-
itz campaign was denied Monday
afternoon at the Alachua County
Civil Justice Center.
Four members of the party filed a
motion against UF President Bernie
Machen, members of the UF's Board
of Trustees and several other univer-
sity officials for allowing university
money to be used for creating and
distributing fliers calling for the Re-
itz Union renovation.
Judge Robert E. Roundtree said
the complaint, as filed, was not valid
because the statute cited by party
members applies to city and county
governments but not universities.
"This is an issue of public funds
being used to promote a campaign,"
said Student Alliance party Senate
leader Jonathan Ossip.On Friday, the four members
filed a motion for temporary injunc-
tion, an action that, if passed, would
have forced the Reitz Union renova-
tion campaign to immediately re-
move all promotional signs, posters
and fliers from campus.
The motion
asked the court to
prohibit spending
public funds to
pay for political
advertisements
in support of the
proposed Reitz
Union student
fee, according to
the official brief submitted by Ossip.
The 53-page brief was compiled
over the weekend by Ossip without
the help of an attorney.
Ossip said there needs to be a law
prohibiting publicly funded cam-
paigns on campus.
For more on the injunction, see
alligator.org-0
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010
Meal limit stirs residents
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
For Pat Fitzpatrick, the lifting of the meal
restrictions at the St. Francis House for three
days out of the year is not only inadequate
-it's an insult.
"My father fought in World War II to
fight fascism," said Fitzpatrick, a homeless
awareness activist. "We need to fight fas-
cism here in Gainesville."
The recent ruling by the Gainesville
City Commission, which allows St. Francis
House to serve beyond the 130-meal limit
on Thanksgiving, Christmas and a day of
the shelter's choosing, has been met with
both relief and dissatisfaction.
According to City of Gainesville spokes-
man Bob Woods, the move is the city's at-
tempt to balance its need to provide mealprovisions to the homeless while protecting
neighboring residents from the adverse im-
pacts of the provision.
"Just imagine if your house was
across the street, and you saw all
these people. Whether you like it or
not, it has an impact on your quality
of life."
Bob Woods
City of Gainesville spokesman
He emphasized the commission's care-
ful consideration of both sides of the issue,
noting how much the measure affects the
Gainesville community.
"Just imagine if your house was across
the street, and you saw all these people," he
SEE MEAL LIMIT, PAGE 9Gainesville IHOP gives
free flapjacks today
0 TODAY IS NATIONAL
PANCAKE DAY.
By ERICA JOHNSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
The International House of Pan-
cakes is giving diners a reason to
get in a sticky situation.
Today is National Pancake Day,
and IHOP, which has a Gainesville
location at 3265 SW 13th St., is treat-
ing guests to a free stack of syrup-
covered flapjacks from 7 a.m. to 10
p.m.
IHOP began the celebration in
2006.
While the pancakes are free to
all visitors, IHOP requests that
customers consider giving a small
donation to the Children's MiracleNetwork.
For five years, the IHOP in
Gainesville has participated in the
event to benefit Shands Children's
Hospital.
Scott Stazzone, the general man-
ager of the IHOP on 13th Street, said
they gave away 2,011 stacks of free
pancakes last year and raised more
than $1,200.
Around Stazzone, whoGainesville will be cooking
the pancakes all
day, said the charity is one of the
reasons people continue to come
back each year.
"This is such a great way for us
to give back to our community in
hopes of finding cures for sick kids
around the world," he said. "It real-
ly makes the whole day worth it."
Gainesville woman bites man's arm over $5
A fight over $5 ended with the arrest of a Gainesville woman
after she bit her partner in front of their children Sunday.
Jamie Ruffner, 27, grabbed a frying pan and threw it, just
missing the children. Ruffner continued to throw objects from
around the room until the man grabbed her, the report said.
Ruffner then bit him in his arm, tearing the flesh with her
teeth. She caused damage that will leave a permanent scar, ac-
cording to the report. Ruffner is charged with one count of ag-
gravated assault with a deadly weapon and one count of battery
resulting in bodily harm.
-KATHERINE BEINN The Alligator
held interviews
with SG candidates
to discuss their
platforms. To see
video footage from
the interviews, visit
alligator.org.Plaza Politics
Austin Gilmour, a telecommunications production junior, talks to Student Alliance party
candidate Michelle Loewenherz on the final day before elections. See story Page 5.
0 UF forward
Chandler Parsons
and the Gators will
try to end their six-
game losing streak
against Tennessee
and pad their NCAA
Tournament rd-
sumd tonight in the
O'Connell Center.
See Story, Page 17.Today
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
12
15
17Partly
cloudy
73/45
visit www.alligator.orgele
71
2, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010
News Today
NATIONAL FORECAST
TODAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
73/45WEDNESDAY
RAIN
67/34THURSDAY
71
SUN NY
57/29FRIDAY
SUN NY
61/39SATURDAY
RAIN
57/34
ji w I lCoyrghe Maer
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the independent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 109 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Flonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Mana
Manag
Assis
Assis
alligatorEditor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
ging Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
ing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
tant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner, jmisner@alligator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, ctillo@alligator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
tant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
rSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Corey McCall, Amanda Milligan,
Emily Morrow, Andrew Pantazi,
Paul Runnestrand, Colin Simmons,
Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Shaun O'Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
WEATHER
Increase in hurricanes could stem from El Niiio
By MELINDA CARSTENSEN to an increase in hurricanes in the "I don't know where any of A strong El Nino tends to sup- the reason the U.S. has had ar
Alligator Contributing Writer upcoming season, which officially k ,, press hurricane activity in terms of usually cooler winter this year
The Atlantic hurricane season
may be months away, but me-
teorologists are forecasting more
storms than last year in the 2010
season.
Steve Letro, the meteorologist
at the National Weather Service
in Jacksonville, said weakening El
Niho conditions could contributestarts June 1.
El Niho is a change in the atmo-
sphere and ocean water tempera-
tures in the Pacific ocean and off the
northern coast of South America.
El Niho occurs when the water
gets warmer and creates a stronger
wind shear in the Caribbean and
Atlantic ocean, Letro said.
Gerry Bell, a hurricane fore-
caster at the National Oceanic andSteve Letro
meteorologist at the National
Weather Service in Jacksonville
Atmospheric Administration, said
that although El Nino is weaken-
ing, it's far too early to determine
if it will be a factor in the upcoming
season.nun-
number and duration, Bell said. Nevertheless, Letro said, it's im-
Bell said there has been an in- portant that people focus on the fact
crease in hurricane activity in the that a hurricane could potentially
U.S. since 1995. hit their area, not just the numbers,
But last year's hurricane activity because the path of a hurricane is
fell below average because of this not predictable.
effect, according to Bell. "When you see the forecast for
According to the National Hur- the number of storms coming up,
ricane Center, there were three our reaction should be 'that's nice,
hurricanes in 2009. but I don't know where any of them
Letro said El Niho is also part of are going to go,"' he said.
Asian-American Student Union holds final SG debate
* CANDIDATES FOR TREASURER
AND VICE PRESIDENT ATTENDED.
By MATT HARRINGER
Alligator Staff Writer
In the last debate before the Student Gov-
ernment election, both parties agreed that
UF's Asian-American students deserve more
attention.Candidates for Student Body vice president
and Student Body treasurer debated in front of
60 students Monday night at the event spon-
sored by the Asian American Student Union.
Rafael Yaniz, the Student Alliance party
candidate for Student Body treasurer, said his
party has a plan to eliminate wasteful spend-
ing and wants to allocate the money saved to
student groups like the AASU.
Virlany Taboada, the Unite Party's can-
didate for Student Body treasurer, said that,
under the Unite Party, SG took money fromAccent and SG Productions to give to AASU
Kaleidoscope Month events.
Yaniz said it was a Student Alliance party
member who pushed for money reallocation.
"We want to be your friend, your ally and
your advocate,"Student Government Yaniz said.
Elections Both groups
proposed more
meeting space for the group.
Marcus Dixon, the Unite Party's candidate
for Student Body vice president, said the reno-vated Reitz Union would have a multicultural
center with room for the group to meet.
"We could've done a better job in the last
year," Dixon said. "But under my administra-
tion I want to increase communication with all
communities, especially the Asian-American
community."
Abner Yang, an AASU member, said he
was leaving the debate the same way he came
-undecided. He said he plans on examin-
ing both parties' platforms on their Web sites
before voting.
\ XEAR GIARANTE-
THIS DEAL
IS LINCOLN Butler Plaza Newberry Square
APPROVED 335-1232 332-3937
ALL WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTERS
ABORTIONS
-Abortion by Pill -417
(RU-486) 9I[ea ti
* Early & Late Term Ceute
0 [Abortions
-Morning After Pill
-Birth Control & Gyn Services
* Insurance & Credit Cards Accepted
www.abortiongainesville.com
1 135 NW 23rd Ave Suite N
352-378-9191
1-800-869-0440
stuent Livi16 Guide
Spring2010
Cal iou salesF rep tay 9~
3764482 alligatorBy advertising in the
Student Living Guide,
you will reach over
50,000 readers who
are looking for new
apartments, condos,
furniture, appliances,
household items and
more!*
4, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010
ON CAMPUS
UF alumna kicks off
eating disorder week
By MEG WAGNER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Beauty and the Jock shared the
stage Monday at the Reitz Union.
Allison Kreiger Walsh, the 2002
Miss University of Florida, and
Patrick Bergstrom, a two-year aca-
demic all-conference lacrosse player
at Wesley College, have both battled
eating disorders.
The two spoke to an audience
of about 400 at "Beauty and the
Jock: Real People. Real Stories," an
event organized by Accent speakers
bureau in collaboration with UF's
GatorWell, Athletic Association,
Panhellenic Council, Interfraternity
Council and Women's Leadership
Council.
The event kicked off National
Eating Disorders Awareness Week,
which started on Sunday and will
run until Saturday.
Bergstrom was sidelined from
his lacrosse team in college due to
his struggles with anorexia.
"Everybody told me that guys
don't have eating disorders, andI believed, but deep in my heart, I
knew something was wrong," Berg-
strom told the audience.
He was later diagnosed with an-
orexia, as well as substance abuse,
and was told he had 12 months to
live if he didn't have an immediate
intervention.
"I chose to live," he said. "When
I was struggling with an eating dis-
order I wasn't living. I was just exist-
ing."
Walsh, a UF graduate with a
degree in public relations, battled
bulimia and anorexia during high
school for three and a half years.
She spent her childhood and ad-
olescence training as a competitive
baton twirler. She also described
herself as a straight-A perfectionist.
Walsh said the first time she
threw up, she vomited because she
was upset. She felt better and began
associating vomiting with relief.
"Iwas a walking, talking example
of an eating disorder," Walsh said.
Walsh was paid $1,700 and Berg-
strom was paid $2,420 to speak at UF alumna and former beauty queen Allison Walsh talks to studenthe event according to Jason Atter- high school during National Eating Disorders Awareness Week at thmg Accent chairman
A 'Copyrighted Material"Lara IiCKox / Aiiigator
ts about her battle with bulimia in
e Reitz Union Ballroom on Monday.
% A. I ,( I. I
Syndicated Content
Available from Commerc al News Providers
Giddy Up Gators 5k
Saturday, February 27th
9:30-1 1:30am
(Registration starts at 8:30am)
Albert Ray Masley Park
(Old Westside Park on 34th St)
Only $7 to Pre-Register,
$10 includes a shirt
(Day of race registration:
$12 or $15 for a shirt)
Pre-register until Feb. 24 at:
sota.phhp.ufl.edu
Help provide equine-assisted
therapy to Veterans
thee
Every.
Thursday alligao rLegalize it. Don't criticize it!, EV1/
Pd Pl Adv approved by Richard Selwach
RETIREMENT V 3 A0RichardS SeRaci1FloridaWealthAdvisors.co
www.selwachformayo, *cm Getdikseil o
Big Ron's
<PYoga College
TOTAL MIND AND BODY WORKOUT
An exciting, challenging, hardworkin
effective yoga class, Bikram-styke hlaa
Yoga is designed to work every muscle,
joint, gland, and organ in your body.
DAILY CLASSES FOR ALL FITNESS LEVELS
Monday-Friday: 8:30am and 6:30pm Basic Yoga
Saturday: 10:00am and 4:00pm Saturday: 12:00 noonSunday: 10:00am and 6:30pm
519-D NW 1 th Ave, Gainesville3- 52871!15!', 1 9761 11l 11Seven-year-old Phoenix Fox was born happy, healthy and
strong. During a routine check-up, doctors found a heart
murmur. Three months later, Phoenix was diagnosed with
Pompe disease, a rare type of muscular dystrophy.
Today, although there is treatment, Phoenix must rely on a
ventilator to live and is hoping for a cure.
Phoenix Fox Trot is a charity event to raise money for
additional research to find a cure for Pompe disease. All of the
proceeds will go to the Phoenix Fox Research Fellowship.
one-mile fun valkorwe waslieldanee performanes
loeal vendors eChinese Raffle face painting
and more!
Pompe disease is currently the subject of
Harrison Ford's new movie "Extraordinary Measures."
This paper used to count stars at night.
Please recycle it._J..l . .61 0 1111POJ SE corner of NW e
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Parties go extra mile for votes
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
Campaigning during this Stu-
dent Government election season
involved a blend of traditional
approaches and new campaign
tactics.
The newly formed Student Al-
liance party has implemented sev-
eral new campaign strategies.
Ben Cavataro, the Student Al-
liance party candidate for Student
Body president, said his party's
campaign tactics differ from those
of the Unite Party in several ways.
Cavataro said the Student Al-
liance party sent teams of repre-
sentatives to campaign at a UF
satellite campus, which includes
pharmacy and health science stu-
dents.
They answered questions about
the proposed Reitz Union fee and
also discussed how it could ad-
versely impact satellite campuses,
Cavataro said.Cavataro said the trip was re-
ally about engaging with an entire
population of people that are not
connected to the main campus in
the way that they should be.
If SG elections featured online
voting then these students would
be totally enfranchised, Cavataro
said.
Representatives who traveled
to satellite cam-
puses also dis-
cussed how they
-could offer more
events and pro-
grams for profes-
sonal students.
Cavataro "We're really
making a special
effort to engage with all communi-
ties," Cavataro said.
Cavataro said the Student Al-
liance party has also held fund-
raisers with local businesses, and
party members walked students
to class with umbrellas during bad
weather."We've just been trying all dif-
ferent sorts of things," Cavataro
said.
Unite Party spokesman Ben
Meyers said the only change the
Unite Party has made to its cam-
paign tactics involves making the
campaign more extensive.
The Unite Party executive can-
didates began a 24-hour campaign
push at 5 a.m. that will end at 5
a.m. Wednesday.
They will be campaigning on
campus, visiting the late-night
study spots in the Hub and visit-
ing local hangout spots.
"They just want to do every-
thing they can to meet every per-
son they can," Meyers said.
Meyers said Student Body Pres-
ident Jordan Johnson did some-
thing similar last spring while he
was campaigning.
"We're proud to still hold the
values we held when we were
founded," Meyers said.
Swamp Daily
Super Saver
$7.99
Sandwich of the Day
including fries
& a drink
1642 W. University Ave.
352-377-9267
The Swamp RestaurantTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Gator sunscreen
wards off scales
By KELLEY GARNER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gator fans will be able to hit the beach over break without
worrying about the redness of a sunburn clashing with their
orange and blue gear.
Game Face Performance Sunscreen, based out of Grand Rap-
ids, Mich., developed a sunscreen line, featuring the licensed
logos of 42 different NCAA teams. The
Spotlight on the best-selling schools are UF and the Uni-
Swamp versity of Texas at Austin, said Meghan
Follen, marketing specialist.
The SPF 30 sunscreen is sold in a 2-ounce bottle with a clip
for $5 or in a 6-ounce bottle with a continuous-spray nozzle
for $10.
The GatorWell Health Hut is collaborating with Game Face
Performance Sunscreen to provide samples to UF students be-
fore Spring Break, said Samantha Evans, a health educator and
the coordinator of Health Hut. The hut will have a limited sup-
ply of free samples in different sizes, as well as Frisbees and
brochures with sun-safety information, Evans said.
For more information visit gamefacesunscreen.com.
Because every woman
deserves TLC in her life.
www lingeriecompany.com
Short of Cash? Donate Plasma! Thousands do.
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6th St Gainesville (352) 378-9204
"Where It Pays to Care"
6, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010
Editorial
Rock the Vote
Students should care
about SG elections
It's finally here -the first Student Government election
day.
And while so many of you are going to try to avoid the
hoards of blue or green shirts on Turlington Plaza today,
we'd like to make one final plea to you to go out and place
your votes.
Besides the fact that it only takes two minutes and there
are more than 10 different polling places, voting in SG
elections is actually more important than you think.
Other than the $14.4 million budget that SG officials
oversee, which is comprised of your Student Activity &
Service Fees that are taken out of the tuition you pay, the
Student Body president is the only student voice on the
board of trustees and the Senate decides what student or-
ganizations get funding.
He or she sits in a stuffy room all day with stuffy old
men and goes to bat for what the students want.
These may seem like small, meaningless things, but just
ask Gators for a Sustainable Campus, who almost lost its
funding last year, how important SG is.
And turnout in past elections is nothing to brag about.
Voting numbers from past elections show the Student
Body's overwhelming apathy when it comes to SG as a
whole.
Last fall, only 8,483 out of UF's 49,679 students voted.
That's 17 percent of the Student Body.
Even at one of its high points, during fall 2008 of the
presidential election, only 10,469 students bothered to
vote.
Can we just point out how pathetic that is?
This group of students that makes up SG has its grubby
fists on more money than all the Alligator staff combined
will make in a lifetime, and the vast majority of you don't
even care enough to lean over a folding table and fill in a
few bubbles?
You already know our stance on Student Body presi-
dent, vice president and treasurer.
You also know that we support the Reitz Union fee -
granted that they follow through on the fact that graduate
assistants will not pay.
There are also two other referendums. The first one,
a constitutional amendment, is pretty confusing, and we
don't really care.
The other one, however, may be small and shoved to
the bottom of the page, but it's an important issue for our
university.
The questions ask if UF should join the Worker Rights
Consortium, a national organization that monitors labor
conditions, to ensure that licensed merchandise with UF
and Gators logos is not made in sweatshops. Our answer
is yes.
Voting yes won't immediately effect campus-wide
change, but a position of solidarity among students will
impart a powerful message to university administration
and make it clear that Gators don't support the use of
sweat shops (except those of you in your orange and blue
Nikes).
The most important thing to realize, though, is that we
actually don't care that much how you vote -we just care
that you vote.
Ilthe independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150words (about one letter-sized page) They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer showsjust cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Ae , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
Gainesvi rle, FL 32604-2257OC olumns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org//opinions
A~ab Ifr M omeri NWs PrI ds
Column
Gators shouldn't support sweatshops
Today and tomorrow, we're going to have an opportuni-
ty to vote on a ballot question to register the Student Body's
opinion on whether UF should affiliate with the Worker
Rights Consortium, a labor rights advocacy group that works
against sweatshops through factory monitoring and investi-
gations. If UF affiliates with the WRC, it will help ensure that
UF apparel isn't made with sweatshop labor.
I'm voting "yes" in support of affiliation with the WRC,
and I'm really hoping you'll consider doing the same.
UF is already affiliated with the Fair Labor Association, a
similar organization that shares many of the same goals with
the WRC. But the FLA gets criticism for its connections to the
apparel industry, the very industry on which it's supposed
to be keeping tabs. By the way the FLA is structured, six rep-
resentatives from the industry sit on its board of directors,
and according to its Web site, the FLA receives funding in
part from "participating companies."
The WRC, according to its Executive Director Scott Nova
in a phone interview, is independent from the industry, both
financially and in its governance.
To be completely clear, the referendum won't take any
immediate action. Even if a majority of the Student Body
votes "yes" on the ballot question, UF won't automatically
affiliate with the WRC; affiliation requires the approval of UF
President Bernie Machen and the board of trustees. (Which,
by the way -awesome indie-pop band name.) But passing
the referendum would certainly send a clear message of how
UF students feel about the issue, and passing it by a sizable
margin will go a long way in helping campus advocates bol-
ster their case for affiliation to the administration.
I know, I don't like getting my paws too dirty with Stu-
dent Government stuff either, but this isn't a blue shirt/
green shirt issue. It's not even too much of a (real-life) politi-
cal issue. After all, I don't think it's particularly partisan or
radical to say that workers deserve to be treated fairly and
responsibly or that they deserve to work in conditions that
are safe and humane.
Reader response
Today's question: Monday's question:
Will you vote in favor of the Reitz Were you offended by the SG
Union expansion? swastika fliers?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgAnd it's important to remember
that the WRC is not, by any stretch of
the imagination, some fringe group.
According to the list of affiliates on its
Web site, 186 colleges and universities
across the country are affiliated with
Joe Dellosa the WRC, including four schools -
letters@alligator org University of Tennessee, University of
South Carolina, Vanderbilt University
and Louisiana State University -in
the Southeastern Conference.
To put it bluntly, the schools that affiliate with the WRC
are not just a bunch of schools that suck at sports. Of the
12schools that have played in a BCS National Championship
game since 1998, five are affiliated with the WRC. Of the 15
schools that have played in a men's basketball championship
in the past decade, 11 are affiliated with the WRC. In fact, the
only two schools that have won a men's basketball champi-
onship in the past decade that weren't affiliated are Univer-
sity of Kansas and UF. The WRC is entirely mainstream.
There's no doubt that there's ample reason to be proud
of being a Gator, and the cheerful alacrity with which we
don Gators apparel is a natural expression of that. And even
the most school spirit-averse student has to be at least a little
charmed by being a surrounded in a sea of orange and blue.
And as dorky as it sounds, I always get warm fuzzies
whenever I'm not in Gainesville and a stranger with a Gators
shirt spots my own and offers a knowing smile and, if I'm
lucky, a zealous, "Go Gators." I am admittedly one of the
people who has always cringed at any of The Gator Nation
ad campaigns, but I kind of love it when that happens.
But I'd love it more if we knew it wasn't the product of
child labor or worker exploitation. Affiliating with the WRC
will go a long way in helping us know that, And voting "yes"
on the ballot question is a good first step to affiliation.
Joe Dellosa is an advertising junior. His column appears on
Tuesdays.
50% YES
50% NO
84 TOTAL VOTESThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Benefits of Reitz renovatio
costs
The Alligator's endorsed
Union referendum has me a
seat. I read the Alligator dai
it as the primary and most
source for everything going
For weeks, I have read abo
student fee to repair and re
Union. I heard the potential
aware of the potential resul
Editorial Board has pulled
under my feet and made met
this issue.
I have always seen the A
the only truly independent
Government politics. The Alli
fluenced by certain organizat
stories that the students care
an endorsement from them v
my decision on how to vote.
The main reason I had b
vote against the Unite Party
seemed to be single-handedly
itz Union issue down the thrn
was unaware of truly substan
one should support a fee incr
$100 per semester. The Alliga
the claims of Unite and the R
campaign that there are sign
repairs and that there are am
be gained by a renovation.
Reitz Union renovation is u
Monday's editorial end(n will outweigh Johnson now, and whoever his successor may
be -is merely one member of the board of
ent of the Reitz trustees and can only propose such a waiver.
t the edge of my Moreover, as it stands on the day of an election
ly and recognize that puts such an important matter to vote, a
knowledgeable waiver of the Reitz Union fee for graduate as-
on on campus. sistants has not even been officially presented
ut the proposed to the trustees. A vote in favor of this fee is a
novate the Reitz vote based merely on the fleeting hope that
price but wasn't UF's administration and trustees will have the
ts. The Alligator goodness in their hearts to cut some slack to
he rug out from those who work the hardest to keep this uni-
hink twice about versity running.
Additionally, everyone fails to mention
Iligator as being that this waiver will not include graduate stu-
entity in Student dents who are not graduate assistants, teach-
gator is never in- ing assistants or research assistants. These stu-
ions. It publishes dents pay for their entire tuition and fees out
about. Therefore, of pocket, which causes hardships just as great
eighs heavily in as those felt by graduate assistants. The same
goes for undergraduates, for whom the cost of
een planning to a UF education will continue to rise. And yet
was because it it seems like a good idea to help the adminis-
pushing the Re- tration approve higher fees to rebuild a build-
ats of students. I ing that has already been heavily renovated in
live reasons why the last 10 years to apparently no avail, that is
ease of more than primarily a giant food court and Parthenon for
tor has validated SG executives and senators, and that will not
enew Your Reitz be finished in time for those of us currently
ificant necessary attending to even use? I think not. In short,
gazing benefits to there is no good reason to vote yes on this ref-
erendum. Before they renew the Reitz, SG, the
Laura Brancheau administration and the trustees need to renew
UFstudent their approach to funding and the reasoning
behind the proposed renovations.
nreasonable Jordan Dominy
rsing the Reitz 8LS
Union fee is indicative of the shortsightedness
of the Alligator's editorial staff. Yes, support-
ing the fee so long as graduate assistants are
exempted from it seems like a good idea. I'm
a teaching assistant, and I, too, find the logic
that leads to this enticing because I stand to
benefit from it. However, there is nothing
that Student Government can do to assure us
that this fee will be waived for graduate assis-
tants. The Student Body President -JordanUnite's Senate candidates chosen based
on obedience, not merit
The Alligator forgot the most important
choice voters face in its editorial: the Senate
slate.
The Student Alliance party's Senate slate is
filled with campus leaders from dozens of stu-
dent organizations. All of our candidates were
selected because they have a drive to makeStudent Government better. They think SG is
broken, and now it is time to fix it.
The Unite Party slate was not chosen based
on merit. Its candidates are based on what
seats are assigned to a particular organization.
I have no doubt that some of its candidates are
qualified, but a majority were chosen because
they won't question the party line. Obedience,
not leadership, is its strongest attribute.
Joshua Niederriter
UFstudent
Selwach needs to take stron
legalization of marijuana
I don't get it. Is Richard S
legalization of the maple tree,
want Florida to secede to Can
going to stand up for an issue a
important as the legalization o
so boldly, my friend!
Frank Walch's coparison of
Nazi leaders is offensive, sha
As a Jew and as a decent h
was thoroughly offended by
letter to the editor Monday that
tain leaders of the Unite Party
Though Walch specified that]
as though a Student Govern
could be described as being as
figure (thankfully he was will
at the least), his letter is a bla
assassination attempt. Tell m
how on Earth one could possib
thousand dollars spent on alle
a "fascist agenda"? How could
insinuate that the hundreds of
Unite have been "coerced" in
time? How could you ignore f
ments made in the past year an
the administration?
It's time to put the Holoca
People in SG need to stop thro
"Nazi" around as if it's simply
call someone. To me, and toshares my faith, that term represents an orga-
nization that killed 6 million of my brethren.
I could hate the Unite Party as much as you
seem to, Mr. Walch, but I could never compare
someone I simply disagree with politically to a
mass-murdering, bigoted concept.
You should be ashamed of yourself, and
the Alligator should be ashamed for publish-
ing that letter.
Dara Schopp
UFstudent
ger stand on Student Alliance to improve Senate if
elected for some seats
elwach for the Recently, the Alligator published an en-
or does he just dorsement of various executive candidates
ada? If you are and certain referenda. However, the newspa-
s heated and as per failed to mention the other group of stu-
f marijuana, do dents running for election. Forty-seven Senate
seats are being contested during the spring
Katie Adamson election, and the Student Alliance party has a
UFstudent slate worth an endorsement from the Alligator.
Amalgamating a diverse group of students, the
Unite Party to Student Alliance Senate slate can be credited
meful with many of the "70 Platform Points" of the
iuman being, I Student Alliance. The Student Alliance slate, if
Frank Walch's given a chance at a Senate majority, will quick-
compared cer- ly act to annul more than $1 million in waste
o Nazi leaders. in Student Government. We will swiftly post
he did not feel our voting records online, mitigate the lack
ment politician of transparency at the legislative level, pass
evil as a Nazi legislation to encourage ethics at all levels of
ig to grant that SG, expand free printing, promote sustainable
tant character- practices and enact many other of the Student
e, Mr. Walch, Alliance party's published initiatives. The cur-
ly equate a few rent Senate, thoroughly dominated by a Unite
ged perks with Party majority, has been relegated to a lack-
d you possibly luster rubber stamp. Never contradicting the
volunteers for executive, the Senate has continually refused
to giving their to invoke its powers of investiture and its right
he accomplish- to check the other branches of SG. If elected
d instead credit to Senate, we will reinvigorate the legislative
prerogatives lost to autocratic history. Fight
ust behind us. for your rights as students and vote for the
)wing the term Student Alliance Tuesday and Wednesday.
a bad name to Neil Gundavda
everyone who Student Alliance party treasurer
i is For local guests. One pass per person 18 years and older. Expires February 25, 2010.h ---------------
8, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010
Florida will continue difficult stretch against FSU
UF freshman Lauren Embree and the Gators will compete in Gainesville today for
the first time since Feb. 8.By ANDREW OLSON
Alligator Writer
The Gators are ready for a double dose of
their biggest rival.
The No.8 women's tennis team starts things
off when it hosts FSU today at 5, and the No. 7
men will host the Seminoles on Wednesday.
"Florida State always seems to bring out the
best in us," UF women's coach Roland Thorn-
qvist said. "We know we are going to play a
team that is fired up to play us."
For the women, the No. 14 Seminoles will
be the latest in a tough stretch of opponents.
On Feb. 12th, the Gators traveled to Madi-
son, Wis., for the ITA Team Indoor Champion-
ships.
After beating No. 16 Michigan, they
dropped consecutive matches to No. 3 North-
western and No. 12 UCLA.
Thornqvist saw the trip as a learning expe-
rience for his team.
"Indoors was good for us," Thornqvist
said. "We played some of the best teams in the
country."
The FSU match will be UF's first at home
in more than two weeks, and on a team with
native-Floridians, including No. 10 Allie Will
and No. 22 Lauren Embree, the rivalry is well-
understood.
"We're excited to be playing our rival at
home," Will said. "We hope to see a good
crowd out there."
Will, a Boca Raton native, is familiar with
the rivalry carrying over to all sports.
Her teammate is somewhat conflicted.
Embree, from Marco Island, is not the only
member of her family who plays collegiate
tennis.
Her brother, Keith Embree, plays for FSU.
"He actually hasn't been giving me toomuch stuff about it," Embree said. "I can't re-
ally hate Florida State that much when I have
a brother there."
The men's team also has native-Floridian
freshmen who are excited to play against FSU
for the first time.
"We're pumped," freshman Sekou Bangou-
ra Jr. said. "You try to get the same level of ex-
citement for every opponent, but it's hard not
to get more excited for FSU."
Bangoura, a Bradenton native, is coming off
a strong performance Sunday against USF.
In singles, Bangoura was the first to finish
and put the team closer to clinching the victory
with his 6-1, 6-1 win.
Another freshman familiar with both
schools is Boca Raton native Bob Van Over-
beek, who received interest from FSU before
choosing to play for UF.
"I don't knowif you would
call it recruiting, but I remem-
ber getting a lot of mail fromWomen's them," Van Overbeek said.Tennis "Their No. 1 guy was doing
really good at the time, and it
seemed like every time he did something they
sent me a letter about it."
Tennis is a sport that rewards depth, and
the newcomers are contributing significantly
this year.
Sunday against USF, Van Overbeek and
freshman Billy Federhofer won the first dou-
bles set from the No. 3 court.
In singles, Van Overbeek won at court No.
4 and helped put Florida in position to seal the
victory before the top three positions had fin-
ished.
UF will rely on that depth against FSU.
"Florida State has a 1-2-3 combination as
good as or better than anybody in the coun-
try," UF men's coach Andy Jackson said.
UF WOMEN'S GOLF
Gators in first place after Day
By KELSIE HOECHERL
Alligator Writer
After two rounds of play in the Central
District Invitational, the Florida women's golf
team is in the lead, 20 strokes ahead of second
place.
The Gators finished 36 holes with a five
under-par score of 571 (290-281) and with four
players in the top 10.
"It [today] was a true team effort, which is
probably what I am most proud of," UF wom-
en's coach Jan Dowling said. "Their patience
out their today [is the second thing I contrib-
ute their success to] it is something that we had
been talking about all fall and after our first
tournament this spring, just staying really pa-
tient and really confident in their ability. It was
difficult conditions today, it was really windy
in the afternoon, and we're seven under as a
team. .Everyone stayed patient and positive
all day, nothing ever rattled them."
Freshman Isabelle Lendl, who carded 141
(74-67, -3), has continued to build off her suc-
cess at the Northrop Grumman Regional Tour-
nament, where she battled back to finish in 11th
place. Lendl took that confidence to her round
Monday, finishing in second place one stroke
behind leader Arkansas' Kelli Shean .
"With golf, it's a long term work ethic, and
that is something that Isabelle is totally commit-
ted to what she is doing with her golf game,"
Dowling said. "I am really happy for her and
proud of her. All her hard work is paying off.
She is hitting the ball super solid right now and
this afternoon she made a lot of putts."In both the first and second rounds, Lendl
proved that age and talent don't necessarily
go hand in hand. The freshman outplayed her
older teammates, carding eight birdies to keep
her five bogeys at bay.
In a tie for third is Lendl's older sister, soph-
omore Marika. She finished just one stroke be-
hind with a two round total of 142 (-2). Lendl
made an even par her first round and then went
on to finish two-under in her second round.
Finishing in fifth place, sophomore Evan
Jensen shot a one-under-par score of 143. Jens-
en made par in her first round and then went
one under in her second round with one bogey
and two birdies.
"It [today] was a true team effort,
which is probably what I am most
proud of."
Jan Dowling
UF women's golf coach
Freshman Mia Piccio finished in a tie for
seventh, just two strokes behind Jensen. De-
spite a double bogey in her first round, Piccio
was able to keep it even.
Rounding out the lineup for the Gators was
junior Jessica Yadloczky, who finished last for
the squad. The junior finished nine strokes be-
hind her freshman teammate after two double
bogeys and a bogey set her four behind in the
first round.
"We are going to attack this course again
and keep doing what we have been doing,"
Dowling said. "It's been working."%4,t W
-C.
qC-03% e
=
ONoa
-o U
U
0
-o
=
CoCo
I.
-o
0
0~
Co
0K
0
0
0
-C
-cC
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 9
Student organizes war between humans and zombies
0 A RULE MEETING WILL BE
HELD WEDNESDAY.
By JEFFREY DANLEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
If you happen to see zombies on
campus in the next couple of weeks,
don't be alarmed.
Freshman Jesse Schmitt is orga-
nizing the first game of Gators Hu-
mans vs. Zombies for Thursday.
"I thought UF has got to havethis kind of thing, and I have to get
involved," Schmitt said.
The game, known to its follow-
ers as HvZ, was invented in 2005 by
Brad Sappington and Chris Weed at
Goucher College in Baltimore.
The game consists of two sides,
Humans and Zombies, in which the
goal for the Humans is to survive
the "Zombie outbreak." If a Zom-
bie tags a Human on campus, that
Human becomes a Zombie, but to
defend themselves, Humans can
"stun" Zombies by hitting themwith a sock or Nerf gun.
The game gained popularity after
being featured on the "The Colbert
Report," in which Stephen Colbert
deemed HvZ as the No. 1 threat to
America.
On It has since ex-
Campus ploded onto college
campuses across the
nation and in other countries such
as Denmark, Brazil and Australia.
Some in-state schools to join the
craze include Florida Gulf Coast
University, Florida State Universityand University of South Florida.
Stephen Fitzmaurice, a modera-
tor of the game, hopes HvZ becomes
popular at UF as it has in other plac-
es in the world.
"I think it will most definitely
catch on," he said. "It's our job to
ensure that everybody has as much
fun as possible and to help the game
grow.
A final rule meeting will take
place Wednesday night at 7:20 in the
Florida Gym, Room 210.
The game will take place on cam-pus, but safe zones are restricted to
academic buildings, libraries and the
Reitz Union. Humans and Zombies
will be identifiable by the bandan-
nas worn either around their necks
or heads.
Schmitt said more than 275 peo-
ple have registered to play. Partici-
pants have to register online before
they can participate in the group.
For additional information, visit
the Web site at humansvszombies.
org or its Facebook group, Gators
Humans vs. Zombies.
St. Francis House residents
to designate third holiday
MEAL LIMIT, from page 1
said. "Whether you like it or not,
it has an impact on your quality
of life."
Kent Vann, the executive di-
rector of the St. Francis House,
welcomed the commission's de-
cision. Although he admitted he
would like to see fewer restric-
tions, Vann said he would take
whatever days he could get.
"It's time we recognize what's
going on in this country and quit
bringing in Washington politics
into our small town," he said.
"We have neighbors in need. We
should be enacting codes that
help one another."
Although one of the three holi-
days is still left to be determined,
Vann said that he is leaning to-
ward having it on either Easter
or Independence Day. He said he
will let St. Francis guests decide
the date.
But some were not as recep-
tive to the news.Jon DeCarmine, the director
for the Alachua County Coalition
for the Homeless and the Hun-
gry, believes the commission rul-
ing means nothing.
"All it means is that they've
made it detrimental [for the
homeless] for 362 days instead
of 365," DeCar-
mine said.
As for Fitz-
patrick, the per-
ceived indiffer-
ence from the
commission has
forced him to
DeCarmine take drastic ac-
tion. Today, Fitzpatrick plans to
challenge Gainesville's panhan-
dling law by collecting milk for
the homeless.
"I've already spoken to my
lawyer," he said. "They can't tell
me who I can give a sandwich
to or that I can't give milk to a
child."Snake Season
Hunter Shawn Heflick holds a Burmese python during a news conference Monday in the
Florida Everglades.
Diets Don't Work~
Eat when
you're hungry,
stop when you're
full. Learn how at
392-1161,ext.4281
http://www.shcc.ufl.edu/gatorwell
Listen to your body.School Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 1 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.comBest jewelry afa Loan523 NW 3rd Ave * Pawn Brokers
371-4367 -371-GEMS
13th Annual
April 10, 2010 at 8 a.m.
Behind North Florida
Regional Medical Center
Benefiting the student-run Equal
Access Clinic of Gainesville which
provides free healthcare to
underprivileged populations.
For more info:
Call Stephanie Mazariegos at
(813) 484-8031 or go to
ufpremed.org/easc.....................-. ...
2 For Tuesda $1.50 Pabst Pints
2 for I Any Farah's $5 Pabst Pitchers
Famous Bugr $2 Well Drinks
ALL DAY EVER DA
WednesdaU 7 New Flaiscreens for all your sports
600Wings 352-378-5179
1 .1 120 W .University Ave_
10, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010
Reitz Union tour highlights building's inefficiencies, problems
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
Despite talk during the Student Gov-
ernment campaign, there remains room
for discussion regarding the Reitz Union's
renovation and expansion.
Potential renovations include replacing
outdated pipes, some of which trace back
to 1967, and expanding student organiza-
tional space, said Ryan Moseley, former
Student Body president, who helped lead
a media tour Friday.
UF has more than 900
student organizations,
but the union only
has 27 rooms and a
handful of cubicles to
bu the uno onl
Lara Hickox/ Alligator
Students wait in line at
Cheeburger Cheeburger
in the union food court.
Lara Hickox/Alligator
Film calendars lie in a
plastic box outside the Reitz
Union Auditorium.Iaccommodate them, he said.
"It's crucial that students' voices be
heard for this project," Moseley said.
Alex Comillie, a UF physics sopho-
more who serves on the Reitz Union
Board of Managers, said another main
feature of the project calls for the expan-
sion of the union's auditorium from 300 to
1,500 seats.
"It looks like a high school classroom
from the 1940s," Cornillie said.
In addition, the renovation plans call
for a 24-hour study center, multipurpose
SW 2nd Ave._ "
University Golf Course
(n
(n
Hull Rd.0Dmeeting rooms, a fitness center and a
parking garage with 750 spaces, according
to the Renew Your Reitz campaign plat-
form, which promotes the renovation and
expansion of the Reitz Union.
Michael Mironack, the director of oper-
ations for the Reitz Union, said other, less
visible renovations could include replac-
ing pipes in the Reitz Union's basement.
The pipes control ventilation, plumb-
ing and other crucial functions that assist
in the building's day-to-day operations,
Mironack said.
University Ave.
Union Dr.
Stadium Rd
InrRd."A lot of things we're dealing with are
infrastructure," he said. "If any of these
major systems go down, it will be cata-
strophic."
If multiple pipes stop working, the Re-
itz Union could be shut down, he said.
Mironack said now is the time to un-
dertake renovations because construction
costs are low.
"We're not making this stuff up," he
said. "We know for a fact that we have
these problems."
However, Mironack was quick to point
out that if anything is to
be done, it will be left
up to the students.
"I want to reiter-
ate: This is a student
issue," he said.
(
:r
1- Law & Graduate students / Levin Law School 2 -Freshman & Sophomore / Springs Residential Complex 3 -Health
& Human Performance / FL Gym 4- Journalism & Engineering/ Weimer Hall 5 -Sophomore, Freshman & CLAS Grad / Union 6
-Agriculture / McCartyA 7 -Agriculture, Business and Graduate students / FL Museum of Natural History 8 -Freshman & Sopho-
more/ Broward Hall 9 -Architechture & Building Construction / Rinker Hall 10 -Sophomore, Freshman, Grad CLAS/ Turlington
Plaza 11- Accounting & Business / Matherly 12 -Health Professionals & Graduate students / Communicore 13 -Engineering &
Graduate students/ New Engineering Building2Lara Hickox/ Alligator
Students talk in a hallway
on the Reitz Union third
floor.
An elevator indicator is
illuminated in the base-
ment level of the union.
Graduate assistants protest fee
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Writer
For 33-year-old Regina Martin, lei-
sure time is a luxury that's never spent
bowling at the Reitz Union.
The UF English graduate assis-
tant's week is consumed with life as
a teacher of an upper-division English
class, and most of her money goes to-
ward living expenses.
"There are so many expenses the
university needs to be meeting in or-
der to fulfill its basic mission of educa-
tion," Martin said. "The Reitz Union is
not a priority."
Students will help decide the Reitz
Union's fate by voting Feb. 23 and 24
in the Student Government election.
The ballot includes two referen-
dum questions about a potential stu-dent fee to help fund the renovation
and expansion of the Reitz Union.
Talk of the fee has stirred opposi-
tion from UF's Graduate Assistants
United, which represents the nearly
4,000 teaching and research assistants
who are both students and employees
of the university. Graduate assistants
differ from graduate students because
they work for the university.
According to Graduate Assistants
United member Craig Rinne, most
graduate assistants currently pay be-
tween $500 and $600 in student fees.
At first, Student Body President
Jordan Johnson felt the entire Student
Body should pay the potential fee, but
after about 15 meetings with graduate
assistants, he changed his position.
For more on graduate assistants op-
position to thefee, see alligator.orgCampaign pushes repairs
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
There's a third party campaigning
in spring's Student Government elec-
tion: the Renew Your Reitz campaign.
Renew Your Reitz, a student-run
campaign, was launched last week
and has since recruited an estimated
200 volunteers to encourage students
to vote to approve the expansion and
renovation of the Reitz Union.
Alex Cornillie, the campaign's
spokesman, said it is designed to edu-
cate students and explore alternative
sources of funding for the renovation,
such as donations from alumni.
He said representatives of the
campaign are speaking with students
about repairs and renovations that
will need to be made within the next14 years.
Student Body President Jordan
Johnson said the expansion would
cost between $80 million and $90
million, but it has not yet been de-
termined how much of that will be
covered in donations from alumni,
contributions from the administration
and other sources of funding from the
university.
"We understand that we need
a student fee that's going to cover
roughly a little more than half that,"
Johnson said.
Cornillie said many students have
had questions about the "state of the
Union" and why the repairs and the
fee are such big issues right now.
"It's now our time to leave that
legacy for the students who will come
after us," Cornillie said.Be H11Grifffin
IBeard Union North
Frc D BrowardField ~ JG 6 8 ec
Museum Rd. Beach
0 Physics FL
13 Lawn Museum .
of Natural
Lake Alice History 
.
Shands 0
Mowa.I
mo
164 -A NEEM&WI
\1
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 11
communication o result
.day'.
3ries for Student Body President
on for Student Body Vice Presiden
ioada for Student Body Treasurer
LAS
LAS
LAS
)U
k VOT:
'AD
'AD
'AD
'AD
'AD T
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
INCLUDES EVERYTHING
4/4's & 2/2s from $399 to $509
24hr Fitness*4 BUS LINES
DJ by the pool on weekends
GainesvillePlace.com*352-271-3131
4-21-71-1
Ltcgnugi0li
FULLY LOADED @ $399
Individual w/free roommate matching
Cable, Internet and utilities
Pick New 42" TV or Sofa Set
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, University Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1
REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2 $665 * deluxe 2/2 $699
3/3 $639*4/4 $539 *All prices are all inclusive
*Close to UF* EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST Townhouse near UF,
Shands, shopping; easy access. 2BR/2.5BA;
great for student/family. Only $750/mo;
LEASE/BUY OPTION -OWNER FINANCED
Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432 3-3-
09-75-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. 239-250-6149 2-26-10-35-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Unit. $450 ea. W/D.
Property has clubhouse, fitness and busi-
ness/computer ctr. Utilities incl. On bus
route. Windsor Park.
305-788-5681/Windsor515@gmail.com.
2-26-10-28-1LUXURY 2STORY TOWNHS. 2B/2.5Ba
FULLY FURN. 2 min to UF, Great bus routes
& parking, Pool/gym, Free wifi, All utils incl.
Both rooms avail June 1st or later, Individual
Leases $540/$520 Martha 786 246-3049
3-5-29-1
4BR/4BA, large living, next to bus stop, fairly
new condo. $399/mo each room. Close to
shopping, school & library. Call 941-232-
1960 3-3-10-20-1
4/4 COUNTRYSIDE APTS. Spacious 4 bed-
room close to UF! Close to major shopping
areas and located on 3 bus routes that go to
center of UF. Every room has full bathroom
& large walk-in closets. Entire place is fur-
nished. High efficiency W/D. Rent is $400/
room/month. Utilities included! SID $200.
Available June or August. Call (305) 799-
7042 3-25-30-1
$370-4/4 University Terrace Condo available
starting summer/fall. ALL utilities included,
W/D in unit, on routes 12 and 35, ten minutes
to campus by bus! $250 deposit, individual
lease. Call Anu at 352.262.0628. 2-26-10-
13-1
$370-4/4 Countryside condo for rent starting
immediately/summer/fall. ALL utilities includ-
ed, on bus routes 9 and 35, individual leases.
Call Anu at 352.262.0628. 2-26-10-13-1
IMMEDIATE/SUMMER AVAILABILITY
2,3 and 4 bedroom suites
STARTING @ 349
All inclusive, fully furnished
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-10-30-1
Hampton Oaks Apartments
Unfurnished TH $749
Furnished ind. $538
$500 Visa gift card with ad
124 SW 62nd st -(352) 333-8643
leasing~siverwingproperties.com
2-26-10-11-1
1BR/1BA. $850/mo everything included. 1
block from campus. Covered parking. Call for
details 724-974-9591. 2-25-10-10-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
2/2*3/3*4/4
Experience the Good Life
Text "Enclave" to 47464
4-21-09-71-1
Countryside 4/4 $1600 GREAT CONDITION
Great bus rts. 9&35, poolside, balcony, tiles,
w/d, walk-in closet, 42" LCD, gate w/buzzer,
incl. utilities w/cap, Newly Renovated. Avail.
Fall-lyr lease, Call Patel 941-518-4058
2-23-10-5-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901 4-21-
10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
LIVE THE DOWNTOWN LIFE
Steps from clubs-blocks to UF
Studios, 1/1's, 2/2's & 3/3's
The best location.GUARANTEED
Reserve NOW for fall! 338-0002
4-21-09-71-2AFFORDABLE RATES! QUIET COMMUNITY!
www.frederickgardens.com
1 BR/1 BA $469 * 2BR/1 BA $569
Great Move-In Fee Specials!!!
Adopted pets live free!! 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOWor FALL 2010.
2/2 from $999 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$699 2/2-$799 3/2-$899
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464
4-21-71-2
*THE POLOSO
Already have your roommates?
ALL utilities Included
2's: From $479/person; 3's: From $399/person
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly v 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
HUGE FLOORPLANS!
1 Bed-$589*2Bed-$719
Tennis*Pool*Basketball
FREE Personal Trainer!
Great School Districts!*332-7401
4-21-71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
SORORITY ROW 2BR
2BR/2.5BA for $1199
W/D & utils included. We <3 pets!
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2That's what She Said!
I LOVE Hidden Lake because.
Cable & internet are Included,
roommate matching is available,
furniture & utility packages are available,
I'm just 1.5 miles to UF & midtown,
there's FREE tanning & a 24-hr gym,
a designer pool AND pets are welcome!"
Come see for yourself!
call 374-3866 for a tour or text
HIDDENLAKE to 47464 OR.
Next time you're on facebook,
creep on over to Hidden Lake's page
to see floor plans, pics & more!
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $505 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$394 ALL INCLUSIVE
Upscale Student Living
TV IN YOUR APT!*Ask how
Bus line through the Complex!
GainesvillePlace.com*352-271-3131
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
1BRI 1 Mo free 2BR 2 Mo free
if everyone is full time undergrad at UF.
3 Mo free if full time grad at UF.
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
*1BR/1BA $425
* 2BR $450-$600 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 13
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 3-5-10-85-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -WE'VE GOT IT ALL!
1/1 from $589 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis*1 mile to UF*Huge Laundry Facilities
377-7401 * www.biketouf.com
4-21-09-71-2
BLOCKS TO UF
Available August 2010. Now showing
multiple houses. 2BR/2BA, 3BR/2BA,
4BR/3BA, 5BR/3BA. www.dalyproperties.
com or call Carol 359-3341 2-26-10-43-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $540;
1BR $465. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $490;
2BR $590 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
JUMBLE
U
I
U
* m .U
UUPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 2-26-10-35-2
One Block to UF:2/2.5 bath townhouse. W/D,
Dishwasher, Garbage Disposal, wood floors,
ceiling fans, GUARANTEED Parking call
Todd at 514-4915, VERY Nice townhouse
2-26-10-33-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-21-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves you Inf
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $499 2/1 $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
C,
-33L5
- C m*1st Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/1 from $599 2/2 from $699
Additional $200 off next month
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Sunrise Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $509 Additional $200 off the next month.
NO APP FEE. Near UF, Shands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 $599
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Villas at Ashton Square
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/2 $719 3/2 $849
Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Summer Place Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $519
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Sundowne Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Studio $469 1/1 $519
Walk to Butler Plaza and Regal Cinemas
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You Inf
Gator Village Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1/1 $489
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Walk to UF. Openings in Feb, May & Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 0 2BR/1 BA $700
S1 BR/1BA $585 0 studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
2-26-10-32-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
3-18-10-40-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
GOT ROACHES?
Buy Harris Famous Roach Tablets.
Guaranteed to kill. Available at: Zells
Hardware, 3727 West University 3-17-10-
35-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
Move in Special: No Security Deposit
2/2 Condo with washer/dryer, screened-
in porch, newer condo, near UF. Shands,
located off 34th & Archer Rd. 2 units
available $750/mo. Call 317-5060 215-5996
3-1-10-27-2AVAILABLE AUG 1. Large 4BR/2BA
house, large kitchen & living area. W/D
provided, prvcy fenced, pets ok, full sized
hottub on back scrn porch, DW, carport,
$1600/mo. 3413 NW 8th Ave 352-339-2342
2-26-10-20-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. 3BR/1BA house.
Clean, quality. Nine blocks from campus,
W/D provided, cent H/AC fenced pvt shad-
ed backyard, hdwd firs, detached garage.
$1125/mo. 924 NW 9th Ave. 352-339-2342
2-26-10-20-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Clean modern
4BR/2BA (accessable from all BRs) house.
fenced backyard, pets ok, fireplace, W/D
provided, wooded pvt big yard. $1425/mo,
cent H/AC. 2606 NW 34th St. 352-339-2342
2-26-10-20-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 3-31-37-2
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 3 bd/ 2 ba
Completely Remodeled
W/D inc. Spiral Staircase
Walk to Class, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
*Walk to Class & Stadium*
2/1, W/D, Granite Countertops
Hardwood Floors & Fireplace
Huge Bedrooms,Covered parking
$1300/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Large 5 Bedrm House**
1 full & 3-1/2 baths
Plant Atriums, Unique floorplan, W/D
Plenty of Parking, 8 blocks N of UF
$2,500/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Walk to UF/Sorority Row 4bd/4.5ba
3 stories w/ 4 master suites. w/d incl.
Near corner of SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
2BD 1 BA WALK TO UF
Charming Quad near AGH
1005 SW 3rd Ave
Hardwood floors & parking
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2NEWLY REMODELED
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
3-31-36-2
$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1BA
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands.
W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500sec., $495/
month. 3120 SW 26th Way Unit A. 562-2782
or 514-6869 if interested. 3-16-25-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $700/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220.
2-26-18-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home. Shady lot.
From $300 -$450/mo -water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887 3-2-20-2
1 BR apt. for rent off Tower Rd. $385/mo. We
accept Section 8. We will pay you $500 cash
back for 1 year lease on Section 8. 352-498-
3035 3-2-10-20-2
705 NW 10th Avenue <9Blks from UF
3BR/1 BA, 8rooms + 400 sq.ft.porch, Central
A/C, W/D, $1,250 + util. Avail. Aug. 275-
1259, ATucker458@aol.com 3-5-10-22-2
**MUST SEE -IN-LAW SUITE**
1BR full BA, living room, dining room, full
kitchen. w/cable & W/D. Inc all utils. Near
Haile. Quiet. $750/mo. Call 352-367-0372
3-5-1-21-2
10houses.com
3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$1000 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
3-5-10-20-2
WALK ONE BLOCK TO CAMPUS!
1, 2, 3, and 4 BR units available now and
for Fall 2010. Locations between SW 1st
ave, SW 5th ave & SW 12th St. Call Kinetic
Properties at 352-337-9600 (no dogs please)
3-19-10-25-2
4Br/3Ba Large Home w/ 2 car gar, 8 min from
UF, large fenced yard, dogs ok. Exquisite
oaks & landscaping, wood & tile floors, new
appliances. $1,600/mo. 352-466-0358. Avail
summer or Aug. 3120 NW 31st Blvd. 3-5-
10-20-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 3-5-
10-20-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 3-22-
10-25-2
14, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010
O F nfisFher Ru n Roommates Real Estate Furnishingswished unfurnished
Available now. HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo. All
4BR/2BA $1100/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183
2-23-10-10-2
Baxter Cottage 2 blks to UF campus, 1013
SW 4 Ave 2BR/1 BA, Bright, clean, complete-
ly remodeled, 500 sq ft, Cent AC/Ht,wood
firs, DW, W/D, NS, NPets. $500+util. Lease
runs thru 7/1/10 ATucker458@aol.com 3-5-
10-18-2
Lakefront House/5 Acres/Quiet
2BR/2BA/FI Rm w/pri ent/Lg Kit
LR w/Fire PI/Washer Dryer/2-car
Carport/Interlachen $1500./mo
813-473-3713 swellgirl@gmail.com 2-26-
10-13-2
$650, 2 bdrms, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet
school & campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furnished; Parking; 352
376 0080; 352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
3-5-10-17-2
Beautiful 3/3, close to schooldir. on bus!
Brand new appl, paint, bedding, remdld
bthrms, Frnt bldng, upstrs. $1250/mo.
bdduf86@comcast.net
3-4-10-14-1
2BR/2.5BA townhouse condo, 1 mi from
UF on bus route. Inc W/D, community club-
house, pool & fitness center. Wired for inter-
net & security sys. $878/mo. Avail 5/1 or 8/1.
Call/text 332-8841 lindalu@gatorhomes.com
3-1-10-10-2
*THE POLOSO
"You want it, We got it!"
#1 in Amenities
2/2's: From $799; 3/3's: From $979
Includes FREE Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-42-2
NW -Appletree, Contemporary Home.
3BR/2BA, 2 car garage, sunroom, cul-de-sac
st. 1700 sq ft. NICE $995/mo. Irene Larsson
Owner/Realtor 352-373-2605, 352-538-1218
3-1-10-10-2
NW -Home 3BR/2BA, 2 car carport, large
family room, fenced yard, extra storage,
W/D. $980/mo. Irene Larsson Mgmt Service
352-373-2605 3-1-10-10-2
Amazing 4/4 house Fall-walk to UF or Law
Sch.Univ.& NW 28 St-on bus line-Huge bed-
rms-new appl.& paint-c/air-pets ok/fenced
yd/ Ig home-$2195-can email pics-954-270-
4000 3-15-10-14-2
2BR HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area. Wood floors, new kitchen
vinyl, Cent H/AC, DW, fenced yard, wood
deck, parking, $1080/mo. Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 3-17-
10-15-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority
Row/Norman Hall area. W/D, ice maker, ce-
ramic tile. Cent H/AC, DW, parking, fenced
yard. $1545/mo. Pets extra? Avail Aug 16. 1
yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 3-17-10-15-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area, remodeled baths, new:
stove, DW, disposal & AC, W/D, wd firs. cent
H/AC, parking. $2400/mo Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg
3-17-10-15-2
One month free rent to qualified tenant with
year long lease- 2/1 $575.00 mo, across
from Santa Fe College w/d hkups & central
A/C. edbaurmanagement.com, 4121 NW
37th PL 352-375-7104 2-26-10-5-2
2 Bd,1.5 Ba,1200 sq ft townhouse in the
heart of the Historic Duckpond. Tile, french
doors,hardwood fls,DW.Amazing location,
blocks to downtown.379-4952 $895mo 508
NE 4th ave. avail now 3-5-10-10-2
Large 4BD/2BA home with D/W, W/D, Tile &
Wood flooring. 1 block from Newberry Rd &
Royal Park Plaza, 1 mile from UF. Available
now! $1500/mo + utils. 3806 SW 2nd Ave.
(407) 363- 7198 or cell (407) 234-1380
3-16-10-11-2Houses Available for Fall!
2631 NW 1st Ave -$1845
402 NW 36th -$1425
315 NW 17th St. -$875
4 NW 25th St -$1499
717 NW 34th St -$1320
FREE UF Parking!
352.371.7777
4-21-71-2
F subleases
DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY!!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $400/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished +
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 2-24-10-16-3
Summer sublease:1 suite available in
3BR/3BA for 3 month lease(May-
July),Lexington Crossing.Female only.Fully
furnished with W/D.On bus routes
9,34,36.$450/month all inclusive.Contact
Ms.Shao at 352-870-0264 or ywshao@ufl.edu
2-26-10-7-3
1BR in 4BR @ Courtyards 1231 sw 3rd ave,
1 block from uf! female only, furnished, build.
Aw/pool. $437/month all inclusive. Avail:May
1st, lease ends: Aug. 10th call 239-910-5800
or e-mail bbb505@ufl.edu 2-24-5-3
356/Month!
Furnished room w/private bath avialable now
till Aug. Located at Gateway at Gainesville
next to 1-75 and Archer. 352-871-5952
2-24-10-5-3
2B/1.5B Available for Immediate Sub-Let
2nd fl unit, Arbor Park, 309 SW 16th Ave.
Spacious living/dining area, full kitchen,
balcony, central A/C & heat. 2 pools, laun-
dry and ample parking, well maintained by
friendly management. Pet friendly. Nice com-
plex w/ students & families. Close to Shands,
campus & downtown, major bus route with
grocery across the street. $700/mo (elec-
tric extra) Available NOW thru July 2010.
Contact Sean at 407.353.5721 or
smmcdaniel@gmail.com 2-25-10-5-3
1 BR UTILITIES INCLUDED, $650,
DOWNTOWN Gainesville. Available May -
Aug. Includes electric, cable, internet, W/D,
free parking in downtown garage, balcony.
Located in condo above Starbucks next to
Hippodrome. 201 SE 2nd Ave. Call Jason at
352-214-0302 for details. 2-26 10-5-3
SUBLEASE: ASAP Gainesville Place apts.
Male rommmate wanted, 4 bed/ 4 bath, un-
furnished bedroom/furnished apt. Rent $479
a month and will give $500 in cash when
signing. call 352-229-6222 2-26-10-5-3
FRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $260 + $50
utils charge/mo ind elec, cable tv, internet,
pool, laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-
4626 4-21-09-71-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
2-26-10-28-4
Female seeks roommate for 4/2.5 town-
house, cricket club, all included, no pets,
$400 954-557-4769 3-4-10-30-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
2-26-10-20-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsVA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$350/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220.
2-26-18-4
Female seeks roommate for new 3/2 home
in clean, quiet SW neighborhood. $450 ind
all utils. No pets, no smoking. 352-641-6166.
Furnished, 1 acre fenced yard, W/D, DW'
central H/AC. Available immediately. 3-2-
5-4
Looking for roommate to share 2/2 at
Lakewood Villas. $525 per month with inter-
net/full digital cable/utilities included. On bus
route. 850-585-4405. 3-5-10-13-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Manufactured Homes. Won't Last
3/2 -Great Community
Owner Financing
$650.00/mo
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes
3 and 2 beds avail/low down/low monthly
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes 2 & 3 bdr's
From $599.00/month
Owner Financing
Low down
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5Manufactured Homes. Move
3/2 Adorable
From $99.00/mo
Westside/owner finance
352.378.4411
Manufactured homes.
OWNER FINANCING
3 & 2 bedrooms avail
Great Locations
Call 352.378.4411 today!In Ready BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
2-26-10-22-5
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes. Up to $8K tax credit
For 1st time home buyers
3 & 2 bdrs avail
WE FINANCE
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
OPEN HOUSE EVERY SATURDAY
MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITIES
GREAT HOMES, GREAT PRICES
WE FINANCE, LOW DOWN,
LOW MONTHLY 904-400-0421,SUSAN
2-26-10-20-5
Manufactured Home Communities-
Jacksonville Use your tax refund
Get a 42" TV with purchase
Limited offer, call for details
904-400-0421 Susan 2-26-10-20-5
4BR/4BA fairly new condo for sale. Ideal for
students or family. Within 2 miles of every-
thing: school, shopping, library. Quick sale.
$139,000. University Terrace on 34th St. Call
941-232-1960 3-3-10-20-5
Campus Edge / Somerest VillageWalk to
Shands/VA/class 2units, 2bd/2ba vault-
ed ceilings 2nd/3rd floor w/d in unitbest
locations parking. $8,000 tax credit.
$164,900/$132,900. Move in Ready 954-
439-2301 stedel@bellsouth.net 4-21-10-
41-5
Large 4BD/3BA home 1 block from Newberry
Rd & Royal Park Plaza, 1 mile from UF.
Ind separate in-law apartment, wood &
tile floors. 3806 SW 2nd Ave $249,000
Call (407) 363-7198 or cell (407) 234-1380BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6prhe d Mer'57 Real Estae
7F Aih.UOigs0
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
FFurnishings Computers For Sale Autos Wanted
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
MOVING MUST SELL- CHEAP! Full Sealy
Posturepedic & twin orthopedic beds, desk,
coffee table, kitchen table & chairs, 2 La-Z-
Boy chairs, 2 end tables, 2 card tables, small
bookshelf. David 375-3744 before Feb 27th
2-26-10-7-6COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
CERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECH
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
2-26-10-34-7
F Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Computers For Sale
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
Graduating? Want an exciting career?
$ 100K+ Earning Potential First Year out of UF!
A UF alumnus is seeking UF grads to become
Art Auctioneers selling orginal Picasso's, Dali's and Rembrandt's.
No previous art knowledge required. We will train you'
E-mail resume or any questions to Vicbard@gmail.com
C",
U
U
- =111UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
MotorcyCIes, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***www.B~uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
Gator Mobile Scooter Repair
Stop waiting weeks before getting your
scooter back. Call Gator Mobile Scooter
Repair and ride today.Specializing in On-site
scooter repair and diagnostics. Guaranteed
lowest prices in all of Gainesville. Free oil
change/inspection with this AD.Call Tony at
(305)989-0824 or (305)563-4359. 3-1-14-11
BFZAutos
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS 0
ORunning or not!@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
Over 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy6Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
2-26-09-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Chevy Camero $999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
96 Chevy Blazer $1999 cash
97 Plymouth Voyager $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699 cash
94 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Kia Sephia $999
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1999
97 Olds Delta 88 $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
98 Ford Explorer $1900
97 Mits Diamonte $1999
98 Ford Contour $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
94 Nissan Altima $1999
98 Pontiac Transport $1999
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Chevy Malibu $1999
95 Chrysler LHS $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
02 Kia Rio $3900
03 Buick Century $4900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k, $8999CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k, $6999 CASH
2000 Ford Mustang, 111k, $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Ford Escape, 95k, $6999 CASH
2000 GMC Sierra, 166k, $5999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k, $5999 CASH
2007 Isuzu Trooper 240 Truck, 46k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Dodge Stratus, 78k, $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
W Z ZWanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948. 2-25-10-72-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 2-25-
10-72-13
OPERATION CATNIP
Many needs and opportunities can be found
at www.nmhp.net. Feral cat capture, spay-
ing, volunteering, office work earn Disney
Tix, etc. Email: operationcatnip@nmhp.net
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim .com/employment 4-21 -09-
71-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14C",
U0
= S6.
S6
16, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010
J Help Wanted Help Wanted f Help Wanted Health Services Entertainment
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
LATE NIGHT DRIVERS
$15-$17/hr 10pm -4am.
Apply @ gatordominos.com 4-21-10-60-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Entertainment
352/672/1892 2-23-10-20-14
BARTENDER OPENINGS
Earn $150-250/day. No experience required.
Will train. Call now 352-678-5246 2-26-10-
20-14
No jobs available, but we buy LPs, CDs &
DVDs. (And we sell them, too!)
Hear Again Music and Movies
201 SE 2nd Ave. (Suite 105), 32601
352-373-1800
2-26-19-14
Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have a fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
OSOATTENTION SMOKERS!@@
SODo you want to quit smoking?@
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking
cessation study. You may be compensated.
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic 328-6603 or
email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com 3-15-
20-14
SERVERS
Exp in full service. Apply in person between 2
& 5 NAPOLATANO'S 606 NW 75th St. 2-1-
10-4-14
PT Hibachi Chef & Server Wanted Asian fast
paced full service restaurant looking for ex-
pprofessional Hibachi Chefs & strong ser-
vers. Strict business oriented environment.
Responsible, disciplined team players only!
Fax resume to 352-337-0036. 2-24-10-
10-14
City of Gainesville/GRU is
seeking a student with event
planning exp. for a paid internship
opportunity. If interested, apply
today at www.cityofgainesville.jobs
2-26-10-10-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Evenings &
weekends. Fax resume to 373-2230 3-1-
10-10-14
Now hiring -Waitstaff & Host(esse)s with ex-
prience. No calls. Apply: LaFiesta 7038 NW
10th Pl. (behind Red Lobster) or 9513 NW
39th Ave between 2 & 4pm in person. 3-2-
10-10-14
MACRO-ECONOMICS TEACHER
IMMEDIATE OPENING
www.tutoringzone.com apply if you are well
versed in other classes. We only hire the
smartest and the funniest. Must be able to
entertain a group of 300 people while teach-
ing the course in a fun way. Experience in
macro is critical.If you are confident, funny,
charismatic email larina@tutoringzone.com
2-23-10-5-14
Looking for great experience to excell in your
career? Exactech, Inc is a medical device
company in Gainesville, FL. We are looking
for a part-time intern to start immediately, on
our human resources team. Job responsibi-
lites would include screening resumes, as-
sisting with new employee orientation, greet-
ing candidates for interviews and providing
with Exactech information, sourcing candi-
dates, posting jobs, and evaluating recruiting
trends and research. Please submit cover
letter and resume to human.resources@
exac.com 2-25-10-7-14Marketing Assistant, P/T.
Assists with marketing and PR
for O'Connell Center. If
interested send e-mail
to musson@ufl.edu 2-25-7-14
Sun Country Summer Job Fair! Tues. Feb.
23 7-8:30 pm at the West gym.
Bring applications for Summer Camp,
Aquatics, Gymnastics, Cheer, Rockwall,
Tumbling, Dance Cleaning/Maintenance,
Office, Driving & more.
Applications at suncountrysports.com.
Contact hr@suncountrysports.com for info.
2-23-10-5-14
OFFICE MANAGER FT
Small hi-tech co. 3 yr exp Word, QuickBooks,
Internet. admin@comscire.com 352-334-
7299 3-4-10-10-14
Attention Smokers! Smokers are needed
to participate in a smoking cessation study.
You will be compensated for your participa-
tion. If interested, call the UF Smoking Lab
and Clinic at 352-273-2151 or email us at
ufsmokelabgmail.com. 3-4-10-14
Help needed in growing construction office.
Job duties include estimating, project man-
agement. Come get practical experience
while in school. Prefer BCM students. Call
352-538-5506 2-26-10-5-14
DRIVER good driving record. Drive Buchholz
h.s. student from school @ 2:40pm to home
in NW Gaines. section. Call Renee 258-
5388. 2-26-10-5-14
PART TIME MEDICAL ASSISTANT
Mon 1pm-5pm, Tues & Fri 8am-5pm
Experience Preferred -Send Resume to
TRC, 6400 Newberry Rd, Ste 301
Gainesville, FL 32605 3-2-10-7-14
PEACH VALLEY CAFE
HOW HIRING
Experienced line cooks & prep personnel
Apply in person, Mon thru Thurs from 2-4pm
352-376-1834. 3275 SW 34th St. 2-26-
10-5-14
CLERICAL/TECHNICIAN POSITION
FT/PT
Please apply in person
Institute of Veterinary Sepc.
3603 NW 98th St. Suite A 2-26-5-14
Need Part-time for physical therapy, as-
sisted living and transportation for elderly
woman post-stroke. 3 yrs experience, matu-
rity and desire to help required. Mostly work
with primary caregiver, but independently
when primary unavailable. $12-$15/hr.
Email lewjufa~gmail.com 3-1-10-5-14
PT Office Assistant
Flexible hours. Must know Quicken
Property management office
Tower Rd/ Archer Rd area. 378-4626
3-1-10-5-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable.
Writing skills a must, accounting skills a plus.
Call Carrillo & Carrillo @ 352-371-4000.
3-29-10-20-14
BRIDAL CONSULTANT/STYLIST
Solutions Bridal
PT + Commission
Fax resume to:
352-374-7293
3-1-5-14HIRING STYLIST AND NAIL TECHS!!!
LOCATION: THE SALON "0" EXPERIENCE;
ON NW 6TH ST GAINESVILLE, FL 32609.
50% COMMISSION OR RENTAL IF
DESIRED. CONTACT SALON MANAGER
MRS. CAROYLN 0 AT 352-284-1320 OR
352-672-6339. 4-1-23-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-
15
JOSH'S TUTORING
Math, Biology, Chemistry, Spanish
$20/hr, group rates available
Flexible schedule, references upon request
(352) 682-3014 2-23-5-15
Local Immigration Attorney -Marriage
Green Cards/Fiance Visas/Naturalization
Matters -$295.00 Attorney Fees Plus Costs
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
6-1-45-15
WJHealth Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
Grieving the loss of someo
National Students of AMF
Join our Facebook group:
"Gator Students of AMF"
TalkAboutLoss.orgWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
ne?
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
4-21-43-16 hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
mu _ Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
WJ COnnections F Rides
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
Male professional, 70 years old, tall, from Sri
Lanka seeking white female, fair hair, 60-80
years old. Animals okay.
Write to MFP P.O. Box 1823, Gainesville, FI
32656 3-26-19-19GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
4%
M
3-
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Contenta
Available from Commercial News ProvidersI few %,% illon 1% 1
.0 
.
e *
Sports
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
UF aims to halt UT's win streak
Vols have wor
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
There's more on the line for the
Gators tonight than just a chance
to break a rival's recent streak of
dominance over them.
Florida (19-8, 8-4 Southeastern
Conference) will take on Ten-
nessee (20-6, 8-4 SEC) at 9 in the
O'Connell Center withboth teams
looking to secure an NCAA Tour-
nament berth.
UT has won 11 of the last 14
against UF, including six straight.
Only one player on the Gators'
roster, senior forward Dan Wer-
ner, has been on a team that beat
the Volunteers.
"With the situation we're in,
it'll be important," junior for-
ward Chandler Parsons said.six straight
"Obviously I want to beat those
guys, and we feel like we let one
slip away last time we played
them. We've got them on our
home court with everything on
the line, so it's gonna be a differ-
ent story."
In addition to the recent los-
ing streak and postseason im-
plications, UF will have another
motive tonight: avenging its loss
earlier this season in Knoxville.
The Gators kept it close through-
out but fell 61-60 on a jumper by
Scotty Hopson with 21 seconds
to go.
Junior power forward Alex
Tyus had a chance to give UF
another close win, but his short
jumper rimmed out with less
than five seconds remaining.
"It hurt. We've been on both
sides, though," Parsons said.
Matt Tripp/ Alligator Staff
Junior Chandler Parsons and the Gators will look to pad their NCAA
Tournament r6sum6 against Tennessee tonight in Gainesville."We've had some crazy wins and
we've had some tough losses, so
you can't really complain about
that. It's not one shot that wins or
loses the game."
UF coach Billy Donovan said
the Volunteers have changed
quite a bit since the teams' first
matchup, making it even more
important for the Gators to put
the loss behind them.
"Right now, our guys under-
stand what goes into winning,"
Donovan said. "I think anything
that's happened in the past is re-
ally in the past. It has nothing to
do with going into this game."
Brian Williams, the 6-foot-10,
278-pound backup center, re-
turned to the Volunteers after
serving a suspension for his Jan.
1 arrest. Vols coach Bruce Pearl
has also experimented with his
team by moving guard J.P. Prince
to the power forward spot in a
smaller, quicker lineup.
For UF to get its first win
against UT since Feb. 3, 2007,
Parsons pointed to four areas in
which the team needs to improve:
transition defense, rebounding,
turnovers and inbounds plays.
The Volunteers scored 13
fast-break points, outrebounded
the Gators 27-12 after halftime,
forced 17 turnovers and scored
several easy points on under-the-
basket inbounds plays in their
first matchup.
"We know those guys aren't
going to come in here and lay
down for us," Parsons said.
"They're in the same situation as
us. They're 8-4; we're 8-4. This
game means a lot to them, too.
It's just going to be about who
has the will to win."
Florida has had that will late-
ly, winning six of its last seven by
eight points or fewer and -over-
coming poor outside-shooting
performances in most of them.
The Gators are 11th in the SEC in
three-point percentage in confer-
ence play, hitting just 30.3 per-
cent from beyond the arc.
"You don't shoot great every
night. It's really about the things
you can control," Donovan said.
"That's where the focus should
be placed, and that's where the
pressure needs to be placed."Students at fault for
O'Dome atmosphere
By BOBBY CALLOVI
Bobby's World
bcallovi@alligator org
Don't blame it on the alumni section that Florida bas-
ketball home games are not as rowdy as they use to be.
At any Gators sporting event I have attended when the
crowd is not loud enough for certain
fans, they immediately point the fin-
ger to the older, calmer alums.
But that is not the reason why
Southeastern Conference opponents
shouldn't -and probably don't -
Bobby Callovi fear coming to the O'Connell Center
Bobby's World anymore.
bcallovi@alligator org The student section is not as ruth-
less as it was my freshman year.
I understand the team isn't as good it was when it won
its second national championship, but that shouldn't mat-
ter too much.
UF has one of the largest student bodies in the nation
and supposedly one of the most dedicated fan bases, but
I guess that second part should be said with this clause:
only if the team's good.
My first year, before I became an objective journalist, I
SEE BOBBY, PAGE 18
Gators hit the road
0 UF WILL PLAY LA SALLE
AT TEMPLE TODAY.
By TONI-ANN MILLER
Alligator Writer
Florida opened its inaugu-
ral season in front of a sold-
out home crowd Saturday. The
team enjoyed the attention, the
crowd and its 16-6 win over
Jacksonville.
However, the time to enjoy
that win is already over.
Less than 48 hours after the
inaugural game, UF (1-0) trav-
eled to Philadelphia on Mon-
day for its second game of the
season and first on the road -
a matchup against La Salle on
Tuesday.
The match was scheduled to
begin 3 p.m., but due to snow
on La Salle's field, the time and
location were changed to 12:30p.m. at Temple.
UF coach Amanda O'Leary
said the quick turnaround from
competing on Saturday to Tues-
day's matchup is something her
young team has to get used to
because of its schedule.
She added it should be a pos-
itive because her players will
not have time to dwell on previ-
ous game results.
"They're going to have to
learn quickly
and make the
adjustments
quickly and be
Lacrosse able to adapt to
the next game
we are play-
ing," O'Leary said. "We need
to continue to do the things that
are going to help us win games
versus trying to come up with
game plans for each and every
team we play."
SEE LACROSSE, PAGE 18
0 Host Adam Berry, Kyle Maistri,
Phil Kegler and podcast first-timer
Anthony Chiang talk UF hoops, the
lacrosse experiment and Gators
baseball. Check it out on iTunes.E The women's golf team is in first place af-
ter the first two rounds of the Central District
Invitational, and the women's tennis team
will take on FSU today in Gainesville. For the
full stories, turn to page 8.EJemele Hill wrote: "You can argue whether Tiger's 13-minute confession, which
got the TV air play of a presidential speech, was or wasn't scripted." Not even
Lauren Conrad would argue that speech wasn't scripted. .When Urban Meyer
told Tim Tebow to just be himself at the Senior Bowl, what he really meant was,
"Tim, change your entire throwing motion or no one is going to draft you."
18, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010
Florida hopes to improve on possession, passing against La Salle
LACROSSE, from page 17
Matt Tripp/ Alligator Staff
Coach Amanda O'Leary and the Gators head to Philadelphia to play La Salle today in the UF lacrosse
program's first road game.O'Leary shows her team film
and scouting reports to identify
its opponent's tendencies, but
ultimately the challenge for the
Gators is to make the necessary
adjustments in the short time
available.
Going up against La Salle on
Tuesday, UF will look to avoid
the fundamental mistakes that
it made against Jacksonville.
The team will have to clean up
its passing and pay attention to
fouls.
O'Leary said there was no ex-
cuse for having as many dropped
passes as the squad had against
Jacksonville, but the Gators
should be able to play a clean
game and keep possession of
the ball Tuesday because they
worked on those fundamentals
every day in practice.
She added that Saturday's
game against the Dolphins high-
lighted some other things that
her team will need to do in order
to beat La Salle.
"Defensively, it showed that
we have to communicate more,"
she said. "We have to be able to
play more as a defensive unit ver-
sus as seven individuals."
Offensively, she said her play-
ers will need to have more com-
posure on the field and better
possession time.
Going into Pennsylvania,
"1 HOT SHOTS
Stats shown are from Auburn and Ole Miss games
Parsons once again proved to be the
most reliable player on the Gators' roster lastflweek, and his play was enough to earn him a
unanimous first-place selection. Over the last
five games, the junior forward has two double-
doubles and is averaging 15.2 points and nine
points on 6-of-i l shooting against Auburn while
also grabbing six rebounds and dishing out four
assists, and he added 13 points, eight rebounds
Chandler Parsons, F and four more assists at Ole Miss on Saturday.
While guards Erving Walker and Kenny Boynton
have been getting attention for playing so many minutes, Parsons actu-
ally led the team with 69 minutes played this week.
Stats: 30 points, 10-19 shooting, 9-10 FTs, 14 reb, 8 asts, 1 stlIThere must be something about playing against
teams from Mississippi that leads to a big offensive
day for Macklin. After going for a career-high 20
points against Mississippi State at home on Feb.
6, the junior center set a new career mark with 22
points at Ole Miss. Macklin was on fire to start off
the game Saturday, scoring 11 of the Gators' first
15 points and dominating the Rebels any time they
went into man-to-man defense. He was significantly
less impressive against Auburn, scoring just seven
Vernon Macklin, C points and grabbing four rebounds, but his perfor-
mance in Oxford, Miss., was impressive enough to
warrant a second-place spot. Also, he improved his once-woeful free-throw
shooting by hitting 9 of 10 on the week, including all six of his attempts
Saturday.
Stats: 29 points, 10-15 shooting, 9-10 FTs, I I reb, 2 blk, 1 stl
Parsons -1 2 Macklin -A
Walker -9 Boynton -3
Tyus -811
Another week, another slate
of games in which three Gators
fail to put together consistently
impressive performances. Walker
gets the slight edge over Alex Tyus
(21 points, 8-of-i 9 shooting, I I
rebounds, three blocks for his clutch
free-throw shooting against Ole
Miss and his impressive 14-of-i 6
shooting night from the line against
Erving Walker, PG Auburn on Thursday, when he was
second on the team in scoring
despite not making a field goal. Walker must improve his
shooting as UF prepares to face Tennessee and Georgia
this week, but he has exemplified the team's ability to win
despite its shots not falling.
Stats: 24 points, 2-16 shooting, 20-22 FTs, 10 asts, 3 reb,
2 stis
Adam Berry and Erica Ervin / Alligator Staff
BOBBY, from page 17
joined a group of my friends who waited
all day (or if it was a weekend game, we
were out there Friday morning prepared
to spend the night) outside Gate 3 to guar-
antee ourselves front-row seats to every
game.
And it wasn't just us.
The atmosphere was similar to the
movie "The Warriors" that involved a city
filled with rival gangs.
Other than us -known to others as the
New Kids -there were the Hard Hats, the
Striped Guys and the Engineers, to name
just a few.
It was a competition to just get out therefirst.
For the Kentucky game, due to UAA
rules, we camped out across the street 10
days before the game, a full week before
we were allowed to be there.
And it was only another day before the
next group showed up. The night before
the game, the line of people camping out
went down the ramp of Gate 3 and down
stadium road to near the baseball stadi-
um's entrance.
Once the fans were let in and the oppos-
ing teams came out, the heckling began.
And research was done, too.
Fans knew way more personal informa-
tion about some of the opposing players
than any fan should know.For the game against Tennessee that
year, the Hard Hat group brought blown
up photos of UT guard Dane Bradshaw's
attractive sister. Throughout the game,
chants broke out about his sister every
time the ball touched his hands.
That ruthlessness and dedication is no
longer there. Fans just show up, cheer and
leave.
College basketball is one of the few
sports where fans can make a difference
and get inside an individual player's
head.
At football games, a loud crowd can
make it hard on an offense, but there is lit-
tle chance a player can hear taunts aimed
specifically at him.This year, fans can show up half an
hour before tipoff and still get in the stu-
dent section.
Heck, before the Auburn game, spots
were still available the day of the game for
students to register.
And for the Kentucky game, there were
not more than a handful of people camp-
ing out.
The Rowdy Reptiles section never in-
cluded the alumni.
Although it helps if the team is bet-
ter than what the Gators are, it's on the
students to make the O'Connell Center a
place to fear playing at.
And that hasn't been there lately.the Gators will have their work
cut out for them, and they may
have trouble implementing the
changes O'Leary said they need
to make.
Last week, La Salle senior Ste-
fany McKee was named Player of
the Week in the Atlantic 10 Con-
ference. Sophomore Sara Ciaver-
elli was dubbed Defensive Player
of the Week, and freshman Mela-
nie Sarcinello was Rookie of the
Week.
"Defensively, it showed
that we have to commu-
nicate more. We have to
be able to play more as a
defensive unit versus as
seven individuals."
Amanda O'Leary
UF lacrosse coach
The Explorers lost their sea-
son-opener 12-11 to Navy on the
road Feb. 12, but they had a week
off to prepare for the Gators' vis-
it.
O'Leary said they are athletic,
quick offensively and are fast to
collapse to double teams on de-
fense.
Subsequently, if UF wants to
return to Gainesville 2-0, it must
have a solid game on both ends of
the field Tuesday.
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, ADVERTISEMENT, 19
Advertsement
Constitution Amendments for the 2010 Spring Ballot
Fellow members of the Gator Nation:
As you may know, Student Government elections are upon us. While you may or may not vote in these elections, it is important that you know that this election is a bit different than most. Every 10
years, our student body Constitution demands that a Commission convene to draft revisions to our constitution, and this process has occurred over the last 14 months. The results of the
Commission's work will be on the ballot during this election and you will have the opportunity to accept or reject the changes. I write to you today, as the Chairman of this Commission, to encourage
you to vote in favor of these changes.
The 20 members of the Commission are proposing many important changes to our Constitution. The process was not a political process, but one designed to ensure that this important document
holds our elected leaders accountable, that this document is updated and current, and that our student body has access to our student courts and student leaders. Our changes lower the threshold
for impeachment for Student Senators that have been accused of official misconduct. We lowered the threshold to submit constitutional initiatives to the Student Supreme Court. In light of Florida
Board of Governors Resolution 08-23, we ensured the continued viability and presence of the former office of Honor Court Chancellor by creating a presidentially appointed position.
The 20 members of this Commission span the entire spectrum of our Gator Nation community. From Majority and Minority party senators, the Interim Dean of Students, the current Senate President
Pro-Tem, the current Chief Justice of the Student Body Supreme Court, the Director of Student Activities and Involvement, to many involved undergraduate, graduate, and law students. The result is
a comprehensive and united effort to help ensure that our student government, like our student body, remains unrivaled in reputation, both today and into the future. I would encourage you to review
the proposed changes and email me directly to discuss any questions you may have. We hope you will take the time to vote to pass this new Constitution.
Sincerely,
David M. Kerner
Chairman, 2009-2010 Constitution Revision Commission
3LAW
dkerner@ufl.edu
On Behalf of the Full Commission: Taylor Tribou, Ben Cavataro, Thomas Cockriel, Matt Michel, Jay Miller, Naadira Renfroe, Dan Siegel, Jacqueline Acosta, Victoria Ajayi, Kirby Bissel, Brooke Eisen-
smith, Audrey Goldman, Kara Olesky, Frank Pierce, Whitney Smith, Josh Winegar, Dr. Paige Crandall (Interim Dean of Students), Dr. Nancy Chrystal-Green (Director of Student Activities and In-
volvement), Mr. Chris Loschiavo (Director of Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution).
Language as it will appear on the ballot:
Should the Student Body Constitution be amended to: change the time for appointment of Summer Replacement Senators from May 1 to
the last meeting of spring term; remove verbiage that purports to allow the Student Senate to contract on behalf of the student body;
permit the Student Senate to amend election laws within four weeks, rather than five weeks, of an election; comply with Florida Board of
Governors Resolution 08-23 by preserving the role of the Honor Code Chancellor, now referred to "Honor Code Executive Director," and
allowing this executive director to be appointed by the Student Body President; amend Article IlIl to read "Funding Fee Increase Restric-
tions", instead of "Budget Restrictions"; ensure that terms of executive department heads expire concurrently with the terms of the elect-
ed executive officials; remove any reference to the "Student Honor Court" and "Student Honor Court Bar Association;" direct the submis-
sion of proposals by initiative to the Chief Justice of the Student Body; amend the proposal initiative process to provide that a petition
carrying the signatures of 5% of the student body shall be placed on the ballot; authorize the Elections Commission to determine if initia-
tive ballot titles and summaries are accurate and lawful and amend ballot titles and summary if they determine that they are not accurate,
subject to appeal to the Student Body Supreme Court; require 2/3 of the trial body of the Student Senate for conviction of impeachment,
instead of 3/4; make grammatical and other minor corrections and replacements.
Summary of changes proposed in the amendment:
1-1: Article 11: Changes various wording in the article. For example, this proposal removes the words "by law", and replaces this phrase with "provide by Student Body law". Further, where the article used list every judicial office, it now simply states
"Student Government offices of the Judicial Branch". Where the article used to use the word "de jure", it now reads "automatic". Moves the non-discrimination clause to Article 1. There are no major substantive changes in this proposal.
1-2: Article 1: The non-discrimination clause is added here. Further, the basic rights under section 2 are now listed in a bullet point form, instead of reading as one full paragraph. The Honor Code is within this article.
1-3: Amends the preamble to read:
We, the Student Body of the University of Florida, in order to:
-Represent and defend the rights and interests of students to the university, the community, and government;
-Provide a forum for the expressions of student views and interests;
-Promote the academic freedom and responsibility and high standards of education;
-Provide services and organize events for the benefit of students; and
-Help promote understanding and recognition of the responsibilities of students to the university, the community, and humanity,
Do hereby establish this Constitution.
2-1: Article Ill: Amends section 1 to read "All legislative powers of the Student Body shall be vested in a student senate.", instead of reading "All legislative powers of the Student Body shall be vested in the student senate."
2-2: Article III: Capitalizes "Student Senate" (where it used to read "student senate"). Further, it changes the deadline to appoint summer senators from May 1, to the last meeting of spring term.
2-3: Article Ill: Amends section 5 to mandate that the Student Senate President and the Student Senate President Pro Tempore shall be elected by the members of the senate according to their rules and procedures.
2-4: Article Ill: Amends section 6 by removing subsection (i), which purported to give the student senate the right to contract on behalf of the student body.
2-5: Article Ill: Amends section 7, subsection (i) to read "change the election laws during the four weeks before the scheduled election to be effective for that election.", instead of five weeks.
2-6: Article Ill: Amends section 7 by adding the office of "Executive Director of the Honor Code Administration" to the list of officers allowed to address the student senate.
2-7: Article Ill: Amends section 9 title to read "Funding Fee Increase Restrictions" instead of reading "Budget Restrictions".
2-8: Article Ill: Amends section 7 by removing subsection (h), which purports to give the student senate the authority to regulate a student honor court bar association.
3-2: Article IV: Amends section 4 to allow the student body president to appoint a "Student Honor Code Executive Director' to the cabinet. Further, it mandates that the terms of the heads of executive departments shall expire concurrently with the
expiration of the regular terms of the elected executive officials. Finally, it changes the term "University Cashier' to read "University Controller".
4-1: Article IV: Eliminates section 4 (student honor court) and other references to it. It clarifies that the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court shall appoint law students to serve as temporary justices where an Associate or the Chief Justice is subject
to recusal.
5-1: Article V: Amends section 6 to require that the student senate to validate the general and run-off elections "in the next regularly scheduled senate meeting", instead of reading "no later than 10 school days after the last day of the final election
an election cycle" Further, it amends section 7 to read that campus wide officers elected in the spring general election in races requiring a majority vote shall assume office "on the last regularly scheduled class day", instead of reading "at 8:00 PM
on May 1st". Further, it amends section 8 to require a member of student government to hold a 2.5 GPA instead of a 2.0 GPA. Finally, it amends section 8 to read "Center for Student Activities and Involvement" instead of "Office of Student Activi-
ties".
6-1: Articles VII and VIII: Amends these articles to reverse the composition of the Impeachment Body and Trial Body and apply the same voting threshold of 2/3 for each body. The prior burden for the trial was 3/4. Amends the article to demand
that 5% of the electorate sign any initiative before it will be placed on the ballot and directs that any initiative be directed to the Chief Justice of the Student Supreme Court. It further allows the Elections Commission to review the ballot title and sum-
mary of any initiative to ensure it complies with the law, and allows them to amend it if they find it does not comply with the law, subject to Supreme Court jurisdiction. Further, it amends the constitution to demand that a Constitution Revision Com-
mission convene in 2019. Finally, regarding the CRC, it demands that the Director if CSAI be a member of the 2019 CRC instead of the Dean of Student.
Please contact David Kerner, Student Body Supreme Court Chief Justice and Chairman of the Constitutional Revision Committeewith any questions at chiefjustice@sg.ufl.edu.
A copy of the changes can be found at www.sg.ufl.edu. Elections will be held February 23-24. Please visit www.sg.ufl.edulelections for polling locations and a list of candidates.
20, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010
* -
* -
* -
* -
* -* -"() IN ( 1 .0 \8A 4
owil0nSl l i ?',10)lO01 I yl
v, l'o -Jl'n I 1 1E ' 0
II( ( \. 3
0 ,;ilO ~ /.3l~3I)I~~(
64ii I ~'Ih 1~ iV 1j 31(
\ (91
Il' 3 11 \.lK ;1 1
I o~h l)lyic 33tI I C'),
3 \
sI, I' W ( \ t , I
3 \0) 11" l 11%1 t
I (V ) Ip
Ii
/ I y so-OFFICIAL BALLOT
UF STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTION 020 -*
TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23 & 24, 2010 -U
INSTRUCTIONS:
To vote, complete the arrow 4= i to the rght of your choice with a HEAVY
BOLD LINE like this AO-M.
IMPORTANT: USE A #2 PENCIL OR THE MARKING PEN PROVIDED. DO NOT USE RED INK!
NOTE: IF YOU MAKE A MISTAKE RETURN YOUR BALLOT TO THE
ELECTION OFFICIAL AND OBTAIN ANOTHER.
PRESIDENTNICE PRESIDENT
(Vote for UP TO (1) One)
BEN CAVATARO
and 4
SAGAR SANE
STUDENT ALLIANCE
ASHTON CHARLES
and 4
MARCUS DIXON
TREASURER
(Vote for UP TO (1) One)
RAFAELYANIZ 4
STUDE NT ALLUANCE
VIRLANY TABOADA 4
UNITE PARTY
CHANCELLOR
(Vote for UP TO (1) One)
SENATE
GRADUATE STUDENTS
(Vote for UP TO (8) Eight)
TYLER HISHAM ANTAR
STUDE N T ALL ANC E
TOVA GOLDFARB
STUDENT ALLIANCE
BRIAN KIRCHRERG
STUDENT AJANCE
ALAN CHRISTOPHER MARTIN 40
s71.DENT ALLIANCE
MATT MARTZ 4-
SIUDENT ALLIANCE
ANU PANDEY 4
STUDENT ALLIANCE
JOANNASANDFORD -
STUDIENT ALLIANCE
ZACK SMITH
STUDIENTALLANCE
ANDREW S. GUGLIELMO
UNIT E PAR TY
JONATHAN LENNER 4-
UNITE PARTY
IVAN MARTINEZ 11
UNfT EPA TY
MAITTMICHEL 4-
UNITE PiATY
TOMMY ROBEY 
UNIT EPAR TY
DAN "THE FIREMAN" SIEGEL M
UNIT E PR TY
KUNAL SINGH 0
UNE PARTY
LEXI WYNNE 40
UN T E PAR TYCONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT
Should the Student Body Constitution be
amended to change the ine for appontomern
of Summer Replacement Senators from May I
to thelast meeting of speng term remove
verbiage that purpots to allow the Student
Senate to contract on behalf of the student
body. pemit the Student Senate to amend
election lawswithin four weeks /atherlan ive
weeks, of an elec/n, comply th Floda
BoardofGovemonrs Resolution08-23by
preserving the role of the Honor Code
Chancellor, now referred to as'Honor Code
Execuve sector andallowingthisexecutive
director to be apponted by the Student Body
President: amend Article 11 to read 'Funding
Fee Increase Restictions. instead of Budget
Restrictions';' ensure that lefris of executive
department headsexpire concurrentlywththe
Em/s of the elected execuive olficials: remove
any reference to the 'Student Honor Court' and
"Student Honor Court Bar Associauon:' direct
the submission of proposals by itative to the
Chief Jusice of the Student Body. amend the
proposal intiatve process to provide that 3
pettion carrying the signatures of 5% of the
student body shall be placed on the baho:
authorize e /Elecions Commission to
determine if ini/aove ballot adOes and
summaries ae accurate and lawful and a/end
ballot iles andsummary11 they determinethat
they are not accurate, subject to appeal to the
Student Body Supreme Court. require 213 of
the Mal body of the Stucent Senate for
conviction of impeachment, instead of 34:
make grammatical and Other minor cornecons
and replacements.
YES 41
NO 4-
REFERENDUM QUESTIONS
A Refz Union fee has been proposed to repair
and expand the facility. This fee would Wi//er
student services. and increase space for
students and oganizanons Both USF and ESU
have implemented fees: $20 per semester plus
$1 50 per credit hour at USF. and a fee of $20
per semester plus 02 per credit hour at FSU Al
UF the current proposed fee is S20 per
semester plus S3 per credit hour
Ohis vill allow for students at the state s
flagship u/versly to have access to the same
level of quality in student resources as those
offered at F londa s other state universities and
its peer universities around the country A
recen/ omvesity survey shows the Rez Uion
is in need of more than 040 million in deferred
maintenance and repairs. The Reitz Union was
but more than 40 years ago for the 19,000
students then enrolled UF now has neary
50 000 students and more than 900 student
organizations, alin need of space. resources
and support
Shall a new student fee be created to fund
repairs of the J. Wayne Reiz Union?
YES 4-
NO 4-
Shall a Reitz Union Fee0/ iImplemented, be
used to pay for additional expansions to ne
J. Wayne Ren Unon? If a fee is implemented
voting YES indicates thewish to fund an
expansion of the Union Voting NO indicates
the wish to only fund necessary repairs
YES4-
NO 4-
Should the Unversity of Florda join the
Workers Rights Consorbum to help ensure that
hcensed merchandise wth the Uiversity of
F 0rica and GaIor logos is not made in
swealshops?
YES -I
NO -I
ISTY OF I11
1111 U
% -_ J7 lw
ININ
0IN
ININi
