Studentthe independent florida
PAGE 17 Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 126 We Inform. You Decide.
Foreign-policy
scholar speaks
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Writer
International relations scholar
John Mearsheimer talked about the
political lobby for Israel and its ef-
fect on U.S. foreign policy during a
speech Wednesday night that drew
a crowd of more than 100 people to
Ustler Hall.
The speech was sponsored by
Human Rights Awareness on Cam-
pus.
Mearsheimer, a University of
Chicago professor, said the Ameri-
can Israel Public Affair Committee,
along with its partners that make up
the Israel lobby, have tremendous
power over Congress and the presi-
dent.
This power, he explained, has
prevented the U.S. government
from pressuring Israel to form more
fair and peaceful relations with Pal-estinians.
"President Obama is not going
to be able to push Israel into a two-
state solution," he said.
Mearsheimer said finding a way
to form two independent states for
Isrealis and Palestinians is the best
course of action for both the U.S. and
Israel because the
alternative would
be an apartheid
state where Pales-
tinians are more
severely op-
pressed.
Political sci-
Mearsheimer encejuniorJoshua
Villanueva said afterward he appre-
ciated Mearsheimer's viewpoints.
"I'm more convinced of the two-
state solution than I was before,"
Villanueva said.
Mearsheimer was paid $5,000 to
speak.10
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
Roly Moses
Colton Doll, a UF sophomore, pushes a giant beach ball toward Turlington Plaza Wednesday
afternoon. "It takes two different pumps to blow it up," he said. Doll was promoting a charity
dodgeball tournament to raise money for Haiti.
SPECIAL REPORT
Candidate faces attack ads
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
Long before he was a window
cleaner and Gainesville mayor
candidate, Don Marsh played
chess.
The key to being a good player,
he said, is having the discipline to
play the board instead of the op-
ponent, and the same applies to
the campaign trail for Gainesville
mayor.
For Marsh, this election cy-
cle has been one grueling game
against a tough and seasoned op-
ponent, City Commissioner Craig
Lowe.
As the two prepare to face off
once more in an April run-offelection, both candidates empha-
sized the importance of sticking
to the issues instead of resorting
to political mudslinging.
"There's no reason for it."
Craig Lowe
Gainesville mayor candidate
But for Lowe, this campaign
season has been plagued by
people whom he describes as
"want[ing] to drive a wedge in
the political community."
Despite his pledge to focus
squarely on the issues, Lowe has
faced a slew of personal attacks,
mostly pertaining to his sexual
orientation."None of this would come
up without the attacks," he said.
"There's no reason for it."
One of the most prominent ex-
amples were fliers that were dis-
tributed across the city that said
Lowe was responsible for allow-
ing men in women's restrooms.
The fliers claimed to be spon-
sored by "concerned citizens of
Gainesville."
Another flier attempted to
mimic one flier from his cam-
paign. The pink flier mockingly
advocated for the support of a
gay agenda."
More recently, the Dove World
Outreach Center, a local church
known for its controversial stanc-
SEE CAMPAIGN, PAGE 10
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersToday
FORECAST
OPINIONS
the AVENUE I
CLASSIFIEDS 3
CROSSWORD 3
SPORTS 32
1 Partly
3 cloudy
6 77/63Local man stabs
neighbor in face
By MINCH MINCHIN
Alligator Writer
A local mancuthis neighbor inthe face with a razor Wednes-
day afternoon after a disagreement over audio volume.
According to the police report:
Sammy Jaye Proctor, 47, approached the victim's campsite
near Northwest Sixth Street and said to turn his music down.
The victim's friend, who later witnessed the
Breaking stabbing, responded, "[Expletive] you," and
News Proctor angrily returned to his campsite near-
by.
Proctor, a mason, soon became fed up with the noise and
confronted his victim, who had left his own camp and was
walking down a nearby wooded path.
He sliced the victim across the face with a box cutter, send-
ing the victim falling to the ground then stabbed the victim,
causing "great bodily injury" and "disfigurement."
The victim's condition is unknown.
0 UF sophomore
Jon Bostic will be
counted on to help
replace the leader-
ship of departed
seniors Brandon
Spikes and Ryan
Stamper within the
Gators'linebacking
corps.
See Story, Page 36.visit www.alligator.orgRe 8
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Passover Seder
Monday, 8 p.m. and Tuesday'
8:30 p.m.
Hillel, 2020 W University Ave.
Join your UF Hillel fam-
ily for a warm and welcoming
Seder (festive meal) to celebrate
Passover. Monday's Seder costs
$10 for the first 300 students to
register at www.ufhillel.org.
Tuesday's meal costs $25.
Colors of Hope Art Exhibition
Friday, 6:30 to 8:30 p.m.
Institute of Hispanic-Latino
Cultures
As part of Multicultural and
Diversity Affairs, this first-time
art exhibition is embracing the
celebration of diversity and
multiculturalism in our society
and on campus. We have part-
nered with the Gainesville Art
Walk for a night filled with art
representing all media.
Upstart Films and RUB
Entertainment present the
12th Annual CINERAMA Film
Festival Call for Entries
UF's Reitz Union Auditorium
Saturday, April 24
We welcome all types of
entries, including experimen-
tal videos, short films, anima-
tion and full-length features.
Winners will be determined by
the audience and will receive
various prizes. Entries must be
submitted by April 15.
For more information, look
up Upstart Films on Facebook or
contact Liz Perlman at lizjperl@
gmail.com.
Turban Day 2010
Thursday, 11:30 a.m. to 3:30
pm.
Delh1 Da "cc
www.ethnicdanceexpressions.com
384-9200
Butler Plaza Newberry Square
335-1232 332-3937NATIONAL
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Turlington Plaza
The Sikh faith is the fifth
largest religion in the world,
yet very few people know
anything about it.
In an effort to raise
awareness about Sikhism,
Sikh Students Association
is organizing Turban Day.
Participants will be given
$15 gift certificates and other
goodies.
Got something going on?
And want to see it in this
space? Send an e-mail with
"What's Happening" in thesubject line to efuggetta@alliga-
tor.org. Please model your sub-
missions after the events listed
above. Improperly formatted
"What's Happening" submis-
sions may not appear in the pa-
per. News releases will not ap-
pear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org
FLORIDA MUSEUM of NATURAL HISTORY
DINOSAURS OF THE
LOST CONTINENT
Free public lecture
by Dr. Scott Sampson
Thursday, March 25 at 7 p.m.
Hear paleontologist and educator Scott
Sampson discuss his latest research
and new book, Dinosaur Odyssey: Fossil
Threads in the Web of Life.
Sampson is a curator at the Utah
Museum of Natural History and host
of the extremely popular PBS Dinosaur
Train children's TV show. Book signing
to follow.
UF Cultural Plaza m SW 34th St. & Hull Rd.
(352) 846-2000 m www.flmnh.ufl.edu W L Il
FLORIDA Mon.-Sat. 10am -5pn Sun. 1-5pin www.wuft.tv
MUSEUM oR
OF NATURAL HISTORY UFFLORIDA Find us on fcbk.twier-DINOSAUR ODYSSEY
F-11L I-H All IN THEWEBF Lot 11a the Endependent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 126 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner,jmisner@a//igator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, cti//o@a//igator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@a//igator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Holly Kane, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
Andrew Pantazi, Paul Runnestrand,
Colin Simmons, Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmi//er@a//igator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara lngebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, e//ight@a//igator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbe//@a//igator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
AROUND GAINESVILLE
City to get snazzy bus line
By CRISTINA RABAZA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Before the semester's end, students taking
bus trips from Gainesville will be able to sit back
-or lie down -and enjoy the ride.
RedCoach, the newest long-distance bus line
coming to Gainesville, features 27 leather "bed-
seats" per bus along with flat-screen TVs, wire-
less Internet and vending machines.
The date the buses will start traveling to and
from Gainesville has not been released.
Depending on the departure and arrival lo-
cations, one-way ticket prices will range from
$45 to $165, and two-way prices will range from
$81 to $297. RedCoach will transport students,
families and businesspeople to and from six lo-
cations across the state, as well as to and from
Atlanta.
Traditional long-distance buses have be-
tween 48 and 54 upright seats. Gatorbus, GMG
Transports, Miami Bus Service and American
E-Tours all make trips to and from Gainesville.
They charge between $20 and $65 for a one-way
ticket and between $40 and $80 for a round trip.
"Instead of being able to sell many seats for
more money, we remodeled the layout of the
bus for ultimate comfort," said RedCoach ad-
ministrative assistant Maria Piva.Todd Morrone, coordinator for risk man-
agement at UF's Department of Environmental
Health & Safety, said giving people so many
comfortable features is consistent with good er-
gonomic thinking, which involves fitting an en-
vironment to the individual, rather than fitting
the individual to the environment.
"Instead of being able to sell many
seats for more money, we remodeled
the layout of the bus for ultimate
comfort."
Maria Piva
Red Coach administrative assistant
Despite these luxuries, Silvana Vargas, a civil
engineering junior, said she would not take a
RedCoach bus because she cannot afford the
line's prices.
Vargas said she usually takes a bus from
Gainesville to South Florida about four times
each semester and looks for the cheapest alter-
native.
"It's not great not having the leg space, the
comfort and all the added features for that
whole distance, but I don't have the money to
spend for that luxury," Vargas said.City to make over park
By VICTORIA ISRAELS
Alligator Contributing Writer
The City of Gainesville's Possum
Creek Park is getting a makeover.
The park, located at 4009 NW
53rd Ave., is temporarily closed to
the public for park improvements,
and for safety reasons, it will remain
closed until the renovations are com-
plete.
The renovations include the con-
struction of a dog park and a skate
park.
Plans also include expanding and
paving the parking lot and installing
new fences enclosing the park.
Several community meetings
were held to determine what local
residents wanted, and these renova-
tions were at the top of the list, said
Bob Woods, city spokesman.
The total construction cost is
about $800,000, and the renovations
were funded by Florida RecreationDevelopment Assistance Program,
the city's Capital Improvement Pro-
gram, and a Wild Spaces -Public
Places sales tax referendum.
The Wild Spaces -Public Places
referendum is a one-half cent sales
tax that started in January 2009 and
runs until December 2010.
The organization, a citizen-led
effort to protect natural resources
and improve publicLocal recreational facilities
News in Alachua County,
projected the tax will
raise $40 million.
"We want to give the greatest re-
turn on the taxpayers' money at Pos-
sum Park," Woods said.
Park visitors are encouraged
to visit San Felasco Park, 6400 NW
43rd Way, while Possum Creek Park
is under construction. San Felasco
Park features hiking trails, a picnic
shelter and playground equipment.
The park is scheduled to reopen
by the end of April.
Tell us with an essay, photo or video and you could win a
gift certificate to Sports Marketing, Gainesville's answer to
all your sports and diploma needs.
1st place -$400 gift certificate
2nd place -$300 gift certificate
3rd place -$200 gift certificate
Deadline for entries: Noon, Thursday, April 1, 2010.
Finalists will be selected by a panel of Alligator employees and voted on by Alligator readers.
Online polls will be open from midnight Monday, April 5 to 11:59 p.m. Thursday, April 8.
Submit entries to contest@alligator.org
Visit www.alligator.org/app/gradtab for official rules.
p99 SW 34th St.
in the Publix Westgate Shopping Center
www.sportsmarketingintl.com
Pcip mus beF crjduating1u Spxim 2010 to he e.P \eadlne or n i2pmApril 1 maN nTI CWMI
500w r, K hoto ulhimssjon s mlinot eeed[ive photo. \Yid SI1isio ul e nyot I xed2 Oi r(S(10scn)i nt.Fiti bii io
10nV1"[Ca111gaITo.0rg ordcrqp th1CM 1)(701 CD C) t 105 W. fL iversit, Ave. All uhmiron, 6il1,h atutomieA N cnly dn djthe com4~t Firikt will
be chosen l ipancl o AlligatQJigc. Finlahsts willbe dsplayed oilthe wcbsite F or nm oc111midnight Aptil 5t 11 :50 pi~m. Ajpri S. The thirce
Uhmissjoris w t11 thev most %otc, % ill he annwUwIM al "Iwinci. Winner, "ill he notiled pioi to \pril 12. W inriers wifl he aimountcedin the April 1
GrdTI ibSpec1iacion.Pu i c[)cImd t oIIc[rrni. Ofccs d~et 4ixrccos eployees & their f1y \ni i mmbcr of dicA II g~or, or afffilates
0Iftle COIte are nt eipicto CIicrOMNe~. YOi)To t noinecto be PTCC nto III. ( itand pri/e cash v a1uc: $40QPrizcs are nri-iarisferab1e Gratuity
a [ iaI c Iax [ot tided. Prizs nnIJ t h~e C I a ed bN Ai130,2010. No puicti rcs s e ie to entei, Ry sithi It ing aIIc .u Itw re Lig cIgto thc
te n d n it ion .V s it I Ia igaot .|ru/gadtab or d t I s.
a1igatorM~9 MT 93 OD 
(
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
RTS gets biodiesel grant
By EDEN JOYNER
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Gator Nation just got a little bit
greener.
Gainesville's Regional Transit Sys-
tem will receive a $99,500 grant from the
Florida Department of Transportation
for its eco-friendly biodiesel program,
according to department spokesman
Philip Worth.
The state agency offers annual service
projects to transit systems in Florida, and
RTS applied for the grant as a biodiesel
alternative fuel transit program.
The grant requires Gainesville to
match the money through a contract pro-
cess. After the city matches the $99,500
grant, the Florida Department of Trans-
portation will give its 50-percent share,
Worth said.
Chip Skinner, spokesman for RTS,
said the money is already in the transitsystem's budget and city officials are
waiting for paperwork to be finalized.
Currently all buses with a route on
campus use biodiesel, accounting for 22
percent of the fleet, Skinner said.
The grant will allow RTS to use biod-
iesel fuel in the entire 105-bus fleet.
The buses running on the fuel are la-
beled with a decal saying that the bus is
"Greening the Gator Na-
Local tion," according to the City
News of Gainesville's Web site.
He said he thinks the
entire fleet will be converted to biodiesel
by the end of the year.
Skinner said the project helps RTS
reduce carbon dioxide emissions and de-
crease its dependency on oil.
The project has an estimated cost of
$398,000 over a 2-year period.
The cost will cover new fuel tanks en-
gineered to dispense the fuel along with
the existing vehicle adaptations, he said.SPECIAL REPORT
UPD cites SG president
for disorderly conduct
By KATHERINE BEIN
Alligator Writer
UF Student Body President Jordan
Johnson was cited for disorderly conduct
by the University Police Department after
demanding a SNAP ride to his off-campus
home at about 1:45 a.m. Saturday.
According to the report:
Officers responded to a call from two
SNAP employees whose van was parked
on Museum Road near Beaty Towers. When
the officers arrived, Johnson was shaky on
his feet, and officers called for him to stop.
As they approached, they could smell alco-
hol on his breath.
An officer placed Johnson in handcuffs
to keep him from making a scene.
When asked to identify himself, Johnson
said, "You know who I am.
When asked again, he said he was the
Student Body president.
When SNAP employees Aljahra Lewis
and Kendal Orgera refused to take John-
son and girlfriend Erica Rakow to his off-campus apartment, Johnson got angry and
pointed out that, as president, he funded
SNAP and used it to get home frequently.
After continued refusal, Johnson said
"Student Government should pull its fund-
ing from this [unknown expletive] pro-
gram."
During the interview,
Johnson mentioned that
UPD was a bad agency
for their involvement in
S the recent shooting of an
international graduate
student.
Johnson Johnson said Tues-
day he had no comment
about the incident.
Huntley Johnson, Jordan Johnson's law-
yer, who has represented 23 Gators football
players, said Jordan Johnson realizes he
made a mistake.
According to Huntley Johnson, Jordan
Johnson said if he could redo that evening,
he would do things much differently, add-
ing Jordan Johnson is taking steps to ensure
something like this doesn't happen again.
SPECIAL OFFER
FOR UF STUDElTS
UF Plastic Surgery and
its Fresh Faces skin care
program are offering
student discounts
through may 31, 2010./
77
UgEUNIVERSITY fU"FLORIDA
FRESH FACES SHIf REJUVEfATIOn PROGRAM
A 20 percent discount on the following non-surgical procedures:
laser hair removal I fine lines I acne I spider veins I
microdermabrasion I laser skin rejuvenation for sun damage
COSMETIC SURGICAL PROCEDURES
A 20 percent discount on surgeons' fees and a 10 percent
discount on anesthesiology fees will be offered on cosmetic surgery
procedures, including breast augmentation and rhinoplasty.
To make an appointment or to inquire about specific procedures
covered by this limited-time discount, please call 352.265.8402.
UF Plastic Surgery I Park Avenue Office Complex
908 N.W. 57th Street, Suite D-6 I Gainesville, FL 32606
www.floridaplasticsurgery.ufl.edu
In-office Fresh Faces procedures and/or cosmetic surgical procedures
must take place during the special promotion dates.
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
New tobacco policy urges campus to 'kick butts'
Orlando: Policy is part of cultural change on campus
By ASHLEY HEMMY "Our goal is to create a healthy A policy started on Nov. 1 The current campus regula-
Alligator Contributing Writer environment to those who work, banned tobacco use at the UF tions require smokers to be 50
study and visit here," said Mela- Student Health Care Center and feet away from a building when
Peer pressure can lead people nie Fridl Ross, spokeswoman for Shands Hospital, according to smoking on campus.
to start smoking, but UF is hop- UF's Health Science Center. Ross. The opening of the UF Shands
ing it can help people stop smok-
ing on campus.
Wednesday was Kick Butts
Day, a national event encourag-
ing students to speak up against
tobacco use.
A new smoking policy ban-
ning tobacco use on UF's campus
will not take effect until July 1.
Because the new policy is not
a law, UF spokesman Steve Or-
lando said students and faculty
will police each other to ensure
the rule is followed.
"If smoking on campus is
a problem, it's because
the university hasn't been
fair about accommodating
smokers."
Art King
UF junior
The policy is part of a cultural
change on campus that involves
a shift toward a more negative
view of smoking, Orlando said.
"No one wants to be an out-
cast," he said.
The policy hopes to do more
than just eliminate smoking.Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Gerrit Crielaard, UF exchange student from the Netherlands, takes a smoking break outside Library
West from studying for exams on Wednesday afternoon. Smoking on campus will be banned July 1.Cancer Center started the idea for
a tobacco-free campus, according
to Ross.
Since the changes enacted in
November, there has not been a
problem with tobacco use around
the health care facilities on cam-
pus, and she hopes the campus-
wide policy will go well too, Ross
said.
Those who do not follow the
new tobacco policy could be pun-
ished.
Orlando said student smok-
ers who repeatedly violate the
policy could face punishment by
the Student Conduct and Conflict
Resolution.
Faculty and staff who smoke
could also be affected by the
amount of time they take to walk
off campus to smoke.
Statistics professor Yasar Ye-
silcay smokes outside Griffin-
Floyd Hall every day. He said he
would have no problem smoking
off campus after July 1.
"Smoking has been banned
elsewhere," Yesilcay said. "And I
can't see why it couldn't be done
here."
Art King, an electrical engi-
neering junior, smokes between
classes and said he thinks ban-
ning tobacco from campus is un-
fair.
"If smoking on campus is a
problem, it's because the univer-
sity hasn't been fair about accom-
modating smokers," King said.
ON CAMPUS
Student groups meet,
discuss hate speech
By ANDREW WYZAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students, faculty and adminis-
tration came together Wednesday
night during Turlington Turmoil, an
open discussion of the acts of intol-
erance that have occurred on cam-
pus in recent weeks.
About 50 people participated
in the discussion, which was spon-
sored by the Division of Student
Affairs in cooperation with several
organizations, including the Center
for Student Activities and Involve-
ment, Student Government, Islam
on Campus, the Pakistani Student
Association and Pride Student
Union.
"Part of the reason we're here
tonight is concerning some of the
issues that have occurred in Turl-
ington Plaza," said Paige Crandall,
associate dean of students.
Crandall said the event was orga-
nized in response to the SG fliers as-
sociating the Student Alliance party
with the Nazi Party and in response
to the Dove World Outreach Center
speakers who wear "Islam is of the
devil" shirts.
Demetri Morgan, a political sci-
ence junior, said he remembers
being a freshman and seeing the
heated debates and appreciating thedialogue in Turlington.
"In recent years, I feel it's got-
ten worse and become more about
pushing views upon people," Mor-
gan said.
Chris Loschiavo, assistant deanof
students, said the administration is
limited in what it can do in response
to what people say on campus.
It can only intervene on acts that
constitute a true threat, such as a
threat to someone's life, Loschiavo
said.
Ten years ago, the university
tried adopting
specific hate
speech codes,
but they were all
Struck down in
court, he said.
S t u d e n t s
formed small
Crandall groups to discuss
how they can
have more civil discussions about
controversial issues on campus.
One of the ideas presented in-
cluded holding an open forum on
Turlington Plaza once a month that
focuses on the current issues talked
about on campus.
Crandall said she appreciated the
array of ideas.
"Students seem committed to
have change occur," she said.Aundre Larrow / Alligator
Bubble Boys
J.T. Bringardner, 24, (right) and Bjorn Parramore, 23, admire the array of bubbles from their
Gazillion Bubble Machine Wednesday afternoon before they pass out more fliers for Total
Bummer, a three-day show featuring more than 80 bands this weekend. According to its
Web site, Total Bummer is not going to be a total bummer, dudes! Tickets are available on-
line at www.totalbummer.net/tickets.
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
Filthy Facebook
UK study relates
Facebook to syphilisStudents don't need another reason to feel bad for lurk-
ing on Facebook, but UK officials just added one more
to the growing list.
According to the Brits, the social networking site led to a
rise in syphilis cases -in areas across the pond, at least.
The staff of the public health center in Teesside found that
more time Facebook users spent sifting through profile pages
and writing on other people's walls translated into more ca-
sual sex partners.
That jump, in turn, led to a four-fold increase in reported
cases of syphilis. And then there's the unreported ones.
Although studies have shown people are more likely
to engage in risky sexual behavior with partners found on
the Internet, officials are glossing over the most important
point.
More people are deciding against wearing condoms.
Isn't that choice the larger problem for the British?
With this report, health-service workers are looking to tar-
get a Web site instead of the ignorant choices of the public.
Experts seem ready to blame nearly any social ill on the
realm of social networking.
However, Facebook is only an enabler for people making
bad choices in the first place. What users choose to do off the
computer is still their decision.
That is assuming, of course, that everyone logs out in or-
der to hook up.
And nowadays, even that's not a certainty.
The 'C' Word
We cannot even be-gin to imagine why
anyone would shill
want to listen to Ann Coulter.
But after canceling her ap-
pearance for Tuesday night
at the University of Ottawa,
Coulter called herself a hate
crime victim, and now we're
all listening again.
Coulter was scheduled
for her appearance by the
Campus Conservatives and
was outraged when Francois
Houle, the university vice
president, e-mailed her and
told her to be careful with
what she said.
"Promoting hatred against
any identifiable group would
not only be considered inap-
propriate, but could in fact
lead to criminal charges," he
wrote.
When students created an
anti-Coulter Facebook group
and began protesting her
presence on campus, Coulter
canceled the speech herself,
apparently over fears for her
safety.
After lashing out against
Muslims, Canadians, liber-
als, the LGBT communityand whomever else she could
blame, she threatened to pre-
pare a human rights com-
plaint and blamed Houle's
e-mail for stirring up the stu-
dents' anger.
What canwe say? Coulter's
remarks may come from pure
narcissism or lack of historical
knowledge, but last time we
checked, in order to call your-
self a victim of a hate crime,
there has to be an actual crime.
Yet she was given a stage and
she took it to extremes again.
Coulter is trying to put
herself in a category with
people who have been beaten,
robbed, harassed or killed
for who they are after she re-
ceived a warning e-mail and
faced a group protest.
We're disgusted by her ac-
tions. She has always been a
fan of dishing out the hate but
can't seem to take even a little
opposition.
One good thing can come
from this, though: Hopefully,
it will cause more people to
turn off the TV when her face
appears, and her nasty re-
marks may, for once, fall on
deaf ears.
0l the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Aye, or send them to P0 Box 14257,
Gainesvi rle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions
Available frALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org//opinions
U1
Copyrighted Material
LSyndicated Content e i i Nw P
m" Commercil News Providers
Health care bill targets tattoos with tax
ne of the best parts of the latest fad in Americanfederal legislating is how the actual content of
our billion-dollar bills remain completely secret
until after they are signed into law. It's like a scratch-off
lottery ticket, and who doesn't love the excitement and
anticipation of scratch-offs?
Scratch-off Congress has passed a couple bank wel-
fare bills in this manner, but in its defense, shoving hard-
earned money into the hands of people associated with
banks is historically what America does best. The coolly
disinterested latex caress of a disgruntled doctor, though,
is something much more tangible to the average citizen
than a bailout-funded banker orgy aboard a yacht made
of diamonds.
Because of this disconnect, one of the most popular
American pastimes of the next few months will certainly
be getting completely freaked out about different parts of
the health care bill that passed this week. As a public ser-
vice I would like to take this opportunity to do my part.
While in line at KFC last night, a woman in front of me
was discussing how she heard from a friend who heard
it on talk radio that Obama was gonna start taxing tan-
ning booths and tattoo parlors. I had heard about the tax
on tanning, but was surprised to hear about the tattoo
tax. As it turns out, I am not alone in my astonishment
regarding this most unorthodox tax.
According to the Internet, Sandra Bullock waved her
shiny new Oscar like a magic wand and had extreme
anti-tattoo provisions written into the humongous health
care bill. Some message boards and blogs even suggest
that the Americans with Disabilities Act will be amended
to include a designation for people wronged in some
way by excessively inked individuals -but the federalU'
Tommy Maple
letters@alligator orgcourts have to this point stopped
short of granting Bullock a license
for legally hunting skanky tattooed
whores.
Genetic testing of each citizen
enrolled in the national health care
database will track people with
tattoos for certain ethnic markers,
and people with specific tats and
no genetic-based cultural signification in their family
background will be subject to an extra tax on their in-
come. This bylaw, dubbed the Frat Tax, will allow the
federal government to make sure that your tribal tattoo
corresponds with a tribe your family actually belonged
to, and make sure that the Kanji or Sanskrit word on your
shoulder could have conceivably slipped from the mouth
of your long-dead ancestors.
The most heinous of the new anti-tat measures, direct-
ed at hipsters with whole bodies of colorful ink, plans
to use a dispassionate board of seven peers to examine
the whole of a person's tattoo collection and decide how
much extra tax they will pay based on the continuity of
the whole design. Known derisively by some as a "Koi
Panel," these independent reviews could be the differ-
ence between affording that next sweet indie band tee
and sadly schlepping home from the show listening to
Animal Collective sans T-shirt.
Call your congressperson as soon as you put this col-
umn down and tell them the health care bill needs to be
stopped. I would, too, but I just went and bought these
scratch-offs, and I'm gonna be busy for a while.
Tommy Maple is an international communications gradu-
ate student. His columns appear on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Wednesday's question:
Did Accent spend too much Do you wish Rush Limbaugh
money on Andy Samberg? would move?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org66% YES
34% NO
107 TOTAL VOTES
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Health bill will lead to entitlement
I find Will Penman's Wednesday column
urging conservatives to move on absurd. If
you, Will, are going to write against your ideo-
logical archrivals, please make some attempt
to understand them. May I do some explain-
ing?
The health care bill itself clearly is not go-
ing to cause the downfall of America. Instead,
America's downfall will be due to a much
longer-running, further-reaching issue: a
creeping sense of entitlement. We the people
seem to believe more and more that everyone
is entitled to this and that whether they care to
work for it or not.
If this trend is not halted, it will cause
America's downfall. Our nation will not cease
to exist but will simply fall into mediocrity.
I believe in American exceptionalism. I be-
lieve that America is -or recently was -the
best country on Earth. I would like to continue
this belief. I would like to remain proud that I
am an American.
Will, maybe you disagree with American
exceptionalism. Maybe you think America
should be just like the European countries
you mention. Maybe you think a sense of
entitlement will not decrease personal respon-
sibility and vigor. There are plenty of opportu-
nities for you and me to respectfully disagree.
Brash vilification based on a friend's Facebook
status is not one of them.
David Tombs
UFstudent
Raise Bright Futures standards
Look at what has been on American televi-
sion and what has been popular in American
music for the past decade. Look at the coun-
tries that have been the most innovative in
mathematics and physics for the past two de-
cades; America is no longer one of them. Look
at the American manufacturing machine and
how it has been struggling for the past three
decades. The list can go on.
Without argument, American exceptional-
ism is on the decline. Keeping Bright Futures
at what, quite frankly, is a pathetic standard
directly contributes to this decline because it
rewards mediocrity. It conditions our culture
to think it is entitled to free handouts. True,
there is an education gap in our public schoolsystem. It is unfortunate that minority students
often do not have the same resources available
to them as their white peers. However, keep-
ing Bright Futures without integrity in order
to allow more unqualified students a free ride
to college is just a Band-Aid solution, short-
sighted and without promise. How nitwitted
of the Alligator to think that the Bright Futures
standards should remain where they are.
David Askaryan
5EG
Columnist 'too objective'
Matthew Christ: To which political party
do you belong? I couldn't tell after reading
yesterday's column. Maybe if you had spent
a few words glorifying one of the two par-
ties, I could have figured it out. Perhaps some
shameless, ruthless bashing of all things re-
lated to your political opposition would have
helped. I turn to the opinions section of the Al-
ligator to see stubborn opining, not acceptance
and compromise.
Still, it was pleasing to note that your refer-
ences to Rush Limbaugh, Glenn Beck, and the
entirety of the GOP weren't hypocritical at all.
I sincerely appreciate the obvious efforts you
made to deter further polarization betwixt the
two major political factions. It's great to see a
columnist displaying tact and open-minded-
ness in regard to politics. Thank you so much
for avoiding one-sided rhetoric in your writ-
ing.
It didn't help, though, that you objectively
accepted both the virtues and vices of the bill;
next time try to be more hateful and abstract in
your points. I, for one, would enjoy reading a
column filled with flourishes of propaganda-
style diction.
Or maybe I'm just an illiterate, unscrupu-
lous, angry, misguided, Republican buffoon.
Robert Perreault
UFstudent
Samberg show disappointed
OK, so Andy Samberg is funny. Unfortu-
nately, not as funny as many expected. With
a lot of the crowd leaving before he finished
making his last weird face or avoiding his
last question in a strange voice, it seemed theevent didn't quite live up to SNL dreams. The
Q-and-A setup might have been rather inter-
esting -I am personally addicted to "Inside
the Actors Studio" -if Andy had actually
answered a majority of the questions. His at-
titude, dress and request that no pictures be
taken (what am I supposed to do with all that
empty space in my OMGsPrING2010 album
on Facebook?) made Andy appear less like the
silly, fun guy who sings about jizzing in his
pants. I'd personally like a $72,000 refund.
A. Bern
3LS
Accent mishandled Samberg show
With deference to Andy Samberg, last
night's event was disappointing to say the
least. Let me preface this by saying that if you
don't think $72,000 is a lot of money, just stop
reading and check out today's crossword.
Disappointment was not in Samberg -
quite the contrary. He was polite, charming,
humorous and weird (a compliment, accord-
ing to him). The disappointment I feel lies with
Accent.
But, you might say, Accent is a speakers bu-
reau, it says so right in its formal title. And you
would be correct. Perhaps it was too much of
me to hope that $72,000 could buy more than
just an hour-long, fireside chat about home
life, beginnings in comedy and awkward
pauses between interviewer and interviewee.
The "Inside the Actor's Studio"-themed night
felt trite, contrived and, again, awkward.
Why hire a performer and not allow him
to perform? If anything, we could learn from
his accomplishments by seeing them live in
action, not watching video clips of sketches
the majority of the audience has already seen.
A scholar speaks about his scholarly studies,
his life's work and answers questions about
real-world issues. It isn't illogical to say that
a comedian should do at least some comedy.
Instead, Samberg was asked out twice, asked
to name comedians he didn't like, asked what
he would do if he were a woman for a day (an-
swer: have a baby, of course), and even asked
how a chicken crossed the highway -the last
I can't knock because it does pertain to the co-
medic genre.
My issue is not with Samberg, but in the
way the event was approached. Take an A-list comedian and re-enact the most scintillat-
ing hour of television ever known to man (no
offense, James Lipton) -why, it's got to be a
hit! I understand Accent has a certain budget,
and they may do with it whatever they wish,
but -and I'm borrowing from a "Weekend
Update" segment here -really?
On the other hand, if it is true that a laugh is
good for the soul, I suppose $1,200 per minute
is a steal. Especially when we're in a budget
crisis. Besides, I'm not paying for it anyway -
thank you, Bright Futures.
The best quote of the night came from Sam-
berg himself: "Am I getting paid?" Yes, Andy.
You are.
To the two girls who asked Samberg out,
the answer is obvious -sure, if you have a
spare 72 grand. Maybe it could become a new
career path: $72,000 a pop would sure get you
a baker's dozen of Magnolia Bakery cupcakes
and a lifetime supply of Mr. Pibb and Red
Vines, with maybe even a little left over to rent
"The Chronicles of Narnia" on DVD. Who
could ask for more? I certainly couldn't.
Oh, and remember ladies: no flash photog-
raphy. That'll really cost you.
Brittany Fox
UF student
U U U
New Bright Futures standards will hurt
everyone
I think the idea that the Bright Futures
Scholarship Program is going to hurt minori-
ties is ridiculous. It is going to hurt everyone.
I'm a white, middle-class female, and I took
the ACT three times before finally reaching
the goal of 100 percent. I feel like we set a
low bar for minority students, when in reality
they have the same potential to achieve these
scores. As a future teacher, I believe everyone
can learn, and it's about time everyone adapt-
ed that principle. The purpose of Bright Fu-
tures is to help hardworking students afford
college. It's an incentive. Bright Futures is try-
ing to refrain from giving out such an incen-
tive by requiring higher scores, but that makes
it difficult not just for a certain group but for
everyone. Minority students are capable, very
intelligent and can achieve similar, if not bet-
ter, scores than their Caucasian peers.
Jackie Simons
UF student
EXAMS
(by Independent Optometrisl )
: A n Coner of
NW 1 3th St.
& 39th Ave.
Near Publix
EVECARE
I EXPRESS I
L (352)3'75-6133
L4
8, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
ENVIRONMENT
Five campus buildings recognized for 'greenness'
By LYN KRAMER
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF continues to LEED in its
efforts to make university build-
ings environmentally and eco-
nomically sound and energy ef-
ficient.
The U.S. Green Building
Council has recognized five
more buildings as certified by the
Leadership in Energy and Envi-
ronmental Design (LEED), bring-
ing UF's total number of LEED
-certified buildings, building ad-
ditions and renovations to 17.
"The cost is so negligible
in comparison to the good
these energy-efficient
buildings are doing for the
environment. You get your
money's worth."
Bahar Armaghani
the assistant director of facilities
planning and construction for
LEED at UF
The five newly certified build-
ings include the Steinbrenner
Band Hall, the UF Dental Clinic
in Naples, the Bob Graham Cen-
ter for Public Service at Pugh
Hall, the IFAS Biological and Ag-
ricultural Research Facility and
the NIMET Nanoscale Research
Facility.
EBB LB7 Lfl(DLPTT I
15 W. University Ave. (352)373-48411
1 ou, NJ F 9an -0 1""
www.DTBarbershop.comLEED-certified buildings are
designed and constructed in or-
der to achieve the ultimate per-
formance and sustainability pos-
sible.
Buildings are assessed based
I
El
L
The Original Fast Food
Fruits and
veggies are
already in
their own
wrappers!
They are
a quick,
cheap, and
easy snack
to pack.I _____on factors including the way the
site is planned and the indoor
air quality of the building, said
Bahar Armaghani, the assistant
director of facilities planning and
construction for LEED on cam-pus.
UF began applying for LEED
certifications for its buildings in
2001 in an effort to go "green,"
Armaghani said.
Constructing LEED-certified
University Ave.
Stadium
_ 0
15 6
Stadium Rd. 0
2 
-
/museum Rd.
Alice3i
Union Dr.
Stadium Rd
I | rnr
2
I -SW Stadium Expansion / Ben Hill Griffin Stadium 2 -M.E. Rinker Sr. Hall 3 -Library West
4 -Steinbrenner Band Building 5 -HUB Renovation 6 -Graham Center at Pugh Hall 7 -McGuire
Center for Lepidoptera Research 8 -Powell Structures and Materials Laboratory 9 -Orthopedic Sur-
gery and Sports Medicine Institute 10 -Genetics and Cancer Research Center 11- Baseball Locker
Room Facility 12 -Veterinary Medicine Food Animal Facility 13 -Nanoscience Institute for Medical
and Engineering Technology (NIMET) Nanoscale Research Facility (NRF) 14 -Mary Ann Harn Cofrin
Pavilion 15- Legal Information and Phase II Law BuildingI
Max Weissler / Alligator Staff
1
U
~1I
GatorWell Health Promotion Services 273-4450 www.gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu
Take Time to EatSmTk -9
/buildings does not cost more than
constructing other buildings. The
United States Green Building
Council offers higher levels of
LEED certification varying from
silver to gold to platinum, Arma-
ghani said.
According to Armaghani,
platinum certifications are re-
served for the most energy-effi-
cient buildings.
Achieving these higher levels
of LEED certification and energy
efficiency does lead to higher
construction costs, according to
Armaghani.
"The cost is so negligible in
comparison to the good these
energy-efficient buildings are do-
ing for the environment," Arma-
ghani said. "You get your mon-
ey 's worth."
UF has one platinum building,
four gold buildings and two sil-
ver buildings, she said.
The Southwest Stadium Ex-
pansion is the sole platinum
structure on campus.
The buildings on the UF cam-
pus that have received gold certi-
fications are Rinker Hall, Library
West, the Steinbrenner Band Hall
and the UF Dental Clinic on the
Edison College campus in Na-
ples.
The HUB renovation and the
Graham Center at Pugh Hall
earned silver certifications from
the organization.
vs. USF @ 4 PM *Note time change*
First 250 fans at the game
will receive mini bats!
Santa Fe Student, Faculty
& Staff Night! The first 100 fans
to show a valid Santa Fe ID
will receive a Gator Softball
koozie!
CAMPUS
4a USA
Pressly Stadium.I
Admission iS EI T OP STEPNE BOMBCe
P- ,td.b~--q ---. -f I"".,& th, UAA t 800-34-GATOR Th p- ndh-,gp-
C; I ~y a C-~47 TDD)Complete LEED Certified Buildings on UF s Campus
SW 2nd Ave.
Off-campus,
LEED- Certified
GOLD
-UF Dental Clinic
(Naples)
CERTIFIED
-IFAS Biological Lake
and Agricultural
Research Facility
(Ft. Pierce)
8 13 Hull Rd.
Where DVD's Are Always
Buy One Get Two FREE!
V www.lingeriecompany.comV
Butler Plaza -Next to McAllister's Delii .
0
I
V/13
Shands
10 '
H2en4la
r+
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 9
Free Yourself
By MAX REED
need title
Reginald "Reggie Lee" Wilson is a 33-year-old
MFA student in theater performing arts, an improv
teacher and playwright.
His plays focus on raising social and political
awareness.
As a performer, Wilson lives in constant motion.
"When I wake up in the morning, I let the day de-
cide my style," he said. "The world is my stage and I
live improv -without it I'd die."
His improv class about social and political affairs
for non-theater majors for a "teaching moment."
"Improvising is all about freeing the self," Wilson
said. "You gotta know yourself to free yourself."
"When I wake up in the morning, I let the day decide
my style. The world is my stage and I live improv -
without it I'd die."
Reginald "Reggie Lee" Wilson
MFA student
He teaches the class "how to relax the ego and fo-
cus on the now."
"One very, very, very important rule is to never ne-
gate what your partner says. Always keep it moving,"
he said.
Wilson is directing his play "Scrambled Eggs,"
which deals with the violence and psychological dis-
cord that abuse victims undergo.
Wilson said he wants to show abuse from the bot-
tom up, illustrating what signs to look for and how to
cope.
The issues he raises in "Scrambled Eggs" will
jump-start National Awareness Month in April. The
showings are in Constans Studio G15 on March 27 at
7 p.m., March 28 at 2 p.m. and March 29 at 7 p.m. Ad-
mission is free.
Max Reed/ Alligator Staff
CLOCKWISE FROM TOP: Reggie Wilson screams to free himself at
the peak of auditions for Signs of Life, a hip-hop theater performance
group.
TaMarie Elise, 4, and Wilson watch as Taylor-van, 9, and Jaiden, 7, race
around the jungle gym and climb, teasing their sibling to join at Levy
Park in Tallahassee, Fla.
Wilson rehearses in the UF Constans Theatre, anticipating the feel of
the audience.
Wilson stops his improv class for a "teaching moment."
As a teacher and master's student studying theater, Wilson lives and
breathes theater. During a break between classes and rehearsals, he
stands wearing the ink on his skin as mark of his passion.
10, ALLIGATOR 0 THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
Residents react to
proposed tan tax
A tanning booth from LAE Tanning and Boutique is displayed. The tanning salon recently opened on
Newberry Road and 60th Street.0 CUSTOMERS WOULD BE
TAXED TEN PERCENT TO TAN.
By MELINDA CARSTENSEN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Tanning salon-goers seeking
bronzed bods will have to pay more
for a sun-kissed look this summer.
The new health care bill will im-
pose a 10 percent excise tax on tan-
ning salons starting July 1, and local
business owners are feeling burned.
Nancy Geisendurg, the owner of
Tan USA on Northwest 39th Ave-
nue, said the government is unfairly
discriminating against the tanning
industry by imposing the tax.
"If they had it across the board,
like [on] nail salons, masseuses -
thatwouldbe different," Geisendurg
said. "Why am I being targeted?"
Kelley Anderson, another localtanning salon owner who runs Lae
Tanning and Boutique on West Uni-
versity Avenue, agreed.
"Why pick on this industry?" she
said.
For all of the negative publicity
tanning salons get, Anderson said
there are a lot of misconceptions
about tanning and the vitamin D
health benefits it provides.
But for dermatologists and skin-
care advocates, the tax signified a
move in the right direction.
".Anytime you increase a price
on a service, you can be sure it's go-
ing to go down," said Mel Toran, the
executive director of North Central
Florida's American Cancer Society.
UF sophomore Kayla Stewart,
who tans in the winter, said the tax
may not stop her from tanning but
the change may be for the better.
"I don't blame them for it," she
said.
Marsh: Lowe's supporters could use his sexuality to his advantage
CAMPAIGN, from page 1
es on Islam and homosexuality, has made
it clear it will not support a gay mayor.
In a video posted on YouTube, Wayne
Sapp, a pastor with the Dove World Out-
reach Center, made the case that the city
of Gainesville cannot afford to have a gay
mayor.
"Here in Gainesville, they're getting
ready to have a run-off election between
two candidates, and one of them is openlya homo, gay, fag -whatever you want to
call him," Sapp said. "We got one running
for mayor of Gainesville, trying to convert
Gainesville into Homoville. We can't have
it. "
The video, which has since been re-
moved from YouTube due to a violation
of the site's terms of service, called out lo-
cal churches for not standing up for what,
Sapp said, the Bible preaches.
"We feel it's our obligation to speak
out that homosexuality is an unacceptable
lifestyle," said the Rev. Terry Jones, thechurch's senior pastor.
According to Jones, all videos put on-
line that feature Pastor Sapp or himself
have been endorsed and approved by the
Dove World Outreach Center
SpeCial church.
Report Such statements could in-
fringe upon Section 501c3 of
the IRS tax code, which regu-
lates political involvement by religious
groups.
Mike Dobzinski, the IRS spokesman for
the state of Florida, could not comment onthe church's specific case but did note that
any political participation by a religious
organization may jeopardize a church's
tax-exempt status.
As the election season continues, Marsh
said, members of Lowe's campaign could
use his sexual orientation for political ad-
vantage.
As far as using it as a political advan-
tage, Lowe and his campaign manager,
Garret Garner, were baffled.
"I don't even know how you would go
about doing that," Garner said.
HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
SBueCros BluShied
A, dl 373-0775
Form Number: 18533-599SU 3669 S.W. 2nd Avenue
Please use trash cans and clean up spills in libraries that allow food.
theAvenue thursday, march 25, 2010
opyrighted Material
Si mcatedrContent
Available from Commercial News Providersa -AM A
a.
0
Slightly Stoopid and G. Love & Special Sauce take the stage at Flavet Field Saturday for the final SGP
show of the semester. We got the inside scoop on what to expect from the band. Plus, an interview with Ben
Stiller, an all-new sexToon, your guide to pool parties, a fitness bootcamp that will whip you into shape and
more.
page 1
environment re
Film festival and events raise awareness toa e , , a. -5 4 , , e a, 211-@2
go green
By ALEX ORLANDO
avenue writer
Shirley Lasseter isn't buying her grapes
from Chile anymore. Ray Weber is cutting
down on his energy consumption. David
Montgomery is reusing plastic food con-
tainers as flowerpots.
Those are some of the changes people
have been making after seeing "The Age
of Stupid" on Friday, the first of 12 films
and documentaries as part of the 10-day
Gainesville Environmental Film and Arts
Festival.
The festival's a not-for-profit event or-
ganized by the Hippodrome State Theatre
and GoGreenNation.org.
Admission is $3 for children, $4 for
students and senior citizens and $5 for
adults.
The festival is a collection of environ-
mentalfilms, documentaries and artshows
in the Sun Center behind the Hippodrome
State Theatre.
Lasseter, the festival's co-director, said
she hopes the films will promote environ-mental awareness in Gainesville. Trish Ri-
ley is the festival's other co-director.
"We're hoping to get people from all
over the community, not just people who
already know about the environment,"
Lasseter said.
"We're hoping to get people from
X @YcA Ae e A not just
people who already know about the
environment."
SHIRLEY LASSETER
festival co-director
Lasseter said since screening the films
before bringing them to the Hippodrome,
she has been more conscious in her deci-
sions at the grocery store.
She said she had never considered how
much money and fuel it costs to ship fruit
from other countries and the effect those
shipments might have on the environment.
She said she now tries to buy local foodsexclusively.
Lasseter said she would not know how
much money the festival raised or how
many people attended until after it is
over. She estimated the Hippodrome had
received $9,000 by Thursday afternoon.
She said the budget for the event was
$25,000.
About 120 attendees mingled among
columns' wall sconces, sipping wine and
nibbling hors d'oeuvres in the softly lit
basement of the Hippodrome Theatre Fri-
day in the festival's first event, the VIP re-
ception.
VIPs were those who donated either
out-of-pocket or through their own servic-
es to the festival.
One of the VIPs at the reception was
Chris Machen, a member of the UF Sus-
tainability Committee and wife of UF Presi-
dent Bernie Machen.
"I hope we'll change some minds," Ma-
chen said. She used the example of people
who don't believe in global warming, jok-
ingly calling them "people who need more
education."ENVIRONMENTAL Film FESTIVAL EVENTS
Thursday, March 25
6:30 p.m. Green Shorts Compilation
7:30 p.m. Wild Edible Tastes and a 0-and-A session with
John Moran; Dan Rountree, Current
Problems; and Freddie Johnson, Conservation Burial, Inc.
8:00 p.m. "Numen: the Nature of Plants"
Friday, March26
7:00 to 10:00 p.m. Hippodrome Art Gallery and Art Walk
Saturday, March 27
2:00 to 9:00 p.m. Eco-Fair, Sun Center
At dusk: "Home" -Free screening outdoors at the Sun
Center
Sunday, March 28:
Exploring Our Natural Resources- Activities and outings
planned by outdoor specialists, see thehipp.org to sign up
Erica Ervin / Alligator StaffTOTAL BUMMER
By THOMAS NASSIFF
avenue contributing writer
What do you get when you
throw 90 bands on six different
venues in Gainesville? You get To-
tal Bummer, Gainesville's biggest
do-it-yourself music festival.
Total Bummer features bands
from all over the Southeastern,
and groups are coming from as
far as Wisconsin to take part in
the three-day music spectacle.
The lineup includes 15 bands who
are native to Gainesville such as
Averkio, Nervous Systems and
Quadrophones. With the genre
variety in this festival, there will
be something to suit everyone's
tastes.
Total Bummer is an effort to
help bands gain more attention,
as most groups are either still un-
signed or unknown to the masses.
The festival will run from Fri-
day to Sunday. According to Total
Bummer's Web site (totalbummer.
net), pre-sale tickets are $25 for
the entire weekend and include a
free T-shirt. They can be ordered
online or they can be purchased
at Spin Cycle. Also on the Web
site is a list of bands performing
and links to hear their music on-
line.
12, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
Ben Stiller takes on more serious role in 'Greenberg'
By MICHELLE PROFIS tion of his ankle-deep characters. YetStiller knew "It was a change to work on something that Baumbach, who wrote Greenberg with his
avenue writer almost immediately that Greenberg was a chal- was just about the character and the specificity wife, actress Jennifer Jason Leigh, considers
lenge he was ready for. of writing" Stiller said. Greenberg a 50/50 collaboration between him
Gaylord Focker, the leader of the Frat Pack and Stiller. Although Stiller didn't improvise any
and the guy from "Zoolander" who is really, really of the dialogue like he usually does in his films,
ridiculously good looking. These are all names Baumbach said Stiller inhabited the part so com-
that one uses to allude to comedic poster boy e pletely that Baumbach feels as if Stiller is just as
Ben Stiller. responsible for portraying Greenberg as he is in
An aimless, dejected 40-something? Not so creating it.
much. Butthat's precisely who Stiller plays in his "I always wanted somebody who had a sense
new film, "Greenberg," out in theaters Friday. of humorto playthis part," Baumbach said. "This
We got the chance to catch up with both wasn't a role that was created for the laughs. The
Stiller and director Noah Baumbach, who is best more authentically it was played, the funnier it
known for his Academy Award-nominated films, was going to be."
"The Squid and the Whale" and "Margot at the Also on hand to provide a behind-the-scenes
Wedding." look into the filmmaking process was LCD Sound-
At a proverbial crossroads of middle agedom, system's James Murphy, who crafted the sound-
New Yorker Roger Greenbergflees to Los Angeles track to the film.
with the intent of making sense of his life after "The goal for me was to create songs that
a mental breakdown of sorts. He sets up house were more like a backdrop for what was on
with his brother and soon encounters an unex- screen and let the soundtrack accent the emo-
pected romance with his brother's assistant, Flor- tions," Murphy said.
ence, played by Greta Gerwig. At the helm is di- The amity didn't end there. Baumbach loved
rector Baumbach, known for his bent and flawed everything Murphy did so much that he said he
character portrayals. used music more in "Greenberg" than he has in
"There are about four or five filmmakers that any other movie he's worked on.
if you get a call from, you say yes, no matter what The combination of Murphy's music, Baum-
it is," Stiller said. "Noah was one of those guys bach's superior story telling capabilities and Still-
for me." : : : : :::_:: er's portrayal creates a revealing and astute film
One would expect a comedian known for his Wilson Webb that is sure to reach across a wide demographic
mullet-wearing and crude joke telling to hesitate Ben Stiller stars in writer/director Noah Baumbach's "Greenberg", a Focus Features release For more on of indie-loving moviegoers.
to play a role so completely in the opposite direc-
Wonderland
comes to town
By JON SILMAN
avenue writer
You are cordially invited to a Mad Hatter's ball.
Don't be late for this very important date.
You've seen the new movie, and you've read all
the books and maybe even had your own "down-
the-rabbit-hole experience," so what's next? Why,
a theme party, of course.
The Network Promotions, a Gainesville-based
nightlife promotions and event planning company,
is throwing the ball tomorrow night at 10. Accord-
ing to Glenn Cameron, a company employee, Rue
Bar will be transformed into a psychedelic world
of nonsense where the bizarre and the absurd will
become the norm.
"I hired two actors, one to play Alice and one
to play the Mad Hatter. We'll also have a magi-
cian on hand and a peculiar hat contest," he said.
The hat contest is open to all, and the winner will
receive a bar tab and a cell phone from Metro
PCs.
Cameron said the decorations will include rab-
bit prints walking away from the doors and upside-
down umbrellas on the ceiling as well as paper
lanterns, Victorian chairs and a huge photo back-
ground to take photos.
"We're into doing themes because those are a
lot cooler and more fun," he said.
Cameron has been working at the company for
about a year, but he said he "kind of fell into event
planning by accident."
"I'm a biology major at UF, but I enjoy planning
and creating these events, and I'm learning a lot
about business in the process," he said. "I'm just
too far into my degree to switch majors, so I'm go-
ing to finish it out."
So remember kids, follow the white rabbit.to
Rue Bar.the film, visit filminfocus com/Greenberg and see the movie in theaters Friady night
The great debate: oral sex or cheese?
By AMELIA HARNISH Be sure to share your thoughts with us at Clitoral stimulation is an absolute must,
and MICHAEL PERRONE alligator.org/the avenue. Here, our colum- and oral is a great way to get it, but manual
avenue writers nists weigh in: can be even better when done right. Put your
She says. guy's hand on that pleasure button and keep
A debate has been raging in the Alligator Think of all the things that would be the massage goingfrom foreplaythrough the
office conference room polarizing Avenue worthless without it: pizza, club sandwiches, main event, and you won't miss oral.
staffers and nearly causing a breakdown of lasagna, even salads. Besides, I can definitely live without the
operations. Well, not exactly. But it has been Goat, feta, pepper jack, Swiss and Gouda awkwardness of having someone's face bur-
un to discuss at our weekly meetings. -bring it on, baby. I'll swim in it. ied in my crotch. And let's not forget about
If you had to give up either oral sex or Maybe I have an unhealthy attachment my aversion to head; there is nothing worse
cheese for the rest of your life, which would to this delectable staple, but without cheese, than feeling obligated to return a favor, espe-
iou surrender? Think hard now. This is se- I simply could not survive. No oral sex? For- cially if you didn't ask for it in the first place.
ious. Oral sex is a must-have and way too ever? It's a horrifyingly tough call, but I think I seem to be in the minority, at least here
un to abandon flippantly. Yet cheese has an I can manage. at UF Nearly everyone in our unscientific sur-
uncanny ability to make everything delicious I do not mean to underestimate the power vey of people on campus would prefer to give
be even more delicious. of cunnilingus -thank God this is only hypo- up my beloved. Nevertheless, I stand by my
thetical -but even with cheese.
She would give up. oral out of the picture He says.
there's always nipple No amount of cheddar, Gouda or Brie has
Cheese. "Because cheese can't always make you happy." play, dry humping ever made feel as good as getting a blow job.
Samantha, botany and my personal For me, that's all this debate boils down to.
favorite, heavy When I'm eating a grilled cheese sand-
Cheese. "Well, I'm lactose intolerant. Maybe if it was chocolate it'd be different. petting to look wich or dumping copious amounts of Par-
I'd definitely pick oral sex then." forward to. mesan into my spaghetti, only my taste buds
Rachael, linguistics are happy. The rest of my body, arteries and
Oral Sex. "There is no substitute Cheese. "it hurts my tummy, anyway. And it makes you abs included, are filled with a mixture of hate
for cheese. But there are so many fat and sleepy. I can get my calcium elsewhere." and disappointment.
other things to do sexually." Jenny, nursing Not indulging in cheese would pay divi-
Kelly, history dends in the long run. Coupled with a small-
er risk of high blood pressure, diabetes or
Cheese. "Even though I haven't received oral in quite some time I'd still heart disease is a slimmer waistline. And
Cheese. "I gave up cheese give up cheese just for the unlikely chance someone would go down with the toned body you'll earn from resist-for lent and it's not that bad. on me." ing cheese's temptations, you'll get more at-Plus, I lost weight. it's easier Jaclyn, finance tension from the ladies, which in turn, means
than you'd think." etofothlaiswhcinumas
Irena, marketing more blow jobs in yourfuture.
Speaking of hook ups to come, think
He would give up. about all those partners you won't be
able to gratify if you renounce cunni-
Cheese. "Cheese is all the same. Oral sex is different for everyone." Cheese." I just couldn't go without oral sex." lingus. Without it, your lady friends
Mike, business management Mike, engineering might end up looking elsewhere to
satisfy their oral desires.
Cheese. "Cheese doesn't make you feel as good as a Oral Sex. "I can't give up cheese. I think sticking my dick in a bowl When oral sex offers you a
blowiob." of mac 'n' cheese would do the trick anyway." longer life, better body and
Jason, health science Mike, journalism better sex, saying good-bye
to cheese is a no-brainer.Oral Sex. "Oral sex is the same. Cheddar, provolone, Muenster, Havarti, Gouda, Swiss. So inthe is of ha -
Oral Sex. "I would look like a skeleton versus what, two types of oral sex, upside-down and regular? No contest." , e interest of hap-
without cheese in my diet. What else Marc, ecology piness and health, I
would I put on my ham sandwich?" pick head.
Cameron, biology
Erica Ervin / Alligator Stafff
r
f
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010 *ALLIGATOR, 13
Atten-tion! Bootcamp pushes students to new levels
By LANCE FULLER
avenue writer
For 30 seconds, you and a partner
are shoulder- pressing a 30-pound
tire together over your head. Just
when your shoulders can't take it any-
more, you're running 40 yards at full
speed. Your jog to the next station is
your break, only to throw a 10-pound
medicine ball as hard as you can to
your partner after squatting and then
lungingforward with it. You throw back
and forth with your partner for 50 sec-
onds.
Throughout the next hour, your
body will stay in motion without any
breaks longer than 30 seconds,
which is just long enough to gulp
some water. Welcome to bootcamp.
Monday
3:30 to 430 p.m. Ben Hill
Griffin Satdium (Gate 2)
7 to 8 p.m. Norman Field
Thursday
3:30 to 4:30 p.m. Ben Hill
Griffin Stadium (Gate 2)
7 to 8 p.m. Norman FieldCreated by UF alumnus and certi-
fied personal trainer Chris Marhefka
in September, Boris' Bootcamps offer
students a one-hour class five days a
week on Norman Field that combines
strength training cardiovascular exer-
cise and stretching.
"Many people are initially intimi-
dated by working out in a group set-
ting or even by the name 'bootcamp,"'
Marhefka said. "Our workouts are
designed to challenge everyone, no
matter what your current fitness level
or experience is. We offer many varia-
tions and allow clients to work at their
own pace while keeping (them) moti-
vated for the entire session."
Boot camps differ from mostfitness
classes in that they focus on interval
Tuesday
11:30 a.mn. to12:30 p.m.
O'Connell Center Pool
7 to 8 PM Norman Field
Friday
I I a.m. to noon
Norman Field
Body by Boris also offers:
-One-on-one personal training
-Small group personal training
Body composition analysis
Nutrition counseling
Group classes
-Aquatic/swimming bootcamps
.Triathalon and sport-specific training
Erica Ervin/ Alligator Stafftraining that keeps the heart rate up
using high-intensity exercise followed
by low-intensity exercise.
For example, you may run up three
flights of stairs full speed and then do
a wall sitfor 50 seconds. After the wall
sit, you'll do calf raises with your toes
pointing inward for 30 seconds and
then run back up the stairs, repeating
this circuit numerous times.
Boot camps also differ by focusing
on performing an exercise for a spe-
cific length of time, not repetitions.
"Basically, we have an unlimited
number of workouts," Marhefka said.
"I write a new workout every night."
UF freshman Lindsey Cous-
ineau, 17, found out about Bo-
ris' Bootcamps by word of mouth
through her sorority, Delta Gamma.
Although she can utilize the different
on-campus gyms for free, Cousineau
prefers Boris' Bootcamps because
the classes are outside and more en-
gaging compared with being stuck in
a gym and counting the minutes on a
treadmill, she said.
Carlee Daylor, 20, a UF elementary
education major, said she enjoys the
fact that bootcamps require little in-
struction and skill.
"I don't really like going to the gym
a lot because I'm not very good with
the equipment and it's boring so at
boot camp, it's different. We switch
it up a lot," Daylor said. (Marhefka)
helps us with our technique, and it's
fun because we're outside and there's
a lot of people so it's easy not to get
bored."
UF student David Yergery, 21, also
prefers Boris' Bootcamps because
they help provide structure to working
out.
"Boris has been one of my friends
for about three years, and when he
told me about it, I thought it was a
great idea because I have a lot of prob-
lems trying to stay in a routine work-,g
seveniieys/ ~iigaio
UF freshman Lindsey Cousineau does a boxing exercise with personal trainer Chris
"Boris" Marhefka Students learned workout techniques during the Boris' Bootcamp
session at Norman Field Wednesday afternoon
out," he said.
Marhefka, who graduated from
UF in 2008 with a degree in finance
and a minor in entrepreneurship, said
the nickname "Boris" came from his
friends who felt that his first name
didn't match well with his Czech and
Russian ancestry, he said.
"Our muscles (including our heart
and lungs) adapt quickly to repetitive
training and growth slows or plateaus.
Classes are always differentfrom week
to week to keep our bodies guessing
and our classes interesting. In addi-
tion, we combine strength, enduranceand flexibility training so that our bod-
ies grow in a natural, healthy mannerr
without creating gaps or imbalances,"
Marhefka said.
Boris' Bootcamps are free for the
first time. Five classes cost $49 and a
month's membership cost $59. Mar-
hefka also sends out weekly e-mails to
his customers informing them about
training schedules along with fitness
tips.
For more information and to see
Boris' Bootcamps in action, check out
The Alligator's Web site at alligator.org
and go to bodybyboris.com.
Party poolside with sun, drinks
By ALLISON BANKO
avenue writer
Welcome back, Florida. It's been
about four months since we've
been graced by your usual, bright
and shining self. Our long-await-
ed warm weather is finally upon
us, and the forecast for upcoming
weeks is looking mighty delicious.
Highs will be topping out in the 70s
and lows, just on the brim of the 50s.
So sayonara Jack Frost. It's time to
party poolside.
These splash bashes have a lot
more to offer than a great tan. Danc-
ing to a DJ, getting loads of freebies
and socializing with friends are just
a few of the activities at pool par-
ties.
"There is always a lot of people
and so many things to do. I'm so
excited that they are starting up
again," Santa Fe sophomore and
frequent pool party attendee Jenna
Umlauf said.
The Estates kicked off the shorts-
wearing weather by hosting one
of their usual pool party blowouts
Saturday. The Estates pool parties
are so outrageous that its manage-
ment can't even discuss them-butif you're lucky, maybe you can
squeeze something out of its fluo-
rescent pink gorilla, who is always
on the guest list.
If you missed it, don't worry-
the plethora of spring pool parties
hasn't even scratched the surface.
The Network Promotions is hold-
ing a monumental pool party at
Gainesville Place Apartments with
special guest Percy Harvin on Sat-
urday.
Harvin, former Gator and NFL
Rookie of the
Year, will be heat-
ing it up with par-
tygoers, enjoying
complimentary
smoothies from
Tropical Smoothie
Caf6, 180" energy
drinks and sipping off of the many
free Bud Light kegs.
"The Network doesn't just have
pool parties. We put on shows at
our events. Local artist KB da Boss
will be performing a few of his
songs live," co-owner of The Net-
work Promotions Glenn Cameron
said.
Whateveryourwaterside activity
of choice maybe, partygoers shouldfollow a few tricks of the trade.
First off, keep what you bring to
the pool party to a minimum. Girls,
your bikinis won't (or shouldn't)
be equipped with pockets, so keep
it simple with sunscreen, a towel,
ID and a camera-obviously you'll
want to document the occasion and
post pictures on Facebook. To be
camera-ready, make sure that your
bathing suit matches your tan lines
because donning a farmer's tan is a
definite don't.
If you're legal to drink, perhaps
take pictures before you guzzle
down beer. Many times beer causes
bloating, so if you are concerned
about not being mistaken for a
nearby floatie, snap your pictures as
soon as possible. Also, be sure that
your swimsuit is securely fastened
because you don't want any ward-
robe malfunctions taking place dur-
ing chicken fights or possible pool-
side grinding.
But attending a pool party
doesn't mean you absolutely have
to get wet and wild. You can opt to
lay low and simply take advantage
of the weather by laying out and
soaking up the sun. People-watch-
ing is always entertaining.Fashion week ahead
By ALLISON BANKO
avenue writer
Fashion has no limits. It's
daring, risky and of course,
fabulous. Tuesday evening,
Gainesville Fashion Week and
CovetedList.com proved the ab-
sence of style's boundaries with
a fashion show that featured
outfits fitting women of all col-
ors, heights and body types.
The melting pot of models
rocked looks by Dahlia Bou-
tique, Wolfgang Boutique, Mesh
Boutique and the designer, Bob-
byK.
While the show unveiled out-
fits for every fashionista, it had
a message deeper than the sur-
face of a funky dress. The show
gave light to UF's Health and
Fitness week, promoting staying
healthy-no matter what your
dress size may be. The event,
entertaining a crowd of about125, also served as a small
taste of what's to come during
Gainesville Fashion Week and
was the first time the organiza-
tion has evertaken its runwayto
the UF campus.
All of the featured design-
ers from Tuesday's event in the
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom will
have their own runway shows
during Gainesville Fashion
Week on April 7 to 11.
Gainesville Fashion Week-
spans over a five-day period and
consists of an array of different
events dedicated to art and
fashion in the Gainesville area.
The events will showcase de-
signers from Tuesday's runway
show along with names such
as Calzatura, Kenneth McCrane
and many others.
Tickets and more informa-
tion on GFW can be found on
gainesvillefashionweek.com
and on Facebook.BORIS' IIOOTCAMP SCIIEDULE
Wednesday
I1 a.m. to noon Norman Field
7-8 p.m. Norman Field
14, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
Fashion blogs help define style scene
By ASHLEY MCCREDIE
avenue writer
Blog: Sea of Shoes
Author: Jane Aldridge
URL: seaofshoes.com
Updated: About two to four times a
week
About: Jane Aldridge takes pictures of
her surroundings and mostfamouslyof her
and her mother's fabulous outfits that they
style themselves. She frequently lists her
favorite stores, keeps us updated on her
trips, makes collages from magazines and
gives highlights of her life such as posing
for Vogue and being invited to the Crillion
Ball in Paris.
Recommended because: She puts
together the most amazing outfits with a
fresh take on style.
Blog: The Business of Fashion
Author: Multiple people referring to
themselves as the Business of Fashion
team
URL: businessoffashion.com
Updated: About every other day
About: This blog has everythingthere isto know about the business and economic
side of fashion. Its main categories include
intelligence, fashion 2.0, emerging design-
ers, global brands, CEO talk, fashion invest-
ing and inside the studio.
Recommended because: There is more
to fashion than just designing.
Blog: The Sartorialist
Author: Founded by Scott Schuman but
published by multiple authors and photog-
raphers
URL: thesartorialist.blogspot.com
Updated: Daily
About: The Sartorialist is a troupe of
about 17 male and female photographers
who travel around the world photographing
stylish people on the streets. They mainly
cover NYC, Paris and Milan but have been
known to photograph wherevertheir travels
take them. The blog is a simple column of
photos with a headline about the style of
the photo subjects.
Recommended because: It gives a
good sense of how people are dressing
around the world because the authors fo-
cus on actual fashion, notjust trends.Blog: Fashionista
Author: Britt Aboutaleb and Lauren
Sherman
URL: fashionista.com
Updated: Multiple times per day
About:This bloghas more of a magazine
feel. It takes all fashion-related information
and puts it into an easy-to-read short blog
format. It covers models, fashion business,
recent magazine spreads, runways, the lat-
est collections and the most stylish people
of the week.
Recommended because: In 10 min-
utes you can catch up on all the fashion
news and greatest photo shoots.
Blog: Fashionably Social
Author: Amanda Del Duca and Michele
Sadkin
URL: fashionablysocial.wordpress.com
Updated: About every day
About: Fashionably social blogs about
fashion, pop culture and the latest in Mi-
ami. They comb through cyberspace foryou
and show you only the best stuff.
Recommended because: The blog is
in touch with South Florida style and inter-
ests.S
r
SE A 0
SHOES
S H 0 EC
* e
american merican breakfast 8 uban ozen trec
Cafe Gardens The Swamp lunch IiOmi Kitchen Karma Cream
For over a third of a century,
the Original World Famous
Cafe Gardens has been serving
Gators with delicious food and
a large selection of beers and
wines. Located just across from
campus near the Florida Book
Store, this quaint landmark es-
tablishment with award winning
courtyard dining is perfect for
any date or gathering. For live
music schedule, call 376-2233.
Hours: Mon-Wed 11 am-1 Opm,
Thurs-Sat 11am-1 am,
Sun Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave. Join us on
Thursday late nights for "Mid-
night in the Garden" with Food
& Drink specials and DJ.
cafegardens.net
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and Stacks.
The only way to describe the
Stack is that it is outrageously
delicious! Its uniquely differ-
ent presentation -three 6 inch
flour tortillas stacked high with
fresh grilled ingredients and just
the right accent of cheese -is
strangely inviting to ones palate.
Come out and try our 1/3 lb
Burgers, steak seasoned Pan-
chos & Fresh Baked Brownies.
Many vegetarian options avail-
able including the The Home
Grown and Homemade Black
Bean Hummus! Now serving
draft and red Stripe beers! We
deliver! Open late to serve your
late night cravings!
Sun-Wed:11 am-3am. Thurs -
Sat: 11 am-4am. 34th St. Plaza
(Sweetbay)@ 2124 SW 34th St.
672-6111
www.jdoobies.comlestourant
The Swamp Restaurant has
been the gathering place for ga-
tors of all ages for the past 15
years. It's your first stop in town
& your last chance to see Gator
memorabilia for as far back as
1994. Our food and staff are
award winning. Always make
the Swamp your only stop for
lunch, dinner and drinks on our
famous front lawn. The Swamp
Restaurant-Where Gatorsm
gather. Open 1G1:00am-2:00am-
Daily food and drink specials
and happy hour from 4-8pm.
www.swamprestaurant.com
1642 W. University Avenue
(352) 37-SWAMP
barbecue
David's BBQ
MARCH MADNESS $5.99 Pork
Plate All day everyday at David's
BBQ. Voted #1 in Gainesville.
Mon-Sat 7am-9pm. Drive thru
until 9:30. FREE WIFI. 352-
373-2022. Have Gatorfood.com
deliver David's BBQ to you!43rd Street Deli and
Breakfast House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to
for over 25 years -we probably
served your parents. Biggest
4 egg omelette, French toast,
and daily specials. Not full yet?
Have lunch with us & enjoy a
large selection of sandwiches,
the best Reuben, gyros, and
soup all at a reasonable price.
Vegetarian? Not a problem. We
have a selection that is sure to
fulfill your needs. We now offer
free WiFi! Open All day Every
day 7am-3pm. 4401 NW 25th
Place 373-2927. 3483 Williston
Rd 373-5656. Conveniently
Located off I-75
cracker
cuisine
IThe Yeorling
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog
legs, and alligator, as well as
USDA Prime beef, seafood,
grits, greens & hush puppies.
Open Thursday & Friday 5pm-
10pm, Saturday 12pm-1Opm &
Sunday 12pm-8:30pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999
www.theyearlingrestaurant.com
I1Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301
ozen lf&OI-5
D'Lites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
d'licious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly without
the diet taste. We also feature a
whole array of cookies, chips, and
various grocery treats that appeal
to Atkins@, Weight Watchers@,
and other dieters. Our every day
daily specials make shopping
at D'Lites a special value!
Come weigh your options at
the Marketplace Plaza at NW
16th Blvd. and 43rd St. (next to
the Hollywood Video) or at the
Shoppes of Williston at S.W. 34th
Street and Williston Rd. (next to
Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!
I1t5
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts,
loose leaf teas, and beer, with
lots of vegan options. Now open
24 hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
blocks east of campus at 1025 W.
University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve frozen
yogurt as a healthy dessert
alternative. Our yogurt has 0%
fat and contains live and active
cultures. Choose any combination
of 8 different flavors and over 30
toppings. Everything for just 45
cents an ounce. 3841 SW Archer
Rd (next to Bento Red) Open
from noon to midnight daily!
Manuel's Vintage
Room
This family owned restaurant is
perfect for dinner any day of the
week. Come in and check out
one of the best wine lists in town.
Ask questions and learn while
you wait for the chef to put out
nothing but goodness from the
kitchen using fresh, simple, and
local ingredients. Try the Early
Dinner Sunday, Tuesday-Thurs-
day 5-7pm. $3 wines/$1 0 bottles.
$10 Menu. Ask about our Monday
Wine Dinners and private parties
for lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
St. (352)375-7372
I
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010 *ALLIGATOR, 15
Festival brings worldy beers
By RICHARD 0. STEHLI
avenue writer
Take it from me: There is no better way to
spend a weekend than drinking good beer and
eatingfree food. If these activities are relevantto
your interests, look no further than The Greater
Gator Beer Festival. This Saturday, for the price
of admission, you get ample helpings of food
from local restaurants, premium entertainment,
and most importantly -unlimited beer samples
from across the country and around the world.
Big national names like Budweiser, Michelob,
and Yuengling are sure to be in attendance with
beer you already know you love. From the state
of Florida, expect to see Keywest Brewery prod-
ucts and one of my personal favorites, Orange
Blossom Pilsner. Other domestic craft brewer-
ies will be on hand as well, such as Colorado's
Oskar Blues Brewery, New York's Southern Tier
Brewery and Maine's Shipyard Brewery, makers
of the fall favorite, Pumpkinhead.
The only thing more exciting than the selec-
tion of domestic beer at your fingertips might be
the imported beer available at the festival.
After your first few beers this weekend, you
might feel the need to get some solid food in
your stomach, and the festival has you covered:
Several local restaurants will be on hand with
unlimited food to satisfy your hunger and keepyour blood-alcohol content in check. This year's
festival will be catered by BubbaQue's, Panama
Joe's, Hungry Howie's and Beef '0' Brady's, just
to name a few.
To get the most out of your Greater Gator
Beer Festival experience, start slow and pace
yourself. Think quality over quantity and diversi-
ty over familiarity. Aim to try things you've never
had before and take the time to wait in a line for
something you know you want.
Most importantly, have someone pick you up
when the event is over. You will be drinking beer
for several hours, and if you drink anywhere near
your money's worth, you will notBehind be good to drive. If you some-
how fail to plan accordingly, the
festival offers a service to take
you home at no cost.
The Greater Gator Beer Festival will take
place Saturday from 1 to 5 p.m. at Magnolia
Parke, 4700 NW 39th Ave. Tickets are $30
online, $35 at the gate and $40 for online-
only Instant In passes -this means no waiting
in line when you arrive at the event. You can
buy $25 advance tickets at Art of Billiards, Beef
'0' Brady's, Gator Beverage, Gator's Dockside,
Stubbies, Mother's, Kazbor's Sports Grille and
BJ's Pub & Grill.
Check the Alligator online next Monday for
photos, videos and other news from the festival.~ 
-4 (
_4- -
..
indion 8
vegetarian
Green Mango
The best Indian food in Gaines-
ville. Serving Gainesville since
1991. The best Samosas in
Florida. Offering many vegan
dishes. We are specialized in
catering any group size. Delivery
available-free delivery on any
purchase over $25! Open 7 days
Mon-Sat 11:30am-9pm, Sunday
1 pm-8pm. Call 352-505-6200.
7625 W Newberry Rd
amaican
Caribbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
and oxtail. Opened Mon thru
Thurs 11 am-7:30pm, Fri & Sat
11am-11:45pm
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
352-374-8111
japone~e
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a hip,
trendy atmosphere. Two great
locations with outside eating.
Open every day for carry-out
or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.ke w&e5t
Cabana Cove
Keg West Grill
Open for lunch and dinner.
Full martini and mojito bar.
Voted nicest outdoor dining.
Try one of our 1/2 gourmet
salads for under $5.
COUPON -DATE NIGHT -
COUPON
Save $5 off your next visit of
$25 or more.
Online ordering & delivery
available.
Call ahead seating.
2410 NW 43rd Street
Gainesville
352-377-3278
Please visit us online at www.
cabanacove.net for additional
savings and coupons.
chine,5e
Green Plantains
The best MoFongo, churrasco,
& chotan in town. $5 To-Go
Dinners. Mon-Sat from 4pm.
Don't miss out $4.95 dinner +
soda on Thursday, student night
from 4pm-10pm. Visit us at
5150 SW 34th Street at the new
Publix Shopping Center 7 days
a week. We cater. Check us out
on Gatortood.com
352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.comJocal 8
organic
THE JONES
Gainesville's own independently
owned community restaurant
dedicated to bringing sustain-
able, local, and organic food
to the table. Oh, and it's really
yummy. Herbivores, carnivores,
& omnivores welcome! NOW
SERVING DINNER EVERY
NIGHT! New hours: open every
day 8am-1Opm. Check out our
facebook page for specials and
events. 401 NE 23rd Avenue.
352.373.6777
New Deal Cofe
BURGERS! BURGERS!
BURGERS!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burger! This 12oz burger
is Naturally Aged and Fresh
Ground. CHEAP Wines $5/
Glass and 20 bottles under $20.
OPEN LATE servering HUGE
Martini's and cakes to DIE for!
Mon-Thurs. 11am-1Opm. Fri &
Sat. 11am-11pm
371-4418
newdealcafegainesville.com
Real Food Made By Real
Chefs. .You Should Feel Guilty
If You Haven't Eaten Here Yet!
mexican
Boca Fiesta
Best Margaritas in Town!
Fresh-squeezed + all natural!
Tasty tacos, burritos, nachos!
Cheap beer, full bar, open late!
Now serving brunch!
232 SE 1st St Downtown
336-TACO!neighborhood
oar 8gril
Farah's on the
Avenue
Farah's on the Avenue
now celebrating 30 years
in Gainesville! Located on
University Avenue, between
Modern Age and Bank of
America, just minutes from UF.
Farah's is newly remodeled and
offers a cozy, fun atmosphere
with a fireplace, the area's
largest indoor atrium and an
open air patio. Farah's also
boasts a fall bar and seven new
tlat screen TVs airing a variety
ot sports programming. The
extensive menu features award-
winning wings and burgers as
well as vegetarian and vegan
fare. Perfect for private events
or casual dining. Now offering
"smoke till you choke" hookah
specials on Friday and Saturday
and drink specials all week
long, including $1.50 Pabst, $5
pitchers, $2 wells.
Hours: MO & TU 11am-10pm,
WE & TH 11am-12am,
FR &SAT 11am-2am.
1120 W. University Ave. 378-5179.
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta & desserts. All you can
eat buffet available! Outdoor
dining. Visit www.newyorkpiz-
zaplus.com for coupons. We
Deliver! 490 NE 23rd Ave.
377-2542vegetarion
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade, meals,
sandwiches, soups, home-baked
desserts. Brunch Weekends.
Specials: Cupcake Mon.,
Southern Cooking Tues., Greek
Wed 6pm, Ethiopian Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 10am-8pm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
viefnome~se
Saigon Legend
Delicious traditional Vietnamese
cuisine with popular Asian
favorites. Pho-Banh Xeo, Banh
Tom Ha-Noi. Enjoy great food
at great prices. Family owned
restaurant. Next to Holiday Inn.
Vietnamese subs-porkchicken, &
tofu. Dine-in or take out. Catering
available. Mon-Sat 10:30am-
9:30pm, Sun 11 :3am-pm,
374-0934,1228 W. Univ Ave
I@f ma d2 @b~1 @2 1
I--9L~o
~O o K
16, ALLIGATOR +THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
Slightly Stoopid, G. Love & Special Sauce play free show
By ASHLEY MCCREDIE
avenue writer
UF will be taken over by bluey-hip-
hop and funky-punk-reggae beats on
Saturday.
Student Government Productions
Music & Entertainment is bringing
Slightly Stoopid and G. Love & Special
Sauce to Flavet Field for free from 6
p.m. to 10 p.m.
The event is in conjunction with
IRHApalooza, and in addition to great
music there will be bounce houses,
cotton candy and snow cones.
SGP has spent $85,000 on this
show, according to SGP chairman Aar-
on Crespin.
"We have pulled out all the stops
and are excited for an extremely uplift-
ing day," Crespin said.
Disneynature is also sponsoring
the show.
The Avenue had a chance to sit
down with Slightly Stoopid's drum-
mer Ryan "RyMo" Moran before he
chomped down on some food at his
California home.
A -What does Slightly Stoopid do
to get ready for a show?
R- Typically, we get to our place, get
to the venue early, get our stuff set up,
hang out, eat a little bit, sound check,
have dinner, throw back a cocktail or
two.
A -What's your cocktail of choice?
R -We've got a few, but right now a
lot of the guys are drinkin' Grey Goose
with Gatorade and a splash of soda or
a splash of Red Bull.
A -What is the band's creative pro-
4th Annual
Mutts and Pups
Dog Show
Presented by High
Springs Main Street
a 501 (c)3 Corporation
Saturday March 27th, 20 10
loam -3pm
James Paul Park, High Springs
Choose from 11 fun categories to show
your dog
Entrance fee -$10 per dog
Additional Categories -$5
Alachua Humane Societ on site
with adoptable dogs and
free rnicro-chippinjg
For inloriation Contact:
Tinai Prizarinent 352-672-5308
farmersmarket.highsprings.comcess for making songs, and who usu-
ally comes up with the lyrics?
R -Typically Miles and Kyle, the
founding members of the band. Ba-
sically they usually have the lyrics in
mind, and then musically it's more of
a collective effort.A -What should UF expect from the
show on Saturday?
R -I think it's just going to be a big
fun party. If you've ever seen G. Love or
ever seen Slightly Stoopid, we're just
about having a good time. You know,
have a couple of drinks, have somefun, forget your cares and let yourself
just kind of flow with the music for a
couple of hours.
A -Can we expect to see you guys
out around the UF party scene after
the show?
R -Absolutely! Are you kidding me?
Jared Milgrim
Slightly Stoopid members Miles Doughty, Kyle McDonald, Ryan Moran, Oguer Ocon, DeLA and C-Money jam out above The band
will hit the stage at Flavet Field Saturday from 6 to 10 p m with G Love & Special Sauce The show is free and open to the public
Visit oaksvet.com
or call us to learn about
health care for your pets
University of Florida Veternarians
PaD = a a~ L2 -
Oaks Veterinary Hospital
229 NW 75th St.
(Tower Rd. by Home Depot)
332.7387(PETS)Northwood Oaks Veterinary Hospital
5331 NW 34th St.
(North of YMCA on 34th St.)
373.7387(PETS)Yeah for sure, I mean that's what we
like doing: hanging out with our folks
after the show's over.
A -Do you have any memorable
experiences from college?
R -The whole experience was great.
I loved being in college. It was my first
time being out of the house, so I kind
of went huge for a little while and then
kind of figured out my limits.
A -Does Slightly Stoopid have any
albums in the works?
R -At this point in time we're just
starting to record and get some ideas
together. (We) will probably have an al-
bum out by fall this year or maybe as
late as spring next year.
A -If you could pick any musician or
group to play with, who would it be?
R -I'd really want to tour with the
(Red Hot) Chili Peppers. I think that'd
be fun. They seem like cool guys.
A -Words of wisdom for the UF
community?
R -Be cool and stay in school. And
come out and have good time when
you come to the show. Just bringsome
smiles and enjoy the music.
The Philidelphia-based band G.
Love & Special Sauce was formed in
the early '90s by front man Garrett
Dutton, aka G. Love. The band has
released eight albums and have hits
such as "Peace, Love and Happiness,"
"Baby's Got Sauce" and "Rodeo
Clowns."
Slightly Stoopid, also formed in the
early '90s, is straight out of San Diego.
The band has cranked out hits such as
"Chronchitis," "Everything You Need"
and "Closer to the Sun."
a gatorSSTUDEN ANS ON ANYTHING
Tune in for the latest GatorsTools
sports news and analysis from our We buy gold & cash checks
beat writers and columnists. BEST JEWELRY & LOAN
Check it out on alligatorSports org or 523 NW d Aver(352) 371-4367
subscribe on iTunes paw brkr I
a - a. 0. 0 d~JThe Alligator has sales intern positions available for
the Summer semester.You will receive classroom
training,firsthand sales experience, and an
opportunity to improve your communication skills.
This resume builder offers a flexible schedule with
a minimum of 10 hours per week.
alligat -or)
tuant
GUIDE2010
wf0)11'yi
II
18, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, U THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
~What s Off Campus
UF's Office of Off CampusLife advocates for your
rights in the community
and provides support services and
education to better your off cam-
pus experience with the ultimate
goal of helping you develop into
a globally-conscious Gator. OCL
aims to provide programs and ser-
vices that will prepare you to be
a great Gator neighbor, here in
Gainesville or wherever the road
may take you.
The Office of Off Campus Life,
which is part of UF's Division of
Student Affairs, has been provid-
ing support services and resources
to UF students living off campus
since 2004. OCL's support servic-
es and resources include:
Students can find off-campus
housing, roommates, and informa-
tion like rent, room size, location,
etc. at this free online site. Go to
http://housing.offcampus.ufl.edu
to use this resource.
A free publication that provides
tips and resources for finding the
right apartment, budgeting info,
safety tips, keeping your electriccosts low, a map of the city, and
much more. To get a copy of the
Gator Guide, visit OCL's office at
202 Peabody Hall or visit our web-
site at www.offcampus.ufl.edu.
OCL sends a monthly elec-
tronic newsletter to all 39,000+ off
campus students. Topics include
safety information, monthly spe-
cific resources and opportunities,
fun stuff, and much more. If you
would like to receive the OCL
newsletter visit the OCL website
www.offcampus.ufl.edu and click
on the listserv link.
A student group that focuses on
civic engagement within the great-
er Gainesville community. Weekly
meetings take place at various city
locations including City Hall, GPD,
and the fire station. Local officials
and OCL staff lead the class to fos-
ter greater awareness of being part
of a community.
OCL hosts a panel discussion
on new topics every month whileproviding a free lunch to both pan-
elists and audience members.
OCL wants to cater their ser-
vices and programs to your needs.
Every month, OCL hosts a free
breakfast where you can give us
feedback while we feed you.
Keep an eye out for our office
mascot, Buzz. Learn more about
OCL's services and events and get
free swag like color-changing cups,
reusable grocery bags, and cool
pens.
Visit our website www.offcam-
pus.ufl.edu for information about
Off Campus Life resources and
services. Join our facebook group
at facebook.com/UF Off Campus
Life. Follow us on twitter at twit-
ter.com/UFOffCampusLife.
OCL1ife'
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from UF Student Legal Services and UF's Office of Off Campus Life, but is not intended to be a substitute for legal advice.
TJI
C=
Ii
ONL6Y
BLOCKS
FROM UF
352.338.7467J contact us for other specials available.rFlorida's Residential Landlord and Tenant Act, Sections 83.40 to
83.682, Florida Statutes (2005), is referred to as "the Act' in this pub-
lication. Most libraries have copies of Florida Statutes if more specific
information is needed. Florida Statutes are also available online through
the Florida Legislature's Homepage. (http://www.leg.state.fl-us
Explanations of the Act have statement applicability, but any specific
references to Gainesville or Alachua County apply only to those areas.
The rental of mobile homes or mobile home lots is not covered in the
Act. If you have a problem in this area, you should contact an attor-
ney.
This is an educational tool and not a guide for the practice of law.
Once a problem has been identified, an attorney must be contacted to ob-
tain specific advice. Full-time University of Florida students can receive
free legal advice from Student Legal Services. The office is located at
368 J. Wayne Reitz Union.
Call 392-LAWS (5297) for further information.
If you are not a full-time University of Florida student, contact The
Florida Bar Lawyer Referral Service at 800-342-8011 or 850-561-5844.
Law is subject to change. All material is correct as of January 2007.
This original publication was written by Larry D. Givens and edited
by Cheryl E. Cain and Sandra F. Chance of the University of Florida
Student Legal Services. Opinions expressed do not necessarily reflect
those of the University of Florida, Student Government, the Board of
Trustees, or the State of Florida.
Copyright 1993 by Student Legal ServicesSPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
I
13" T R I ITL
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010 U STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 19
whereyou
Dovntovin Lr-rl
Bill
A RL INGTON
SQUARE
0mlISPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
I
60 1 =0 9 nB I " :[ Mal
20, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, U THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
zU -SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
NW 39th Ave.
I',
-ciI'NM
zNW 16th Ave.
NW 8th Ave.
JIL)NE 23rdAve. bQP
0
IV
Depot
Ave.
SW 20th Ave.
41-J
L1)Nsh Place
N
Woodlands
MMNID 1055 SW 62nd Blvd.
See our ad on page 21>-'Cottage Grove
4600 SW 13th St.
See ad on page 23.-UUniversity House
725 NW 13th St.
See ad on page 18.
O LSeinhg o-e n " flLexington Crossing
3700 SW 27th St.
See ad on page 22. POLOSThe Polos
2330 SW Williston Rd.
See ad on page 19.e ,Arlington Square
207 SE 2nd Place
See ad on page 19.
Gainesville Place
2800 SW 35th Place
See ad on page 22.Campus Lodge
Bus Routes: 9, 34, 35 & 36
See ad on page 25.Lakewood Villas
LVKEWOD 01 700 SW 62nd Blvd.
See ad on page 30.
Spyglass
1701 SW 62nd Blvd.
See ad on page 30.Cricket Club
505 SW 72nd Way
See ad on page 23.Cabana Beach
1601 SW 51st Terr.
See ad on page 24.W0
'lAve.
ell
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010 U STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 21
Gainesville has plenty of off-campus housing including apartments,
condos, houses, and rooms for rent. Take your time when looking for
a place to live and follow the tips below for finding the right place for
you:
+ Use the Off Campus Housing Locator Service at http://housing.
offcampus.ufl.edu.
+ Know your budget and choose a property that allows you to live
within your means.
w Create a priority list. What do you care about most in a liv-
ing space? Room size, rent, type of lease, type of community (large
undergrad population, graduate students, local residents, etc.), location,
proximity to campus or bus route.all these things are factors to consider
in choosing a place to live. Write out a list of ideal characteristics you
want in your future living space and keep these criteria in mind when
selecting a location.
+ Choose a well-suited roommate or choose to live alone. Know
what kind of person would best compliment your personality and
choose accordingly.
+ Drive around and visit the place and neighborhood you are look-
ing to live in.
+ Take a tour of the complexes or houses that interest you, ask
questions, and get to know the complex management or rental house
landlord.
+ Ask your friends for advice on where to live. Which properties
worked well for them? Which didn't?
+ Check with local Law Enforcement for crime statistics on the area
you choose to live in by calling 352-955-1818.
+ Go back to the property at night and make some observations. Is
it well lit, do you see the security guard that management promised, is
the security gate working, is it quiet enough to study, how close is the
bus stop or parking to the complex or house, etc.?
+ Once you've narrowed down your search make an appointment
with UF's Student Legal Services by calling 352-392-LAWS or visit their
website www.studentlegalservices.ufl.edu for more information. SbS
can help you in reviewing the lease BEFORE you sign it. This is a great
way to know what your legal responsibilities will be under that lease.
+ Gainesville is a GREAT place to rent and live so have fun with
your search.~Leases~
ake sure you read and fully
understand all aspects of the
ee before signing. A lease
is a contract between you and your
landlord that spells out specific details
of your living arrangement Leases
often involve policies about pets, secu-
rity and pet deposits, legal entry and
other important information. Typi-
cally, leases in Gainesville are for 12
months. If you will need your place for
10 months or less, talk with the man-
agement about whether they can pro-
vide you a shorter term lease. There
are two types of leases that are usually
available, Joint Leases and Individual
Leases.
All roommates are held responsible
for the lease. If one person breaks the
lease, the other roommates are held
responsible for paying the total rent.
This tends to be the lease more promi-
nent when renting a house or single
family dwelling.
Each person is held responsible for
his or her own actions. For instance,
if one roommate breaks the lease, thatperson is still responsible for paying
their own rent. For most college stu-
dents, individual leases are the best
choice. Each person in the lease is
responsible for his or her own actions
and not the actions of a roommate.
+ Dates of occupancy
+ Amount of monthly rent and the
date it is due each month
+ Amount of Security Deposit
+ Responsibility for payment of
utilities
+ Responsibility for general mainte-
nance and repairs
+ Sublease: If you sign a 12 month
lease but think you may need the
dwelling for a shorter period of time,
make sure the lease allows you to sub-
lease (rent your dwelling to another
person who will assume the remainder
of your lease)
+ Pet policy
+ Automatic renewal clause
+ Type of lease: joint vs. individual
+ At management's discretion, the
tenant may be asked to leave within
three days
+ Tenant waives all defects in thebuilding
+ Landlord shall not be responsible
for injury to person, including tenant
and guests, as a result of any cause
+ Tenant is responsible for all re-
pairs to premises
+ Landlord may enter dwelling
without notice
+ Landlord has a lien (a legal claim
on the property of another as security
for the payment of a debt) on all per-
sonal property of tenant
A great University of Florida re-
source available to full-time students is
Student Legal Services. For any ques-
tions on your lease, contact Student
Legal Services and set up an appoint-
ment with a lawyer to help review
it BEFORE you sign it. Visit www.
studentlegalservices.ufLedu or call 352-
392-LAWS for more information.
k
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from UF Student Legal Services and UF's Office of Off Campus Life, but is not intended to be a substitute for legal advice.SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
22, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, U THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
Att ICtUSIVE 2&4BEDROOM SUITES
mcI.I@#M*i PciId we~TfTEY21 I r 2RTT~I7U
gtonC-rossiongU F
Rats as IoW as.0Om
)
Lexington Crossing Apartments
3700 SW 27th St.
Gainesville FL, 32608
P -352.373.9009
F * 352.377.7885
fauobookoonm/'LexingtonCaossingwV w w.V xSPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010 U STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 23
roommates~
J{aving a roommate is a greatway to divide the cost of living
f campus, but if you don't
find the right person to live with, liv-
ing off- campus could be challenging.
Below are some tips that will help you
if you are thinking about living with a
roommate.
+ Communication is key. Talk
about your budget for housing, ex-
pectations for safety, expectations for
guests, and what your housing needs
are before you even begin your search.
Being on the same page as your room-
mates will make your co-habitation ex-perience much better and reduce the
possibility of conflict.
+ Start with a friend or sibling.
These are often good options for room-
mates since you already know them.
+ Consider a person you went to
high school with or a friend you have
made while here at UF.
+ Before moving in, come to an
agreement about who will get which
bedroom and bathroom along with
which cabinets/storage space each per-
son can use.
+ Discuss how payment of rent and
bills will take place. Is each personresponsible for their own bills or will
someone be in charge of collecting pay- Both personal and property safety is important as you search for off-
ment from each roommate? campus housing. Before signing a lease, contact local law enforcement
+ Don't have someone you want to at 352-955-1818 with the addresses of where you are looking to live and
live with? Some apartment complexes they can give you crime statistics for that area.
offer "roommate matching" or "room- Below are five tips to use when looking at safety during your apart-
mate placement." ment search:
+ Roommate matching: You fill out
a survey and management attempts to 1. Go back to the complex at night. How do you feel? How
match you with like roommates based oes the environment seem? Is the place well lit and populated or dark
on the form and isolated?
+ Roommate placement -Apart- 2. Check security. Does the property have working security gatesment management places you in any and/or guards?open space they have available
+ Make sure you can change apart- 3. Check Locks. Check for dead bolts on the outside door, locks
ments if the complex places you with for individual doors, alarm systems, etc. and ask lots of questions about
roommates you are not compatible the security. Is there an extra charge for a security system?
with.
+ Look for roommates on the Off 4. Research crime statistics. Has there been crime in the area
Campus Housing Locator at: http:// recently? What actions have been done to prevent crime from hap-
housing.offcampus.ufl.edu. pening?
+ Being friends with someone and
living with a friend can be two totally 5. Get insurance. Don't forget about purchasing some Renter's
different things. See the Gator Guide Insurance to protect you and your stuff from the unexpected.
to Off Campus Life for some tips on
how to stay friends while living to- Go to the Off Campus Life website at www.offcampus.ufl.edu/
gether at www.offcampus.ufLedu/ toplO.php for more personal and property safety tips.
gatorguide.php
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from UF Student Legal Services and UF's Office of Off
Campus Life, but is not intended to be a substitute for legal advice.
~ wimmin Polcomnt Cubhouse,
24Hour iness Cente Prvate Gated E ntrance,PetFr endly 1,2 & 3 Bedrooms Available
Granite Countertops, Mapie Cabinets, Private
B Ithrooms screened Lanais Full Size Washer &
Dryer, Water and Sewer
/7 J7 i/YH4505 SW 72ND WAY
(352) 331-4546
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK
Gain esvilleCricketClub. com c& FAPM,
-A
'Y(Bud's % Prie Bedding
You
,BETTER
WH EN
LESS
STAND
OUT!
Advertise in the country's
largest college newspaper.
With a daily circulation of
35,000 and a daily readership
of 52,000, reach the Gainesville
college community.
Contact us at [352] 373.4482.
alligfo-rSpecial Summer
package for students:
includes move-out,
storage, and move
MOVING & STORAGE back in the fall
352-374-4791
Relax. Let Move you.-
Log on for a free quote at
W4SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
L ir
17 W10
24, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, U THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
Insurance~L f you are thinking about renting a
house or apartment, Renters Insur-
ce provides important coverage
for both you and your possessions. A
standard Renter's Policy protects your
personal property in case of theft or
damage and may pay for temporary
living expenses if your rental is dam-
aged (including loss of use). It can also
shield you from personal liability. Any-
one who leases a house or apartment
should consider this type of coverage.
Talk with your parents before
getting your own renter's policy. If
you are still financially dependent on
your parents or a family member and
they own a home, they might be able
to cover you under their homeowner's
policy. Some homeowner policies will
cover a dependent's rental property
Check with the office of Off-
Campus Life at (352) 392-2161, ext.
214, or their web site http://www.dso.
ufl.edu/offcampus for assistance.
Rental opportunities may also
be found in the classified sections of
The Gainesville Sun, The Independent
Florida Alligator, and bulletin boards
around campus.
legal Assistance
+ UF Students (full-time):
Student Legal Services
368 J Wayne Reitz Union
Gainesville, FL 32611-8505
phone: 352 392 5297
* All others:while in college.
There are several types of Floods, earthquakes, and hurricanes
Residential Insurance policies. Read aren't on the list. If you live in an area
your policy information carefully and prone to one or more of the three,
ensure you have full coverage. Policies you'll need to buy a separate policy
should include the following items: or a rider. In areas where hurricanes
+ Fire or lightning can pose a threat, you might also need
+ Windstorm or hail to buy a separate rider to cover wind
+ Explosion damage. Ask your insurance agent
+ Aircraft about this extra coverage. Gainesville
+ Vehicles is prone to hurricanes and some areas
+ Smoke flood.
+ Vandalism or malicious mischief Your living environment plays a
+ Theft major factor in your overall happiness
+ Damage by glass or safety-glazing level. Know what you want to get out
material that is part of a building of your living space and choose your
+ Falling objects location and roommate(s) accordingly.
+ Water-related damage from home Gainesville is home now so let Off
utilities Campus Life help you get the most out
+ Electrical surge damage of your off-campus experience.
Florida Bar Referral Service phone: 850 488 3022
Tallahassee, FL
phone: 800 342 8011 1 IAss e
Complaints:
t Ass e- Repairs City of Gainesville Codes
+ Complaints: Enforcement
Security Deposits, Sanitation 200 E University Ave. PO Box 490
Department of Business Gainesville, FL 32609
Regulation Division of Hotel and phone:352 334 5030
Restaurants -Alachua County Codes Enforcement
7960 Arlington Expressway phone: 352 374 5244
Jacksonville, FL 32211
phone: 904 727 5540 I i : ft
* Complaints, all others: f f
Department of Agriculture and + Nora Kilroy Off-Campus Life
Consumer Services 202 Peabody Hall Gainesville, FL 32611
407 S Calhoun StTallahassee, FL 32299 phone: 352 392 2161Ext. 214
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from UF Student Legal Services and UF's Office of Off Campus Life, but is not intended to be a substitute for legal advice.
Fusion of South Beach and the Islands
U
Exotic Student Living
U
Now leasing for FALL!
U
Rates as low as $334!
U
2 and 4 bedroom villas -modern furniture
lagoon style pool -poolside beach
poolside wireless access -fitness room
computer lab -movie lounge
Gainesville, FL 32billiards -beach volleyball -basketball
607 * 352.335.2000 1601 SW 51st TerraceSPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
L RPM*
SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
LW ID Lo Itrbk=nag tfi
Tn Gainesville, there is a glut of available apart-
ments. You should examine several apart-
.nents before signing a lease.
+ Application Deposits: Never put down
a deposit to hold an apartment unless you have
a written agreement indicating whether it is re-
fundable.
+ Cost: Can you afford it? Even if your
roommates leave?
+ Location: Is the neighborhood safe? Even
at night? Are you within easy walking or cycling
distance of campus? Are buses available?
+ City Limits: Gainesville protects tenants
by enforcing housing codes. The city will order
landlords to make repairs. If a complaint is filed,
Alachua County will inspect apartments and is-
sue a report of violations.
+ Model Apartments: Never sign a lease
based upon a model. Insist on seeing your actual
apartment.
+ Pest Control: Does the landlord maintain
a regular spraying program? +
+ Function: Check appliances, run water
in all sinks, showers and tubs, flush toilets, and
check air conditioning and heating.
+ Appearance: Is it clean? Do the carpets
look worn or smell bad? Has the apartment beenrecently painted? Do the walls have nail holes?
+ Inventory: Note all defects on the inven-
tory sheet or check-in list signed by the landlord
or an impartial witness. Photograph or videotape
the apartment at move in.
+ Landlord: Speak to tenants of the apart-
ment complex. Does the landlord make a habit
of unannounced entries? Are repairs made
quickly?
+ Noise and Parking: Check for noise and
parking problems by visiting the apartment at
various times during the day, at night and on
weekends.
+ Safety: Are there deadbolts on the doors?
Are hallways and parking lots well lit? If there
are sliding glass doors, are there adequate locks to
deter forced entry? You can contact the Alachua
County Sheriff's Office or the Gainesville Police
Department to obtain information on crime in
the area.
+ Single-Family Housing: The landlord
may legally provide fewer services for houses and
duplexes. The landlord may also shift mainte-
nance responsibilities to you in the lease. In some
neighborhoods, only three unrelated persons may
live together. Check with the city if you plan on
having more than two roommates.
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from UF Student Legal Services andTHURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010 U STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 25
+ Do read the lease and make sure you
understand it.
+ Do have a lawyer review the lease.
+ Do expect to pay full rent, not just
your share. This is what "joint and several"
liability means, a term included or implied
in leases that list more than one tenant.
+ Do obtain a copy of the lease and all
attachments or addendums to the lease.
+ Do have all promised repairs and
improvements written into the lease and
signed by the landlord.
+ Do keep a copy of the lease and all
the attachments or addendums with your
important, permanent records.
+ Do insist on seeing your actual unit.
+ Do get clear written permission for any
pets.
+ Do check for maintenance responsibili-
ties when renting a house or duplex.
+ Do not sign a 12-month lease unless
you are willing to pay rent for 12 months.
+ Do not sign a 12-month lease with
roommates unless all roommates are willing
to pay rent for 12 months.
+ Do not have your parents sign thelease or a parental guarantee agreeing to be
responsible for rent
+ Do not sign a lease with an automatic
renewal clause.
+ Do not sign a lease that gives the land-
lord unlimited access to the apartment with-
out notice or consent.
+ Do not sign a lease based upon a model
apartment.
+ Do not sign a lease before visiting the
neighborhood at various times during the
day, at night and on weekends.
+ Do not sign a lease until all agreements
negotiated with the landlord are in writing.
UF's Office of Off Campus Life, but is not intended to be a substitute for legal advice.
Habitat
for Humanity'
Sprint Cleaning
Gently used clothing,
home goods & furniture
Donations always
appreciated
Monday-Saturday 9:30am-5:30pm
373-5728 2317 SW 13th St
"3)0
YUrWe deliver it.
You load it.
We move it or store it.
Welcome to PODS 101.
Lose the hassle of storing your stuff between semesters.
Forget about renting a truck after graduation. Simply give
PODS a call and let us make moving and storing as easy as a
first-semster art class.
Our process is simple: We deliver a container. You fill it up at
your pace and on your schedule. When you're ready, give us
a call. We'll come get your container and drive it across town,
across the country, or even to one of our many Storage
Centers. Call 800-776-7637 or visit PODS.com for details,
quotes, and reservations.
Save up to 10%* Promo Code:GATOR
@2010 PODS Enterprises, Inc.
PODS is a registered trademark of PODS Enterprises, Inc. P01668 1209
The Best Moving & Storage Idea Ever.TM
*Available for a limited time only at participating locations. Offer void where prohibited by law.
Please call or visit our website for service locations. Must mention promotional code at time of
order. Cannot be combined with any other offer. For local moves, 10% off initial local delivery
and first month's storage, except when better discounts are in place locally. Discount does not
apply to extended delivery areas. For moves between two different PODS company-owned an/
or franchisee territories, 5% off first month's storage, administrative fees, and transportation
costs.
26, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, U THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
searching Smart is bthe key. word.
search for apartments using thousands of key words and phrases at
apartments in
gainesv IllcomSPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010 0 STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 27
+ My Landlord Refuses To Make Repairs.What
Can I Do?
You MAY be able to either withhold your rent or
terminate your lease if the problem constitutes a material
breach of the lease or the Act. You must follow the exact
requirements of the Act. You must give the landlord a
written notice demanding the repairs be made in seven
days. The notice must indicate your intention to terminate
the lease or withhold rent if the repairs are not made.
This is a complicated process and the legal consequences
are very serious. You should obtain legal advice before
attempting to terminate your lease or withhold rent.
+ Can I Deduct Repair Costs From My Rent?
No. The Act does not authorize you to make repairs
or to recover the cost of such repairs. In fact, most
apartment leases prohibit repairs by tenants. When the
landlord refuses to make repairs, the Act gives you a
qualified right to terminate the lease or withhold rent.
As previously indicated, you should consult an attorney
before attempting to terminate the lease or withhold
rent.
+ Can My Rent Be Increased During My Lease
Term?
Not unless the lease contains a specific provision
allowing for a rent increase. From the tenant's perspective,
one of the primary reasons for having a written lease is
to lock in the rent for the rental period. Normally, you
should not sign a lease providing for a rent increase.
+ Can My Landlord Enter My ApartmentWithout
Notice?
No. Unless there is an emergency, or you have
abandoned your apartment, the landlord must provide
reasonable notice and obtain your consent prior to
entering your apartment.You cannot unreasonably withhold consent. If the
landlord persists in entering without notice or consent,
contact an attorney.
+ How Soon Must I Renew My Lease?
There is no time period established by the Act. You
should not sign a lease that provides for automatic
renewals or requires you to give the landlord a notice
of nonrenewal. If you do sign such a lease, you must
strictly comply with the notice requirements imposed by
the lease.
If the lease does not specify otherwise, renewals are a
matter of general contract law. The landlord cannot force
you to renew prior to the end of your lease. However,
if you do not renew by the landlord's "deadline", the
landlord may rent your apartment to someone else.
+ Do I Really Need Insurance For MyPersonal
Property?
Yes. Unless you are financially able to replace all
your belongings, you should have insurance. Proper
insurance coverage will protect you against the loss of
your valuables in most circumstances. Landlords are
legally responsible for such losses only under very specific,
limited circumstances which may be very difficult to
prove in court.
If you are a resident-relative of your parents,
your personal property may be insured through their
homeowner's policy. Have your parents confirm the
coverage in writing with their insurance agent.
If coverage is not available through your parents'
homeowner's policy, you may be able to purchase renter's
insurance. Even with insurance, there are certain
precautions you should always take. Always lock your
apartment securely even if you are only going next door.
Never leave jewelry, cameras, cash, checkbooks, credit
cards, or other valuables in plain sight.
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from UF Student Legal Services and UF's Office of Off Campus Life, but is not intended to be a substitute for legal advice.
looking for a
pl ce
to live?Undergraduates Graduate StudentsFaculty & StaffAdd/rManage Listings
Try our FREE Housing Locator!
A FREE service that can be found through the Off Campus Life website designed
with your needs in mind!! Search based on many criteria including price, number
of bedrooms, distance to campus and MUCH more.Type property name address. or neighborhood
Rent SO to No Limi per Unit -
Bedrooms Select -Bathrooms Select -
Advanced Search
OCL
28, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, U THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
"I am graduating?" No!
"My roommate left?" No!
"I cannot afford the rent?" No!
"I need to work this summer?" No!
"The neighborhood is unsafe?" No!
Under the Act, you can only terminate the lease if the
landlord is materially violating your lease or the Act. You
should obtain legal advice before attempting to terminate
your lease. In many cases, the best thing you can do is find
replacement tenants.
Usually. The landlord cannot unreasonably withhold
consent to an assignment or sublease. The landlord
may require potential replacement tenants to submit an
application including a credit check. The landlord may also
charge a reasonable sublet fee even when you provide the
replacement tenants. Normally you remain liable under your
lease if the replacement tenants do not pay rent or damage
the apartment. Some landlords will release you from the
obligations of your lease. If you are being released, get it in
writing.
~uwi~ a ~i mr~u ~r a
Ia
No. Some tenants will walk out on a lease and receive
no adverse action, while others will be pursued to the fullest
extent of the law. In Gainesville's current rental market, the
odds are that you will be sued unless you supply acceptable
replacement tenants.
Your losses in court will not be limited to your security
deposit, but will include rent for each month the apartment
remains vacant during the term of your lease, plus court
costs and the landlord's attorney's fees.What Steps Can I Take To Protect My Security
Deposit?
When you take occupancy of the apartment, complete a
thorough written inventory of the apartment's condition and
have the landlord or an impartial witness sign the inventory.
Make sure you keep a copy of the inventory. This helps protect
you from the landlord claiming you caused pre-existing damage.
When you move out, completely and thoroughly clean the
apartment Some landlords provide a checklist outlining the
cleaning they expect you to do.
Keep all your receipts for cleaning supplies and professional
carpet cleaning as evidence. Before you leave, ask the landlord to
inspect the apartment with you. Complete a move-out checklist
and make sure the landlord signs and dates it. Use an impartial
witness if the landlord is not available or refuses your request.
Move-in and move-out photographs or videotape are also strongly
recommended in case there is a dispute.
+ Can I Use My Security Deposit For The Last Month's
Rent?
No. Landlords can legally evict you for non-payment of rent
even when your "security" deposit is equal to your last month's
rent.
The purpose of the security deposit is to protect the landlord
against damages to the apartment.
+ Does The Law Require Interest Payments On Security
Deposits?
+ What Are My Duties As A
Tenant?
First, last, and always PAY
RENT!*Comply with all other lease
terms.*Comply with all rules and
regulations.*Comply with housing and
health codes.*Comply with all zoning
restrictions.*Keep the apartment clean
and sanitary.*Keep plumbing fixtures
sanitary.*Donotdamagetheapartment*Do
not disturb your neighbors.
+ What Exactly Is An Eviction?
An eviction is the formal end to your
right to occupy the apartment. It does not
end your duty to pay rent An eviction
starts with a Summons. You must file
an Answer within 5 days. Contact an
attorney immediately.
If the court rules against you, aLandlords must hold security deposits in one of three methods.
Two methods of holding the deposits require interest to be paid.
The method which does not require interest payments is the
one most landlords use. The landlord is required to inform
you in writing how your deposit is being held, where it is held,
and whether you will receive interest
+ What Can I Do If My LandlordDoesn't Return My
Deposit?
A landlord shall have 15 days after termination of the lease
to return the security deposit together with interest if otherwise
required, if he or she does not intend to impose a claim on the
security deposit If the landlord intends to impose a claim on the
security deposit, he or she shall have 30 days to give the tenant
written notice by certified mail, stating how much is going to
be deducted and why. You must object to the deduction in
writing within 15 days from the date you receive the notice, or
the landlord will be authorized to deduct his or her claim from
your security deposit.
If the landlord fails to give the required notice within the
30-day period, he or she forfeits the right to impose a claim upon
the security deposit.
However, if you damaged the apartment, the landlord can
sue you even when the 30-day notice is not given. Because the
landlord can also get court costs and attorney's fees, you should
consult an attorney before filing any lawsuits.
judgment for possession of the apartment,
unpaid rent, late fees, interest, court costs
and attorney's fees will be entered for the
landlord. The sheriff will post a notice at
the apartment that requires you to vacate
in 24 hours. If you do not vacate within 24
hours, the sheriff will remove you and your
personal property from the apartment.
+ What Can Happen If I Don't Pay
Rent?
Failure to pay rent is the quickest way
to be evicted. The landlord will serve a
notice demanding payment of rent or
possession of the apartment If you fail to
comply with the demand within 3 days,
excluding weekends and holidays, eviction
proceedings may be started.
Neither surrender of the apartment nor
eviction ends your liability for rent Youshould immediately contact an attorney
upon receipt of a 3-day notice.
+ Can I Be Evicted For Any Other
Reason?
Yes. Your lease can be terminated
if you violate any lease terms, rules and
regulations, or the Act. If your lease is
terminated and you do not vacate the
apartment, the landlord may immediately
file for your eviction.
Termination begins with a 7-day
notice. Your options depend on whether
the violations are classified as "curable" or
"noncurable".
If you receive either type of notice, you
should immediately contact an attorney.
Neither termination of your lease, nor your
eviction from the apartment ends your
liability for rent
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from UF Student Legal Services and UF's Office of Off Campus Life, but is not intended to be a substitute for legal advice.ISPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010 U STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 29
0Spri ng 0Housing
The one-stop-shop to findyour newFair
place!
Z&bJ [PLR 15i5U Dflkumc0TGOV
Gainesville Residential Companies
Student Legal Services
Free Food
Tons of Giveaways
Sponsored by the SG Housing Affairs Cabinet and.
Campus Lodge(a6ana
B E A C-
SILVER0-1 THE
ESTATES
BRONZE
GOLDSPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
VDt
30, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, U THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
-LARGE 1, 2&3 -GAZEBO
BEDROOM PLANS * SAUNA A P A R T M E N T S
-SWIMMING POOL * LAUNDRY 700 SW 62ND BLVD. * 877-781-83 14
0 WORKOUT Room 4 PETS WELCOME WWW.LAKEWOODVILLAS.COM
* TENNIS COURTS
LUXURY APARTMENT HOMES
701 SW 62ND BLVD. 888-267-5078
w W w. s p y g I a s s a p t s. c o m
-Individual Leases
* Furnished Units
o Modern Weight Room
* Computer/Study Room
* Monitored Alarm Systems
* Every Unit is an End Unit
* Utility & Entertainment
Packages Available
Swimming Pool
SSauna
-Whirlpool
* Tennis Courts
* Sand Volleyball
.BasketballSPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
1 MONTH FREE!
Immediate availability
All Inclusive Student Living from $399
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-1
Sign and Get an iPad!
*Rates as low as $379
Fully Loaded 42" TV, 19.95 to sign
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, University Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
Summer Rates 2010
Summer Free 2011
On 15 month lease
352-376-6720
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-1
Experience Why We
Define the Good Life
2/2*4/4*All Inclusive
Filling Fast for Fall!
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST Townhouse near UF,
Shands, shopping; easy access. 2BR/2.5BA;
greatfor student/family. Only $750/mo; short-
term lease available. Renovated & ready! Ed
305-972-6432 4-7-10-95-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net& utils. 239-250-6149 4-2-10-65-1
LUXURY 2STORY TOWNHS. 2B/2.5Ba
F Roomate Wntd for Master Bedrm! FULLY
FURN. 2 min to UF, Great bus routes & park-
ing, Pool/gym, Free wifi, All utils incl. Avail
May 1st. $540 786-246-3049 3-26-39-14/4 COUNTRYSIDE APTS. Spacious 4 bed-
room close to UF! Close to major shopping
areas and located on 3 bus routes that go to
center of UF. Every room has full bathroom
& large walk-in closets. Entire place is fur-
nished. High efficiency W/D. Rent is $400/
room/month. Utilities included! SD $200.
Available June or August. Call (305) 799-
7042 3-25-30-1
2, 3 & 4'S READY NOW!
Individual & Fully Furnished @ $329
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-10-30-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
2/2*3/3*4/4
Experience the Good Life
Text "Enclave" to 47464
4-21-09-71-1
REDUCED 1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $300/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished +
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 3-31-10-31-1
Spacious 4/4 fully furnished condo available
in SW G'ville area 5 minutes to UF! Indiv.
leases, $375/room/mo. On 3 bus routes
and close to major shopping/food areas.
Utilities incl. up to $200/mo. $200 SD. Avail.
immediately/summer/fall. (352) 262-0628
3-31-10-16-1
2 Blocks to UF $290/mo
Furnished bedroom in 4BD condo.
Rent includes utils, cable TV & internet.
378-4626 / 262-4290 4-21-10-31-1
3BE/3BA clean and quiet condo for rent. All
utilities included. $400/room or $1000/apt. 1
mile from UF. 2 bus routes available. Must
see!! Call Dory 954-816-1468. 3-26-10-
10-1
$339- Fully Furnished fairly new condo
4Br/4Ba spacious bedrooms & living area,
w/d in unit, great kitchen, great bus rts12
& 35 ten min to UF & shopping Discounted
rent Avail. Start fall. 941-232-1960
4-13-1-2-1
$339 rm/mo 4BR/2BA Condo at University
Commons furnished W/D/TV/Cable/Parking
Immediatley avl. spring/summer/fall
Great Place Great Price 239.253.8701 4-5-
10-14-1
4-4 condo will rent monthy, quarterly or
yearly. $500/month/room includes: washer-
dryer, dishwasher, private bathroom/bed-
room, walk-in closet, utilities, cable, wireless
internet, pool, gym, volleyball and basketball
courts. Living, dining and kitchen have wood-
en floors, bedrooms have nice clean carpets.
Bus services every 5-10 minutes. 352-213-
7059 5-20-10-30-1
1BR/1BA. $850 per month (everything in-
cluded). Covered parking behind unit. Less
than one block from campus. Call for more
details, 724-974-9591. 4-8-16-1
Female roommate needed for a 2/2 apt.
$500 All Inclusive. Priv. bath, wash/dry, very
quiet, many amenities avail. Avail. summer.
Discount on month. rate if you sign lease for
sum/fall & spring. Call Angie 7862392740
3-25-5-1
Very clean large ONE bedroom ONE bath-
room apartment at the Polo's available for
sublease in May, 2010. FURNISHED
The lease will end in early August.
The Polos: 2330 SW Williston Rd.
Gainesville 32608
PLEASE contact me (William) with any
questions: bcollins223@gmail.com
3-30-10-7-1Roomate needed for 2010-2011 School year
Clean, furnished condo on RTS #8 busline
and close to UF. All utilities, cable & internet
included, $500/month
Contact: Maurice (mwmascoe@yahoo.com)
4-13-10-15-1
1BR AVAILABLE IN 4BR/4BA APT. All
utilities included, $425/mo. Washer/dryer,
full kitchen, pool, open parking. Bus routes
20,21,22. 1 mile from campus. Available May
15th. 6/12 mo. lease. Call/txt (973)954-8813.
3-31-10-5-1
1/1 Apartment with large living room avail-
able for summer A, B, or C. 2 blocks from UF
campus, behind midtown. 1710 NW 2nd ave.
Call 305-794-6381 or e-mail
basnuevo@gmail.com 4-2-10-5-1
1BR/1BA Mobile home. Completely fur-
nished. Only big enough for one person.
Very quiet. Fenced pasture and horse stall.
7 miles west of 1-75 and Williston Rd. $400/
mo. 372-0507 3-30-4-1
For FRentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901 4-21-
10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
THIS FALL LIVE DOWNTOWN!
Live where you play, love where you live
Studios*Ones*Twos*Th rees
Big city living without the big city price
Limited availability! 352-338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
AFFORDABLE RATES! QUIET COMMUNITY!
www.frederickgardens.com
1 BR/1 BA $469 * 2BR/1 BA $569
Great Move-In Fee Specials!!
Adopted pets live free!! 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1 br $559 /2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOWor FALL 2010.
2/2 from $999 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$699 2/2-$799 3/2-$899
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464
4-21-71-2
@1 MONTH FREE@
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
Special applies to Immediate Move Ins
2/2's: From $799; 3/3's: From $979
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
Great School Districts!
HUGE 1 Bed- $595!
2 Bed- $729*4 Bed- $949
Tennis*Pool*Basketball
Call TODAY*332-7401
4-21-71-2No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$549
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
SORORITY ROW 2BR
2BR/2.5BA for $1199
W/D & utils included. We <3 pets!
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $505 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$369
INCLUDES UTILITIES
1 month FREE, Move In TODAY!
24hr Amenities & Valet Trash!
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
32, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
Rent For rrRent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
SUN KEY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!)
Student Discount
$499/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Check out our unbelieveable bandwidth:
30x10 IPV6
Special runs until 3.31.2010
352-376-6720
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO UF -AVAIL NOW & FALL!
*1BR $460- $495
* 2BR $485- $600
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -YOUR NEW HOME!
Unique LOFT floor plan only $595!
1/1 from $625 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning* Fitness Pool Pets Loved!
Tennis *1 mile to UF
377-7401 * www.boardwalkapt.com
4-21-09-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $540;
IBR $465. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $490;
2BR $590 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 4-2-10-65-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-21-65-2* One Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1 bedroom from *$457 2 bedroom from *$558
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 bedroom 1 bath from *$549
2 bedroom 2 bath from *$641
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Additional $200 off next month
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 *$549
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/i s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
5-11-10-64-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
AVAIL 8/1. Clean 4BR/2BA house(no
master BA, baths accessable to all BRs)
garage, fenced yd, pets ok, FP, DW, W/D
provided, wooded pvt big yard. $1400/mo,
cent H/AC. 2606 NW 34th St. 352-339-2342
3-26-10-35-2
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 2 bd/ 1 ba
Hardwood floors, must see
$900/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Large 5 Bedrm House**
1 full & 3-1/2 baths
Plant Atriums, Unique floorplan, W/D
Plenty of Parking, 8 blocks N of UF
$2,500/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Great Parking! Walk to UF! 4BD/4.5 BA
Located near SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St.
Call today to view @ 352.373.7578
Union Properties www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
NEWLY REMODELED 1BRs
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
6-29-64-2
2BR/1 BA cent heat mobile home.
Shady lot. From $300 -$450/mo
First month half price incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887 3-31-36-2
705 NW 10th Avenue <9Blks from UF
3BR/1 BA, 8rooms + 400 sq.ft.porch, Central
A/C, W/D, $1,250 + util. Avail. Aug. 275-
1259, ATucker458@aol.com 4-2-10-37-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 4-2-
10-53-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BRI Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat. by appt
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 4-5-10-
35-2
Baxter Cottage 2 blks to UF campus, 1013
SW 4 Ave 2BR/1 BA, Bright, clean, complete-
ly remodeled, 500 sq ft, Cent AC/Ht,wood
firs, DW, W/D, NS, NPets. $450+util. Lease
runs thru 7/1/10 ATucker458@aol.com 4-2-
10-33-2
2BR/2.5BA townhouse condo, 1 mi from
UF on bus route. Inc W/D, community club-
house, pool & fitness center. Wired for inter-
net & security sys. $878/mo. Avail 5/1 or 8/1.
Call/text 332-8841 lindalu@gatorhomes.com
4-5-10-30-2
OResort Lifestyle*
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
2's: From $479/person; 3's: From $399/person
Includes FREE Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-42-22BR HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area. Wood floors, new kitchen
vinyl, Cent H/AC, DW, fenced yard, wood
deck, parking, $1080/mo. Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 4-21-
10-40-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority
Row/Norman Hall area. W/D, ice maker, ce-
ramic tile. Cent H/AC, DW, parking, fenced
yard. $1545/mo. Pets extra? Avail Aug 16. 1
yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 4-21-10-40-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area, remodeled baths, new:
stove, DW, disposal & AC, W/D, wd firs. cent
H/AC, parking. $2400/mo Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg
4-21-10-40-2
Houses Available for Fall!
2631 NW 1st Ave -$1845
402 NW 36th -$1425
315 NW 17th St. -$875
4 NW 25th St -$1499
717 NW 34th St -$1320
FREE UF Parking!
352.371.7777
4-21-71-2
3 br/1ba house near corner sw 34 st & nw 8
av separate dining & living areas, new kitch-
en, carport, wd/hook up, storage shed, front
lawn and fenced back yard. Water included
in rent. $945/mo -call 258-4184 3-26-18-2
APTS and HOMES for rent near UF!
Avail Summer and Fall, visit our website at
merrillmanagement.net or
Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494 x10
3-30-10-19-2
JUMBLE2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue. St. Croix Apts
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie21 @bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
2BR 1BA, Wood Floors, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 or tazzie21@bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 or
tazzie21 @bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
3BR 1.5 BA Home off NW 16th
Ave. Tile Floors, Laundry Hkups,
Central H & Air. $750/Mo
319 NW 16th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie21 @bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
Hidden gem 2/2 walk to shands/VA
just renovated/wood floor/new paint
w/d pool balcony free parking,water
REDUCED $850/mo.352-281-0733
thuycarroll@yahoo.com 3-25-10-15-2
* 9%.1
U.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
-aa S SS O.I a
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 33
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
$199 Move-In Special
$500-$700 2BR/1BA
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or 352-505-9264 4-16-10-
30-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $700/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220. (leave
a voicemail) 3-31-17-2
Available now. HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo. All
4BR/2BA $1100/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183
4-5-10-20-2
CHARMING 3BR/2BA HOUSE
Walk to UF. Near law school. Small pet ok.
No smoking. Available for fall. Call 352-371-
0601 for information. 3-26-10-11-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 4-2-10-100-2
$600, 2BR, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet school
& campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furn; Parking; 352 376
0080;352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-27-2Walk to campus, 1022 SW 4th Ave. -3/3-
1200 mo & 4/4-1600 mo 3/2 house- 1015 NE
5th PI, fenced yd-$995 mo 4/4 house- 2010
SW 11th Terr-$1250 mo Near law college,
2732 SW 3rd PI-3/2 house-$1250 mo All in-
clude cent A/C, W/D hkups
Edbaurmanagement.com
4121 NW 37th PL- 352-375-7104 4-21 -10-
27-2
Homes Avail for Fall! Pets welcome!
4/2 3321 and 3236 NW 30 PL $1200/mon
3/2 3320 NW 30th PL $975/mon
4/2 5402 NW 25th PL $1200
Call April 352-514-1441 for more info! 4-1-
10-13-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**Near GHFC vaulted
ceilings, all appliances, W/D, garage, small
pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1300 333-9874
4-6-10-15-2
*3401 NW 7th Place 3/2 liv,din,fam rms.All
appliances W/D close to campus, large yd.
small pets ok avail Aug.1 $1325 333-9874
4-6-10-15-2
For a Limited Time Only! 1BR/1BA seperate
dining rm, Ig living rm, walk in closet, cent
H/AC, full kitchen, full bath. H20 & sewer
incl. Free pest control. Close to Oaks Mall,
Archer Rd & UF. $395/mo. 2 & 3 BDs avail
in several locations, dif floor plans. 215-7780
6-17-10-38-2
0* Very Nice 1BR 0*.
Full bath, living room, dining room, full kitch-
en, in-law suite, w/ W/D, cable, all utils incl.
$750/mo near Haile. (352) 367-0372
4-13-10-20-2
SImpeeOClose to UF 2BR House. Yard, W/D, wa-
ter incl. Pets ok. 618 NW 14th Ave $900/mo
Avail Aug 1st 561-350-1552
@1/1 apt in duplex, Irg yard, W/D hk up. Pets
ok. 1/2 mo free. 608 NW 24th Ave $500/mo
3-30-10-2
*1 BR Home On A Hill*
13"x23" living room w/view, kitchen seats 6,
huge patio, no pets, near NW 14th Ave
& UF, utilities paid, quiet person $850
(352) 395-6250 or 332-1429 4-2-10-13-2
Walk to UF. Openings in April -Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
4-21-10-26-2
Available Immediately! Small 1/1
Efficiency apt. W/D avail, new paint & carpet.
10 min walk to UF. Perfect for international/
graduate students! $500/mo + utils. 284-0979
4-21-10-26-2
**4/2 3962 W University Ave.**close to cam-
pus, all appliances, W/D, hot tub, fire place,
screened porch, avail. Aug,1 $1400, 333-
9874 4-6-10-15-2
Spacious 1 BR apt for rent.
1 BR/1 BA apt near Oaks Mall.
Walk to mall, restaurant and coffee shops.
New appliances. Call 352-258-4695 3-30-
10-15-2
2BR/2BA New, big condo, near UF/Shands.
Small quiet complex. $1150/mo Negotiable +
deposit. Avail June/July. Balcony, dishwash-
er, deluxe appliances, laundry IN UNIT. Pets
considered-fee. Over 1400 sq ft. 352-213-
2366, sshunkwi@gmail.com 3-30-10-10-2
10houses.com
3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$1000 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
5-11-10-26-2
**4/3 18 NW36th St.** Close to campusall
appliancesW/D, cent, heat/air Avail. Aug.1
$1375 333-9874 4-7-10-15-2
**4/2919 NW 10thAve.**Closetocampus,all
appliances,W/D,Cent.heat&air.Avi.Aug.1
$1400 333-9874 4-7-10-15-2***House 4 Blks 2 UF***
3BR/2BA cute, clean historic house. Hdwd,
tile, cntrl A/C, W/D. $1360/mo. Avail Aug.
1102 NW 4th Ave. 828-216-2565 3-30-10-
9-2
FREAKS!! DOWNTOWN 414 SE 2nd St
2BR/1 BA DUPLEX apt w/loft, central heat,
window air, off-street parking, convenient ac-
cess to everything. $630/mo, 1st, last, $600
dep. Call 352-373-6551 3-26-7-2
Barn Eff Apt, Loft Q Bed, Washer/dryer $400
Pets OK, Stalls Also Available, Jonesville,
Prop 15 Acres 954-292-2244 3-31-10-10-2
4BD/3BA HOUSE NEAR UF!
W/D, Central AC, Wood Floors. 3514 NW
7th Place. Available Aug. 1st. Call Manny at
352-317-4408 3-31-10-9-2
4BD/2BA HOUSE NEAR UF!
W/D, Available Aug. 1st. 610 NW 34th
Terrace. Call Manny at 352-317-4408
3-31-10-9-2
LOFTS OASIS 2/2.5 NEAR UF!
2515 SW 35th Pl. Brand New Unit, study
area, W/D, new stainless steel appliances in
kitchen. Call Manny at 352-317-4408 3-31-
10-9-2
***BELLAPROPERTIESNET***
Luxury apartments 2/2 &3/2
next to sorority row.
See pic & info on web page 335-5424
4-1-10-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
Walk to Campus
1/1 Townhomes from $579
2/1.5 bath townhomes from $699
Check out our unbelieveable bandwidth:
30x10 IPV6
352-376-6720 352-376-7041
Ask about our specials!
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-25-2
SUN BAY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(not just a room!)
Student Discount
$499/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Special runs until 3.31.2010
352-376.6720
www.sunisland.info
4-21-25-2
e A
Copyrighted Material
* Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
aU
IFREE MONTHS RENT 1BDs
1114 SW 7th Ave $650/mo
Spacious loft style, parking onsite.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-24-2
That's what She Said!
"I LOVE Hidden Lake because.
Cable & internet are Included,
roommate matching is available,
furniture & utility packages are available,
I'm just 1.5 miles to UF & midtown,
there's FREE tanning & a 24-hr gym,
a designer pool AND pets are welcome!
Come see for yourself!
call 374-3866 for a tour or text
HIDDENLAKE to 47464 OR.
Next time you're on facebook,
creep on over to Hidden Lake's page
to see floor plans, pics & more!
4-21-10-25-2
7 Blks UF , 4BR/3BA, 2 masters, POOL HOT
TUB, 2500 sq ft, 2 porches, 5 car parking,
responsible students, professionals only, Will
leave plasma TV on wall, $2375/mo -nego-
tiable. Starting May, Jordan 352-222-0211
3-26-10-5-2
3bed/2bath Creeks Edge condo -just off NW
13th St. W/D, pool & clubhouse. Close to UF
and on bus route. Available August. Seeking
roommates $395/mo/ea. 727-463-0560
6-29-10-35-2
* 2BR/1 BA TOWNHOUSE 0
7209 SW 45th Pl. $600/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 4-5-10-
10-2
WALK TO CLASS AT UF!
1122 SW 2nd Ave 3/1.5 $1575 HOUSE
1123 SW 1st Ave 3/1 $1500 APT includes util.
1118 SW 2nd Ave 3/1 $1200 DUPLEX
1 & 2 BRs also available. No dogs.
Call Kinetic Properties at 337-9600 4-12-
15-2
1BR 1BA Apt Grad II Apts
New carpet, paint. Avail Now
Or Fall 1236 Sw 4th Ave $540/mo
Central H &Air, Laundry Fac.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 3-30-10-5-2
KENSINGTON South #203
2br,2.5 baths, pool side, tile,
carpet, washer & dryer,alarm,bus
internet, partially furnished, Open
Sat 3/27 10a-4p 954-675-0307 3-26-2-2
ARLINGTON SQUARE (2b/2ba) -$799/Mo,
Luxury Downtown APT, access to main RTS,
NO short-term. Avail 4/21/10, Call Sean,
239-410-1603 5-1 3-22-2
-subleases
DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY!!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
$575/mo OBO furnished/unfurnished 1/1
directly behind Midtown at College Park.
Walking distance to UF. Parking includ-
ed. Female or male. Call 305-587-1122
3-26-10-3
Sublease for 1 bed/1 bath in the Polos of
Gainesville. Available May 1st -Aug 7th.
Price incls internet service. Kept very clean.
4 Bus routes to campus & 3 pools for the
summer heat! Pets allowed. 941-447-4495
3-26-10-7-3D 106F--
I
34, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
FSubleases Real Estate Furnishings Motorcycles, Mopeds Aut
$400 Summer Sublease. Studio Apt. located
in College Park, walking distance to UF.
Furnished except for a bed, but does include
a futon. Very clean, recently remodled. Call
407-325-2374 or email courtfitz@ufl.edu
3-29-5-3
$300/mo Summer Sublease
2 Story House -10 blocks from Campus
Multiple rooms available
Available May 1-Aug 13
949-981-5012 -mbiemann@ufl.edu
3-31-10-5-3
OFRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES
IN FURN 4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF.
$290/mo incl elec, cable tv, internet, pool,
laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626
4-21-09-71-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
4-2-10-48-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo, 1 mile from UF, $350/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
3-26-10-35-4
STUDENT NEEDED
New townhome, W/D, clubhouse, pool, gat-
ed, packing, bus route. $350 + utilities. 727-
729-1561 3-31-19-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room -utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Bball, pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd FIr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, or 352-636-4814 3-31-10-18-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsVA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$350/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220
(leave a voicemail.) 3-31-17-4.
$400/mo Room for Rent plus elec, Rockwood
Villas TH, pvt bath, on bus route, w/d, free
internet, non-smoking, female only. Avail
Immed & Fall. 1st Mth Free w lyr lease.
ktellmann@ufl.edu/904-874-6877. 7-13-
10-45-4
Seeking roommates for 3 bed/ 2 ba quiet
condo at Creeks Edge. New flooring, recent
remodel,upstairs unit, washer/dryer, on bus-
line to campus, partial furnished. Available
Aug 1st. $395/mo. 727-463-0560 5-11-10-
28-4
HOUSE BEHIND SWAMP needs 1-2 room-
mates between the ages of 19-26. Walk to
UF.
$550 with utilities included.
Please call 914-815-1339. 3-30-10-7-4
Grad student looking for roommates for 4
bed/4 bath condo at University Terrace.
$400/room/month, incl. cable, internet, util.
On 2 bus routes, fully furnished. Tidiness
preferred. Call 352.575.0731. 4-12-10-15-
Roommate wanted: College house; 4/3: Lg
rooms, Lg yard, FP & Lg pool, Walk/bike to
UF or 4.5 mi. to SFC. Nice/safe neighbor-
hood! Join the good life! $375/mo +1/4 Util:
Call Justin @ 813-748-6042 4-12-10-15-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Campus Edge / Somerest VillageWalk to
Shands/VA/class 2units, 2bd/2ba vault-
ed ceilings 2nd/3rd floor w/d in unit,best
locations parking. $8,000 tax credit.
$164,900/$132,900. Move in Ready 954-
439-2301 stedel@bellsouth.net 4-21-10-
41-5
Motivated. For sale by Owner. Must sell
beautiful 3bd/2b 1777 sf home in Cottages
of Country Way, Newberry, FL. Close to
schools. No HOA. Large lot.Asking $184,900.
(530) 613-6488 4-21-10-28-5
CONDO FOR SALE!
Great location, 1226 sq.ft., close to UF
and shopping. Walk to bus stop. Excellent
purchase price at $80K. Please contact
University Management, Inc., Licensed Real
Estate Broker at 352-373-7904. 3-30-10-5-4
Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed.' Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
U computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
CERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECH
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
3-31-10-52-7
Electronics
Cracked phone?I can fix it for you for MUCH LESS than buy-
ing a new one! It will look GOOD AS NEW!
CALL 561-315-8772 3-25-1-8
z Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
lFor Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
M Motrcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***www.B~uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
ELECTRIC SCOOTER
No insurance/registration needed
Inexpensive to own & operate
Assembled/free delivery/guaranty
American Electric Bike Co
www.greenscootersoncampus.com
4-16-10-25-11
2007 KAWASAKI NINJA 500
Garage-kept, never dropped. All mainte-
nance done. Very, very clean. 720 miles.
$3500. Call anytime 352-214-5191 4-13-
10-20-11
HONDA CBR 1000 -1991
Super sport. Excellent condition. 1 owner.
Spent over $8000 -documented.
SACRIFICE for $2500. Very pretty bike.
Call 352-389-0465 or 352-207-8815 4-7-
10-10-11
a ll Autos
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
*Running or not!@
*NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
3-31-09-103-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699
94 Chevy 1500 $999
92 Chrysler Cirrus $999
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
93 Ford F150 $1999
98 Ford Explorer $1999
96 Mits Galant $1999
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Nissan Stanza $1499
98 Pontiac Transport $1499
97 Plymouth Voyager $1999
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2999
99 Olds Alero $2999
99 Pontiac Grand Am $2999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
99 Chrysler Sebring $2500
01 Dodge Neon $2500
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Mustang, 40k, $5500 CASH
03 Chevy Venture, 143k, $6900 CASH
05 Jeep Liberty, 105k, $6999 CASH
05 Saturn Ion, 123k, $7999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
06 Ford Taurus, 40k, $8900 CASH
05 VW Jetta, 111k, $8999 CASH
05 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
05 Chevy Trailblazer, 135k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Ranger, 158k, $7999 CASH
06 Chrysler PT Criuser, 46k $9999 CASH
07 Chevy Cobalt, 24k $10,999 CASH
02 Volvo S60, 97k $8999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
Wanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 35
Wanted Help Wanted Hf3 p3nted Services Evntotices
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
30,000 NIPPED & COUNTING!
Operation Catnip is gearing up to sterilize
its 30,000th cat. Please join us in the effort
to end euthanasia of homeless cats in our
community. Bring in a stray or feral cat for
spay/neuter on March 28th -enjoy refresh-
ments, door prizes & a very special gift for
the person who brings in lucky cat number
30,000. Please call for an appointment (352)
380-0940. 3-26-10-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948. 3-26-10-72-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 3-26-
10-72-13
Volunteers needed for Sunday, March 28th.
HOPE -Horses Helping People, Inc. needs
help preparing our farm for a big event.
Volunteers needed to paint fences. Lunch
will be provided. Please email KCShimeall@
gmail.com to sign up! 4-26-5-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have a fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
OSOATTENTION SMOKERS!@@
SODo you want to quit smoking?@@
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking
cessation study. You may be compensated.
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic 328-6603 or
email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com 3-29-
30-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable.
Writing skills a must, accounting skills a plus.
Call Carrillo & Carrillo @ 352-371-4000.
3-29-10-20-14
HIRING STYLIST AND NAIL TECHS!!!
LOCATION: THE SALON 0" EXPERIENCE;
ON NW 6TH ST GAINESVILLE, FL 32609.
50% COMMISSION OR RENTAL IF
DESIRED. CONTACT SALON MANAGER
MRS. CAROYLN 0 AT 352-284-1320 OR
352-672-6339. 4-1-23-14
LEASING AGENT FT
Friendly, energetic person. Experience
preferred. Hourly & bonus. Great benefits.
Must be avail. weekends. Apply in person.
Spyglass or Hunters Crossing Apts. DFWP
4-21-10-29-14
Build your own online business from your
laptop. Fifty year old company. Contact John,
352-219-0871, or John@JCantlon.com
4-12-10-20-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Afternoons,
evenings & weekends. Fax resume and
available hours to 373-2230 3-30-10-10-14
Start securing your career today!
Join UF ARMY ROTC!
Register for MSL 1001 and 1001L
Call 392-1395 today to learn about
jobs available as an Army officer!
8-5-10-50-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with
a love for children to staff its summer day
camp program. Positions in the camp are
available in our Middle School day camp
and our elementary school age day camp
offered at Oak Hall. Individuals for the day
camp should be available to work daily
from June 7-July 30 (June 21-July 23 for
Middle School). Interested applicants should
submit a resume to Jeff Malloy, Oak Hall
School 8009 SW 14th Avenue Gainesville,
FL 32607 or via e-mail at jmalloy@oakhall.
org by March 26th. Interview information
regarding group interview on March 27th will
be sent out upon receipt.
3-26-10-8-14
CHILD CARE. Weekday afternoons and oc-
casional weekend days or evenings. Reliable
car required. Respond to: seekinghelp.
school@gmail.com 3-26-10-8-14Ever think about joining the Army?
Ever considered being an officer?
If you have 2-3 years left at UF you
may have an opportunity through
Army ROTC Call 392-ARMY!
5-27-10-32-14
Nanny for 9 month old needed
Infant experience and references required
Email resume and availability to
nannyingville@gmail.com 3-26-10-5-14
Group Fitness Instructors needed.
We need high energy people who are certi-
fied to teach group fitness classes (Zumba
and yoga). Contact Steve at Powerhouse
Gym at 352-373-4439 or www.baileysgym.com
3-30-10-10-14
Salon"O"
Seeking F/T Stylist, Barber and Nail techs
W/ some clientell. Rental or commission 50%
Call 352-672-6339 4-1-10-10-14
Leasing Agent PT Must be fluent with face-
book, excel & familiarw/ UF & SF campuses.
Very Friendly & Smiles Often
Fax Resume to 338-7468 4-9-10-14-14
Graphics/Web design for small book busi-
ness in Alachua. Strong software talent a
must. 3-10 hours/wk, flexible sched. $11/hr.
Resume to: biopressinfo@gmail.com 3-30-
10-5-14
Leasing Agent Wanted- Local Apt
Complex looking for friendly, energetic
person with outstanding customer ser-
vice skills. Must be available weekends
and summer. $8/hr+com. Email resume to
cquijada@gatorinv.com 3-31-10-6-14
Sitter/Tutor for girl/boy (2nd/6th gr). 3:30p to
6:30p. MTW and/or F until June 11. Transport
from school to home/activities. Some late
nite & wkends all year. Call 352-332-6465.
3-26-10-3-14
Part time nanny needed 3 days a week,
2-6p, more hours during summer semes-
ter. Children aged 1,3,5. Experienced ap-
plicants with excellent references and clean
driving record only. E-mail personal state-
ment, resume, class sched/availability to
gvillenanny@gmail.com 3-30-10-5-14
Part-Time!!!! Earn Pasive/Residual Income.
No Product Sales. Personal Support System.
People Helping People. Call Duane or Judy
(352) 693-4413 3-30-5-14
30 DAY INTERNSHIP!!
Make a difference and gain experience with
the Pledge 5 Foundation. Call 352-870-4870
or email jason@pledge5.org 3-26-10-2-14
Cy Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-
3-30-10-10-14 15Local Immigration Attorney -Marriage
Green Cards/Fiance Visas/Naturalization
Matters -$295.00 Attorney Fees Plus Costs
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
6-1-45-15
Salon "0" Specials
Facial -$25.00, Bring a friend and get 50%
off, 'free' prom dress event, and so much
more. Call 352-672-6339 TODAY to set up
your appointment
4-2-10-10-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding. Owner
housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 6-3-10-
30-15
KEN GARVIN APPLIANCE SERVICE
10YEARS EXPERIENCE 8AM-8PM 7 DAYS
LOW RATES ALL BRANDS STUDENT
SPECIAL $40 SERVICE CALL PLUS
PARTS WWW.KENGARVIN.COM 338-1708
4-21-20-15
FHealth Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
Grieving the loss of someone?
National Students of AMF
Join our Facebook group:
"Gator Students of AMF"
TalkAboutLoss.org 4-21-43-16
A Woman's Answer
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716 8-24-74-16
CNA HOME
COMPANION CONNECTION
Gainesville. Days. 352-246-1354 3-29-5-16IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Do you have 2 years left at UF? Ever
think about being an Army officer?
Free entry to Gainesville Rock gym
2-6 PM 1 APR from Army ROTC
704 S. Main St. Call 392-ARMY
3-31-10-11-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
ey -Rides
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no extra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 C/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
SF o lPersonals We
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18Furry, feathery, scaly .no, not your room-mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
JjjCOnnetions Lost & Found
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
Male professional, 70 years old, tall, from Sri
Lanka seeking white female, fair hair, 60-80
years old. Animals okay.
Write to MFP P.O. Box 1823, FI 32656
3-26-19-19Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's lost
what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
Lost Female Whippet "small greyhound"
near University Area. White with brown spots
wearing a red collar. Please call (813)317-
6323 if found. 3-25-10-2-25Admin Asst
Tech Support
Sales Rep
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com.
Sports
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Gators need Bostic to step into leadership role
* A.J. JONES IS THE ONLY
RETURNING STARTER.
By MIKE McCALL
Alligator Staff Writer
mmccall@alligator org
Sam, Mike and Will are cov-
ered, but Brandon and Ryan will
be much harder to replace.
With a talented crop of line-
backers, Florida won't have trou-
ble filling in its depth chart with
able bodies. Finding someone to
take over for Brandon Spikes and
Ryan Stamper is another story.
Stamper and Spikes combined
for 146 tackles last season, finishing
first and third on the team, respec-
tively, but the largest void they left
behind is on the leadership front.
Spikes' enthusiasm and Stamp-
er's cerebral approach to the game
provided contrasting figures for
the rest of the defense to look up
to, and the Gators are hoping for
similar personalities to emerge
during spring practice.
That starts with sophomore Jon
Bostic, who's competing for thestarting middle linebacker spot
with Brendan Beal and Lorenzo
Edwards.
"It's a change. I've always been
the youngest one out here, and
now it's time to step up," Bostic
said. "I've always been a quiet
person on the field. I've never re-
ally been a loud talker, so my main
thing is speaking up on the field
and telling everybody what the
call is, what the formation is, all
those things."
First-year linebackers coach D.J.
Durkin expects Bostic and Beal to
grow into those roles as they gain
more experience through spring
practice.
In the meantime, they're mak-
ing up for their lack of polish with
sheer effort.
"They're not at that point yet
where they're comfortable," Dur-
kin said. "The thing I like is, they're
both competing and playing fast
right now. Not always fast in the
right direction, but playing fast, so
we can work with that."
Playing fast is likely to be the
SEE LINEBACKERS, PAGE 37Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF linebacker Jon Bostic is competing with Brendan Beal for the starting middle linebacker job. The
Gators are also testing out using both at the same time.
Meyer gives story new life
Deonte Thompson didn't make awhole lot of headlines on the foot-
ball field last season, but he's cer-
tainly made his fair share -unintentional
as they may be -during the first two
weeks of spring practice.
The third-year wideout was asked how
having John Brantley at quarterback was
better for receivers than Tim Tebow (which
he is) and Thompson dropped this quote.
"You never know with Tim," Thomp-
son said. "You can bolt, you think he's
running but he'll come up and pass it to
you. You just have to be ready at all times.
With Brantley, everything's with rhythm,
time. You know what I mean, a real quar-
terback."
Thompson let out one of the team's
dirtiest little secrets: Tim Tebow won a lot
of games and is beloved by The Gator Na-
tion, but some players are happy to see a
few more touches with Tebow gone.
I've heard from multiple players that
the team was excited for Brantley to play
quarterback so that the Gators could throw
the ball around a little more.
Does this mean Tebow didn't give themU
Kyle Maistri
Kyle Points
kma istri@a Iligator orga better shot to win?
No.
Does it mean
Thompson thinks
Tebow is worse
than Brantley? Not
necessarily.
What it does
mean is that Thomp-
son (and I'm posi-
tive he's not alone)
knows he will get more chances to make
plays with Brantley than with Tebow, and
shame on him, he's happy about it.
It's not right for members of the me-
dia to act like Thompson was going af-
ter Tebow just for the sake of going after
Tebow, but it's not right for Urban Meyer
to act like Thompson said nothing contro-
versial.
It's that mix of polar-opposite attitudes
that came to a head after Wednesday's
practice.
The football team's media spokesman
Steve McClain huddled every member
of the media in attendance while practice
SEE KYLE, PAGE 37UF MEN'S BASKETBALLShipman leaving Florida
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
a berry@a Iligator org
Sophomore Ray Shipman will transfer
from Florida, coach Billy Donovan con-
firmed Wednesday.
The 6-foot-5 guard decided to leave
the program after averaging just 12.4
minutes per game last season and serv-
ing in a limited role during his two years
with the Gators.
"I appreciate the opportunity that the
University of Florida gave me," Shipman
said. "I want to thank coach Donovan,
the staff and my teammates for the last
two years, and I wish the University of
Florida the best in the future moving for-
ward. I'm looking forward to making a
decision to go somewhere with an oppor-
tunity for a bigger role."
Shipmanwas seemingly unable to earn
Donovan's trust, even when he was play-
ing well, despite the fact that UF's coach
constantly pointed to a lack of depth in
his team's backcourt.
In the team's last two regular-season
games, Shipman scored five points insix minutes against Vanderbilt and nine
points in nine minutes at Kentucky. But
he barely saw the floor in the second half
of those games, as Donovan continued to
play guards Erving Walker and Kenny
Boynton for a team-high 32.9 minutes per
game.
"He had mixed views on his position
there at Florida," said Rosalind Shipman,
Ray's mother.
Florida's 2008 "Mr.
Basketball" actually
saw his playing time
decrease from his fresh-
man campaign, whenhe
averaged 13.2 minutes
Sipman er game. Shipman's
offensive numbers took
a hit as well, going from 3.8 points per
game on 49 percent shooting to 2.7 points
per game on 44 percent shooting.
Before the season, Donovan said Ship-
man focused too much on his offense as
a freshman. Already considered a defen-
sive specialist after his first year, Shipman
continued to be one of UF's most reliable
defenders during his sophomore season.
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 37
FORMER GATORS
E Walter Hodge's ring from UF's
2006 men's basketball national
championship team is for sale on
eBay for $12,500. The sale expires
on April 11.UF SWIMMING
* Gemma Spofforth was named one of four
candidates for the Honda Sports Award,
given to the nation's top women's swimmer
or diver. This is the third time she has been
a finalist.TEEING OFF WITH MIKE McGALL
E The Name of the Year Field of 64 is out, and heavyweights Dick Smallber-
ries Jr., Coke Wisdom O'Neal, God's Power Offor, X'Zavier Bloodsaw, Cynnamon
Crabb and Lolita Respectnothing are all on the same side of the bracket. .Okla-
homa's Tommy Mason-Griffin turned pro via Facebook: "Its a official dat i am
leavin skool and enterin draft. i aint doin anotha yr." Gee, I wonder why?
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 37
UF overcomes eight-run deficit to beat FGCU 13-8
games," den Dekker said. "You
can't give in and can't give away at-
bats trying to get four (runs) in one
swing with nobody on base."0 TH E GATO RS' BU LLPE N AL-
LOWED JUST ONE RUN.
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
tjett@alligator org
If the Gators are losing a game
later in the season, coach Kevin
O'Sullivan wants his team to think
about Wednesday night.
No. 2 Florida (17-3) trailed Flor-
ida Gulf Coast by eight runs in the
second inning, but UF scored five to
take the lead in the fourth, and the
Gators' bullpen silenced the Eagles
(12-7) in a 13-8 comeback win.
"We just kept chipping away,"
O'Sullivan said. "(FGCU) has a re-
ally good club and a really good hit-
ting team. It was remarkable to fall
behind 8-0 and put zeroes on the
board for the rest of the way."
The offense was sparked by
fourth-inning home runs by second
baseman Josh Adams and senior
Matt den Dekker. With two outs and
runners on the corners, den Dekker
drove a fastball to the left-field
bleachers to give UF a 9-8 lead.
"To finally break through and
get the lead is nice when you get be-
hind like that," den Dekker said of
the homer. "It's something our team
does. We battle. We're not going to
give up."
WhenFlorida trailed Florida State
by seven on March 2, O'Sullivan said
his team became impatient. Three
weeks later, the Gators learned from
their mistakes and did not panic.
"We're going to get down in
KYLE, from page 36
was going on and told us that no players
or coaches would be made available for in-
terviews after practice because of the way
Thompson's quotes were blown up in the
national media.
None of us were happy about that, but
pretty much everyone understood why.
McClain said that it was not the local
media's fault that it happened, but obvi-
ously Meyer felt otherwise.
After practice was over, he got in the
face of the Orlando Sentinel beat reporter,
who suggested strongly that Thompson
was taking a shot at Tebow, and more or
less threatened him in front of 20 or so oth-
er media members.
"You'll be out of practice, you under-
stand that?" Meyer said. "If you do that
again. I told you five years ago: Don't mess
with our players. Don't do it. You did it.
You do it one more time and the Orlando
Sentinel's not welcome here ever again. IsBefore UF could drive runs in,
the Eagles gave one away for free.
FGCU starter Patrick Nathanson
held UF hitless in two innings, buthe allowed a run in the second when
he walked four Gators.
UF scored another run in the
third inning when den Dekker was
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF center fielder Matt den Dekker swings during the Gators' 13-8 win over Florida Gulf Coast at McKethan
Stadium on Wednesday night. The Gators'leadoff hitter walked twice and had four RBIs in the game.
that clear? It's yes or no."
He went on to say: "If that was my son,
we'd be going at it right now.'
Many will question why Meyer took
such a public forum to voice his displea-
sure with one individual, ensuring that
this story would continue to grow for at
least another few days. I certainly wouldn't
have written this column if not for what
happened Wednesday.
In fact, had the team just let the media
talk to players and coaches as scheduled,
I'm sure no one would've written another
word on this story.
By cutting off access, the team seemed
to be sending a message that it wantssto-
ries like this to die, but Meyer's outburst
did nothing but give it a longer shelf life.
Did he lose his cool? Was he just de-
fending his player? Was he trying to make
a statement to his team that the media is
the enemy?
I can't know for sure.
But if the goal was to make this story go
away, Meyer did the exact opposite.hit by a pitch with the bases loaded.
Eagles' hurlers struggled with their
control all game, hitting three bat-
ters and walking 10 more.
By contrast, UF's relievers were
dominant. Using five pitchers in 7.2
innings, the bullpen allowed just
one run while the offense mounted
a comeback.
The team found itself in a hole
when FGCU battered UF starter
Anthony DeSclafani. After retiring
the first three hitters, DeSclafani was
pounded in the second inning.
The sophomore hung pitches
high in the strike zone and allowed
six hits in the frame. He also commit-
ted a throwing error and hit a batter
before O'Sullivan pulled him.
The bad outing was FSU d6jA vu
for DeSclafani, who allowed five
runs and retired no batters against
the Seminoles. Between that game
and Wednesday's outing, DeSclafani
surrendered a combined 11 earned
runs in 1.1 innings.The Gators pitch-
er has a 1.20 ERA in his other three
starts this season.
O'Sullivan experimented with
his lineup by putting freshman Aus-
tin Maddox at third base. Maddox,
who has played first on the rare oc-
casion that he wasn't the designated
hitter, made a leaping catch on a line
drive in the fifth.
O'Sullivan said Maddox could
see time at third this weekend
against Ole Miss.
"We've always known that he
could do it," O'Sullivan said. "It was
good to get him out there and get
him ready for this weekend."
Gators stop pursuing top recruit
HOOPS, from page 36
But due to his lack of skill as a ball-
handler and tendency to turn the ball
over, Shipman couldn't crack the lineup
in crunch time.
Donovan thought Shipman gained a
renewed sense of confidence after being
named Southeastern Conference Schol-
ar-Athlete of the Year at the end of the
season, but it never affected his playing
time.
"I have truly enjoyed coaching Ray the
last two seasons," Donovan said. "He's an
outstanding person and a great student. I
want to wish Ray the best of luck as he
pursues the things that are important to
him as a player and as a student."
Shipman is the 13th player to transfer
from UF since 2003, and his departure
will hurt UF's already-thin backcourt,
which now consists of Boynton, Walker
and Rod Tishman, who played just 2.3
minutes per game as a freshman.
If every other player returns to theGators, Donovan will have two remain-
ing scholarships to offer potential re-
cruits.
FLORIDA NO LONGER RECRUITING
KNIGHT: Another player who won't be
wearing orange and blue next season, it
seems, is the nation's top recruit, accord-
ing to Rivals.com.
According to a Scout.com report, Flor-
ida is no longer pursuing five-star pros-
pect Brandon Knight, the 6-foot-3 point
guard from Fort Lauderdale.
Donovan has repeatedly stressed his
team's need for another guard, and it
was assumed that Knight's relationship
with Boynton would be a major draw,
but Scout.com cited a source that said the
Gators took themselves out of the run-
ning for Knight.
It has been widely projected that
Knight will choose to attend Kentucky,
becoming the next player in a long line
of talented point guards coached by John
Calipari.
Florida will rely on speed, versatility to replace departing seniors
LINEBACKERS, from page 36_
hallmark of this linebacking corps. Brandon
Hicks and A.J. Jones -the most experienced
returners -converted safety Dee Finley and
freshman Neiron Ball all have the speed to
be threats on blitzes and to cover receivers.
And Durkin doesn't talk about redshirt
freshman Jelani Jenkins for long without us-
ing words like "explosive" and "dynamic."The smallest of the group, Jenkins re- frequent use of UF's film room, where Spikes
lies on speed to look the part of a 6-foot, and Stamper put in extra hours throughoutthe weakside spot, and Jones, Finley and
Ball are aiming for the strongside job.
220-pound guided missile. their college careers. But the roles are far from rigid.
"I'd probably say our strength is we have And Bostic said he spends At Monday's practice, Beal and Bostic
a lot more speed this year," Bostic said. as much time around Spikes played side-by-side for a defensive series,
"Stamp was a lot smarter than we were with as he can -even just playing and Durkin said he's willing to experiment
football. He knew a lot of stuff, and that's Football video games -to learn from with different lineups.
what we're trying to pick up now -that his predecessor. "We're going to get the best three guys
football instinct." While Bostic and Beal vie for Spikes' spot, out there we can," Durkin said. "Whatever
To do that, Bostic and Jenkins have made Jenkins is battling Hicks for playing time at combination that is, that's what it will be."
38, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
International Waters
By MATT RUBIN
Alligator Writer
hey come from all over the
world.
Competing internation-
ally for their countries, there are
few who are faster in water. Hail-
ing from lands near and far, they all
have gathered for the same meet.
Leaping into the water, they dash
from wall to wall, water splashing,
teammates cheering.
If one reads the names on the
heat sheet, they might assume they
were at the World Championships
or another international event.
While the idea wouldn't be far-
fetched, it would be wrong.
As the spectator takes a closer
look, the orange and blue gives it
away. There's no United States, Co-
lumbia, South Africa or any other
country's flag waving, just those of
The Gator Nation.
Nine of the 12 swimmers rep-
resenting Florida at the NCAA
Championships were not born in
the U.S. -Brett and Shaune Fraser
(Cayman Islands), Balazs Gercsak
(Hungary), Roberto Gomez (Vene-
zuela), Marco Loughran (England),
Joey Pedraza (Cuba), Omar Pinzon
(Colombia), Sebastien Rousseau
(South Africa) and Roland Rudolf
(Hungary).
"I don't really think Florida tries
to recruit international swimmers,"
senior Shaune Fraser said. "I think
the success that international swim-
mers have at Florida makes others
want to come here."
The Melting Pool
Fraser, the defending NCAA
champion in the 200-yard freestyle
and the 200-yard butterfly, is one of
the many UF swimmers who has
made an impact for the Gators and
his respective country.
Along with being an NCAA re-
cord holder and 20-time All-Ameri-
can, Fraser has already competed in
two Olympic Games and taken on
the role of flag-bearer for his home
country of the Cayman Islands.
ele jornan CO
$3.00 Off Brow
Waxing
w/coupon
The Oaks Mall 352-331-7878
Cosmetics/ Waxing
.Tree
Established in 1968
Gxad Opl&V SPeZiOL
Max 2o -Ap
$1 DOGS*
L *oppings em r
$4 COMBO I Located at
Dog chip" & B :3420 SW Archer Rd.
c log between Target Copy
i I bag o . and 13(ochbAster)
6 o.datbe,,1 352-379-8733
1 regUlar soda./teai toppinlgs I'Mr Limit 10 per customerAmong the other eight are a total
of six Olympians and 31 All-Amer-
ica honors, and of the seven Gators
who were awarded All-Southeast-
ern Conference honors this year,
only one of them was born in the
U.S. -proving the enormous im-
pact of foreign-born swimmers at
UF.
"It's a combination of Florida's
good reputation for international
athletes and, even though they're
foreign athletes, they went to high
school in the States," coach Gregg
Troy said.
Of the nine international swim-
mers competing, Shaune Fraser,
Gomez, Pedraza and Pinzon at-
tended high school in the U.S.
After Fraser participated in the
2004 Athens Olympics as a 16-year-
old, he moved from the Cayman
Islands to the U.S. to attend The
Bolles School in Jacksonville.
At the powerhouse swimmingschool, Fraser became a four-time
Florida state champion.
More importantly, Fraser got
invaluable training and experience
he may not have received had he
stayed in the Cayman Islands.
"The swimming facilitiesweren't
that great inthe Cayman Islands and
there wasn't an established coach,"
Fraser said. "My dad figured Bolles
would be a great place to reach my
potential."
One of the other five interna-
tional swimmers who differ in high
school experience from Fraser is his
younger brother Brett.
Unlike Shaune, Brett did not at-
tend Bolles. He stayed in the Cay-
man Islands until he became a
Gator, and like other swimmers
who come straight to UF from for-
eign countries, the younger Fraser
faced a difficult challenge.
"Brett had a hard time adjusting
to the training regiment," associatehead coach Anthony Nesty said.
"The improvements from his fresh-
man year to now are just amazing."
Culture Shock
International swimmers coming
to swim at Florida is nothing new.
As a former Gator, Nesty can re-
late to what both Frasers have gone
through as international swim-
mers.
After competing for Suriname in
the 1984 Olympics, Nesty moved to
the U.S. to attend Bolles.
Nesty, who won the gold medal
inthe 100-meter butterfly at the 1988
Seoul Olympics, became a five-time
NCAA champion at UT.
"It was a shock to my system for
the first four months," Nesty said.
"I went from training 10-12 hours
a week at home to training 20-24
hours per week."
While most of them have been
Matt Tripp/ Alligator Staff
The UF men's swimming team will be relying on nine swimmers who were born outside the U.S. when it
sends 12 athletes to the NCAA Championships.
'I'successful transitioning to collegiate
swimming, it does take a while for
them to become accustomed to the
team aspect.
"The American athletes are used
to the team concept. The foreigners
are used to training in small teams
where they're the best athletes,"
Nesty said. "The foreigners go to
meets with just a coach and one or
two athletes."
There are no rifts or rivalries
amongst the international swim-
mers or between the international
swimmers and American swim-
mers.
Once the swimmers grasp the
team concept, they do more togeth-
er than just swim in the same pool.
"Swimmers usually hang out
with swimmers. They train togeth-
er, go to meets together and go to
the dining hall together," Nesty
said. "Most of them do a good job
of being part of the team."
Learning in America
So, besides for the swimming,
why do so many international
swimmers come to Florida?
Even though coaches, facilities
and prestige weigh in on an athlete's
school decision, the main reason
they choose UF is its academics.
In fact, that is why, more often
than not, the biggest transition inter-
national swimmers have to make is
with the increased amount of train-
ing and not the cultural barriers.
"They're very well educated,"
Troy said. "That's what makes in-
ternational swimmers want to come
to the States -to compete and get a
good education."
Whether it's Rudolf, a seven-time
recipient of Hungary's Outstanding
in Academics and Sport award, or
Gomez, who picked UF because of
its engineering program as well as
the swimming, international swim-
mers are some of the brightest both
in and out of the water.
Their success cannot be con-
tained by language barriers or inter-
national boundaries, only two lane
ropes 25 yards long.
March 26-27
Stephen C. O'Connell Center
Relay For life is an overnight event with
entertainment, activities and prizes all to
benefit the Aierician Cancer Society.
This year we invite students and faculty to create their
own "party" theme and join us in the fight against RELAY
cancer! For more information and to learn how you can FOR LIFE
form a team, attend a Team Captain Party or visit
www.RelayForLife.org/UFFL.
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 39
Meyer defends WR's
comment about Tebow
0 URBAN MEYER SCOLDED A made available because of the way
MEMBER OF TH E MEDIA. Thompson's quotes were blown out
of proportion.
By KYLE MAISTRI BRANTLEY SITS OUT: Brantley sat out
Al igastr @a IWr iter of Wednesday's practice, and a team
spokesman said he was running a
Florida made no players or as_ high fever with the possibility of
sistant coaches available to the me_ strep throat.
dia after Wednesday's practice, but B r a n t 1 e y
head coach Urban Meyer made him_ tweaked his knee in
self available to the media. practice Monday
Meyer felt that Orlando Sentinel but the spokesman
beat reporter Jeremy Fowler took said his absence
Deonte Thompson's quotes compar- has nothing to do
ing Tim Tebow and John Brantley with his knee.
out of context and voiced his dis- Brantley Freshman Trey
pleasure. Burton and punter
"If that was my son, we'd be go- Chas Henry, who
ing at it right now," Meyer said in have zero combined pass attempts
front of a group of 20 or so members in their careers, took the first- and
of the media. second-team snaps in place of
A team spokesman told all media Brantley. Harrison Diamond / Alligator St
in attendance during the practice It is unknown how much practice UF coach Urban Meyer shouts instructions at the defense during field-goal drills at the Gator
that players and coaches were not time Brantley is supposed to miss. spring practice Wednesday afternoon.
Florida edges out Cornell 10-5 in defensive battleI
aff
s'I
UF allowed one second-half goal
By TONI-ANN MILLER
Alligator Writer
From the first draw, it was clear that Flor-
ida's game against Cornell would be a battle
of defenses.
The Gators (6-3, 0-1 American Lacrosse
Conference) stepped up to the challenge and
held the Big Red (2-5, 1-1 Ivy League) to 15
shots, four free-position shots and one sec-
ond-half goal for a 10-5 win on Wednesday in
Gainesville.
Attacker Ashley Bruns led the Gators withthree goals while midfielders Kitty Cullen and
Caroline Chesterman each added two. Mid-
fielder Colby Rhea had the team's only assist.
Cornell struck early, taking a 1-0 lead on a
second-chance goal less than two minutes into
the game. Bruns responded with two scores,
but the Gators' lead was short-lived.
Libby Johnson tied the match with a score
for the Big Red at 23:13 left, but Chesterman
reclaimed the lead for UF a minute later.
"They are a great team and they have some
prolific attackers," UF coach Amanda O'Leary
said. "So I was so pleased with our defense andthe fact that we actually played as a team."
Cullen scored the first goal of the second
half by putting a move on defender Morgan
Hale, causing her to fall and then putting the
ball in the back of the net.
g About two minutes later
Cornell added its only score of
the second half, but UF reeled
off four straight to seal the vic-Lacrosse tory.
UF goalkeeper Cara Can-
ington said after a "sloppy" first half and al-
lowing four goals, the team made its second-
half expectations clear in the locker room at
the break.
"In the locker room, we said, 'Guys, onegoal; that's it,"' Carrington said. "And to be
able to accomplish that goal was kind of excit-
ing but also kind of funny, because we were
like, 'Look, we did it."'
The freshman has given up just 11 goals
in the last three games, helping her team to a
three-game winning streak.
O'Leary said in recent games her team was
able to stick to the game plan of possessing the
ball for most of the 60 minutes, but against the
Big Red, it got away from that strategy.
"Their goalie made some great saves, so
they took us out of our offensive rotation a lit-
tle bit," O'Leary said. "But we regrouped well
in the second half and put the goals in the back
of the net when they were necessary."
THIS WEEK THEY LEARNED THE IMPERFECT VERBS IN ITALIAN,
STUDIED THE POLITICS OF THE EU. WORKED ON AN
INTERNATIONAL MARKETING PROJECT AND MADE GNOCCHI IN A
FOUR-CHEESE SAUCE,
Ml - I
CNn.USACG
1-qdeebw ff,School Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 1 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.comWVE 9+ VER
4 d.bies
SUN-WED 11AM-3AM FREE WII
THURS, FRI & SAT FE I~
11AM-4AM NEXT TO SWEETBAY
WWW.JDOOBIES.COM 34TH ST. PLAZA
WHAT ARE YOU DOING THIS WEEK
Discover where you'll study abroad at usac.unr.edu
40, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
Opponents fair better later in games versus Brombacher
Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator Staff
UF pitcher Stephanie Brombacher has struggled after going through the batting order
once. Her ERA is more than a run higher after facing hitters the first time.suaj111 Llj; =- -X,
UF SWIMMING
Men look to match women's NCAA-title performance
By MATT RUBIN
Alligator Writer
After watching the Florida women's swim-
ming and diving team win the 2010 Women's
NCAA Championships, the Florida men's
team will look to capture a national champi-
onship of its own.
Having a month of training since the
whole team competed at a meet on Feb. 20,
12 Gators will represent UF at the 2010 Men's
NCAA Swimming Championships in Co-
lumbus, Ohio. Beginning competition today,
the Gators will have three days to try to re-
peat what their women counterparts did.Placing second at the Southeastern Con-
ference Championships, the women's team
made a surprising run in West Lafayette,
Ind., to win the national crown last week.
Also placing in second at the SEC Champion-
ships, the men's team hopes to have some of
that same magic with them in Columbus.
"After we watched them win, that just
motivated us immensely," junior Brett Fraser
said."We want to do the same thing as
them."
Leading the way for the Gators will be se-
nior Shaune Fraser and junior Conor Dwyer.
Fraser, the defending NCAA champion in
the 200-yard freestyle and the 200-yard but-
terfly, will try to add on to his 20 All-Ameri-can performances as he swims alongside his
brother for the last time in orange and blue.
Dwyer, swimming in his first NCAA
meet, proved to be an in-
stant success for the Gators.
Transferring from Iowa af-
ter two years, Dwyer was
named the 2010 SEC Men's
Swimmer of the Year and
tied with the older Fraser
for the SEC Commission-
Fraser er's Trophy -given to the
swimmer who contributes
the most points towards his team's overall
score at the meet.
Also competing will be Balazs Gercsak,Roberto Gomez, Marco Loughran, Matt Nor-
ton, Joey Pedraza, Omar Pinzon, Jeff Ray-
mond and Sebastien Rousseau. Roland Ru-
dolf will be serving as the team's alternate.
Senior All-Americans Gomez (two-time),
Pinzon (12-time) and Rudolf (eight-time)
will also be swimming in their last meets as
Gators.
They, along with all of the underclassmen,
will be just as important as Fraser and Dwyer
in orchestrating a great team performance for
UF.
"We're very much like the women's
team," coach Gregg Troy said. "You can't just
have one guy stand out. It's a group competi-
tion."
FUSION CUISINE
Sushi Buffet & Sushi Bar
0.U if
W ston Rd
..* .
LUNCH DINNER
$8.95 $13.95
U a 1
ALL YOU [AN EAT
SUSHI BUFFET
3830 .0 St. -23830 S.W. 13th St. -352-377-4773~1Lunch
$1.00 Off
Total Check with
purchase of beverage
Limit one coupon per check
Exp 4/15/10
Dinner
$2.00 Off
Total Check with
purchase of beverage
Limit one coupon per check
Exp 4/15/10
$5.00 Off
Total Check with
parties of 3 or more
Dinner Only
Limit one coupon per check
Exp 4/15/10_W I
0
0A100 THE GATORS WILL HOST USF
TODAY AT 4 P.M.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Writer
Gators ace Stephanie Brombacher may
get a second opportunity against a lineup
that gave her all she could handle in the
teams' first meeting when USF (14-14) trav-
els to Gainesville to take on No. 6 Florida
(20-3, 4-1 Southeastern Conference) today at
4 p.m.
In Florida's third game of the season,
Brombacher gave up a season-high eight
runs in a 12-8 win over the Bulls.
Although she bounced back from the
rough start and is now 16-3 with a 1.89 ERA,
her outing against USF was the beginning of
what has become a trend for Brombacher.
After notching only one hit the first time
through the lineup, the Bulls pounded out
10 hits and all eight runs the rest of the way.
"They made some adjustments but she
also fatigued herself just a little bit and left
pitches up," UF coach Tim Walton said after
the game.
On the season, Brombacher is holding
opponents to a .194 batting average with an
-* * * * * -ERA less than one the first time through the
order. However, teams are batting .41 points
better, and Brombacher's ERA is more than
a whole run higher once everyone has had a
chance to face her.
If these issues continue, the Gators can
take comfort in the fact that freshman pitch-
er Ensley Gammel has bounced back from a
rough start to her UF career.
Gammel came away from her first two
appearances with a 5.53 ERA, but that num-
ber is down to 2.56 in the 27.1 innings since.
"She's started to develop a little bit of
confidence and has a lot of the team's con-
fidence and the coaching staff's confidence,"
Walton said.
Gammel's biggest issue in the early go-
ing was control, and although she has not
been perfect, her numbers have certainly
improved.
The freshman walked 11 batters in her
first 8.1 innings but has only walked 11 more
in the 25.1 innings since.
The walks have been a major point of
concern for Walton, who has been adamant
about giving the UF defense, which leads
the SEC with a .983 fielding percentage, a
chance to do its job.
"My situation is just throw strikes," Wal-
ton said.
