We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 104 ISSUE 67Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2010
n  Gators 
forward Erik 
Murphy recorded 
six rebounds and 
scored 10 points, 
including a clutch 
field goal with 1:20 
left, as Florida beat 
Florida State 55-51 
on Sunday.  
See Story, Page 13.n Alligator staff 
writer Jon Silman 
talks about alcohol 
abuse and how he 
saved himself from 
it. Read the column 
on Page 7. By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kmaistri@alligator.org
 
TALLAHASSEE — Florida still 
has one game left in 2010, but re-
building for 2011 starts now. That was the message coach Urban 
Meyer emphatically delivered dur -
ing his press conference after Florida 
State’s 31-7 drubbing of UF in Doak 
Campbell Stadium. The Gators (7-5, 4-4 Southeastern Conference) lost to the Seminoles (9-3, 6-2 Atlantic Coast Conference) and lost five games in a season for the first time in Meyer’s tenure. This is also the first five-loss regular season since 1988. 
“The fix starts [Sunday] — recruit-
ing,” Meyer said. “I have a lot of confidence in a lot of players in our program. In ‘07 we had probably, not 
this bad, but ‘07 was not a good year 
and those guys got a little — there was a little bit of anger and edge to them. They came back and obviously with that great leadership on that ‘08 
team, and great talent they came back 
and won it all. I’m not putting us in that category because we’re certainly not, but there’s one way to do it and 
it’s hard work and go rebuild it. How 
do you rebuild it? Tough-ass players and tough-ass coaches.”
Meyer said his coaching staff 
would hit the road Sunday and im-
mediately turn their focus to bring-
ing in as many tough-ass players as possible.
As for whether or not he has the 
tough-ass coaches he needs to return UF to the top of the SEC, Meyer de-clined to discuss any possible chang-es. 
Defensive line coach Dan McCar -
ney has been offered the head coach-ing job at North Texas and will ac-cept it, according to multiple sources, though Meyer said he was unaware of 
said offer after Saturday’s game. And 
Steve Addazio has endured heavy criticism for his part in the team’s struggles this season, but Meyer has always publicly supported his offen-
sive coordinator.
Addazio’s offense again laid an 
egg against FSU, generating only 276 
yards of total offense and 64 passing 
Police: Suspect spotted in station using telephone
EUGENE, Ore. (AP) — Police didn’t have to go far to find 
a bank robbery suspect in Oregon.
They say 23-year-old Nathan Alan Bramlage was spotted 
after walking into the Eugene police station Wednesday to 
use a public phone in the lobby.
The Register-Guard reports an officer recognized the 
man from surveillance video of the bank robbery the day be-fore. Detectives followed and arrested him about two blocks away.
Detective Ralph Burks said Bramlage apparently assumed 
police wouldn’t recognize him.
Partly 
cloudy
81/62FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 13
FLORIDA 7 FLORIDA STATE 31
chOppED DO wN
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback John Brantley (left) threw for 52 yards in a loss against Flor -
ida State. 
 
By JULIANA JIMÉNEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
A south Texas migrant farm worker had been 
out of a job for two weeks.
 His three small children had asthma and could 
only breathe with the help of a machine. Medicaid 
paid for it, but the utility company was going to 
disconnect their electricity the next day unless the 
family made a payment. The parents called Phil Kellerman. With a few phone calls and $53, Phil allowed the children — and their parents — to breathe with ease again. 
To learn about Phil is to learn about the thou-
sands of migrant farm workers he has helped. He is the founder and director of Harvest of Hope, a nonprofit foundation that gives direct financial aid 
to migrant farm workers and their families. As he 
speaks, stories from his life mix with the stories of these people. 
Phil still remembers the call that started every-
thing. He had been working since 1989 at Eastern Stream on Resources and Training at the Univer -
sity of New York in Oneonta, N.Y. ESCORT is a national resource center that provides technical assistance and 
training to teachers of at-risk stu-
dents, especially children of migrant 
farm workers and homeless students. In 1995, ESCORT set up the first national migrant toll-free hotline where migrant farm workers could call. A man called from Owatonna, Minn. He was strand-ed and needed $262 to fix his truck to go work at the fields. But the grant the hotline had received from the Department of Education in Washington, 
D.C., could not be used for direct financial assis-
tance. Phil realized that what these people needed were quick, tangible solutions. He started fund-raising and selling things, and with the help of the ESCORT staff they got the man on the road and working again.
A thousand similar calls came that first year. A 
year later, they had received 200,000 calls. 
Shortly after, Phil’s grandmother died. Helen 
Zand had been a tenacious woman who inspired him through her actions and life story . She was the first female accepted to the law school of Cornell University and a social worker for immigrants, the poor and the homeless in the 1920s. With the help Harvest of 
Hope founderhelps needy
SEE FOOTBALL, p AgE 14SEE hARVEST, p AgE 8SpecialReport“The fix starts [Sunday] —    re -
cruiting. I have a lot of confi -
dence in a lot of players in our 
program.”
Urban Meyer
UF football coachUF turns focus to next seasonNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 104 ISSUE 67 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Emily Fuggetta, 
  efuggetta@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Stefania Ferro, sferro@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Matt Harringer, 
  mharringer@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Anthony Chiang, 
  achiang@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Tyler Jett, tjett@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Jared Misner, jmisner@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Emily Fuggetta, Paul Runnestrand,   
  Stefania Ferro, Jared Misner
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editors Lane Nieset, lnieset@alligator.org, 
  C.J. Pruner, cpruner@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Alison Schwartz
  aschwartz@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Kyle Maistri, Corey McCall, 
  Mike McCall, Amanda Milligan, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Nicole Deck, 
  Safid Deen, Desiree Farnum, 
  Olivia Feldman, Greg Fink, 
  Josh Isom, Emily Morrow, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Briana Seymour,   
  Matthew Watts, Hannah Winston
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
 Display Advertising Clerk Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives  Samantha Albright, Joshua Andersen,  
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Niko Pifferetti, Jocelyne Sanchez,   
  Alexander Silva, Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST2, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2010
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
World AIDS Day Fundraiser
Today, 7:30 p.m. to 2 a.m.2nd Street SpeakeasyCome help raise money and promote awareness for World AIDS Day, which is Wednesday. There is a $5 do-nation cover from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m., which includes a raffle ticket. A portion of every drink sold will benefit the MAC AIDS Fund.
RUB Entertainment presents 
“Brick” Reitz Union AuditoriumToday, Wednesday and Thursday, 8 and 10:30 p.m.A teenage loner (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) pushes his way 
into the underworld of a high 
school crime ring to investigate 
the disappearance of his ex-girlfriend. Admission is free.
Campus CodePink for Peace 
Ribbon Display and Free WorkshopTuesdayDisplay, noon, Plaza of the 
Americas
Workshop, 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m., 
Reitz Union B60 (Basement)Campus CodePink for Peace will be displaying the Peace 
Ribbon, a collection that fea-
tures panels honoring the U.S. 
soldiers, journalists and civil-ians who’ve died in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. There will be a free workshop offered where panels can be made and 101 Downtown. The event is free, and all attendees receive free raffle tickets for a chance 
to win Victoria’s Secret gift 
cards, Pink merchandise, gifts 
from Red Mango, Technicolors 
salon and more. Everyone is welcome to attend.
Gainesville “Gifts” Back
Thursday, 9 p.m.The WarehouseJoin the Pledge 5 Foundation 
on Thursday for our annual 
Toys for Tots benefit concert, 
Gainesville “Gifts” Back! The 
show will feature Gainesville singers, dancers and comedi-
ans.  Join us at The Warehouse 
in downtown Gainesville at 9 
p.m., and bring a toy for free 
admission to the show. Visit facebook.com/pledge5 for de-
tails and updates. This event is 
18 and up.added to the display that has traveled the country since 2005. No experience neces-
sary and materials are pro-
vided. 
Student Government General 
Assembly
Tuesday, 7 p.m.
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom
Students are invited to attend 
the Student Government General Assembly on 
Tuesday in the Reitz Union 
Grand Ballroom.  Light re-
freshments will be served 
from 6:45 p.m. to 7 p.m. and the assembly will start 
at 7 p.m. At the Assembly, 
Student Body President 
Ashton Charles will present 
the State of Campus address.  The regularly scheduled 
meeting of the Student Senate 
will commence immediately 
following the assembly.
Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show 
Viewing Party
Tuesday, 9:30 p.m.
101 DowntownUF Pink Campus Reps are hosting a Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show Viewing Party on Tuesday at 9:30 p.m. at PARTLY
CLOUDY
81/62SUNNY
84/55SUNNY
63/34SUNNY
66/38SUNNY
69/39FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2010 n ALLIGATOR, 3
Thomas Plevik / Alligator Staff
Painted Proposal
Marriage proposals in English and Spanish become the newest additions to the 
34th Street wall after it was was wiped clean by a new coat of white paint. 
ON CAMPUS
By JORDAN PETERS
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
Two amateur tarot readers are offering 
free readings to students on Turlington 
Plaza.
Charles Nowell, a UF graduate with a 
degree in psychology , and Rainey Lund, 
a senior math major, are offering the read-
ings to students to practice their skills and spread awareness of alternative philoso-phies. 
“We feel there’s a lack of representation 
of different forms of spirituality,” Lund said. 
Nowell greets clients by asking them 
what type of reading they would like. He 
then asks them to shake hands with him 
and introduce themselves over the tarot deck. After shuffling and asking the client to cut the cards, he deals them and inter -
prets. 
This process is not as easy as it appears. 
Different types of tarot readings involve different “spreads” that require cards to be dealt in specific patterns. Each spread 
assigns a different set of meanings to the 
cards dealt. 
“I see a lot of worry and anxiety in your 
life,” Nowell told one client, “but I also see important lessons being learned as a re-sult.” 
Lund said that the two plan to eventu-
ally practice tarot readings professionally , as a couple. They have been offering read-
ings in Turlington Plaza about once every 
other week. “I want to do this professionally, I want 
to offer this to people full-time, but I need 
to support myself doing it and I need prac-
tice,” Nowell said.
Nowell and Lund believe that tarot 
readings can be beneficial to the client and can be an effective therapy tool for people.
Nowell said that tarot can be therapeu-
tic for the client because they offer a chance for the client to explore his or her own feel-ings about the symbolic archetypes repre-
sented in the cards. He hopes to eventually 
practice private tarot readings for clients in their homes, which he believes will en-
courage them to open up even further. His 
background in psychology, he said, will provide him with a unique perspective on tarot sessions and allow him to help his cli-ents spiritually and emotionally . 
“It’s an opportunity for people to open 
up,” he said, “and it’s absolutely therapeu-tic.”
Nowell and Lund are currently offering 
the readings for free, but Nowell has ac-cepted cash from at least one client. They also distributed handwritten fliers adver -
tising private readings, which will cost be-tween $5 and $20. 
Despite the skepticism surrounding 
tarot, Nowell and Lund remain believers in the practice of tarot as an art. 
“It is not a party trick,” Nowell said.Tarot readings show 
students’ spiritual side
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
HELENA, Mont. — Officials responsible for 
a Montana pet cemetery are backing off a pro-
posal to exhume and cremate its occupants af-ter some of the pet owners threatened to chain themselves to the front gates.
The 1.3-acre Arley Burt Pet Cemetery is the 
final resting place for 1,200 dogs, cats, rabbits and hamsters buried between 1972 and 1993.Gina Wiest of the Lewis and Clark Humane 
Society says the organization considered ex-huming the pets in the cemetery adjacent to its 
shelter because of a new hotel going up nearby.
But the hotel owner says 
she’s OK with the cemetary . The 
Helena city attorney said the Humane Society 
leases the land from the city, which has no plans 
to disturb the grounds.Pet cemetary allowed to stay“It is not a party trick.”
Charles Nowell
UF graduate
NewsNational4, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2010
AP Photo
Employment Equality
Octavia Williams arranges merchandise at the Castro Goodwill in San Francisco. Seven of the shop’s 
nine employees are transgender, most of them women who used to be men. They were referred to Goodwill by the Transgender Economic Empowerment Initiative, a nonprofit training and employ -
ment service that also places workers with Macy’s, Trader Joe’s, Bank of America and other sup -
portive companies.
n ONE WEBSITE SAYS 
ITS BUYBACKS ARE UP 500 PERCENT.
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Writer
The end of the semester is 
fast approaching, and with 
the end of the semester comes 
the rush of students look-
ing to earn some fast cash in exchange for their used text-books. 
This creates another ques-
tion — sell them back to local stores, or sell them online? 
Online buyback seems to 
be the trend, says Jeff Sher -
wood, CEO OF Bigwords.com, a website that compiles information from about 30 smaller online bookstores that sell and buy back books at various prices.
“We’re like Google for text-
books,” Sherwood said.
Sherwood said he has seen 
buybacks via Bigwords rise 500 percent for each of the past three years.
By buying books through the website at the lowest pos-sible price and selling them back at the highest price, stu-dents can get an average of 80 percent back on their books, he said. 
Paying rent and employee 
salaries makes it tough on lo-cal stores to offer students a better return for their books, said Lynne Vaughan, the di-rector of UF Bookstores. 
But some students still pre-
fer selling them back to the stores themselves, despite on-line companies paying more. 
One major factor is the con-
venience of selling books back to the stores they came from.
“I just don’t want to go 
through the complications of selling them back online,” said 21-year-old psychology major Craig McShaffry.  “Just dropping them off [at UF 
Bookstore and Florida Book 
Store’s buyback kiosks] is a lot easier.” 
Local buyback is also in-
stantaneous. Students are able to walk out of the store with cash in hand as opposed to waiting for their money. Online textbook 
buybacks up
By MARISSA PRIETO
Alligator Contributing Writer
This October, seven UF students were selected to receive 
grants from the Florida Campus Compact College Access Pro-
gram within AmeriCorps.
The program will award these students educational grants 
for acting as mentors to at-risk middle and high school students in the Gainesville community.
Amanda Cox, Shantrell Jenkins, Carly-Ann Borden, Drew 
Chung, Brooke Bauzon and Lauren Wickman will receive 
$1,132 after they perform 300 hours of service. 
Mia Wilchcombe will receive $2,675 after she performs 900 
hours of service. Some students receiving the grant are part of the club Gator 
Teens Mentors and are required to put in time for leadership 
training, fundraising and direct service, said Amanda Cox, a recipient of the grant. She said the direct service, going to the 
schools and mentoring, is the program’s most important area.
“We try to help kids that are struggling, need extra help so-
cially or mentally or just need someone to pay more attention to them,” she said.
Cox performs her direct service at Lincoln Middle School 
and Eastside High School. 
“This is one small way for me to reach out a little more and 
help the community,” she said.
Wilchcombe, co-director of Gator Teens Mentors and re-
cipient of the $2,675 grant, does her direct service at Howard 
Bishop Middle School and at Friends of the Micanopy Library.
She said mentoring is something she loves to do.“Basically I just feel like it’s a civic duty ,” she said. “I like 
to give back and help these students propel themselves into the workforce or into college or whatever route they choose to take, because some don’t have the home life that others are blessed with.”Seven UF students to receive scholarships for service
By TYLER COLE
Alligator Contributing Writer
While many UF and Santa Fe students 
traveled back to their hometowns for the hol-idays, an estimated 12,000 people found their way into the Stephen C. O’Connell Center in search of a homemade holiday gift at the 2010 
Craft Festival.
The festival, which is in its 68th year on campus, took place Saturday and Sunday. Over 300 vendors and 250 booths showcased 
a variety of items, from UF candles to hand-made piggy banks. 
Meredith Palmberg, the festival’s coordi-
nator, said the festival originally started in the Reitz Union. However, its success and yearly increase in attendance led the show to be moved to the O’Connell center 18 years ago. “This festival is about bringing artisans 
and vendors together, and it’s a great way to give back to the community,” she said.
UF students were 
charged $1 for entry and other attendants were charged $4. Children un-
der the age of 13 got in for free. 
Palmberg didn’t have an estimate of how 
much money is made from the show, though the profits from the show go into the next 
year’s festival.
Paul Lambert, the owner of a hot sauce 
company known as Dixie Heat, said he and 
his wife do these types of events for fun, and that such festivals are a good way to get a small company’s name out in the open.
“I’m retired from the post office, and we 
like to do these festivals to show everyone what we got,” Lambert said.
12,000 attend annual craft festival at O’Connell Center
n BILL GATES HELPED FUND 
THE TECHNOLOGY.
By JULIANNE WILSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
In an effort to combat global 
warming, researchers are delving 
into a new kind of environmental technology that involves machin-
ery with the ability to create syn-
thetic clouds.The concept behind the idea, 
which has been funded by Bill Gates, is for these particles to in-crease the number of cloud nuclei, which create denser, whiter clouds that reflect the sun’s rays away from Earth, keeping it cooler.
While this innovative technol-
ogy may help the environment, 
some are hesitant about such tech-
nology. 
Peter Waylen, department chair 
of geography at UF, explained that the world is much more complex 
than imagined.
 “As Ameri-
cans, we focus on one problem and work on finding a solution for that one prob-lem,” he said. 
“We don’t think 
about the other 
consequences that go along with the entire picture. You can’t change one part of the Earth without it af-fecting the other parts,” he said.
Waylen also explained that 
clouds are made up of water and water vapor, which are actually greenhouse gases themselves. 
“By having machines spray 
these gases into the atmosphere, means it could be increasingly dif-
ficult to reduce the amount of en-
ergy that clouds let in, to escape,” he said. 
Rose Prince, a graduate student at UF with an undergraduate de-gree in geography, feels that these cloud machines are a step in a di-rection, but it may not the right direction. Prince said she encour -
ages more research to be done on the new machines, as long as Gates is willing to fund most of the re-search. 
“I think it’s a good idea, but my 
only concern would be if it were drawing from other resources be-ing funded,” she added.
Researchers try creating clouds to fight global warmingUF ACADEMICS
“This is one small way for me to reach out a 
little more and help the community.”
Amanda Cox
Grant recipient
Waylen
AroundGainesvilleMONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2010 n ALLIGATOR, 5
n IT COULD AFFECT PLACENTA.
BY ERIC HENELY 
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new study by a team of researchers from UF 
suggests that a common antibacterial agent could 
cause birth defects.
 The findings were published in the November 
issue of Environment International.
The chemical triclosan is used in many common 
antibacterial hand washes, lotions and toothpaste, said Dr. Deborah Edgeworth, a gynecologist and 
obstetrician who’s familiar with the study. 
“We don’t need to be alarmist, but this is a 
strong warning point about some of the chemicals 
we use in everyday life,” she said.
The study is still in its initial stages and deals 
with sheep placenta, she said.
The placenta serves a number of vital functions, 
including getting oxygen to the fetus, transporting nutrients and taking away the baby’s waste prod-
ucts, said Dr. Gregory Morrow, another gynecolo-gist and obstetrician familiar with the study.
Morrow said the reason triclosan could be a dangerous chemical is that it is thought to disturb 
the placenta’s ability to metabolize estrogen. 
Estrogen and progesterone are important chem-
icals in fetal brain development. If there are miss-
ing enzymes that process estrogen, the baby can 
be born with ambiguous genitalia or brain defects, 
he said.
The majority of birth defects that Morrow sees 
are the result of genetic problems; however, envi-ronmental toxins, known as teratogens, are much 
more controversial.
These can include cigarette smoke, alcohol, 
lithium and many common blood 
pressure or seizure medications.
“The reason teratogens get all 
the press is because it is the only 
thing we can affect. You can control your environ-ment, but you can’t pick your parents,” Morrow said.
While the full impact of triclosan remains to be 
seen, both doctors agreed that it should be limited for its use as an antibacterial agent.
“Antibacterials are as much responsible for the 
breeding of super viruses as they are helpful to us,” Edgeworth said.Ingredient found in hand wash, 
lotion may cause birth defects
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
BOULDER, Colo. — Your 
head aches, you’re hungry 
and your house is littered with sticky plastic cups. Who 
ya gonna call? Hangover Helpers.
Two University of Colora-
do graduates are marketing a new business by that name in Boulder, home of CU’s main 
campus. 
They’ll bring in breakfast 
burritos and Gatorade the morning after a party — and 
clean up the mess.The Daily Camera in Boul-
der reports that Marc Simons 
started cleaning party houses 
about a year ago for extra 
cash and realized he’d found 
a niche, despite the bad econ-omy.
He teamed up with high 
school friend Alex Vere-Nicoll and started Hangover Help-ers.
They charge $15 per room-
mate.
They’re already getting 
some calls but expect business to pick up in spring, Boulder’s prime party season.Who’s Co. gonna 
call after a party? Hangover Helpers
UFResearc hThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Emily Fuggetta 
EDITORPaul RunnestrandStefania FerroMANAGING EDITORSJared MisnerOPINIONS EDITOR6, ALLIGATOR n  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2010
Today’s question: Do you think WikiLeaks is right to release classified information ?Wednesday’s question: Are you stocking up on Four Loko?
120 TOTAL VOTES32% YES68% NOJoe Miller wasting time with lawsuit
In the words of the lyrics sung by Kenny Rogers, 
“You got to know when to hold ‘em, know when to fold ‘em.”
 I guess Alaskans aren’t big fans of Rogers. 
Republican senatorial candidate Joe Miller still refuses 
to concede his loss in the Alaska senatorial election to fel-low Republican and incumbent Lisa Murkowski. He has 
decided to, instead, waste government time and money on a lawsuit to challenge the results.
Back in August the Tea-Party-supported Miller pulled 
off a shocking upset over Murkowski in the Alaska Re-
publican primary elections. Murkowski responded by 
deciding to stage a write-in campaign during the gen-eral election to attempt to keep her seat. 
When election time came, it surprised many to find 
out, Murkowski’s write-in candidacy received the ma-jority of votes in Alaska, higher than the Democratic or official Republican candidate in the election. 
Yet Miller, backed by Sarah Palin, still will not ad-
mit defeat and decided to bring forth a lawsuit in an attempt to turn Alaska’s election into a spelling bee. 
Let’s be honest, “M-u-r-k-o-w-s-k-i” isn’t as easy as 
“S-m-i-t-h,” but I think we can tell when “Murkowski” isn’t “Miller,” or anyone else for that matter. 
If there was another candidate whose name was 
close to Murkowski I would understand the hesitancy 
by Miller, but it’s painfully obvious that the majority of 
Alaskans were trying to vote their incumbent senator back into office. 
Should somebody with bad handwriting or someone 
who, in his or her hurry to get out of the ballot box, mis-spelled her name, really be blamed by not having his or her vote counted? Miller only cares about getting 
his next job in politics and not what the people want — an early 
sign he does not deserve the office 
he seeks to steal. His tactics could result in legal holdup that might leave his state without represen-
tation and his party with one less 
member in the important first ses-
sion of 2011. It’s no wonder he has been urged to stop these selfish plans by the head of the Alaska Grand Old Party and other leading Republicans.
The most curious thing about the whole situation 
is that it appears Miller and his campaign crew need a math lesson. 
Murkowski leads Miller by about 10,300 votes, but 
Miller is challenging only 8,100 votes. It does not take a finance major to realize even if Miller foolishly wins his challenge, he still will not win the election. 
Miller is selfishly wasting the government’s time and 
money with his lawsuit that, in essence, will not accom-
plish anything. 
Campaigns might have been dirty in the past, but 
when all was said and done, the opponents ended their 
bouts like gentlemen and women. 
Miller is the very example of the type of politician 
we do not need in office — the politician who is trying to climb the Washington version of the corporate ladder and does not give two shakes to what the people want. 
If Miller wanted to save face for a future run at office, 
he should have listened to Rogers and walked away.
Chris Dodson is a first-year finance and journalism stu-
dent. His column appears every Monday.
Wiki-Whoops
Beginning Sunday, the 
website WikiLeaks, an organization designed 
to release covert govern-ment documents, began to 
release batches of top-secret 
papers.
Sending groans and 
cat-out-of-the-bag shock-waves across the world, the documents reveal some very shady dealings about American affairs.
Among the findings: cor -
ruption in the some-would-say-American-selected Af-ghan government involving Afghanistan’s vice president and a wad of cash totaling $52 million; secret bargain-ing with countries to empty the Guantanamo Bay pris-on; and records indicating 
Saudi Arabia, the supposed 
American ally in the Middle East, is the highest financier of the Sunni militant groups like Al Qaeda.
And while we feel secret 
documents are kept secret for a reason, the Editorial Board recognizes the sinis-ter secrets WikiLeaks tell ex-pose the evil side of America and do little to compromise 
national security. 
National officials don’t 
want the documents to re-
main secret for security reasons; they want them to remain secret to not anger any country we supposedly have a fake alliance with and to keep the American 
people thinking everything 
is A-OK.
It’s all too similar to the 
grade school note-passing game with Susie when we call Doreen fat. We don’t want Doreen to know we called her fat because we want her to like us. Because 
everyone should like us. 
And if secret documents 
never played an important 
role in American history, Nixon might have stayed president.Hot Mess
China should enforce 
sanctions to prevent war
Sen. John McCain, the top Republican in the Senate 
Armed Forces Committee, said Sunday it’s time to start chatting about a “regime change” in North Korea.
But, notably, the 74-year-old senator from Arizona failed 
to mention how the U.S. or anyone should go about tack-ling the change in a country that appears more unstable than Charlie Sheen. 
As the world watches the Korean peninsula in preparation 
for Korean War 2.0, news of further military realignments, artillery shells and the U.S. standing “shoulder-to-shoulder” with South Korea become more ominous by the day. 
And while McCain stressed the need for a regime change 
in the communist nation, he stopped short of recommending military action. 
Instead, the former presidential candidate pleaded that 
China step up its sanction game to prevent a disaster for Seoul and the rest of the world.
“They could bring North Korea to its knees if they want-
ed to,” McCain said of the Chinese on CNN’s “State of The Union.”
And McCain couldn’t be more right. With the U.S. already 
enforcing tight sanctions on North Korea, added sanctions would do little. But China, North Korea’s closest ally, could essentially shut down the country. 
It’s time for China to recognize any conflict on the Korean 
peninsula is not to its benefit. This war needs to end before it begins. 
And it’s time for North Korea to go back to timeout. No 
one likes a bully.
Chris Dodson
letters@alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2010 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Reader thinks Urban Meyer 
should fire Steve Addazio for the sake of the Gators football team
If after watching the chaos, 
disorganization and utter futil-
ity of Steve Addazio’s offense 
against Florida State Univer -
sity, Urban Meyer does not 
conclude that a change must be made in the team’s leader -
ship, then it’s time for Jeremy Foley to break out the Rolodex and look for a new head foot-ball coach.  
Meyer simply isn’t doing 
his job. 
I am embarrassed for our 
players and fans.Addazio has set the Florida 
Gators  back 20 years, which is 
how far back you would have 
to go to find more home losses or a margin of defeat against FSU.
Meyer better get this fixed 
quickly, and a demotion or pink slip for Addazio is the first step.  
Please — fire Addazio be-
fore any more damage is done to the Gators football pro-gram.
Richard Wilson 
Alligator reader
OrlandoLetter to the Editor
I see them out sometimes, and sometimes in class the next 
day. Bodies dry, withered and hated. Revelry at late night hours in 40-watt splendor. Sloppy and slippery moral codes 
bound to the most basic human needs.
No one wants to grow up and be a drunk. You get there of 
your own volition — but once you’re there it’s lights out, game over.
I’m an alcoholic because I thought drinking could save me. I 
drank to blot out the world. And it worked. Until it didn’t.
To stay sober, I pray twice a day. Those red-eyed scholars 
pray when they’ve had too much. To stay sane, I go to meetings and listen to people struggle. They get close with new friends and bond until the sun rises and reality sets in. I will never be able to drink like a normal person, and if they don’t watch out, 
they won’t either.
It’s like trying to explain sound to a deaf person. I guess this 
is more of a warning than anything else.
n  n  n
I told my mom when I was young that I’d never drink, and 
she used to rub brandy on my sore teeth and nod her head that 
this was a good idea.
My first real drunkenness was in the ninth grade. I ran in 
circles and laughed, and I forgot my Dad was gone. I didn’t have to feel anything except warmth anymore. I’d put on my headphones and walk down suburban streets, all youth.
On the school bus, I would half-and-half a bottle of Coke 
with vodka. I got suspended when I told my teacher she looked 
hot (she did). Security found a bottle in my backpack, and my 
mom came to pick me up. I cried and told her I wasn’t a man.
At 18, I was like a carriage horse with blinders on, speeding 
off a cliff.
It got worse after high school when I started a band. We had 
an old warehouse on the side of the highway that five of us split the rent on. Two of those guys were my best friends. We ate pot brownies together, drank Kahlua and milk together and sang songs into the morning. Chris died from this disease: He 
bled out through his nose. Bill was getting help, but last I heard 
he gave that up.
The first night we rehearsed, the other guys brought four 
cases of beer. I wasn’t used to drinking that much, and neither was Chris.
“Dude, we drank like 20 beers each.”“Dude, I’m fine. I can drive.”That was pride. I couldn’t see it then. I couldn’t see much, 
actually.
“Seriously maybe we should wait or something.”We didn’t.
He checked the mirrors and tried to put his seat belt on. He 
missed. The sound of scraping and clumsy clacks. Click. I said 
a silent prayer to myself like I always do when I get scared.
“Dear God, if you take me, make it quick. I don’t want to 
hurt.”
It was a quarter of a mile from our warehouse to the highway . 
The left tire barely slipped off the road, and I felt the roughness of the transition from gravel to dirt. The whole thing took three seconds. He jerked the steering wheel of the Explorer to the right like he was throwing a bucket of water over a balcony . It was too much. He snapped left, and we flipped. I’ll remember those midair split seconds until I can’t remember anything anymore. The ground became the sky and the cup fell out and hung like a 
necklace before we landed. There was 
no time to ponder, but during the roll I was glad I had a seat belt on, and I just went loose like a used jump rope. The glass didn’t crunch when the car landed 
on its top, it popped.
I crawled out the windows of the upside down car over 
broken glass, and we sprinted back to the warehouse and chugged water till we puked so the cops wouldn’t know we 
were trashed. We drank like that from every night on.
n  n  n
In the 12-step program that got me clean, we’re taught there 
are three types of drinkers. There are the moderate drinkers. 
Some may call them casual, and they can take it or leave it alone. If they have an early morning the next day, they’ll stop. Or they’ll only have one drink. I never understood that.
Then there’s the hard drinker. They drink a lot, and it im-
pairs them pretty good. But with a good enough reason they can stop or moderate. Sometimes they fall in love. Or maybe they get sick.
The real alcoholic? At some point they lose all control of 
their drinking, whether they started out as a moderate drinker 
or a heavy one. They are always blindly drunk, and they barely 
resemble the person they are when they’re sober. The finest people become the most disgusting. These people are usually well-balanced and giving, but bring drinking into the equa-tion and they become ugly and selfish. They chase away hang-overs with beer, stash bottles and drink until the sun comes up. They piss themselves and wake up in strange places. These are drunks.
I see them in class the next morning, slumped like mari-
onettes. The line is invisible, but you can never go back once you cross it.
n  n  n
Toward the end, I lived in an apartment that looked like two 
stacked trailers, and you could cut those walls with a butter knife. There was no band anymore, just sadness and a dissi-pated dream. I’d do cocaine and sit in my dingy room with a 
dirty mattress on the floor.
One day I got lost in the loud sunlight in my neighborhood 
with an ugly girl. We kept trying to pack enough coke in our noses to plug the holes, but they’d still leak. When you do it 
all day you sort of lose the ability to think. I kept running my hands through my hair and picking at my face, and she kept smoking cigarettes one after the other. We stood on the corner in what we thought was a bad neighborhood, and every time someone walked by, we thought it was a cop.
She’d say, “Shit, that’s a cop. Be cool.”“Look at that baseball cap. That’s a cop hat.”“Oh man, you’re right. That’s a cop. Oh shit, that’s a cop. Oh shit, be cool.”
“You don’t have anything on you, do you?”“Shit, shit, shit, shit,” she said.“Shit, shit, shit,” I whispered.I flinched when he walked by , and we laughed when he 
was gone.
I had to call a friend for a ride. I was a block from home.When I wasn’t drunk or high I was miserable. I met a girl I 
hated, and I never left her side because I hated being alone.
On a trip to a theme park on my birthday I took mush-
rooms and rode roller coasters. I thought life peaked. On the way home I drank two bottles of wine and threatened that poor girl’s life because she didn’t want to see me. She called the cops. I hid. I didn’t drink for the next nine months.
When I started drinking again my tolerance was low. That 
first night I woke up at dawn in a Shell gas station parking lot. The driver’s-side door was open. I was hanging out of the car and had no idea how I had gotten there.
I re-acquainted myself with narcotics. I was drinking beer in 
the shower and taking pills like I had a heart condition.
I became a ghost and found a new strange fear. The cracks 
started to show. I was scared because I was around people and I wasn’t drunk, so I couldn’t talk and I couldn’t look anyone in 
the eye because they were all better than me, everyone.
The worst feeling in the world is when the thing that made 
you feel the best stops working. But I couldn’t stop.  
  
   n   n  n
I’ll always be an alcoholic. I’ll always imagine what a drink 
tastes like when I see one. My mouth will always water and my 
bones will always crave. But I know the only way to keep the 
beast at bay is to abstain.
To those who just want to dip their feet in, enjoy If you can  
swim, live it. But if you’re drowning it only gets worse.
If you drink to feel comfortable, that’s a warning sign. If you 
look forward to the end of the day so you can get wasted, keep an eye on it. If you’re drinking when you don’t really want to, or you didn’t mean to get “that drunk,” or you live with shame from the night before that can only be erased by the night to 
come, maybe slow down.
I used to think I was living a romantic, tortured existence. I 
was full of it.
n  n  n
The last time I drank there was no laughing. I couldn’t for -
get the pain. I couldn’t ignore it.
The next morning I decided to get clean. I woke up in my 
own bed, and my vision was sharp and the sun bright. There 
was an empty echo in my ears, a calm quiet. I took a walk to the lake and watched the ducks, but something wasn’t right. They say it was a moment of clarity , but I just started crying. It was like all those years of feelings just couldn’t stay stuffed anymore. And I couldn’t stop.
I met people who knew exactly what I was going through 
because they’d been through it themselves. Those people saved my life.
Jon Silman is a junior journalism major. Alcoholic chronicles descent into madness, road to sobrietyColumn
Jon Silman
jsilman@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2010
The Harvest of Hope Fest is the organization’s biggest fundraiser
of the inheritance she left him, the Harvest of 
Hope Foundation was born in 1997. 
Since then, the foundation has given out 
more than $834,000 for housing, utilities, med-icine, food, funerals, legal costs, tuition and books, among countless other services. 
Many times, it’s been a life-saving thing, 
says Gladys Sanchez, a social worker for Pasco 
County who works closely with Phil. 
“He has a passion and a compassion for 
migrant farm workers,” Gladys says. “You 
can tell he has that drive. I recognize it. I have it too. The work we do is very basic and hum-bling.”
Gladys met Phil five years ago when he 
gave a presentation about Harvest of Hope. It was Thanksgiving, and a family in Hillsbor -
ough County didn’t have money for food or diapers. Gladys called Phil, and while every-one else was out on holiday break Phil bought food and diapers for the family. He saved their Thanksgiving, Gladys says. 
Today, Phil has been up since 6 a.m. receiv-
ing calls, as he does every day. His office is all manila envelopes, drawers filled to the brim with newspapers, family photos and maga-zine articles stuck on the wall next to his desk. There are several stacks of notebooks on top of file cabinets overflowing with papers. All over, there are maps of several U.S. states: Florida, Georgia, Texas. 
“I know Texas better than Texas,” he says.
But Phil was born nowhere near Texas — 
he was born in Douglaston, N.Y ., 55 years ago. 
Now, he lives in a one-story house in northwest Gainesville. Liberal bumper stickers fill every inch of the back of his red Toyota: “Thank a farm worker.” “No human is illegal.” 
He wears comfortable green shorts to work 
from home and has a short salt-and-pepper beard and mustache. Phil takes calls, looks at receipts, looks at maps and looks for more ways to help others. He is constantly doing something and has always been this way . Phil 
was an action baby, says his brother Ed. Now, 
he is the action man. He solves problems.
Ed Kellerman looks like his brother, except 
for a longer, darker beard.  He is a senior lec-turer at the Dial Center for Written and Oral Communication at UF, as well as the com-munications director of the Harvest of Hope Foundation. He’s been with Phil since the be-ginning as his closest adviser and best friend.
Phil can bounce ideas around with Ed, but 
the rest of his family is also supportive. His ex-wife went to fundraisers and his sister’s chil-dren in Avon, Conn., sell lemonade to help the foundation. 
His stepdaughter Bianca, 16, supports the 
foundation by attending the biggest fundrais-ing event Harvest of Hope has: the Harvest of 
Hope Fest, the music festival Phil has put to-
gether the past two years. Up to 90 percent of the proceeds go to the foundation to help peo-ple like Marta Santos, a migrant farm worker who calls from Pennsylvania. Her 18-year-old son got in a car accident and is now in an im-migration detention center in Georgia, but she does not know which one since she hasn’t talked to him. At the accident, a police officer 
asked Francisco Javier, Martha’s son, for his 
license. When he couldn’t show one, the offi-cer asked if he had papers. He didn’t have any, and he is now facing deportation. It’s likely he won’t see his mother again for a long time.
“Mi nombre es Felipe,” Phil tells Marta, in 
fluent Spanish but with a distinct American accent. For now, he is there to comfort her and the dozens of others who will call later today.
About 95 percent of the people Phil helps 
are Hispanic. Half are what is called “older school youth”: 14- to 22-year-olds who come mostly from Mexico, Honduras and Guate-mala. Most of them want to send money back home, to learn English and to have insurance. 
This is particularly pressing because most of 
them will get diseases for coming in close con-tact with pesticides daily.
This may be the case for a 73-year-old man 
with lip cancer who is in the hospital wait-ing for a $14,000 surgery . He still works at the farms and has no family to care for him. Since he also has no papers, he cannot receive state aid. Thanks to a 70 percent discount for indi-
gent people, his surgery will now cost $4,200 
— money he is still far from having. Phil can use $500 from the fund, do a fundraiser and hope for the best.
And so much still needs to be done, Phil 
says. That is why he tries to make Harvest of Hope “unbureaucratic,” to skip the red tape 
and say exactly where the money goes. 
As a social worker, Gladys Sanchez deals 
with a lot of these bureaucratic agencies. She knows that when all else fails, she can still 
count on Phil.
“They don’t have that many Harvest of 
Hopes out there,” Gladys says. “I’m glad that he exists and that he does what he does.”
Back in his home office, Phil tries to call 
Marta Santos back. But she gave him the wrong number. He may never hear from her again. Marta’s case is not uncommon. Many 
times, migrant farm workers don’t have lan-dlines or cell phones, so it’s very hard to get back in touch with them. 
Sometimes, even when he can contact 
them, Phil cannot help them.
“There’s always sad calls. It’s the nature 
of the beast,” Phil says. “I’ve taken thousands of calls and they never change. But I can’t get wrapped up in it, or I couldn’t do what I do.” 
Trying to forget some and remembering 
others is what enables him to go on. He still re-members how 10 years ago the mother of the three children with asthma called back, crying 
in appreciation. 
There will always be calls, Phil says. Even 
when he’s not there to answer them.
HARVEST , from page 1
Juliana Jimenez / Alligator
Phil Kellerman, founder and director of the Harvest of Hope Foundation, poses for a 
photo.
“He has a passion and a compas-
sion for migrant farm workers.”
Gladys Sanchez
 Pasco County social workerClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2010
$380 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-8-10-74-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
12-8-74-1
Greenwich Green 2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352.372.8100
12-8-10-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-8-74-1
Gainesville Place
Now leasing for 2011-2012!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
 (352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-8-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $379***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
12-8-10-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-8-10-74-1
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
Student Friendly 4/4's 
$424 for EVERYTHING
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-8-74-1COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$350.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED 
NO MOVE IN COST. 
WE DO SEMESTER LEASING
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty
11-30-10-90-1
ONLY $410/person
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES
3Bedroom/3Bathroom
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-8-10-74-1
MOVE-IN TODAY!
All-Inclusive Student Living from $424
4/4's with Roommate Matching
GainesvillePlace.com -- (352) 271-3131
12-8-74-1
1/1 avail. in 4/4 Countryside condo on SW 
23rd. Fully furnished, W/D, includes utilities 
cap. $300 dep. $400/mo. Call 352-514-3398   
12-8-21-1
Sublease for Spring 2011. Private bed/bath in 
furnished 2/2.5 apartment. Very nice,updated 
and large. $427 a month. Definitely worth 
seeing! Female preferred. Call 850-375-
9311.    11-30-10-5-1
4/4 Condo available immediately for move-
in. $375/mo. Walk-in closets, Washer/dryer, less than 5 miles from campus (Williston & SW 23rd St.), Bus routes 35 & 9, call 813-368-5325 for more info, questions, viewing.    11-30-5-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901        12-8-10-74-2
Arbor Park
2 1\2B. $549 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
12-8-10-74-2 Studios $599 Downtown location
Arlington 352-338-0002
12-8-10-74-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
12-8-10-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-8-10-74-2
Pinetree Gardens
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
12-8-10-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, 
fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term 
available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-8-10-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-8-10-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-8-09-168-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-8-10-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
*NEWLY UPGRADED APT HOMES*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-8-10-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
12-8-10-74-2 
Cobblestone
3/3 Twnhme $1059
Cable and internet included
Call now 352-377-2801
12-8-74-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
12-8-10-74-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg.        12-8-10-74-2
Madison Pointe
2 Bed 2 Bath $869
One Month Free
Call 352-372-040012-8-74-2
●3/3 Only $899/month●
Mention This Ad To Receive
$0 MOVE IN FEES!!
3 Bus Routes (9,34,35) & Great Amenities!
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-8-10-74-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
12-8-10-74-2
The A  School District!
1Bed-$599*2Bed-$779
4Bed-$1099*Pool*Tennis
Townhomes*Walk in Closets
Personal Trainer*332-7401
12-8-74-2No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-8-10-74-2
$499 ALL INCLUSIVE
Steps from SW Rec.
1room available in 3/3
Female Roommate Match
(352) 379-9255
12-8-10-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-8-10-74-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
12-8-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-8-10-74-2
SUN KEY
2.1  bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $550/mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352.376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-8-10-74-2
● Amazing Rent on 1 and 2BR apts.
Ranging from $390 to $545.Sorry no pets or Section 8.
Madison on 20th. 335-7066      4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $540.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
12-8-10-74-2
WALK TO UF!
● Studios $295-$325●1BR $425● 2BR $700 - 1 MONTH FREE RENT!Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com             12-8-10-74-2
 2 & 3 BR   Huge Floorplans!
·         2/2 from $659 * 3/2 from $779
·         Washer/Dryers * Pets Loved!·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness!
·         Call Now! * 377-7401
12-8-10-74-2
Renting Now!!
We have REAL 1/1s
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE-1 MO FREE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
11-30-10-68-2
LOOK!! NEAR U.F. 
Many properties available near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
12-8-10-74-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
12-810-74-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $699 2/2's from $799
3/3's from $899
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-8-10-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-8-10-74-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
2.1 1/2 Bath Townhome
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $499/mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352.376.6720 or 352.376.7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2
SUN BAY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $550/mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2
2/2 & 3/3 RMM
Walk In ClosetsPrivate BathroomsCable w/HBO & ShowtimeFull size W/DPet friendly352-374-3866                   12-8-10-74-2Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
12-8-10-74-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhouse
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $550 mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2
SUN BAY
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $399 mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2
SUN KEY
1.1  bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Only a few left!
From $550/mo; Walk to Campus
UF Students only at this price!
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
12-8-10-74-2
NAPIER GRANT
"HUGE" 2 BR/1BA
Starting at $575.
W/D hookups. Pets OK
Walk to Vet School
352-377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/napiergrant
Text: napiergrant@65374
12-8-10-74-2
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$350.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED 
NO MOVE IN COST. 
WE DO SEMESTER LEASING
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty
11-30-10-90-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   12-8-10-93-2
ONLY $394
Gainesville Place Apts.
Move-In TODAY
4/4's with Utilities Included
352-271-3131 
12-8-74-2
GATOR GREAT!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
12-8-10-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs  
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.  
Must see! Call 332-7700
12-8-74-2
● Walk to UF ●
Sorority Row Area
2/1 1000SF
$750/mo 352-375-8256
12-8-10-69-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
Modern 2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across 
from Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, Rent Neg. K&M Properties 372-1509      11-30-10-50-2
1BR/1BA, full kitchen. Near UF. H2O & sewer incl. $475/mo.
Call 352-332-8481 or 352-359-1644   11-30-10-44-2$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   12-8-
10-41-2
2 Months Free!
Sundowne Villas
Studio *$430 and 1/1 *$457
Located behind Butler Plaza
Pet friendly No weight limits!
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
12-8-10-37-2
One Month Free!
Courtney Greens
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 *$499
Near Oaks Mall Near UF and Butler Plaza
Cyber Cafe and 24hr Fitness Center
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
12-8-10-37-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$447
2/1 *$548
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
12-8-10-37-2
2 Months Free
Sunrise Villas
One Bedroom Villa *$428
Near UF and Shand's
Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Ph. 372-4835  www.gremco.com
12-8-10-37-2
Creekside Villas! Off NW 13th by Lowes
1/1 laminate floors, vinyl floor in kitchen, re-
modeled bathroom, washer/dryer $525/mo 
incl water, sewer, trash, $400 dep 352-562-
6509    12-8-10-30-2
Campus Walk Apartments
All Inclusive Individual Leases
4 Bedroom Townhomes and flats
Located on UF campus
**Call for Specials** 
Semester Leases available!
(352) 376-0828
(Rental office at Homestead Apts.)
www.gremco.com 
12-8-10-27-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceilingfans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, security.No dogs. 538-1550 aprleve@aol.com   1-5-10-22-2
HISTORIC HOUSES ● 3BR/1.5 BA front 
porch, ceiling fans, hardwood floors. $1280/
mo 222 NW 4th Ave. ● 3BR/1BA 923 SE 4th 
St. Large yard, $1000/mo 1st, last, sec. No dogs. aprleve@aol.com or 352-538-1550   1-5-10-22-2
● HOUSE 4BR/3BA 2816 W University Ave 
1 mi to UF. Fenced-in nice backyard. W/D, DW. $1450/mo Negotiable.●3BR2BA 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo.327-2931, 376-6183    12-8-10-21-2
1 BLK TO UF! Behind Leonardos 
Pizza.  2BR 1 BA AptsCentral H & Air, 1234 Sw 1st Ave- $650/Mo   Call Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494     12-8-10-18-2
$475 per Month  2BR 1BA Apts
3  BLKS TO UF! 840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms,  Plenty ofParking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  St. Croix Apts, Call Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494 x10 ortazzie21@bellsouth.net     12-8-10-18-2
2BR 1BA Apt  3 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo  Window A/C,Nat Gas Ht. 216 SW 12th Street.  Call Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494     12-8-10-18-2EFFECIENCY -2 Rooms(not bedrooms)
Shared Bathroom, Window A/C
Carpet, Across from UF Stadium
1830 NW 1st Avenue  $295/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494     
12-8-10-18-2
GRAD II APTS
1236 SW 4th Avenue
1BR 1BA Apt 1 BLK to UF
Central H & Air, Inclds
Wtr, Swg, Pest Contrl 
$500/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 x10       12-8-10-18-2
●EFFICIENCY APT with sitting area on 20 
acres, internet-cable-utility included. 1602 
SW Williston Rd. $600 
●Also newly finished efficiency, 2046 NW 
14th Ave. $550. 332-1429, 395-6250 Kathy.   
11-30-10-12-2
3 Bed. 3 Bath Duplex located near SFCC.
Newer unit with all tile floors. Most pets wel-
come. $900.00 per month.
Rent now and get 2nd month free.
352-359-4619.    11-30-10-10-2
2 BR 2 Bath Duplex located near SFCC. 
Very clean unit with all tile floors. Most pets 
Welcome. Large fenced yard. $650.00 Rent 
now and get second month free. 352-359-
4619.    11-30-10-10-2
TUMBLING CREEK CONDOS
1BR/1BA. Close to campus. $550/mo, $550 
dep. 352-493-3487 or ronrobis@gmail.com   12-8-10-16-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF Full-Time Grad Students only
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
1-5-10-13-2
●●1BR/1BA APARTMENT●●
Cent heat/air, new carpet/paint, new applianc -
es, new cabinets. 1109 NW 41st Ave. $500/
mo. www.AndreeRealty.com 352-375-2900    1-5-10-13-2 
●●●4BR/2BA HOUSE●●●
One mile to UF, offers fenced yard, washer/
dryer, lawn service, pest control included. $1150/mo ANDREE REALTY 352-375-2900    1-5-10-13-2
●Quaint NW 3br house, ceramic tile through-
out, washer/dryer, includes yard care & some utilities, small pet ok, ●Renovated NW 2br, 2ba home with ga-rage, new appliances, interior paint, & car-pet, $800/mo●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year lease, $700/mo●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr lease●NW 2br flat with utility rm, close to Millhopper & Hunters Crossing shopping, li-brary & banks. Affordable for retired folks or the young professional, $620 includes yard care●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and tennis courts. $1000★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
12-8-10-11-2
Spring housing available
The Estates has limited spring spaces avail-
able. Apply online at www.theestatesuf.com 
or call 352.692.1313.
12-8-10-10-24br/2ba. Close to Santa Fe. Will be available 
January 1st. Big backyard.Garage has been 
made into extra room. For inquiries call Ryan at (904)838-3812.    12-1-10-5-2
Sublease a 1bd/1ba in a 2bd/2ba. $460 
ALL INCLUSIVE. FULLY FURNISHED. SW 
20th Ave, Cabana Beach. Lease goes until 
August 2011. Females prefered. On bus 
route. Please call or text 340-998-5910.   12-
8-10-13-3
Sublease a 1/1 in a 3/3 at The Crossings @ 
Santa Fe. Common living room, kitchen, din-
ing w/ washer and dryer. Lease goes to Aug 
2011 $449 per month 561-386-3781   12-3-
10-5-3
Sublease 1 bd in a 2/1 in Sun Bay 
Apartments. $325/month plus Internet and 
utilities. Apartment is furnished but room is not. Begins January, can go to July. Females preferred. 5-minute bus ride to campus. 
Please text or call 561-596-0938.   11-30-
10-2-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-8-74-4
Furnished Room sublet
$400/mo + 1/4 utils,
incl cable & internet, Casablanca West, 4 bus routes. Serious student roommates. (772) 538-5458                         12-2-20-4
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA upgraded condo 
at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & pool. Avail immed. $425/mo1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-792912-8-10-24-4
Female seeking same $385+1/3 utl (Wrls int, 
Sat tv, & GRU). Room for rent in 3/2 house in NW neighborhoods, quiet area. Avail now.Pet friendly, W/D, wood flrs, fenced yard.Bus route 8. Jessica 352-222-6900   1-12-10-30-4
Roommate wanted- Share nice clean NW 
area 3 Br, 2 bath single family home with two senior UF students- fenced back yard- wash-er/ dryer-fireplace- $320 mo. & 1/3 utilities. Call Jon-321-537-5640    11-29-10-10-4
LARGE BEDROOM, PRIVATE BATH in 
3/3 townhome. Share with 2 UF Seniors. Washer/dryer, pool, tennis. Screened porch faces trees. On bus route. $395 plus 1/3 utili-ties. 301-305-6206.   12--310-10-4
Avail. Dec - 5 Blocks to UF Great House;
2 Roommates Needed; N/S - 4 Bed/2Ba House $450/mo ea + 1/3 Util Sandy 352-359-8484    12-1-10-7-4
Males seeking same,$400 + 1/4 GRU. Room 
for rent in large 4/2 house. Close to campus + bus route. Call Laurie 352-332-9491   11-30-10-6-4
Walk to campus! Need 1 female to rent room 
in 4/2 @ Royal Village Dec./Jan. - Aug. 2011. Dec. & Aug. already paid for. $529/mo., utils incl. Bus routes to UF & SFC. Great ame-nities, 3 friendly roommates! Call Erin 786-556-1590.    12-1-5-4
look for female rmmt in 3/3 @ hidden lakes 
incl util,cable,internet,w/d,pool,tanning,gym locate on bus route 5 min uf $437/mon avail mid dec call deb 352-438-4692    12-8-10-10-410, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2010
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551   
12-8-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4 
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,  
University Realty at 352-219-2879.  12-8-
74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL 2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
12-8-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS - New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879   12-8-74-5
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-8-10-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-8-10-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-8-10-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   12-8-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      12-8-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    12-8-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899
___________________________________.
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. 
Never used.  352-377-9846      12-8-74-6**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still 
in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
12-8-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  12-8-74-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     12-8-10-74-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
12-8-10-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-8-10-74-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-8-10-74-2UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-8-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-8-74-10
★BK CHRISTMAS TREES★
Containerized Southern Red Cedar & Arizona 
Cypress. 2ft - 12ft, $5 - $65. 20926 NW 75th St, Alachua. 386-462-2060    1-5-10-9-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-8-
10-74-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
★★★GatorMoto★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No le-
git shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties 
included. 376-6275 GatorMoto.com  12-8-10-
74-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   
12-8-10-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
!NOW OFFERS FREE PICK UP!For Motorcycles & Scooters for the
remainder of 2010. In Gainesville only.
Call 352-377-6974     518 SE 2nd St, 
12-8-74-11`
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 15 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    12-8-74-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-8-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
12-8-10-56-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     12-8-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     12-8-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     12-8-73-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $590002 Chevy Camero $699903 Ford Taurus $6999352-375-9090       12-8-73-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $899903 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      12-8-73-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243.  12-8-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and for walks and shopping as needed. We’ll have lots of fun! And you will make a new friend!  Contact 219-6948.   12-2-10-74-13
BE A BLESSING TO ME, AND COME HELP 
ME LEARN TO RAKE KNIT, 2 Wednesday evenings a month. The things we will make WILL BE SENT TO HAITI AND OTHER PLACES. Call 352-219-6948.     12-2-10-74-13MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2010  ALLIGATOR, 11
St. Francis House is a
homeless shelter and soup kitchen located 
in downtown Gainesville and
we are looking for help from
volunteers like you. St. Francis House is in 
need of donations such as razors, body  
wash, soap and toothbrushes.
If you are interested in helping
please contact:
Jared Salter at (352) 378-9079
or by email at:
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
10-3-6-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs12-8-10-74-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and 
Communication skills. PC skills needed. 
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G. 352-371-5888 x 111                  12-8-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-8-10-74-14
HIRING 50 DRIVERS
Domino’s is hiring drivers for all shifts.  Applicants must have 1 ticket maximum in the last 3 years, a 2003 or newer car and a positive attitude.  $12-$15 per hour.  Apply at gatordominos.com.    12-8-10-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys    12-8-10-74-14
 Earn $1000-3200 per month to 
drive our car with ads.
www.AdCarDriver.com   12-8-10-32-14
Academy Medical is offering an internship to 
help build out its technology infrastructure. Candidates must have strong IT skills includ -
ing SQL. Previous experience with building online databases is a plus. 20 hours week @ $15/hr. Please send resumes to rob@acade -
mymedical.net. Questions call Rob Fischetti at 804-690-4422.   1-5-10-21-14
CNAs who believe in compassionate care & 
uncompromising services are encouraged to apply on-line at http://ck546.ersp.biz/employ -
ment. Strict background checks/drug screen. 12hr shifts, days, nights & wkends avail.   12-6-10-14-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    12-2-10-10-14FT NANNY needed M-F start by JAN;
min 2 wks/mon for 80hrs;  travel w/ mom;
3yr old / 9 mon; $12/hr; exp; good refs;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    12-1-
10-9-14
BARN HELP
Sundays only in exchange for lessons 
at Hunter/Jumper facility. EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 352-359-4149   12-2-10-10-1
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE 
NOW HIRING. Great working environment. 
PT/FT positions available. $7.50/hr + incen -
tives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 NW 13th St   12-3-10-10-14
COUNSELOR
Full-time position. MA/MS required.
LIcense and experience with youth highly 
preferred. Position requires providing
individual, group and family counseling to
adolescents in a residential setting
addressing runaway, truant, ungovern-
able and lockout issues. Submit resume to 
Cassandra McCray, Regional Coordinator, 
CDS Family & Behavioral Health Services, 
1400 NW 29th Road, Gainesville, FL 32605 
or to cassandra_evans@cdsfl.org subject 
"Counselor". Background screen required. 
EOE/DFWP
11-30-2-14
Extended Day
Enrichment Program
Is Hiring Now for Jobs
Starting January 2011
SCHOOL BOARD OF ALACHUA COUNTY
AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM -VARIOUS LOCATIONS-
●ENERGETIC PEOPLE TO TEACH 
OUTDOOR GAME - $10/hr - BA desired or 
successful exp. working w/ children.●CREATIVE PEOPLE TO TEACH ARTS & CRAFTS - $10/hr - BA desired or success-fule exp. working w/ children.●Girl Scout Leaders, Tennis Instructors, Dance Instructors & 4-H Leaders.Hours required -M,T,Th,F - 1:45-5:30, Wed - 12:30-5:30 PMDRUG TESTING REQUIRED-BACKGROUND CHECK CONDUCTED-AA/EOE
For More Information Call: 352-955-7766
Apply online www.sbac.edu
12-3-5-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-8-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-8-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-8-74-15
FREE HORSES FOR
TLC HORSEBOARD
Call Charlie at 352-278-1925.12-8-74-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES/UHAUL
$39 storage units/mo. Student discounts available. UHaul truck/trailer rentals. No line, no waiting. Call 24/7, 352-373-6294  
minimaxiwarehouse.com       12-8-74-15
Do You Need a Photographer?
Weddings ●Events ● Posters ● Slideshows
Gator Alum $100/hr You keep the digital files
www.mrdigital.biz  352-672-5206
12-8-10-74-15NEED A DOG WALKER?
Aloha Pet Sitting & Dog Walking
(352) 792-5598www.AlohaPetSitting.infoLicensed, Insured, Bonded   12-6-10-15-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-8-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-8-74-16
A Woman's Answer
Think you might be pregnant?Testing, confidential advisingReferrals352-376-2716        12-8-74-16
● NATURAL HERBS HELP ACNE ●
DR. YANG ACUPUNCTURE
352-328-9325 www.dryangacupuncture.com
901 NW 8th Ave, Suite B-11, Gainesville11-29-10-5-16WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
12-8-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
LOST VIDEO CAMERA
Panasonic SDR H40 42x
Last seen at the bathouses Sat 10/9/10
Any info call (850) 543-3762
REWARD $500
1-6-25-25
FOUND: DOG
NE near Roper Park.~70lbs, mostly black 
with white tips on feet. Took him to shelter. Contact Animal Services and/or call me at 682-6982   11-30-3-25HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-8-11-18
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Sign up now @ codepinkgators@gmail.com 
Make a panel for the Peace Ribbon Project 
www.codepinkalert.org/peaceribbon
FREE WORKSHOP Nov 30 5:30-8 pm UF 
Reitz B60 Max 48 peaceful hearts.   11-29-
10-4-2
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.12, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2010
Sports
ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org monday
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
TALLAHASSEE — With Flor -
ida State surging and thousands 
of fans screaming, the Gators 
weren’t sure how much longer they could hold on. 
Florida (5-1) dominated the 
first 30 minutes of action, only to see FSU turn it on late and cut the lead to as small as one. 
But No. 16 UF never yielded, 
holding the lead it took 6:50 into 
the first half all the way through 
the final buzzer to defeat FSU (5-1) 55-51 on Sunday. 
The win marks Florida’s first 
victory in Tallahassee since 2002.
“Coach said it was going to be 
a 40-minute game, and we just wanted to overcome it,” sopho-more guard Kenny Boynton said. 
“We just wanted to keep going 
regardless of whether they made their run. We had our run in the first half. We just wanted to over -
come it and keep playing.”
A 3-pointer by Michael Snaer cut UF’s lead to just two with 53 seconds remaining in the game. 
With the shot clock winding 
down on Florida’s final posses-sion, Boynton air-balled a three.
But Boynton’s shot ended in 
the hands of sophomore forward Erik Murphy, who finished with a left-handed reverse lay-up to 
give the Gators a 55-49 lead.  
“I didn’t even 
see [Boynton] 
shoot it,” Mur -
phy said. 
“I just turned 
around and the ball was in my hand. I just saw 
it falling, so it was a little bit of luck.”
Florida’s win was also fueled 
largely by a stellar performance from the free-throw line, where it 
was 17 for 25. 
That included a 9-of-12 perfor -
mance in the game’s final 9:16, a 
stretch during which Murphy’s 
lay-in was the team’s only field 
goal. 
“I think free throws were key,” MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2010
TWITTER TEEING OFF WITH TYLER JETT POLL QUESTION
n With the less-than-stellar debut of Rusty “Uncle Rico taught me passing
mechanics” Smith, FAU has produced more NFL starting quarterbacks this sea-
son than every other Florida college combined. To cite an ESPN announcer, other mascots may be stronger, but the Owl sees at night. … Barack Obama needed 12 stitches after taking an elbow to the lip during a pickup basketball game Friday. But don’t worry, Obamacare covered the cost.Today’s question: Which UF assis-
tant coach is most likely to be fired?
Vote on alligatorSports.orgn Follow @alligatorSports for all news on 
UF sports. Also follow @Chiang_Reaction,         @kmaistri, @iam_tyler and @McCallin_It for news on the football team and their opin -
ions on issues around the world of sports.Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF forward Erik Murphy made a reverse layup with less than a minute left to seal the Gators’ victory against the Seminoles on Sunday.
Gators hang on to overcome Seminoles’ late push
n PONDER PASSED FOR 221 
YARDS AND 3 TOUCHDOWNS.
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
tjett@alligator.org
 
TALLAHASSEE — Moses Jenkins 
was a magnet Saturday, but not in a good way. 
No matter whom the Florida corner -
back covered, the ball seemed to find that receiver’s hands. In a game when his team looked overmatched, big plays against Jenkins provided the greatest dif-ference as Florida State cruised to a 31-7 win. 
With the Seminoles already ahead 10-7 
early in the second quarter, quarterback Christian Ponder found receiver Rodney Smith streaking down the right sideline for a 39-yard touchdown. Trailing out of reach behind Smith was Jenkins, who al-
lowed the receiver to easily run past him 
at the line, apparently expecting help from a safety.
Then in the third 
quarter, with Florida 
State leading 24-7, Pon-
der put the game out of reach when he connect-
ed with sophomore Willie Haulstead in the end zone on a post route against Jenkins. 
“We played against 
a very good quarterback,” coach Urban Meyer said, “but we did not play well on the back end.”
That touchdown pass, Ponder’s third Jenkins, DBs struggleUF VOLLEYBALL
By MATT RUBIN
Alligator Writer
 
It is that time of year again. It’s the time 
to fill out a bracket and get ready for the 
tournament.
Welcome to December Madness.
Florida was announced as the top seed 
in the 2010 NCAA Volleyball Champion-ship tournament on Sunday afternoon.
This is the first time Florida has earned 
the top seed. The No. 1 Gators (27-1, 20-0 Southeastern Conference) are appearing in the tournament for the 20th consecutive year and 21st overall in school history.
“It was an excitement to see,” coach 
Mary Wise said. “There are over 300 teams that play Division I women’s volleyball and to be the No. 1 seed gives us a chance to reflect back on what we’ve earned through the course of those three months of the sea-son.”
Florida will host its first-and second-round matchups in the O’Connell Center 
starting on Friday. The Gators are a part 
of the Austin, Texas, bracket and will face South Carolina State (17-22) in their first match.
Also in the Austin region are eighth-
seeded Illinois (22-8), ninth-seeded Tex-as (23-5) and sixteenth-seeded Purdue           Florida earns top seed 
in NCAA Tournament
SEE VOLLEYBALL, p AGE 15SEE DEFENSE, p AGE 14Jenkins
Men's
Bask etball
“There are over 300 teams that 
play Division I women’s volley -
ball and to be the No. 1 seed 
gives us a chance to reflect 
back on what we’ve earned 
through the course of those 
three months of the season.”
Mary Wise
UF volleyball coachUF made 17 free throwsyards while utilizing the three-quarter -
back system. It was the third time this 
season the Gators failed to crack double-
digits in points.
“It’s immediacy, but it’s also Univer -
sity of Florida and University of Florida 
expects to be an elite program, and right 
now we dipped a little bit,” Meyer said of 
rebuilding. “I also want to take care of our seniors so we’re going to go do the best we can to win this bowl game. Obviously we’re not real good at spots. But at times we looked real good.”
The Gators are most likely heading for 
a Music City Bowl or Gator Bowl berth, and though the rallying cry since be-ing knocked out of the SEC Championship Game has 
been sending the seniors 
out on a high note, there is a sense of ob-
ligations for those seniors to help pass down a winning tradition to the younger 
players. 
“We are just going to get healthy, pre-
pare like we know how to prepare for a 
bowl game, and help these young guys get 
back on track for their next season coming 
up next year,” senior center Mike Pouncey said. “Obviously, we have been here when it was good times, and through these bad 
times we have to show these young guys 
how to get better and improve as play-ers.”14, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2010
Alligator StaffFlorida 7, Florida State 31
Jelani 
Jenkins, 
RS Fr. The dual-threat signal 
caller did not account for a touchdown. But he did contribute to most of UF’soffensive success Saturday. He lead the team with 74 yards rushing and completed two passes for 12 yards before leaving the game in the third quarter with a concussion.13 carries, 74 yards; 2 for 4, 12 yards  Florida’s only touchdown came from Clark, who caught his first-career score on the Gators’ first drive of the game Saturday. The 20-yard catch was his only of the day. But with UF completing just eight passes, there weren’t many to go around.
1 catch, 20 yards, 1 TDSWAMP STUDS
 Robert 
Clark, 
Fr.
WR6
The Gators’ six-game win streak against the 
Seminoles was snapped with FSU’s blowout win
Saturday.KEY STAT
Jordan 
Reed, RS 
Fr.
QBWith FSU in the lead 10-7, Florida was facing 4th 
and 5. Instead of punting the ball, Urban Meyer 
elected to attempt a fake, but Chas Henry could not 
covert the first down as he ran around the right side and fell one yard short. The failed attempt gave FSU the ball at the Florida 40-yard line. The Seminoles 
took advantage and scored on the first play of the 
drive to increase their lead to 10.TURNING POINT
LB
Christian Ponder  con-
nected with Taiwan Easterling 
for a 15-yard touchdown, giv-ing the Seminoles a 24-7 lead with 2:47 left in the first half.Chris Rainey  fumbled 
at the Florida 17-yard line with 12:48 left in the second quarter. Two plays later,FSU took a 10-7 lead.
THREE KEY PLAYS
John Brantley ’s 2nd-
and-8 pass was intercepted by 
Mike Harris at the FSU 7-yard line with less than a minute left in the first half, ending Florida’s 60-yard drive and preserving FSU’s 24-7 lead.
STANDINGS
The defense had little success 
against the Seminoles. However, one of its lone bright spots was Jenkins, who led the team with nine tackles Saturday. He has now racked up 24 tackles in the last three gamesand is having his most productive stretch as a Gator.
9 tackles (6 solo)1 2 3 4Final
Florida
Florida StateSCORE BY QUARTERS
7 7
3 310210
70
0UF likely to play in Music City Bowl or Gator Bowl
FOOTBALL , from page 1
Trey Burton           8 
Jordan Reed         8
Ahmad Black          7 
Janoris Jenkins       6 
Chris Rainey         6 
Andre Debose         5 
John Brantley          4 
Jeff Demps          4 
Jon Bostic          3 
Carl Moore          3 
Chas Henry          3 
Omarius Hines        3 
Jelani Jenkins         3
Duke Lemmens      2 Will Hill          2 
Jeremy Brown         1 
Jaye Howard          1  
Deonte Thompson  1Robert Clark         1Gators fail to record a sack against Seminoles
of the game, ended not only 
Florida’s dim comeback hopes 
but Jenkins’ time on the field. 
The junior was benched in favor of freshman Cody Riggs after surrendering the score.
Ponder targeted Jenkins’ re-
ceiver seven times in the first 
half, completing five passes 
for 90 yards and a score. Jen-kins was also flagged for pass interference on Florida State’s 
second drive.
Sophomore Jeremy Brown, 
who has played in Jenkins’ po-sition in 10 games this year, sat 
out with a hamstring injury.
But Ponder did not merely 
succeed by finding a weak link. 
He burned the Gators’ defense 
for 221 yards and three scores before getting pulled with more than seven minutes left in his last game at Doak Campbell 
Stadium.
“I didn’t sense them picking 
on anybody,” linebacker Jelani Jenkins said. “They just played 
good.”
Florida’s front seven could 
not bail out its backfield, failing to generate a consistent pass rush or even record a sack.
“They were able to call out a 
lot of our blitzes before it hap-pened,” Jenkins said. “I guess we have to do a better job dis-guising (our rushes).”
The biggest problem with 
Florida’s defense entering Sat-urday was its inability to stop the run. Opponents were aver -
aging 131.5 yards on the ground 
and just 168.6 in the air through 
11 games.
But the Seminoles flipped 
the script, managing less than three yards per carry while torching the Gators’ defensive 
backs with 9.2 yards per pass 
attempt.
“It could not have played 
out any better in my mind,” 
Ponder said. “I am just proud 
of our team. For us to go out and execute the way we did was unreal.”DEFENSE , from page 13
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
FSU receivers covered by UF cornerback Moses Jenkins (36) were targeted seven times in the 
first half. Christian Ponder was 5 for 7 for 90 yards and a touchdown on those plays.
Boynton said. 
“We work on free throws ev-
ery day and overall we hadn’t 
shot free throws well, but I think 
free throws down the stretch was key and that won us the game.”
With 11:49 left in the second 
half, UF held its biggest lead of the game at 41-28. 
But Snaer responded for 
the Seminoles, hitting a trio of 
3-pointers in just over 1:32 to 
trim UF’s lead to five. 
Luke Loucks and Chris Sin-
gleton followed with baskets 
to cut UF’s lead to just one, but 
that was as close as FSU would get. 
Florida State finished the 
game at 33 percent shooting, but 
their numbers were significantly 
lower than that 
of the majority of the game. 
The Semi-
noles shot less than 30 per -
cent for most of the game, 
including 28.6 
percent for the first half. 
Many of the struggles were 
due to the performance of heralded FSU forward Chris 
Singleton, who shot 2 for 12 in the game and scored just eight points. 
“I’m not going to sit here and 
say we did a phenomenal job defensively,” Donovan said. 
“But the zone took him out 
of rhythm and he missed some 
shots.”
Florida’s zone gave Florida 
State’s interior players trou-
ble all night, as the Seminoles scored just 16 points in the paint 
for the game. 
In response, Florida State 
was forced to shoot over the 
zone, which they did at a 7-for-
17 clip. 
The Gators also mixed some 
press into their defensive show-
ing, forcing 14 turnovers for the game.
Florida will meet up with an-
other in-state opponent next as it travels to Orlando to face UCF on Wednesday.Florida’s 
zone de -
fense limits Singleton to eight points
HOOPS , from page 13
Football“They were able to call 
out a lot of our blitzes 
before it happened. I 
guess we have to do a 
better job disguising (our 
rushes).”
Jelani Jenkins
UF linebacker
Donovan
MONDAY , NOVEMBER 29, 2010 n ALLIGATOR, 15
10).
Florida took Texas to five sets in 
Gainesville on Sept. 11, defeating the 
Longhorns 3-2 (25-11, 27-25, 16-25, 20-25, 16-14).
The only other team in the Aus-
tin region that Florida has played is Kentucky (17-13). The Gators beat the Wildcats twice this season by scores of 3-1 (18-25, 25-19, 25-13, 25-20) and 3-0 (25-21, 28-26, 25-13).
“I don’t think the selection process 
and the announcement could have happened soon enough for these play-
ers,” Wise said. “They’ve been looking 
forward to it and talking about it since our Friday night match. To be the No. 
1 seed is a reflection of our early non-confer -
ence wins.”
Florida easily de-
feated South Carolina (7-23, 4-16) in straight 
sets 3-0 (25-14, 25-16, 
25-12) in its final regular-season match 
of the year in Columbia, S.C., on Friday night.
UF became the first SEC team to go 
undefeated in conference play since 2003. The last team to do so was the Florida squad that lost in the national championship seven years ago.
“That ’03 team did it as a favorite 
and they did it on a 16-match sched-ule,” Wise said. 
“This team did it on a 20-match 
schedule when no one thought we were going to win — we were picked to fin-
ish third. If you had told anybody in the 
volleyball community that Florida was going to be the No. 1 seed come tourna-ment time, no one would have believed you.”UF to play South 
Carolina St.
VOLLEYBALL , from page 13TALLAHASSEE — You think you’re 
heartbroken by Florida’s disappoint-ing season? What you are feeling is 
nothing compared to one person’s attitude right now.
This season has definitely been tough 
on all parties involved.
First it was a blowout in Tuscaloosa, 
Ala. Then it was a heartbreaking loss to LSU. Following that, Mississippi State came and ruined homecoming. But it didn’t end there as South Carolina and FSU beat up an already bloody and woozy Gators team.
But I can’t think of a person this season 
has been harder on than Urban Meyer.
Think about it.A little less than a year ago, he was not 
UF’s coach. After health issues and re-eval-uating his priorities, Meyer decided to take a leave of absence. As short-lived as that was, it says something because at one point the stress and all the negatives that come along with coaching outweighed all of the benefits.
So, how do you 
think he feels after his worst season in his 10 years as a head coach and Florida’s first five-loss regular season since 1988?
I’m guessing he feels like he shouldn’t 
have come back for this.
And it’s only going to get tougher from 
here. If the first five years at UF burned Meyer out, he went a combined 57-10, then the next five seasons are going to kick Mey-er right where it hurts.
This team isn’t getting any better next 
season, and 2010 was the start of a rebuild-ing process to return to prominence — a process he has never had to experience at Florida.
Now it’s time to fire assistant coaches, 
not watch them leave to other schools. 
Now is the time to start freshmen over ju-
niors and seniors who have been waiting in the wings but aren’t cutting it. Now is the time to re-evaluate your coaching style and adjust to the personnel.
And judging by Meyer’s attitude that 
led him to take a leave of absence, this is not exactly the position he wanted to be in. 
“I didn’t believe we’d be that far down, 
but we are,” Meyer said.
And the reality he bumped into when 
giving the statement won’t be as hard as the work ahead. 
These next few years will be Meyer’s 
most difficult yet.
Meyer set to face toughest years as head coach
Anthony Chiang
Chiang Reaction
achiang@alligator.org
Twitter: @Chiang_Reaction
UF WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
The Dead River Compa-
ny Classic in Orono, Maine, 
this weekend was the first time many Gators saw snow.  
It was also the first time in their 
college careers that they lifted a 
championship trophy.
Florida (5-1) overcame yet 
another poor showing from the field to overtake Navy (4-2) in the closing minutes 52-43 and win the four-team tournament.
The Gators advanced to 
the final after defeating South 
Alabama 61-51 in the opening 
round Friday . With every game decided by 10 points or less thus far, it’s been a testy opening to the season for UF. 
The championship against 
Navy wasn’t any different. 
The lead changed hands 10 
times in the opening half, and neither team jumped ahead by more than four points until the final minutes, when Florida went on a 13-2 run.
After the game, coach Aman-
da Butler acknowledged the team’s shortcomings (32 percent shooting, 15 turnovers, 17 fouls) but was thankful to be heading back to Gainesville with a tour -
nament win.
“We did what we came here 
to do and that was win a cham-pionship,” Butler said. “There 
were a lot of moments when we 
could have hung our heads and 
were pretty deep in a rut but still 
found a way to get ourselves 
out.”
Center Azania Stewart was 
named the tournament’s Most Outstanding Player after nearly posting a third consecutive dou-ble-double with nine points and a career-high 14 rebounds. 
Junior guard Jordan Jones also scored nine points on 3-of-
10 shooting from 3-point dis-
tance and was named to the All-Tournament Team. Jones played all but two minutes in the championship.
The captain recorded a steal 
with just more than a minute to 
play that set up a Lanita 
Bartley layup, 
extending the Gators’ lead to nine and sealing the victory.
A f t e r 
s t r u g g l i n g 
early with their inside shot, let-ting it fly from beyond the arc became the theme of the night. Florida drained four of its first 
five attempts from 3-point range 
but cooled to finish 9 of 25. 
Returning from an injury that 
kept her out against UNF on Nov . 23, freshman Jaterra Bonds 
scored a team-high 11 points on 
4-of-8 shooting, including 2 of 5 from three, and helped bolster a UF defense that held Navy with-out a field goal in the last 9:02.
“We had to do a lot of dif-
ferent things, we tried a bunch of different personnel trying to defend them,” Butler said. “I 
didn’t know we held them to no 
field goals in the last nine min-utes. That’s really something to be proud of.”
 Florida held its opponents 
to an average of 47 points on 30.1 percent shooting and out-rebounded them 102-75 for the tournament.
“One of the things that’s spe-
cial about this team is that they are so eager to improve,” Butler 
said. “We’ll go back to Florida 
— thank goodness — and work on what is going to make us a better unit going forward.”
Gators beat Navy to win tournament
Butler
Volleyball16, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2010
