0the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME103ISSUE143 We Inform. You Decide.-0ReCYOW
MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010
Recount declares Lowe city's next mayor
0 LOWE WON BY A MARGIN
OF 42 VOTES.
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
The wait is over.
After holding a mandatory re-
count required by law, the city of
Gainesville has officially tabbed
Craig Lowe to be the city's nextmayor.
Lowe, who has served on the
City Commission since 2003, de-
feated local businessman Don
Marsh in a machine recount Fri-
day by a margin of 42 votes, or
.34 percent.
The recounted results showed
no change from Thursday eve-
ning, when the canvassing board
met to decide on 21 provisional
ballots. The board awarded 12 ofthe ballots to Lowe, five to Marsh
and disqualified
the remaining
four.
Since the
margin between
Lowe and Marsh
was less than
Lowe half of a percent
but more than a
quarter of a percent after Thurs-
day's meeting, the recount wasconducted on 10 machines, each
manned by one Republican and
one Democrat.
Lowe, who intently watched
the recount process from start
to finish, celebrated the victory
with his campaign staff while ac-
cepting congratulations from the
core supporters who stuck out
Friday's proceedings to the very
end.
"Now that the election is over,we'll all need to go home and be
neighbors and work together to
make Gainesville a better com-
munity," Lowe said.
Marsh, who had support-
ers at Friday's meeting, was not
in attendance and could not be
reached for comment.
Lowe, who will replace the
current mayor, Pegeen Hanra-
han, will officially be sworn in on
May 20.
AROUND GAINESVILLE
Protesters hold rally, counter-rally
By CJ PRUNER
and MINCH MINCHIN
Alligator Writers
The distance that separated the pro-
testers spanned three lanes of traffic
on University Avenue.
But for Shirley Phelps-Roper, it was
the distance between heaven and hell.
Phelps-Roper, the daughter of the
Westboro Baptist Church pastor, was
one of about 10 members from the
church who came to Gainesville to
spread one message: God hates.
Insults flew like speeding cars, signs
projected messages of humor and hate,
and costumed protesters danced to an
eclectic mix blaring from boom boxes.
At the four-stop protest Sunday,
hundreds of counter-protesters out-
numbered the members from the Kan-
sas church, which has gained national
notoriety for its Web site, godhatesf-
ags.com.
Lou Bouton, a 51-year-old former
drag queen from Gainesville, was
among the counter-protesters who
demonstrated against the church.
"I have nothing better to do, so I
like to come out here and be an annoy-
ance," he said.
But for some Gainesville residents,
the real annoyance was the radi-
cal church, which has made national
headlines for its controversial stances
on homosexuality, Jews, Catholics,
Muslims and African-Americans,
among others.
Steven H. Keys/ Alligator Staff Westboro Baptist Church began its
Michael, a UF student and member of the Jewish community, talks to a Gainesville tour at the Trinity United
Westboro Baptist Church protester outside the UF Hillel Sunday. SEE PROTEST, PAGE 8
U UF pitcher
Anthony DeSciafani
made his first start
since March 24 and
lasted only 2.1 in-
nings as he allowed
eight hits and six
runs in the Gators'
6-5 loss to Ken-
tucky on Sunday.
See Story, Page 17.Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers'FDLE concludes
investigation of
March shooting
By KATHERINE BEIN
Alligator Writer
The Florida Department of Law Enforce-
ment concluded its investigation Thursday
into the recent shooting of an international
graduate student by University Police Depart-
ment officers.
A copy of the report has been given to UPD
and the State Attorney's Office for consider-
ation by those agencies, but its contents remain
off-limits to the public, said State Attorney Bill
Cervone.
Although Cervone could not share the de-
tails of the report, the information within will
help him determine whether to press charges
against student Kofi Adu-Brem-
Special pong and whether police used un-
Report necessary force.
Adu-Brempong faces charges
for aggravated assault and resisting arrest
with violence.
Adu-Brempong was shot by police in his
on-campus apartment on March 2 after he al-
legedly resisted arrest with violence.
Some students have expressed concern
about the validity of the officers' actions that
night, demonstrating on campus and demand-
ing that all charges against Adu-Brempong be
dropped.
To-0d ay
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
11
13
17Rain
75/53
visit www.alligator.org
2, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Computer Games
Demonstration
Today, 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.
CSE, Room 112
Come out and see stu-
dents from CIS 4930 (Artificial
Intelligence in Computer Games)
and CAP 3020 (Theory & Practice
of Multimedia Production) at the
fifth annual "Game Day" open
house to demonstrate computer
games they have developed this
semester. This event will be held
in CSE 112 and the adjacent lob-
by/hallway.
Robot Demonstrations at UF
Today, 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.
NEB, Harris Rotunda
You are invited to watch
the demonstration of 17 robots,
each designed by UF students,
14 of them during this semester.
See mil.ufl.edu/imdl/robot info
s10.htm for more information.
10th Annual Habitat Hustle for
Humanity
Sunday, 8 a.m.
UF commuter lot on Gale
Lemerand Drive
Habitat for Humanity is asking
you to help our cause and, in turn,
we'll provide you with a fun, 5K
route during the stressful month
Don't Let Your
Business Become
Extinct
Advertise in the
alligatorof April. Registration begins at 7
a.m., and the race will begin at 8
a.m. and last until 10 a.m.
Food will be provided, and
the first 50 people to regis-
ter will receive a free T-shirt.
Prizes will be given to the top
three male and female runners.
Last day to register online for
Midnight Fun Run 2010
Today is the last day to
register online for $12 at recs-
ports.ufl.edu for the Midnight
Fun Run 5K on Wednesday.
On-site registration is $20.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
6F
(;I baa! is------------.--.-.-.-.--.-.-------------.81.50 Pabst Pints
$5 Pabst Pitchers
$2 Well Drinks
ALL DAY EVERY DAY
7 New Fla-screens for all your sports
3562-378- 517 9
11 20 W, University Ave.
ATTENTION ALLIGATOR
ADVERTISERS
The Alligator will not be publishing
from Thursday, April 22th through
Monday, May 10th.
The Deadline for
Tuesday, May 11th is:
Friday, May 6th by 4:00pm
for both Display and Classified Advertising.
Display Classifieds
376.4482 373.3463 alligator2 For Tug day
2 for I Any Farah's
. ......I. ......Wednesda
560 Wingsa the independent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 143 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors J ared Misner, jmisner@a//igator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, cti//o@a//igator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Holly Kane, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
Andrew Pantazi, Paul Runnestrand,
Colin Simmons, Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
AROUND GAINESVILLE
5th Avenue Arts Festival
draws about 25,000
Brittany Davis/ Alligator
The Afrikan dance ministry moves to the beat of African drums Saturday afternoon at the 5th
Avenue Arts Festival.By BRITTANY DAVIS
Alligator Writer
Two-year-old Ahtani Stevenson held a
hollowed-out pineapple filled to the brim
with strawberry smoothie, fruit slices and
whipped cream.
Ignoring the straw and plunging her
mouth into the sugary plume of toppings,
it was apparent she needed to sit down.
There was much to observe from her
curbside seat Saturday at the 31st annual
5th Avenue Arts Festival.
Festival director NKwanda Jah said an
estimated 25,000 people usually attend
the event, including her children and
grandchildren.
"These kids who grow up and go to
college or have kids, they come back to go
to the festival," she said. "Sometimes it's
the only time I ever see them."
More than 100 vendors manned
booths displaying colorful foods, clothes,
African art and jewelry.The festival also hosted gospel choirs,
local dance groups and an Afrikan dance
ministry from Atlanta.
"There's so much chaos in the
world now. We're trying to put
some sense of order into our
worship life."
Afriyie Hule
dance ministry member
"We're very intentional about observ-
ing certain African rhythms," said Afriyie
Huie, a dance ministry member. "There's
so much chaos in the world now. We're
trying to put some sense of order into our
worship life."
Carrying a swooping orange umbrel-
la, Bonnie Burgess, outgoing mayor of the
City of Alachua, said it warms her heart
to see so many families.
"Just to see the people and the children
come out is a pure joy," she said.
Students meet with Machen again to discuss demands
0 THE GROUP JUSTICE FOR KOFI PLANS TO RALLY
TUESDAY AT 3:30 P.M.
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
Student activists met with UF President Bernie Machen
again on Friday to discuss their demands for justice after the
Corry Village shooting of Kofi Adu-Brempong.
The group of students reiterated their six demands to Ma-chen, said Dave Schneider, an organizer of Justice for Kofi
Adu-Brempong.
The meeting showed the students they need to keep pres-
suring the administration, Schneider said. He
Local said they also need to turn their efforts toward
News initiating a grand jury investigation into the
shooting and persuading the state attorney to
drop the charges against Adu-Brempong.
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said the university is still
awaiting the results of the FDLE investigation. Those resultshave been sent to the State Attorney's office and administrators
are still awaiting his decision on the matter.
Sikes said that, after the meeting, she thinks students un-
derstand the administration is still unable to do more than talk
about their demands and at this point in time.
"We're still in a kind of sit-tight mode," Sikes said.
The coalition is planning a rally Tuesday at 3:30 p.m. Sch-
neider said Justice for Kofi Adu-Brempong will continue to call
for justice during the summer and after the results of the Feder-
al Department of Law Enforcement investigation are released.
explaining the facebook
pics of you and a goat, hard.
getting your vitamins, easy.
rd ---Zm
.O T 2introducing.
connect (caffeine + 8 key nutrients)
spark (vitamin e + choline)
v aGL.ACEAU avitailnWaterem U ER 0 q m U
Ii
F
Re
T op
progurt's for breakfast.
CE CREAM'S
OR DESSERT!
Ei I
gular Size Cup or Cone Only,
pings Extra. One per customer
offer. Not good with any
er offer. Expires 4/30/10
Marketplace Plaza Shoppe
4216NW 16 Blvde Check today's flavors at 5218
(Nex to Hollywood Video) (N-x375-4484 www-gatordlites-com 3L. ----------s of Williston
SW 34th St.
to Pubhx)
78-2969The Florida
Schola Cantbrum
Sublime chant and the polyphonic treasures of the Church
For audition information
Call 352-273-1482
www.floridascholacantorum.org
4, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010
.,Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
GAINESVILLE CHAMBER ORCHESTRA IIC U TTR
SUPPER SA VINJGS!Celestial Celebrations 'Fg
FEATURING Holst 'e Planets Up WHEN YOU
Friday, May 7 at 7:30 Pm at the Phillips Center for Performing Arts W BRING IN
As t*e featured concert of our season, this unique, engaging audio & visual experience THIS COUPON
takes you on a majestic visual tour of the solar system that inspired Holst's masterpiecemore
The Planets while Maestro, Evans Haile conducts the orchestra performing the landmark $5OFayprhs f$5 rmr
piece. The concert will also include great music from Star Wars and Disney' OR $50 OFF any purchase of $500 or more
Anddon'tmiss OR $100 OFF any purchase of $1000 or more
GEor vit -Clu 35.36. A E benegMaestro MAIL-IN REBATE OFFER. OFFER EXPIRES 6/30/10. PROMO CODE: 87991
on April 23 MUST PRESENT COUPON AND VALID STUDENT/FACULTY 1.0.
]he GC0 is.fnded in part by the State ofthrida, the City f Gainesvifle (VisitGnesville.comn) andAlachua County loristDevelopment Info at GCOrnusic.or g
14"TIRESfrom 15"TIRESfrom 16"TIRESfrom
Get the Most -M'dd':
P18516OR-14 P195/65R 15 -P2051651 15 P20516OR-16
P195160R-14 P195/60R15 P20516OR-15 P215160R-16 P225/60R-16
P205/55R-16
ON ANY SET 0F4 BFG TIRES! EfSTORE!Ff T4/1.
.ooD;ER* ZMDGESTDE
nfiinental . r'LCEf"Q ", m* .I >7YOKOHAMA
GAINESVILLE
3003 SW 34th St. MV-62914
Buyback locationss (Behind Carrabba's, University Town Center)
UF Bookstore Carleton Auditorium 352-491-2812
Apr19D-30 M pnd a -ds BOOKSTORES M-F: 8:00-6, SAT.: 8:00-5 * OVER 750 STORES NATIONWIDE!UF www.ufl.bkstr.com
UF Health Science Center Monday -Thursday Museum Road & Reitz Union Drive
Bookstore, UF Law Bookstore, April 26 -29 UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
UIF Vet Med Bookstore TeHb ao onr
0onapy -3d Broward Dining 66Find us on FacebookRMonday -Friday f facebook.com/ufbookstore
Plaza of the Americas April 19 -30 Powered by efollett.com AMERICA'S LARGEST INDEPENDENT TIRE DEALER
Monday -mThursday
779_SBBIO STATE OR LOCAL TAXES AND, WHERE REQUIRED OR CH ARGED, STATE ENVIRONMENTAL OR DISPOSAL FEE S A RE EXTRA.
MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
ON CAMPUS
Walker fights sexual abuse
By ALLYSON FOX
Alligator Contributing Writer
Lauren Book-Lim is on a journey to fight
against sexual assault one step at a time.
Book-Lim, 25, is walking from the South
Florida city of Aventura to Tallahassee in or-
der to educate people about sexual abuse and
to lobby for legislative changes during Sexual
Abuse Awareness Month.
Friday she made a stop in Gainesville, and
about 30 people showed their support for her
cause by joining her on a trek from the Reitz
Union Colonnade to the Plaza of the Americas.
Book-Lim was sexually abused for six years,
from age 10 to 16. Her "Walk in My Shoes"
walk started April 2 in the home where she was
abused and will end in Tallahassee Tuesday,
where she will lead a rally urging the state to
continue funding crisis centers in Florida. Each
day she walks between 25 and 30 miles, stop-
ping to speak about sexual assault awareness.On the Plaza of the Americas, Book-Lim
thanked the crowd for joining her.
Shari Robenson, the assistant director of the
Counseling and Wellness Center, also spoke
and educated spectators about the free coun-
seling services available on campus.
"It's important you have a place where you
feel safe," Robenson said.
At about 10:15 a.m., after
Book-Lim had spoken on
the Plaza of the Americas,
her cell phone rang. The bill
she sponsored, which allows
people who are registering
for driver's licenses and li-
Book-Lim cense renewals to donate $1
to her cause, passed in the
Senate with a 38-0 vote.
The walk hasn't been easy.
"It's been challenging," she said. "But the
bruises, blisters and shin splints will all go
away."Improv groups perform
By KATHERINE BEIN
Alligator Writer
They got the crowd laughing by
taking on roles as pirates, creepy cos-
tume shop owners and drunk col-
lege students Saturday, but the actors
from the Upright Citizens Brigade and
Theatre Strike Force take improv seri-
ously.
The Upright Citizens Brigade, a
touring troupe that launched stars like
Tina Fey and Amy Poehler, joined UF's
improvisational group Theatre Strike
Force for a show that drew a crowd of
about 150 students to the Reitz Union
Cinema Saturday.
The show was part of a two-dayevent featuring an improv workshop
and a second improv show Sunday
by Chicago improv experts Bill Arnett
and Danny Mora.
At an improv show, anything can
happen because the comedians are
making up their acts as they go.
It cost $4,000 to bring the Upright
Citizens Brigade to
On Gainesville, said formerCampUS TSF president Ricky
Klopfenstein.
"Each performance is completely
different .and in the moment," said
Sharkpunch! member Johnny O'Mara.
Students interested in improv com-
edy can learn more by visiting the-
atrestrikeforce.org.
ON'T TONE IT!
EENCHUN ENCHNUEXCEMr!
Wondering what to do with all your furniture and
household items when you leave for the
summer? Give your old
stuff a new home through
AlachuaExchange.com.
It's free and easy to use!
Alachua County Office
of Waste Alternatives hANG
352.374.5213
Embr a
BURGER &
BREW
DEAL
uy a 1/2 lb. Certified Angus
Beef Burger and get a Draft
Beer Every Monday Night!
(4pm-Close: must be 21 yrs old)
Happy Hour Mon-Fri 4-7pm
2*4*1 Single Liquors Drinks
$1.40-$2.50 Draft Beer
$2.95 House Wine
ive Music every Wednesday, Friday .
and Saturday Nights!
The Red Onion
3885 NW 24th Blvd.
352-505-0088Earn credits your way: more courses, flexible sessions & smaller classes
For a complete summer schedule visit: www.ut.edu/summer
Call or e-mail to make an appointment e (813) 253-6249 e scs@ut.edu
THE UNIVERSITY
OeGisteroUWB. 8TAMPA
OFFICE OF GRADUATE AND CONTINUING STUDIES 401 W. Kennedy Blvd. | Tampa, FL 33606-1490 1 (813) 253-6249 1 scs@ut.edu
LIVI N G
IN NEW YORK CITYR
UPDATE
Pam Carpenter
Alachua County Supervisor of Elections
www.VoteAlachua.com
(352)374-5252
Put Your Fork Down!
While you may love food, it's not
worth your life. If you're dini at
a restaurant and the fire rd
sounds' put your fork down and
exit the building immediately!
+-mo-NFPX
Just go to
www.studenthousng.org.
You'll find clean, modern,
safe, convenient housing.
For summer or beyond,
it's the finest
off-campus
housing in NYC.
WWW.STU DENTHOUSIN G.ORG
800. 297.4694F
6, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010
Editorial
Tearful apology
Pope's apology is too
little, too late
Whoever said boys don't cry obviously didn't talk to
Meeting with a group of sexual abuse victims
Sunday, a teary-eyed Pope Benedict XVI told eight previously
fondled and molested victims the church would seek justice
and implement more effective measures to protect cute little
boys from pedophile priests in the future.
Is it just us, or have "pedophile" and "priest" become nearly
synonymous? Didn't think we would say it? Well, we did.
We also think it's a little late to be praying with these abuse
victims while you offer your sincerest condolences, Benny.
Perhaps you should have prayed for these boys when you
were actively covering up the now almost ritualistic series of
sexual abuse scandals during your time as Prefect for the Doc-
trine of the Faith.
And we think it's a little late for those tears, too. We can even
imagine Jesus telling you to cut it out and be a man.
Although we were not privileged enough to meet secretly
with you -or rather unprivileged enough to first be sexually
assaulted by one of your priests and then meet secretly with you
30 years later -we can say actions speak louder than words.
And no amount of sad, puppy-dog eyes glistening with
big, Catholic, need-the-Shroud-of-Turin-to-mop-up, Mary-
Magdalene-is-even-calling-you-a-pansy, Vatican-sized tears
will reverse the pain and shame these men feel. We appreciate
you finally acknowledging your institution's wrongdoing. And
we use "doing" liberally here, but it's all much too late.
So, Benny, if you're listening, suck it up, blow your nose,
make some substantial changes in the regulatory proceedings
for priesthood and, for God's sake, punish these pedophiles
who are forever tarnishing your religion. Because the man up-
stairs is getting cranky.
Roethils-blunder
In today's world of sports,
one frisky hand seems to
wash the other.
Just when you thought
you had heard enough about
Eldrick teeing off on anything
without a Y chromosome that
breathes, the American pub-
lic cannot help but feast on a
steady diet of Roethlisberger.
While the Milledgeville,
Ga., police investigation may
not have found it necessary
to charge the gunslinging Jeff
Daniels doppelganger with
any crime, we cannot help but
scratch our heads as to how
Big Ben was able to get him-
self into such a big mess.
For Roethlisberger, a han-
doff to Willie used to be the
patented third-and-one play-
call. Now, it means some-
thing completely different
when you have a roided-up
bouncer plopping a barely co-
herent woman on a barstool
for Ben to "expose the cover-
age." That is if you believe thewitness testimony from the
police reports.
We want to give Ben the
benefit of the doubt. We really
do. However, when you have
as many Super Bowl rings as
rape accusations and the po-
lice officer who took the initial
report of the incident resigns
under the weight of some
questionable photos, you may
as well be sprinting the green
mile of public opinion.
In an era when the NFL
is constantly apologizing for
highlights -such as Plaxico
Burress pulling a Cheddar
Bob, Michael Vick hosting
doggy Thunderdomes, Pac-
man Jones just being Pacman
and the whole Cincinnati Ben-
gals organization -this is not
what it needs from one of its
"good guys."
So we're pleading with
you Ben: take whatever pun-
ishment NFL commissioner
Roger Goodell hands you and
actually learn from it.
0l the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Aye, or send them to P0 Box 14257,
Gainesvi rle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/opinions
pLANNED PARDFmc)"D fESENfTS1\"E BENEFIT
" rr TESTED STD 8T- 
-
L
TL T7ilfl LJ N THE L.O NG C, E.C
O0
I THIAC r'oI
THE iic-HT PLACE
CD
' .
V.lf5 0
AW1&
Column
Columnist offers final observations
h, my last column of the semester -and my last semester at that. I suppose this is where I get all
sentimental in my undergraduate reflection, per-
haps mustering enough good will to radiate advice out to
some of the younger Gators among us. How quaint that
would be, but any knowledge I'd be kicking wouldn't ex-
actly be worthy of an AAA rating. Plus, I'm not that gener-
ous. I guess the matter comes down to just how cliche I'm
willing to allow myself to be. Answer: very.
It's challenging to fully comprehend the stretch of time and
experience I've traversed while in Gainesville. In the begin-
ning, my ever-grinning demeanor would have been masked,
clouded to be precise, A la Pig-Pen, except instead of being
surrounded by a swarm of dirt and dust, I was constantly en-
veloped in a shroud of post-combustion particulature of pre-
viously primo dankness. Suffice to say, I capped emissions
essentially to zero, enough to emerge as the mild-mannered,
though often ridiculous, even slanderous, but nonetheless
infinitely eccentric columnist you see on the page before you,
in the circa-1992 mall-style glamour shot mock-up (it was so
cloyingly obnoxious, I couldn't resist).
What's especially puzzling about this era, aside from the
paradoxical, yet entirely familiar, oh-so-long-ago-yet-oh-so-
recent aspect of it, was that it took me an entire school year
to recognize that a dorm diet consisting of beer, bacon and
candy did not constitute a physique-friendly menu. Granted,
"lucid" was not always the most appropriate description of
my state of mind, but such a concept ranks right above shoe-
tying -which is to say it became a first class (perhaps AAA)
addition to my absurdly extensive collection of forehead-
slapping, eye-rolling moments, for which I don't have the
word allotment to delve into.
On the verge of creating yet another gloriously frameable
memory for my folks, I find this supposedly momentous
occasion largely perfunctory, and consequently, I'm pretty
ambivalent about the whole ordeal. However, I could justRyan Spencer
letters@alligator orgchalk that up to the fact I'll be back for
another tour of duty, grad-style. Still,
the need for reflective consummation
seems undeniable, and even though
I didn't want to preach wisdom, the
compulsion to do so is all too unyield-
ing. In compromise, I'll leave you with
some observations.
First of all, the last time the higher
of the two water fountains on the east
end of Library West's third floor was in working order, a
Bush was in the White House. Someone should get on that.
Wearing cheap neon plastic wayfarer knockoffs is a great
way to advertise that you took the short bus to grade school
(your optometrist would concur).
There are a surprising number of people whove yet to
learn how to ride bicycles. There are an even more surprising
number of these people who choose to half-pedal, half-wob-
ble their way through crowded sidewalks. Stop that.
The current population strain on the U.S. prison system
should not be referred to as the "penal crunch."
If the sides of your shirt were ripped at any point oth-
er than while you were lifting, see the wayfarer comment
above. And if they did, buy a new shirt -it's a gym, not a
nip-fest.
As much as I hate being badgered by the person-shaped
flier dispensers that frequent this campus, I'm even more put
off by the unnerving manner in which the Jehovah's Wit-
nesses stand silently holding their Watchtower rags. So, I
will indeed help you distribute your club's handbill to the
ground and/or nearest trash can.
In comparing how much knowledge I've garnered via
coursework versus through browsing Wikipedia, honesty
favors the latter. At least I'll be acquiring a piece of paper that
implies otherwise.
Ryan Spencer is a psychology senior. His columns appear on
Monday.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Friday's question:
Should Ben Roethlisberger go to Do you agree with Charlie Crist's
jail? decision to veto Senate Bill 6?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org83% YES
.17% NO
158 TOTAL VOTES
Letters to the Editor
Student disapproves health care reform
I AM A DEMOCRAT! I believe in abor-
tion and know global warming is an actu-
ality. However, I do not support Obama's
health care reform. The bill, composed of
1,017 pages, surpasses the public's general
intelligence. Does the public know that
health care will be provided to everyone in-
cluding illegal citizens? Or that we, U.S. citi-
zens and residents, will be burdened with
more taxes to fund national health care?
What about doctors? What about the
increasing malpractice insurance costs that
are forcing doctors to retire or relocate?
What about the fact that doctors will have
a set wage? Should doctors all receive the
same income regardless of specialties? Is
it common knowledge that doctors leave
medical school with nearly half a million
dollars in debt? What about the fact that
doctors spend about three years in resi-
dency making roughly $30,000 and work
80-hour weeks? Think about that America
and decide for yourselves whether or not
this health care reform is fair.
Ann Sanchez
UF student
Reader embarrassed over Westboro
church's distorted teachings
As a Christian, I cannot support the pro-tests of the Westboro Baptist Church, and I
hope other Christians alike will not follow
this church's views or be discouraged of
their own faith.
I agree with Asa Walker of Westside
Baptist Church that our mission as Chris-
tians is to love others no matter who or
what they believe, even if it is contrary to
Christian beliefs, such as homosexuality. If I
were to confront someone who was gay and
call him or her a sinner, that would make
me a hypocrite because I am also a sinner.
We are all sinners. Along with Westboro,
the U.S. claims to be a Christian nation and
then skips or ignores certain parts of the
Bible and declares to speak the truth. God
said that all people are equal, yet the U.S.
once supported slavery and Westboro is
protesting against African-Americans? I
am confused because my God called me to
speak the truth and to love all.
It breaks my heart that people who iden-
tify themselves as Christians, such as West-
boro and shouting Turlington evangelists,
ruin the name of all Christians and falsely
distort the teachings of God.
Brianne Pelky
UF freshman
Cartoon ignores efforts to help Haiti
This letter is in response to the CynthiaDespres cartoon in the Thursday's paper
displaying the well-known UF trademark
"The Gator Nation is Everywhere" printed
on a wall with a student from UF's Docu-
mentary Institute painting "Except Hai-
ti" underneath. I believe this illustration
strongly undermines the numerous efforts
from students and faculty to aid the people
of Haiti.
It is understood that the cartoon may be
a reply to the recent decision made by the
university to no longer sponsor or sanction
student trips to Haiti due to health and safe-
ty warnings from the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.
However, besides having a physical pres-
ence in the country, there are many things
that can be done and are currently being
done to support Haiti from our campus.
For instance, the student-run Gators
United for Haiti set a goal to raise $50,000
by the end of the spring semester with the
UF Athletic Association matching every do-
nation.
Sekou Batchelor
UF engineering student
Alligator coverage on officers personell
files misleading
When it comes to hindsight most indi-
viduals have 20/20 vision, which is clear inMONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
the article "Background Check." The article
at first glance appears to be an article about
the hiring process of the University Police
Department. However, in the midst of a
description of the polygraph procedure,
the writers mentioned information from
the personnel files of two of the officers in-
volved in the shooting of student Kofi Adu-
Brempong.
By giving these examples the article
seems to insinuate that past infractions on
the part of these officers were an indication
of the events to unfold. The article passes
judgment on these officers without giving
any information other than a brief mention
of illegal actions committed in their past
that did not keep them from getting jobs as
officers.
If a person were to read the personnel
files of every UPD officer, there would sure-
ly be examples of highly regarded officers
who had similar past violations. Any con-
clusion can be supported if you only exam-
ine the evidence that suits your purposes.
I bring this up because it concerns me
that writers may be manipulating informa-
tion for the sake of their articles, a natural
and often unintended effect of reporting.
The media has a bad reputation for being
biased, and we all have to be careful not to
perpetuate it.
Paris P. Burdick
Alligator reader
Guest column
Graduate student questions university's academic integrity
My thesis partner, Roman Safiullin, and I recentlyreached a compromise with UF to include video
footage shot for our thesis film in post-earthquake
Haiti after the recent UF travel ban had been imposed.
While we are happy that our film would not have to be
compromised in any way, we feel that our situation shines
an informative light on the operation of UF and College of
Journalism and Communications. And although we have of-
ten kept our comments brief and indirect, we now feel the
obligation to speak out.
Let's first be clear -the university agreed to a compromise
only after we offered the concession of a disclaimer at the be-
ginning of our thesis film that stated the university did not
"sanction, sponsor or approve" post-earthquake material.
If this concession was not accepted, we would have filed
suit in federal court through our attorney, Gary Edinger.
The university has since admitted that the administration's
interpretation of the policy was overly broad.
It is extremely disappointing that it took the threat of a
lawsuit to reach a compromise, and it suggests that the uni-
versity administration is one that operates primarily on con-
frontation rather than cooperation.
The university has since opened a Human Resources in-Jon Bougher vestigation into the actions of our pro-
Speaking Out fessor, Churchill Roberts. While the
intentions of this investigation have
not been clearly defined, it appears as
another threatening and retaliatory measure. Churchill was
a supporter of our film but had no hand in our decision to
return.
Unfortunately, the College of Journalism and Communica-
tions was unwilling to forcefully challenge the administration
on core issues of academic freedom and faculty and student
rights. We had hoped the college would advocate for the val-
ues of journalism in Haiti during this tragic time.
Instead, the college encouraged us to submit a film that was
half-finished, raising serious questions about academic integ-
rity. Despite a permanent installation of the First Amendment
within its walls, the college appeared disinterested in speak-
ing on its behalf.
But a larger issue remains -the university still enforces a
travel ban that is unnecessarily restrictive and denies gradu-
ate students and faculty from performing important work in
Haiti.
While we understand the need for liability protection, we
feel that liability waivers or additional paperwork could becompleted to offer the university proper protection. Other
universities throughout the country have offered similar mea-
sures.
We believe that the tenor of comments from the adminis-
tration regarding the travel ban have also served to perpetu-
ate negative stereotypes about the Haitian people. During this
process, the administration stated that we could be "harmed,
injured or killed" while working in Haiti even months after
the earthquake.
Having traveled to the country since the earthquake, we
can say from firsthand experience that the administration has
an inaccurate and ill-informed picture of the country.
In the end, we believe our situation should question the
type of values that the university instills in its students.
Rather than promote a community of engaged citizens, the
university seems to prefer a Student Body that submits to bu-
reaucratic complacency and legal restraint.
We can only hope the issues that our situation raises will
promote a discussion, both in the College of Journalism and
Communications and the university, about the academic sac-
rifices that are often made in the name of administrative duty
and bureaucratic technicality.
Jon Bougher is a UF graduate student.
1718 W. Univ. Ave.
Bar & Grill f ,. --O-4%HOUSE
$10 ALL YOU CAN SRINK
D -J '.Trivia Tuesdays
Win a $50 Bar Tab
$3 Capt & $5 Pitchers
Starts @ 1 Opm
No Cover
\\U) 0I
s-iNAYLOR IS
HIRING!
Full-Time Advertising
Sales Representatives
Join our award-winning team!
TRAINING BEGINS MAY 17th
> Month long paid sales trianing
program
> Guranteed monthly pay for the
first year
> Generous incentive plan including
commision 5 bonus opportunities
" Competitive Benefit program
> Positions available in
Gainesville, FL and Atlanta, GA
Apply online at Naylor.com
Click on "Join Our Team"
1 Naylor, [[C
j7f5950 N1Ist 1
W u d lG inesville, FL 32607
EOE/M/F/D/V
8, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010
Jewish student protestors danced, sang, carried hurr
PROTEST, from page 1
Methodist Church, followed
by a stop at the UF Hillel. They
then went across town to Queen
of Peace Catholic Church before
rounding out the day at St. Au-
gustine Catholic Church.
Phelps-Roper, whose father,
Fred, is the pastor of Westboro
Baptist Church, said the city is
made up of rebels against God
who are sprinting toward de-
struction.
"Your university is a beacon
of disobedience that shines forth
from this nation," she said. "[God]
gave you that fag of a mayor be-
cause you're thankless."
"Your university is a bea-
con of disobedience that
shines forth from this na-
tion. [God] gave you that
fag of a mayor because
you're thankless."
Shirley Phelps-Roper
daughter of the Westboro Baptist
Church pastor
Phelps-Roper was referring
to Mayor-elect Craig Lowe, who
briefly addressed a counter-
protest at the Bo Diddley Com-
munity Plaza downtown while
members of the Westboro Baptist
Church picketed at UF.
At the counter-protest, which
was called Love Conquers Hate:
A Rally for Human Rights, Lowe
spoke about ways gay and les-
bian rights can be expanded in
Florida.
"Let's commit together so that
in Gainesville, Florida, love will
conquer all," he said.
Lowe wasn't the only publicfigure speaking out against the
Kansas church.
Former mayoral candidate
Don Marsh picketed alongside
the counter-protesters at the
Trinity United Methodist Church
protest.
Carrying signs that said,
"While we were still sinners,
Christ died for us" and "Prosti-
tutes are entering the kingdom of
God ahead of you," Marsh made
it clear that the church did not
represent his viewpoints.
"These are not my people," he
said.
But Wayne Sapp, a pastor with
the Dove World Outreach Centerstood with members of his con-
gregation alongside the Westboro
Baptist Church members at Trin-
ity United Methodist Church.
Sapp's group and Westboro
Baptist members sang songs such
as "This Land is Going Straight
to Hell" and "I'm Ashamed to
Be an American," to the tune of
"This Land is Your Land" and
"I'm Proud to Be an American"
respectively.
According to Sapp, the West-
boro Baptist Church teaches the
whole Bible.
"Churches like to talk about
love and acceptance, but they for-
get to talk about rebuke and cor-rection," Sapp said. "The world
has rejected God. Now God is
rejecting the world."
Despite the singing and chant-
ing, both sides remained civil.
"It's the most peaceful protest
I've ever seen," said Lt. Stan Per-
ry of the Alachua County Sher-
iff's Office.
The tranquil mood turned
more spirited once the protest-
ers left Trinity United Methodist
Church and drove to the UF Hil-
lel, where the church members
were surrounded by a swarm
of costumed individuals who
danced, sang and carried signs
with messages such as "God hates
Thomas Plevik/ Alligator
Milo, a protester at Sunday's Love Conquers Hate: A Rally for Human Rights counter-rally to the West-
boro Baptist Church, smiles for a portrait.
1m,,5Pinxtiom qaS& m1iiV tfe
"BECOME A YOGA TEACHER AND CHANGE YOUR LIFE"
200 Hour Yoga Teacher Training
Yoga Alliance Certified
Next One Month Intensive Begins May 18th a
www.inspirationyogainstitute.com
(352) 870-7645 -Alachua, Florida
University Committee Applications Currently
Being Accepted for the 2010-2011 Academic Year
The University of Florida encourages student involvement through
participation and membership on committees that advise the adminis-
tration on important issues. A list of committees can be found on the
Provost's website at http://www.aa.ufl.edu/committees/#presidential.
If you are interested in being considered for an appointment to a
university committee complete the on line application at the following
website: http://www.dso.ufl.edu/vpsa/
Students eligible to serve on university committees will be selected
from this pool of applicants. Vacancies on committees that occur
during the year will be filled from this pool of applicants.
The deadline for application is Friday, June 11, 2010.
Eligibility requirements for Student Committees are the same as the
requirements for holding an elected or appointed position in a
student organization. For general requirements please go to
http://www.dso.ufl.edu/publications/activitiesappeals.php#1.Coming
H omeforthe
Summerorous signs
hats," "This is a sign," "Drink the
Kool-Aid" and "Fred Phelps is
Mah Baby Daddy."
"The Song that Never Ends"
was the longest-lasting song sung
by the counter-protesters, who
also chanted as they marched
in circles in front of the Kansas
church members.
"We're here to steal [West-
boro's] thunder and celebrate
life," said Thomas Baker, a UF
aerospace engineering senior
who was dressed as a merman.
Amid the absurdity, tensions
rose when one Jewish student
confronted Phelps-Roper.
"You're a lying son of a bitch,"
Phelps-Roper told the student.
"You know God is going to cause
the nations to march on Jerusa-
lem, and your women are going
to be ravished."
Jewish students joined the
counter-protesters at the UF Hil-
lel, which was decorated with
blue and white balloons in cel-
ebration of Israel's Independence
Day.
"I'm so happy so many
[counter-protesters] came by,"
said UF mechanical engineering
senior Josh Greer, who is Jew-
ish. "[Westboro Baptist Church]
doesn't even believe that these
people have a right to exist. It's
unfathomable."
Katrina Bryant, a 6-year-old
who attended the Hillel protest
with her mother, said Westboro
Baptist Church does not represent
the image of God she believes in.
Although she is just learning
to read, she knew that the mes-
sages on the church's signs were
not those of her own.
"I wanted to show that God
loves," she said. "God is a really,
really good person."
If you are going to
be in South Florida
for the summer, earn
credits at FAU.
Get more from summer break:
h * Pick up credits that transfer back to UF
MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 9
AROUND GAINESVILLE
13 teams compete in Red Bull Cariot Race Saturday
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
A monkey, a cheetah, a party-
size Pepsi tub on wheels, two men
in drag and a wooden chariot is a
messy formula for a photo finish.
But at the Red Bull Chariot
Race finals Saturday night, messy
wasn't a problem.
The wild animals -or Money
Over Bitches of Sigma Chi Frater-
nity -collided with the cross-
dressers known as Sexy Ladies at
the finish line in front of a crowd
of about 200.
The members of Sexy Ladies
fell into a 2-foot-high haystack
while Money Over Bitches stayed
on its feet, allowing the chee-
tah- and monkey-costumed team
members to pull their Pepsi tub
to victory.
Thirteen teams competed in
the chariot race, and Troy West,
Keith Merkel and Jared Wise of
Money Over Bitches were the last
group standing at the parking lot
of The Vault Nightclub, winning
VIP passes to the Red Bull Flug-
tag on July 10 in Miami.
The Red Bull Chariot Race
was part of the energy drinkcompany's grassroots campaign Bull has hosted the event at three will travel to eight more schools
to reach college students. Red other colleges besides UF and in the next two weeks.
Thomas Plevik/ Alligator
Team Broseidon, right, battles team Almighty Blood Messiah, left, for the lead at the opening stretch
during the Red Bull Chariot Races held on Saturday afternoon in the Vault Nightclub parking lot.The competition was divided
into three rounds, with two to
three custom-built chariots rac-
ing two laps simultaneously on a
course outlined with hay.
Aside from the Flugtag passes,
two other awards were given out:
the People's Choice Award and
the Archimedes Judges' Award.
Broseidon, a team with a shop-
ping cart decorated with waves
made of plastic foam, won the
People's Choice, and Red Bull
will provide drinks at the Brosei-
don members' next party.
Kiss The Girl, a teaming hon-
oring Disney's "The Little Mer-
maid," won a Red Bull Bomb
Dropper after receiving the cre-
ativity-based Archimedes Judg-
es' Award.
Kiss the Girl wrapped a plas-
tic kiddie pool around a tricycle,
and Lindsey McCoy and Nata-
lie Keller blew bubbles as they
pulled their roommate Lauren
McPherson around the course.
"I'm a mermaid," said McPher-
son, a UF theater junior, before
the race. "The sea witch said I
would become a real human if I
won the race."
COME STUDY CASHWITH US!foWITHUS! Gold * Jiewelry 9 Watches
OPEN 24/7BEST JEWELRY & LOANOPEN24/7 523 NW 3rd Ave. 371-4367
3345 SW 34th St. -Behind Hooters pawn brokers
HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
' rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
.insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
r BlueCross BlueShield
of FloridaA,1~~~d~ il- f0 373-0775
FEDnIV B Nu C-r 18533 -SSU 3669 S .2n6veu
3669 S.W. 2nd AvenueForm Number: 18533-599SU
10, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010
COMMUNITY OUTREACH
Concert benefits STD testing campaign
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Writer
Helen Strain has a problem
with older people who don't
think they need to get tested for
sexually transmitted infections.
"They're not scared to have
sex, but they're scared to talk
about it," she said. "And se-
niors can get chlamydia."
As vice president of external
affairs for Planned Parenthood
of North Florida, Strain helped
organize a concert Saturday
night to benefit the Get Yourself
Tested campaign, a monthlong
movement to encourage people
of all ages and backgrounds to
get tested.
About 100 people gathered
at Brophy's Irish Pub for the
show.
The event was the brain-
child of Katie Coyne, who has
been working at Gainesville's
Planned Parenthood clinic as a
family planning assistant since
February.
"I think it's a good way to
reach out to the youth of the
community," she said.
Tables had buckets filled
with condoms and information
packets as centerpieces, and at-
tendees were greeted with red,
ITALIAN 101
HELPS
STUDE T
ORDET
PIZZA
RXESTAgold and blue beaded necklaces
with condoms as the pendant.
Local indie band The
Rochevanies played its first
show since October for the
benefit. Bassist and vocalist Ste-
fanie Gay said she was excited
to help support a good cause.
The Rochevanies was one of
three acts that played.Another performer, folk
singer Marce, sang and swayed
with her acoustic guitar as a
percussionist beat on a hand
drum.
Mayor-elect Craig Lowe at-
tended the benefit, saying he
felt Planned Parenthood pro-
vides a good service to the com-
munity.
C"T~~ ~ ' S IE
-0\ 0
Juliana Jimenez/ Alligator
Staci Fox, left, Planned Parenthood of North Florida CEO,
chats with Mayor-elect Craig Lowe at the Get Yourself Test-
ed concert, part of a national campaign between Planned
Parenthood and MTV, at Brophy's Irish Pub Saturday night.
we time-warped into Italy or
something. The waiter came
over ganything, so I just stuck with
what I remembered. 'saluti,'
that
(K->>M ZA ice,
been[proudd
1e. ity
tthey ,ree
tone's sur,
been proude
should sayJ di me."
Vacanti"I want to make sure ev-
eryone in Gainesville is treated
fairly," Lowe said. "I think
Planned Parenthood plays an
integral part in that."
Members of UF's chapter of
Voices for Planned Parenthood
helped staff the event, which
raised $558 to offset the costs
of a discounted testing package
being offered at Planned Par-
enthood's clinic in Gainesville.
UF English senior Christina
Garcia de los Rios said Planned
Parenthood is an important
institution that has been influ-
ential in her and her partner's
lives.
"They gave my partner and
I answers we couldn't get any-
where else," she said.
Staci Fox, chief operating of-
ficer for Planned Parenthood of
North Florida, said the mission
of both the event and campaign
is important to Florida because
the state tends to have the high-
est rate for sexually transmitted
infections.
According to the most re-
cent national statistics released
by the Center for Disease Con-
trol, in 2008, Florida had the
third most cases of gonorrhea
and the fourth most cases of
chlamydia and syphilis.
chapters, Mu Mu Mu and Psi
Phi Pi, we've exhausted just
about every option out there," AREA
said National Greek Board
President, Henry Boggins. SENIOR
"There were oni
possible letter ci B"U Y Abegin with, so y W E U Bit was coming.
The news
the Greek Syste
turmoil, as rumc
immediately. S(
a move toa4
while others qui GUARANTEE
always b to
think F"P
U
K
U
I EWha @
turned
Dann)
realiT MSGME (6743)
rant tl, TEXT UELVP" TCASH BACK WHEN
lunch. GET $10 EXTRA CUR TEXTBOOKS
Italian- I yOU SELL YOUR --
Lo -- - -ovr mne group,
more .... ocal Danny Rivers did.
favorite Pizza Barn, the group "I've been taking Italian
had decided to venture out and 101 this semester," Danny
try a new place. explained, "so I was pretty
"I swear it was the comfortable in that environ-
scariest moment of my life," ment.
Karl Winsey, a friend of Once I heard him say 'amici' I
Danny's, recalled. "It was like knew he wasn't mad at us orN wo "S O SeVE YOU!
OF THREE LOCAT ERS
ETTER 2010 t* -AE \
1227 N 0u Ks-oRE-coMOMBIN'
nfeahis is EIONS -. meaths
Panic struck the heart of United States, n
fraternities and sororities domestic country. 4
across the nation this week .7 %
when word spread that the
number of unique remaining
Greek letter combinations was
in critical condition.
"Unfortunately, with the
induction of our newestyest -- 1 "
reall, .a, Others
really good at tiny hani.n-
ing. That's my gift. Wannah~s on Eb,
to the h-
his roor
can.is in,
, ing heW ms textbooks
.re and mooch off
.e for as long as heVolunteers
help clean up
Gainesville
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Joe O'Malley has been living in a
tent in Gainesville since September. His
home, part of a homeless camp known as
Tent City, was surrounded by car batter-
ies, beer bottles and other trash, which
had been accumulating there for years.
On Saturday, he skipped a free break-
fast at Mt. Olive Primitive Baptist Church
to join other residents in picking up trash
as part of the Great American Cleanup,
sponsored by Keep
Around America Beautiful.Gainesville Volunteers met
at the Martin Luther
King Jr. Multipurpose Center, where
they were equipped with trash bags,
orange vests and paint a for a blitz on
the city's graffiti and garbage. Locations
included Alligator Alley, Tent City and
local schools.
Mickie MacKenzie, executive direc-
tor of Keep Alachua County Beautiful,
said this marked the 15th year of the
cleanup in Gainesville. She said she did
not have an estimate yet for how many
volunteers attended, but said 500 came
outlast year.
cheat and not get caught? Just
call Craig 'CribSheet'
McGrott!"
While some considered
the slogan gimmicky, the
Is spoke for
And there's noK
HMAN
REAL-D *4
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished furnished furnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
*3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
1 MONTH FREE!
Immediate availability
All Inclusive Student Living from $399
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-1
*Rates @ $379*
All inclusive & Fully Furnished
Or Get a New iPad!
TV or new sofa package
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
373-9009
4-21-10-74-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR, Fully Furn + All
Utils. Incl. 352-219-2879 or
www.CampusWalkUF.com 4-21-71-1SUN ISLAND PROPERTIES
Sun Bay / Sun Key
1 or 2 Bedroom
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
$499/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Upgrades or Furniture extra
While they last or until 4-30-10!
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-1
Luxury Apartment Homes
Define the Good Life
2/2*4/4* All inclusive
Direct Bus Route to Campus
EnclaveUF.com * 376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
*$200 VISA GIFTCARDO
Townhouse & apts accross the street from UF
all-inclusive & fully furnished from $479/BR.
Sign this week & get a $200 visa giftcard!
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. 239-250-6149 5-11-10-79-1
*Move in Today*
Rates @ $299!
2,3 & 4 bedroom suites
All inclusive & Fully Furnished
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
373-9009
4-21-10-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
2/2*3/3*4/4
Experience the Good Life
Text "Enclave" to 47464
4-21-09-71-1
REDUCED 1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $300/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished +
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 4-21-10-51-1
2 Blocks to UF $300/mo
Furnished bedroom in 4BD condo.
Rent includes utils, cable TV & internet.
378-4626 / 262-4290 8-16-10-25-1$339 rm/mo all utils incl. 4BR/2BA Condo
at University Commons furnished W/D/TV/
Cable/Parking. Immediatley avl. summer/fall
Great Place Great Price 239.253.8701 or
email at: tom@moorelandscape.com 8-16-
10-36-1
4-4 condo will rent monthy, quarterly or
yearly. $500/month/room includes: washer-
dryer, dishwasher, private bathroom/bed-
room, walk-in closet, utilities, cable, wireless
internet, pool, gym, volleyball and basketball
courts. Living, dining and kitchen have wood-
en floors, bedrooms have nice clean carpets.
Bus services every 5-10 minutes. 352-213-
7059 5-20-10-30-1
3BE/3BA clean and quiet condo for rent. All
utilities included. $400/room or $1000/apt. 1
mile from UF. 2 bus routes available. Must
see!! Call Dory 954-816-1468. 4-20-10-15-
1
ROOM FOR RENT Lg master suite in new
home, 15 min to VA, Shands & UF. NS, pro-
fessional only. Util, cable TV, garage & wire-
less internet incl.Kitchen & laundry access.
$500/mo. 352-219-3410 4-21-10-15-1
Townhome for rent.
Spacious 2 x 2.5 in Grantwood, a gated com-
munity. 5 minutes from campus. Contact
Eddie at 954-699-3665 for more information,
or to arrange a viewing. 5-25-10-19-1
4/4 Countryside Condo private bed/bathincl
utilities, wd,cable,wireless int,pool,gated
workout room, great bus rte,$400/mth all
in.Jeff @904-612-3944, will consider semes-
ter lease. 8-5-10-40-1
Spacious 4/4 fully furn condo in SW G'ville 5
mins to UF! Indiv. leases, $375/rm/mo. 3 bus
rtes, close to shopping/food areas. Utils ind
up to $200/mo. $200 SD. Avail. immediately/
summer/fall. 352-262-0628 anu87@ufl.edu
4-21-10-14-1
3BR/3BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room + utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Bball, pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd FIr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, Sebastian 352-874-8905 4-21-
10-12-1
Female roommates needed for 3/3, own bed/
bath, furnished, Windsor Park, close to UF
on bus stop, pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $335,
1/3 utilities; looking for a clean and studious
roommates, 407-361-1154. 4-21-10-11-14BR/4BA furn. Countryside Apt. 2nd fIr, pool
view, inc cable, wi-fi internet, and std utilities.
All brms. avail in Aug. $395/BR/mo. flexible
terms avail. Call Chris at 941-726-2204 or
email raginriv@ufl.edu 4-21-10-8-1
Cypress Pointe condo, 3br, 2ba off SW 62
Blvd, newer appliances, fresh paint, pool,
avail now, $725 edbaurmanagement.com
352-375-7104 4-21-10-7-2
Treehouse condo, 2br, 2ba, new carpet, vi-
nyl, paddle fans, remodeled baths, on bus
line, pools & weight rm, avail now, $600 ed-
baurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 4-21-
10-7-2
Greenleaf, SW spacious townhouse, 2br,
2ba, loft room extra, vaulted ceiling, patio
and fenced yard, avail May, $700 edbaur-
management.com 352-375-7104 4-21-10-
7-2
Affordable, SW 2br, with new ceramic
tile & carpet, fireplace, ready now, $495
Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104
4-21-10-7-2
Colonial Oaks, SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse,
two screened porches, pet friendly, avail
now, $600 edbaurmanagement.com 352-
375-7104 4-21-10-7-2
WALK TO UF
3/2 House in Golfview Estates; a quiet com-
munity by the Law School, Athletic Fields,
and Golf Course. Available Aug 1.
*** $1475 mo.*** Call Craig 305-788-4103
4-21-10-7-2
share 2BD/2BD
w/male student
near UF $350
954 224-1542 4-20-10-5-1
SUBLEASE MAY-JUNE-JULY.
NEWCOMPLEX 6 BLOCKS FROM
CAMPUS (<10 MIN WALK TO LIB W)
EMPTY FULLY FURNISHED 4/4 IND
ROOM LEASE 2ND FLR O'LOOKING
POOL W BALCONY $450 NEGOTIABLE
CONTACT lbrooks.08.12@ufl.edu
4-20-10-5-1
4/4 Apt, walk to campus!
$500/month all inclusive
private baths, great location
Oxford Terrace
call 561-306-3852 4-21-10-5-1Jefferson 2nd Ave. Aug 2010-July 2011. 1
bed w/private bath in all inclusive furnished
2bed/2bath apt. Walk to UF and Downtown.
Reduced rent $595/month w/free parking
garage. Contact Alex 954-558-1918 4-21-
10-3-1
$299 Fully Furnished condo 10min to UF!
4BR/4BA spacious bedrooms & living area,
W/D in unit, great kitchen w/ appliances,
great bus rts.12 & 35 ten min to UF and
shopping/food.Discount for quick signing.
Lease starts fall. Call(941)232-1960
6-1 7-10-15-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901 4-21-
10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
Now Available Downtown!
Luxury 1, 2, and 3 Bedrooms
Alarm*Walk-in Closet*Pets OK
Stay Out Late & Walk Home
Call today-don't wait! 338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
1 BR/I BA $459-469 *2BRI1 BA $539
Special prices will not last long!
Quite community close to everything.
www.frederickgardens.com
Adopted pets live free!! 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
12, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOWor FALL 2010.
2/2 from $999 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$709 2/2-$809 3/2-$909
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-71-2
*More Play, Less Work@
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
BRING IN THIS AD FOR $0 MOVE IN FEES!
2/2s: From $799; 3/3s: From $959
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2Your Own Personal Trainer!
1 Bed-$599*2Bed-$729
4Bed-$949*A schools!
Beautiful Townhomes
Walk-in Closets*332-7401
4-21-71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Museum Walk
All Inclusive Roommate Matching -$439
3/3 Flats 2/2 Townhomes & UF LOCATION!
#117 Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave MuseumWalk.com
Call for Specials!*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
2BR/1 BA from $338/person
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
We <3 pets! Wood floors avail!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $635. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $515 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$369
INCLUDES UTILITIES
1 month FREE, Move In TODAY!
24hr Amenities & Valet Trash!
GainesvillePlace.com*(352) 271-3131
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
SUN KEY
2.1 or 1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
From $499/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Upgrades or Furniture extra
While they last or until 4-30-10!
Check out our unbelieveable
Band Width 30x10
352.376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-09-71-2Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 8-16-
10-25-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO UF -AVAIL NOW & FALL!
*1BR $460- $495
* 2BR $485- $600
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -YOUR NEW HOME!
Unique LOFT floor plan only $595!
1/1 from $625 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning* Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis * 1 mile to UF
377-7401 www.boardwalkapt.com
4-21-09-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $649
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 5-11-10-79-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-21-65-2
One Month Free
Receive additional Month Free
w/ 48hr Look and Lease!
Pine Rush Villas
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1 bedroom from *$457
2 bedroom from *$558
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free
Receive additional Month Free
w/ 48hr Look and Lease!
Homestead Apts
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 bedroom 1 bath from *$549
2 bedroom 2 bath from *$641
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free
Receive additional Month Free
w/ 48hr Look and Lease!
Courtney Greens
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 *$525
Near Oaks Mall Near UF and Butler Plaza
Cyber Cafe and 24hr Fitness Center
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
5-11-10-64-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 2 bd/ 1 ba
Hardwood floors, must see
$900/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Great Parking! Walk to UF! 4BD/4.5 BA
Located near SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St.
Call today to view @ 352.373.7578
Union Properties www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
NEWLY REMODELED 1BRs
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 5-11-
10-48-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
6-29-64-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2
2BR/2.5BA townhouse condo, 1 mi from
UF on bus route. Inc W/D, community club-
house, pool & fitness center. Wired for inter-
net & security sys. $878/mo. Avail 5/1 or 8/1.
Call/text 332-8841 lindalu@gatorhomes.com
4-19-10-40-2
yrP POLO0S
*Resort Lifestyle*
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
ALL INCLUSIVE PRICING!
2's: From $546/person; 3's: From $451/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-42-2
2BR HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area. Wood firs, new kitchen
vinyl, Cent H/AC, DW, fenced yard, wood
deck, parking, $975/mo. Pets ok Avail Aug
16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 Iv mssg 5-27-
10-46-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority
Row/Norman Hall area. W/D, ice maker,
ceramic tile. Cent H/AC, DW, parking,
fenced yard. $1485/mo. Pets ok. Avail Aug
16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 Iv mssg 5-27-
10-46-2
0
Cn(0
.
0
E0
0
0
MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 13
For Rent r nFor Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
HUGE 4BR/2BA 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area, remodeled baths, new:
stove, DW, disposal & AC, W/D, wd firs. cent
H/AC, parking. $2400/mo Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg
4-21-10-40-2
Houses Available for Fall!
2631 NW 1st Ave -$1845
402 NW 36th -$1425
315 NW 17th St. -$875
4 NW 25th St -$1499
717 NW 34th St -$1320
FREE UF Parking!
352.371.7777
4-21-71-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $650/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220. (leave
a voicemail) 4-21-32-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 5-11-10-114-2
I$600, 2BR, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet school
& campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furn; Parking; 352 376
0080;352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-27-2
For a Limited Time Only! 1BR/1BA seperate
dining rm, Ig living rm, walk in closet, cent
H/AC, full kitchen, full bath. H20 & sewer
incl. Free pest control. Close to Oaks Mall,
Archer Rd & UF. $395/mo. 2 & 3 BDs avail
in several locations, dif floor plans. 215-7780
6-17-10-38-2
Walk to UF. Openings in April -Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 0 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 0 studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
4-21-10-26-2
Available Immediately! Small 1/1
Efficiency apt. W/D avail, new paint & carpet.
10 min walk to UF. Perfect for international/
graduate students! $500/mo + utils. 284-0979
4-21-10-26-2
II10houses.com
3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$1000 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
5-11-10-26-2
OFREAKS!! DOWNTOWN 414 SE 2nd St
2BR/1BA DUPLEX apt w/loft, central heat,
window air, off-street parking, $620/mo,
SALSO: Studio/garage apt. $420/mo.
Call 352-373-6551 5-20-29-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
2.1 1/2 Bath Townhomes
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
$699/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
While they last or until 4-30-10!
Check out our unbelievable
Band Width 30x10
352.376.6720 or 352.376.7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-25-2
SUN BAY
2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
From $499/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Upgrades or Furniture extra
While they last or until 4-30-10!
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-25-2
FREE MONTHS RENT 1BDs
1114 SW 7th Ave $650/mo
Spacious loft style, parking onsite.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-24-2
Upscale Living without the Price!
2/2s @ $550, 3/3s @ 459
Know your roommates? As low as $383/each!
Villas w/ fenced yards available-we love pets!
Ask how to get $100 off per month for a year!
www.hiddenlakeuf.com or 352-374-3866
4-21-10-25-2
3bed/2bath Creeks Edge condo -just off NW
13th St. W/D, pool & clubhouse. Close to UF
and on bus route. Available August. Seeking
roommates $395/mo/ea. 727-463-0560
6-29-10-35-2
ARLINGTON SQUARE (2b/2ba) -$799/Mo,
Luxury Downtown APT, access to main RTS,
NO short-term. Avail 4/21/10, Call Sean,
239-410-1603 5-13-22-2
***HOUSE 4BR/2BA***
Available 8/1. Lovely, remodeled. W/D. Bike
to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. $1 100/mo.
373-1558, 246-8645, or 256-8370 5-11-10-
19-2
House,4BR,3BA,LR,FR,recently renovated.
2 Masters w/pvt bth. fenced in back yard.
garage. Off 34th. tander@bellsouth.net 954-
340-2732 5-13-10-20-2
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2
BR vintage apts. near UF & downtown. All
have wood floors, fans, & blinds. Pets pos-
sible. Rent from $575-$950/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com, 352-338-7670
5-11-10-7-2
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean 2 & 3
BR homes near UF. Some wood floors, all
with CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds, & lawn up-
keep. Rent @ $790-$1275/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com, 352-338-7670
5-11-10-17-2
2 Br Houses near 13th St. Walmart:
Beautiful vintage charmer 2ba $950
available now. Available May:
Pet Heaven, fenced yard 1ba $675
Call owner/agent 352-328-7474. 4-21-10-
16-2
TOP QUALITY -GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to cam-
pus -on N & E sides. Year lease, beginning
summer or fall. K & M Properties. 372-1509
4-21-10-15-2
JACKSON SQUARE CONDO -Annual
rental beginning 8/1/10. Immaculate, new,
2BR/2BA, 1 blk from UF. W/D in unit, un-
dercover parking. Call owner for details 561-
912-0190. $750/mo/room. 4-21-10-15-24BD/3BA HOUSE NEAR UF!
W/D, Central AC, Wood Floors. 3514 NW
7th Place. Available Aug. 1st. Call Manny at
352-317-4408 4-21-10-14-2
4BD/2BA HOUSE NEAR UF.
W/D, Available Aug. 1st. 610 NW 34th
Terrace. Call Manny at 352-317-4408 4-21-
10-14-2
*WANT IT ALL?@
THE POLOS OF GAINESVILLE
FURNITURE NOW INCLUDED!
ALL INCLUSIVE rates beginning at
2/2-$546/person, 3/3-$451/person
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-14-2
Beautiful Northwood Pool Home with large
1/2 acre lot. 3 bed, 2 bath has plenty of room
for summer fun while swimming or hanging
out in the hot tub. Washer Dryer included
with full 2 car garage and lots of storage.
Pets OK, call Jeffrey for more information.
352-246-5801 5-11-10-14-2
Spacious 1 BR apt for rent.
1 BR/1 BA apt near Oaks Mall.
Walk to mall, restaurant and coffee shops.
New appliances. Call 352-258-4695 4-21-
10-13-2
Homes Avail for Fall! Pets welcome!
Minutes to UF and Santa Fe.
4/2 3321 and 3236 NW 30 PL $1200/mon
4/2 5402 NW 25th PL $1200
Call April 352-514-1441 for more info! 4-21-
10-13-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home.
Shady lot. From $300 -$450/mo
FIRST MONTH HALF PRICE incl water.
No pets. 4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887
5-11-10-13-2
AVAILABLE NOW & AUGUST
*2BR/1 BA fenced bkyd, cent H/AC $745/mo
*3BR/2BA fenced backyard. $1025/mo.
Gore-Rabell Real Estate 378-1387.
www.gore-rabell.com 4-21-10-13-2
APTS and HOMES for rent near UF!
Avail Summer and Fall, visit our website at
merrillmanagement.net or
Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494 x10
4-21-10-13-2
1BR 1BA Apt Grad II Apts
New carpet, paint. Avail Now
Or Fall 1236 Sw 4th Ave $540/mo
Central H &Air, Laundry Fac.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494
4-21-10-13-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue. St. Croix Apts
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 x1O or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
2BR 1BA, Wood Floors, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 or tazzie2l@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR or 2BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425-$550/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
4-21-10-13-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
8-16-10-37-2
Lovely 2 BE/21/2BA. NW 43rd Ave. Garage.
All appliances, W/D, internet,security, cable
included. Prefer quiet, stable residents. $999/
mo. Available June 1st. Long term lease
available. Ph. 941-776-1767. 5-20-10-15-2Barn Eff Apt, Rural Living Jonesville
Pets Welcome, Avail Now, 15 Ac prop
$400 mo+util, TV, Wash/Dry Inc
Stalls also avail, 954-292-2244 4-20-10-
10-2
***STUDENTS***
1,2,3,&4 bedroom Houses and Apartments
available for fall. Pets arranged. All near
campus. Call 371-3260 or 870-2760 4-21-
10-11-2
WOODS EDGE SOUTH- 2BR/2.5BA
Recently constructed townhomes, located
off of 34th St. Spacious living room and wide
kitchen area. Bay windows for breakfast
nook. Double master suites and large clos-
ets. Screened back porch. W/D, next to bus
stop, close to UF.
$550/mo/rm + utilities.
Call (305)799-7042 5-18-14-2
1 Bedroom/1 Bath Apartment for Rent.
$535. Available Immediately. Downstairs
Unit. Country Club Atmosphere. Towne
Parc Apartments, 2930 SW 23rd Terrace,
Gainesville. Cell: 217-553-6045. 5-11-10-
12-2
3BR/3BA Condo across st. from campus
on corner of Archer and 13th with all tile
floors and all appliances. $1500/month or
individual leases. Available summer 2010
call 989-980-2807 4-21-10-10-2
4Br/3Ba Large Home w/ 2 car gar, 8 min from
UF, large fenced yard, dogs ok. Exquisite
oaks & landscaping, wood & tile floors, new
appliances. $1,600/mo. 352-466-0358. Avail
summer or Aug. 3120 NW 31st Blvd. 4-21-
10-10-2
Need creative/ open minded people for this
3 bedroom 2 bath house .you'll love this
property in itself close to all Hospital and
Musemum Rd $799/m Avail. April sq 1100
Contact Navyblueshirt@hotmail.com 4-21-
10-9-2
WALK TO UF -NW 6th Ave
3br/2ba adorable home, prvt bkyd,
Ig bdrms, new crpt, appl, a/c, w/d,
pvd drive, lawn/garb/pest incl.
$1650/mo avail aug 941-544-2427 5-11-
10-10-2
Townhouse Rental 4/2.5. Gated, clubouse,
Cricket Club -near Newberry & 1-75. $1200/
mo, 954-557-4769, baezwpa@bellsouth.net
4-21-10-9-2
POOL HOUSE
4BR/3BA @ 2816 W. University Ave. 1 mile
to UF. Avail for fall. $1700/mo. 327-2931 or
376-6183 5-11-10-10-2
Whispering Pines for fall: 2br/2ba with spa-
cious kitchens, breakfast bar, ceramic tile,
paddle fans, across from bus stop, especially
nice for grad students, includes monitored
alarm system, $840 edbaurmanagement.
com 352-375-7104 4-21-10-9-2
Affordable condo-Shellrock Villas, 2br/1.5ba
townhouse, paddle fans, walk-in closet, con-
venient to Oaks Mall/UF, avail May, $545
edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104
4-21-10-9-2
Beautiful Charleston Place, 3br/2.5 ba, simu-
lated wood floors, carpeted bedrooms, wash-
er, dryer, fully equipped kitchen, screened
porch, community pool, avail May, $1100
edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104
4-21-10-9-2
HOMES FOR RENT -CLOSE TO UF
3/2 630 NW 34th Terr. $1150/mo Pets ok
3/2 631 NW 36th St $1250/mo Pets ok
3/2 3404 NW 7th PI $1250/mo Pets ok
4/2 621 NW 35th St. $1250/mo Pets ok
Call Mike 352-665-7316 4-21-10-8-2
Cute studio for rent in the Duckpond area.
Monthly rent $395 incl elec & water. Sec
$450. Ideal for one person & possibly a small
pet. Call 352-371-3473 leave message.
5-27-10-14-2
Townhouse for rent 2BR/1.5BA w/ W/D hook-
ups. French doors open to private patio.
Remodeled kitchen & bathrooms. Monthly
rent $675. Sec $700. Pets ok. 4007 SW 26th
Terr. Apt B. Call 352-371-3473 leave mssg
5-27-10-14-2.IA PLA N TEST PREP AND Hegister I od ay!ADMISSIONS 1-800-KAP-TEST or kaptest.com/learnaboutlaw
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Le
m -
IF
14, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010
For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished
**4/3 18 NW36th St.** Close to campusall
appliances,W/D, cent, heat/air Avail. Aug.1
$1375 333-9874 5-11-10-9-2
*3401 NW 7th Place* 3/2 liv,din,fam rms.All
appliances W/D close to campus, large yd.
small pets ok avail Aug.1 $1325 333-9874
5-11-10-9-2
4/2 3962 W University Ave.close to cam-
pus, all appliances, W/D, hot tub, fire place,
screened porch, avail. Aug,1 $1400, 333-
9874 5-11-10-9-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**Near GHFC vaulted
ceilings, all appliances, W/D, garage, small
pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1250 333-9874
5-11-10-9-2
**4/2919 NW 10thAve.**Closetocampus,all
appliances,W/D,Cent.heat&air.Avil.Aug.1
$1400 333-9874 5-11-10-9-2
2 BLOCKS TO STADIUM
1913 NW 2ND AVE,
1BR/1 BA, freshly painted $600
1813 NW 2ND AVE
1BR new paint & flooring $475,
1BR wd floors, fireplace $525
No pets. Call 352-335-4790 or 352-214-3369
4-21-8-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered.
Rent $695/mo Phone (352) 359-8311
6-29-10-19-2
Available now. HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo. All
4BR/2BA $1100/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183
4-21-10-6-2
3/3 Townhouse, 2 min. from UF/Shands
w/ Washer & Dryer, Pool, furnished or not at
same price, incl. UNLIMITED water, on Bus
13 route. Call 727-386-6426. 4-20-5-2
FOR RENT
3, 4, 5, & 6 BD Houses
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424 4-21-10-5-2
CAMPUS EDGE
2/2 walking distance to UF, on bus route,
vaulted ceilings, gym, pool, W/D in unit.
$550, tv and internet incl. avail June '10. 901-
581-0135 or 901-237-1157 6-29-21-2
3BR/3BA House, Close to UF/Shands.
Newly remodeled in 2009. W/D, fenced back
yard, lawn maintence, pest control included
in rent. Grad students preferred. Available
August 5th, $1400/month. 352-246-5958.
5-20-10-10-2
Walk to UF 4/2 apt $295/room 1 year leases
start 8/16/10 No Pets
1740 NW 3rd PL Call 352-231-3002
4-21-10-6-2
Downsizing? Quiet 1 BR apt, 700+ sq ft, resi-
dental neighborhood, huge LR, patio, own
entrance & carport. $850 includes utilities,
NW 14th Ave & 20th St. 352-395-6250 or
332-1429 Kathy. 4-21-10-5-2
2 BR, 2.5 BA Townhouse. End Unit. $800
In secluded Brighton Park 1 block off SW
34th St. Near Publix and on bus lines. 1-2
miles to UF. Very well maintained unit. Non-
smokers only. 214-3820 4-21-10-5-2
Two blocks from UF Stadium
2 Bed 1 Bath, 1 Bed 1 Bath,
and Studio. Available August 1
352-377-2930 4-21-10-5-2
3 Male college students to share 4BR/4BA
Countryside condo, W/D, cable, hi-speed in-
ternet, 1st stop on UF bus rte. Utils included.
$450/mo. 863-634-1893. Available immedi-
ately. 4-21-10-5-2
Nice 2br, 2ba, W/D, tile / HW floors, Fenced,
yard, front parking; screened front deck.
Need a nice place to live in Gainesville at a
reasonable price. call! 407-433-1443. 5-18-
10-7-2$525 for lbr/lba apt; near campus; spa-
cious; private patio; very quiet; greenspace;
cats allowed; prefer mature person or grad
student; 1807 NW 10th Street. (352) 376
0080; (352) 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
8-23-10-30-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
$579 mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
While they last or until 4-30-10!
Check out our unbelievable
Band Width 30x10
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-4-2
SUN BAY
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
from $499 mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
While they last or until 4-30-10!
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-4-2
SUN KEY
1.1 or 2.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) Student Discount
$499/mo; Walk to Campus
Rent now or for fall
Upgrades or Furniture extra
While they last or until 4-30-10!
Check our our unbelievable
Band Width 30x10
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-21-10-4-2
2 STORY TOWNHOUSE 1588 SQ FT
2BR/2BA, close to UF, across from GHFC
(5031 NW 1st Place) on bus rte, tennis, pool,
clubhouse. $975/mo Avail May 20th. Call
352-870-6906 5-11-10-5-2
$1175 / BRAND NEW CONDO. WALK TO
UF / SHANDS 2BR/2BA unit available July
1st. Approx 1100 sq ft. Campus View South
Condos 1185 SW 9th Rd. W/D, parking incl.
352-337-1760. 5-11-10-5-2
3/3 for $329 plus utilities in The Polos. Need
someone to take over lease for Fall 2010.
Roommates are very nice. Walk-in closet,
W/D, 3 pools, 2 hot tubs, volleyball, racquet-
ball, tennis courts. Pet friendly. 813-601-3249.
4-21-10-3-2
Available August: Cute & Clean Vintage
4bd/2.5ba behind Applebee's. Bike to UF! Wd
firs, CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds. Huge rooms!
907 NW 11th Ave. $1650/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com 352-338-7670
5-11-10-4-2
rFsubleass
DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY!!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Sublease master b/d at Windsor Park 450
per month includes utilities + internet. 3 bus
routes. No reasonable offer refused May
thru August. Call Karen at 561-329-1019 or
Karen.Finley@SunTrust.com 4-19-10-5-3
$429.4br/4ba. Fully Furnished w/TV.Washer/
Dryer.Screened in balcony.May-Aug. w/ Aug
rent paid. 2 direct routes to campus. Cabana
Beach. $100 cash to sign. Lisa 407-808-
8607 4-21-6-3$425 1Br/1Ba in 3Br/3Ba townhouse at the
Woodlands. All Inclusive. Available May,
June, July. Price is negotiable. No reason-
able offer will be turned down! Contact
Tiffany,(561)452-3103 or tperini@ufl.edu
4-20-5-3
Summer at Courtyards Apts for only $450 a
month! 1 BR in a 4BR apt. Townhouse, across
street from Business School! Furnished,
all-inclusive utilities. h.orourke@ufl.edu
4-21-6-3
CABANA BEACH. $300/mo(price negotiable-
->I pay over $500). May-Aug(anytime). First
floor, 2br/2br. On Bus Route 21. Beautiful
pool! Nice people. Phone at 352-318-1014.
Email at jsmyth@ufl.edu. 4-21-5-3
2 BLOCKS to UF stadium
1BR/1BTH avail. in a 2/2. $595/MO all inclu-
sive. Furnished with style! Available summer.
Call Sarah 5742618021 4-20-10-4-3
Summer Sublease! 1BR/1 bath, University
House(NW13th and 7ave)-walking distance
from campus, pool, great roommates! $595/
month utilities/parking included, available
Summer A. 321-960-5255 4-21-10-5-3
SUBLEASE Aug 1 for the whole year @ The
ESTATES. 2/2 fully furnished, great pool,
both rooms available. e-mail:
bryttalyssa@ufl.edu 4-20-2-3
Walk to UF and enjoy your privacy! Suite for
summer sublease at College Manor Suites.
Rent incl. utilities. No reasonable offer re-
fused. Call 850-298-8427 or email
abenaa7l@hotmail.com 4-21-10-3-3
SUMMER SUBLEASE ON UNIVERSITY
May -August, $450/month o.b.o., Only 1
Bedroom available, Includes cable and utili-
ties, Furnished if desired,
House located at 3026 West University
Please call 727-744-4197 4-20-2-3
GRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES
IN FURN 4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF.
$290/mo incl elec, cable tv, internet, pool,
laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626
5-11-10-25-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
5-11-10-62-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsVA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$325/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220
(leave a voicemail.) 4-21-32-4.
$400/mo Room for Rent plus elec, Rockwood
Villas TH, pvt bath, on bus route, w/d, free
internet, non-smoking, female only. Avail
Immed & Fall. 1st Mth Free w lyr lease.
ktellmann@ufl.edu/904-874-6877. 7-13-
10-45-4
Seeking roommates for 3 bed/ 2 ba quiet
condo at Creeks Edge. New flooring, recent
remodel,upstairs unit, washer/dryer, on bus-
line to campus, partial furnished. Available
Aug 1st. $395/mo. 727-463-0560 5-11-10-
28-4
Responsible and Clean Rommate needed
Asking $600, spacious room w/ private bath.
Fully furnished, 5 minutes from campus, ac-
cess to bus routes 9 & 35. Contact Eddie at
954-699-3665 for details or a viewing. 4-21-
10-14-4
Grad student looking for roommates for 4
bed/4 bath condo at University Terrace.
$400/room/month, incl. cable, internet, util.
On 2 bus routes, fully furnished. Tidiness
preferred. 352-575-0731 anu87@ufl.edu
4-21-10-22-4Need FEMALE roommate! All-inclusive, fully-
furnished 1BR/1BA available in a 3BR/3BA
apt @ Windsor Park. Bus routes 9,34,35,36.
Contact me for RATES and INCENTIVES:
aptinfo4u@yahoo.com 4-21-13-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $350/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
4-21-10-1 1-4
3 Roommates needed for a 4/2 newly pur-
chased house (2400 sq ft) , Backyard, large
kitchen large patio. Fully furnished besides
bedrooms. 5min from UF. $499 including
utilities. Move in -May 15. call Shaun at 904-
838-8412 4-21-10-11-4
DUCKPOND -BIKE TO UF
Serious student/foreign grad. Fully furn small
room in quiet house. Close to downtown, on
bus line. Utils incl. $90/week. 352-514-3409
4-21-10-11-4
Clean and responsible roommate wanted!
4/2 new 1900SF house. Convenient location
for both UF and SFC. Pool, basketball, grill.
$475/month. Utilities included. Available
Aug 15th. Call Erik @ 954-937-9491
4-21-10-9-4
ROOMATE WANTED FOR 954 sq ft
LOOKING GLASS APARTMENT: 2/2 next to
campus and midtown for 588/ MO. Includes
equipped kitchen, washer and dryer, park-
ing and internet. For more information
call 561-310-3417 4-20-5-4
Responsible, Clean, Student roommate
needed. Windsor Park Condo, Bus routes
34, 9 and 36. Furnished, new carpet and
appliances; Ground floor, fitness cen-
ter, pool, tennis courts, etc. $400/month,
(904) 370-4392 4-20-10-5-4
Grad student looking for female room-
mates in fully furnished 4bed/4bath condo at
Countryside. $475/month. Inc. cable/inter-
net, utilities, W/D. On 2 bus routes. Contact
Megan 727-542-8155. 4-21-10-5-4
Need 2 female roommates for a 4bed/4bath
at Countryside. Indiv. leases. Furnished, ca-
ble, util, internet, wash/dry included. Access
to pool, gym and bus routes 9, 35, and 36.
$425 per month. Call (786)385-2839 4-21-
5-4
Roommate needed, Furnished house in
Duck Pond, 1.5 mi.to UF, $565/mo. utilities
included 561-715-0712 6-1-10-10-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Campus Edge / Somerest VillageWalk to
Shands/VA/class 2units, 2bd/2ba vault-
ed ceilings 2nd/3rd floor w/d in unit,best
locations parking. $8,000 tax credit.
$164,900/$132,900. Move in Ready 954-
439-2301 stedel@bellsouth.net 4-21-10-
41-5
Motivated. For sale by Owner. Must sell
beautiful 3bd/2b 1777 sf home in Cottages
of Country Way, Newberry, FL. Close to
schools. No HOA. Large lot.Asking $184,900.
(530) 613-6488 4-21-10-28-5
Westgate Manor, 85 Mobile home 14x60
2/1.5 remodeled full BA w/new toilet & vanity.
TV, bed, newer carpet, linoleum, frig, range,
nice fixtures. Vaulted ceiling, stone fireplace,
bay window, cent AC, $16.5K 617-335-1303
5-11-10-7-5
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers0 0
MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
FReal Estate Computers Autos Wanted Help Wanted
3/2 house in Archer. Above ground Pool.
Homes only area. No HOA. 25 minutes to
UF. Go to fsbo.com listing #136241 for more
details and pictures. $175,000 rhaynes@
hotmail.com or 407 453-4534 4-21-10-5-5
2001 2BR/2BA MOBILE HOME
in Oak Park Village. Inc appliances, 10x10
shed, awning. $12,000. 352-424-0687
5-11-10-4-5
F Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 8-16-10-25-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 8-16-10-25-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 8-16-10-25-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 8-16-10-25-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
8-16-25-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 8-16-10-25-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
8-16-10-25-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 8-16-
25-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 8-16-10-25-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
8-16-25-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 8-16-25-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
8-16-25-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 8-16-10-
25-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 8-16-25-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 8-16-25-6
Computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
r z Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
2 Bicycle Racks for sale for vehicles. 1 rack
for a Jeep Wrangler to attach to rear tire
$50.00 barely used. 1 bike rack for sedan-
-trunk mounted assembly for any vehicle
$40.00.Call 352-219-3391 4-21-3-9
MF For Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie -373-5929 4-21-18-10
WEtorcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
8-16-10-25-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 8-16-10-
25-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-16-10-25-11
***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 8-16-10-25-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
8-16-10-25-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 8-16-10-25-11
1AutEsE
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
8-16-25-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
5-27-09-124-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699
94 Chevy 1500 $999
92 Chrysler Cirrus $999
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
93 Ford F150 $1999
98 Ford Explorer $1999
96 Mits Galant $1999
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Nissan Stanza $1499
98 Pontiac Transport $1499
97 Plymouth Voyager $1999
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2999
99 Olds Alero $2999
99 Pontiac Grand Am $2999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
99 Chrysler Sebring $2500
01 Dodge Neon $2500
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Mustang, 40k, $5500 CASH
03 Chevy Venture, 143k, $6900 CASH
05 Jeep Liberty, 105k, $6999 CASH
05 Saturn Ion, 123k, $7999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
06 Ford Taurus, 40k, $8900 CASH
05 VW Jetta, 111k, $8999 CASH
05 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
05 Chevy Trailblazer, 135k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
00 Ford Ranger, 158k, $7999 CASH
06 Chrysler PT Criuser, 46k $9999 CASH
07 Chevy Cobalt, 24k $10,999 CASH
02 Volvo S60, 97k $8999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-16-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948. 4-21-10-72-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 4-21-
10-72-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
gthe independent floridaalligator
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this summer and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org by April 23th.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
Sthe independent florida
CASH PAID alligator
For Junk Cars, Trucks & Vans
Call Mark now. 352-426-2334 Daytime Advertising Production
4-19-10-5-12 The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
1989 Jeep Wrangler is accepting student applications.
A/C, power steering, automatic 4-wheel Duties include graphic design and
drive, New paint- Gator Orange, new top & organizational layout. Will
doors, new radio, asking $7900 386-322-3797 train, but experience with Adobe InDesign,
4-20-10-5-12 Photoshop and Illustrator is preferred.
Friendly work environment, flexible sched-
ule, with hours between 9 am -5 pm M-F.
Wanted A one-year commitment is expected.W L F_ Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave,
M-F 9 am -5 pm.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS: No phone calls, please.
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings Include available work schedule and refer-
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade * ences. Previous applicants are
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21- welcome to reapply
71-13 with current schedule. EOE0 the independent floridaalligator
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production Department is accepting
student applications. Applicants should have
a summer availability of
Mondays and Wednesdays between
6:00 pm and 1:00 am.
Duties include page layout and deisgn.
Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment
is expected. Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator, 1105 W
University Ave, M-F 9 am -5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are
welcome to reapply with current schedule.
EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 8-16-10-25-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 8-16-10-
25-14
Summer Jobs
*0$2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male summer camp counselors ages 18 and
up. FEYC is an over-night camp located off
of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL. The camp
runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please contact Krys
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352
455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have a fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
Start securing your career today!
Join UF ARMY ROTC!
Register for MSL 1001 and 1001L
Call 392-1395 today to learn about
jobs available as an Army officer!
8-5-10-50-14
16, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010
J Help Wanted Help Wanted f Help Wanted Health Services Evntotices
STAY IN GAINESVILLE
CAREER POSITIONS
(with benefits)
MARKETING/SALES REPS
ADMIN ASST
TECH SUPPORT
ACCOUNTING EDITOR
RESEARCH ASST
SOFTWARE TESTER
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
(PT also available)
Apply online at http://www.gleim.com
4-21-10-17-14
MASTER HYPNOTIST
Seeks intern w/excellent computer, internet
& interpersonal skills. Phone Richard in AM
352-949-0813 4-21-10-15-14
WINDOW BLIND INSTALLERS NEEDED
Independent contractors. Call immediately
339-4600 4-21-10-14-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable, writ-
ing skills a must, bookkeeping skills a plus.
Call Carrillo & Carrillo, PA @352-371-4000.
6-8-10-21-14
Fun summer jobs! Earn Great Pay! City of
Gainesville Parks/Rec Dept. is now hiring for
seasonal Recreation and Aquatics positions!
Apply online at www.cityofgainesville.jobs
AA/EO/DFWP 5-11-10-12-14
Ever think about joining the Army?
Ever considered being an officer?
If you have 2-3 years left at UF you
may have an opportunity through
Army ROTC Call 392-ARMY!
5-27-10-32-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Help wanted for wait staff and hostesses.
Experience required. Apply in person be-
tween 2pm and 4pm at 7038 NW 10th place.
4-21-10-10-14
LAW STUDENT-
EXCELLENT WRITING SKILLS.
1 year+ commitment. Resume to: 626N.E.1st
Street,32601or paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14
FRENCH TUTOR-TEMPORARY-
Family visiting France in summer. Please
include salary requirement. Resume to
paulsrothstein@yahoo.com. 4-21-10-10-14
GUITAR INSTRUCTOR-
two middle school children-beginners. Prefer
home instruction. Resume to
paulsrothstein@yahoo.com. 4-21-10-10-
14
CLEANER/GARDENER-
P/T, flex- house. Thorough and conscienten-
tous. Pay competitive. Resume to:
paulsrothstein@yahoo.com 4-21-10-10-14
OFFICE ASS'T-
F/T or part-time- love numbers, passion for
organization and fitness. Eye for detail. 1
year+ commitment. Resume to: 626N.E.1st
Street,32601or paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14
POLITICAL COORDINATOR / GRASS
ROOTS ALACHUA COUNTY ELECTIONS
Resume to paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
4-21-10-10-14
HOUSEKEEPING -CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available
Mon-Fri, 10am -5pm. $7.25/hr, experience
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323
for more info and interview. 4-21-10-9-14
THE CABOT LODGE HOTEL is seeking a
Food Service Supervisor. Please apply in
person. No phone calls, 3726 SW 40 Blvd.
4-19-10-7-14
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Full or part time. Some weekends,holidays.
Experience preferred. Apply in person
at Jonesville Animal Hospital 14145 W.
Newberry Rd. Newberry. 4-21-10-7-14
PET PARADISE RESORT
Newberry, FL. Now accepting resumes
for entry level management position.
Experienece required. Send resume to:
m c o o I i c a n @ p e t p a ra d i s e c o r p. co m
5-11-10-8-14Sunflower Health Foods is seeking P/T
person with nutritional background for
Vitamin/Supplement sales. MUST HAVE
supplement knowledge. Apply in person
87 SW 34th St, Gainesville.
4-20-10-5-14
Build your own online business from your
laptop. Fifty year old company.
Contact John, 352-219-0871, or
John@JCantlon.com 5-27-10-11-14
BRIDAL CONSULTANT/STYLIST
Solutions Bridal
PT+ Commission
Fax Resume to:
352-374-7293
4-21-5-14
CARETAKER -GREAT OPPORTUNITY for
psych, special ed or applied behavior majors
to obtain state of the art intervention skills
& knowledge working with severly autistic
young man in home & community based set-
ting. Must be motivated, reliable and make a
one year commitment. Hours TBA, compe-
tive wage. Fax resume to BH @352-375-4268
4-21-10-5-14
Now Hiring qualified women's J.O. Coach
For level 7 gymnastics team. Facility is lo-
cated in Starke. Please send resum with
references to
usagymnasticsofflorida@earthink.net 4-21-
10-5-14
BARTENDERS NEEDED
Earn $150-$250 per shift. FT/PT No experi-
ence required. Will train. Call now 352-678-
5246 x 701 5-11-10-5-14
Nanny for 10 month old baby girl needed.
Must be available from 8-5 at least 2 full
weekdays each week. Submit resume and
availability this summer and fall (if known) to
nannyingville@gmail.com. 4-21-10-4-14
Two (2) ADL OPS
Biological Scientist Ill positions
Two (2) temporary, forty hours per week, full-
time positions available to work in Advanced
Diagnostics Lab. To develop, implement,
and/or carry out molecular diagnostic and
other procedures for plant pests and patho-
gens. Proficiency and experience required
in cloning, PCR, primer and probe design,
sequencing (Sanger/454), southern blots,
and other molecular techniques. Requires a
bachelors degree with a major in one of the
biological sciences. Salary range $17.53 to
$19.28 per hour commensurate with experi-
ence. Deadline to apply: April 23, 2010. Apply
to Mr. Bruce Sutton 352/372-3505 extension
159 at the Doyle Conner Building, 1911 SW
34th St., Gainesville, Florida 32608. FL
Dept of Agriculture and Consumer Services,
Division of Plant Industry. EOE/AA/ADA
4-19-2-14
Nanny needed w/ infant exp;
M-F 20 hrs btwn 9-3pm $9/hr
strong in-home refs req.
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com 4-20-
10-3-14
MWFSat NANNY NEEDED 15hrs/wk;
6:30am; May 3 to Aug 18 min; refs!
3 yr old twins + lyr old; clean dmv;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com 4-20-
10-3-14
Part Time work for potential full time income
w/ flex. hours for self-starter. Attractive com-
missions for creating membership leads for
established martial arts studio. Apply via e-
mail to schafriska@aol.com 4-21-10-3-14
The Caffeine Bar @ Ben & Jerry's is seek-
ing outgoing, motivated individuals with their
own transportation. Must thrive in a fast
paced working environment and appreciate
cleanliness and organization.
Email resumes & class schedule to:
jen@catergainesville.com 4-21-3-14Interviewing NOW for jobs
beginning August 16th
Leave for the summer & know
you are coming back to a job!
SCHOOL BOARD OF ALACHUA COUNTY
AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM-
VARIOUS LOCATIONS-
* ENERGETIC PEOPLE TO TEACH
OUTDOOR GAMES -$10/hr -BA desired or
successful exp. working w/ children.
* CREATIVE PEOPLE TO TEACH ARTS
& CRAFTS -$10/hr -BA desired or success-
ful exp. working w/ children.
* Girl Scout Leaders, Tennis Instructors,
Dance Instructors & 4-H Leaders
Hours required -
M,T,Th,F -1:45-5:30, Wed, -12:30-5:30pm
DRUG TESTING REQUIRED -
BACKGROUND CHECK CONDUCTED -
AA/EOE
CALL 955-7766 FOR INFORMATION.
Apply online www.sbac.edu or
at Kirby Smith 620 E. University Ave. 4-21-
3-14
cr Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160 riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 8-16-09-25-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruction;
15 minutes from UF. Charlie at 373-5929.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-
15
Local Immigration Attorney -Marriage
Green Cards/Fiance Visas/Naturalization
Matters -$295.00 Attorney Fees Plus Costs
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
6-1-45-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding. Owner
housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 6-3-10-
30-15
KEN GARVIN APPLIANCE SERVICE
10 YEARS EXPERIENCE 8AM-8PM 7 DAYS
LOW RATES ALL BRANDS STUDENT
SPECIAL $40 SERVICE CALL PLUS
PARTS WWW.KENGARVIN.COM 338-1708
4-21-20-15
ATTN GARDENERS!
I will till your gardens for less than you can
rent a tiller! Call Chauncy Gardener 352-
214-1767. Chauncy Gardener Gardening
Service. 41 years of gardening service!
4-21-10-15
THE SALON "0" SPECIALS
2720 NW 6TH STREET.352 672 6339
HIGHLIGHTS $35 10 FOILS.
MENS CUTS: $10
GOOD TIL 05/30 5-27-10-12-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
Grieving the loss of someone?
National Students of AMF
Join our Facebook group:
"Gator Students of AMF"
TalkAboutLoss.org 4-21-43-16
A Woman's Answer
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716 8-24-74-16
ee Study Improvement & ee
e Test Anxiety w. Hypnosis e
Call Maureen (352) 870-1527
4-19-10-15-16FREE SPAYS FOR STRAYS!
Operation Catnip will provide free spay/
neuter, vaccines, & treatment for fleas, ear
mites, & worms to unowned, stray or feral
cats from mobile home parks in Alachua
County. Volunteers are needed to help with
trapping & transportation of cats. To volun-
teer or request spay/neuter for homeless
cats call (352)380-0940. 4-21-18-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
*QUIT SMOKING* WJLicets
****** WITH HYPNOSIS ******
Call Maureen (352) 870-1527
4-19-10-15-16 5$ student tkts, 352-375-HIPP
Monday, April 26, 6 pm
'Mistresses of many voices'
dance/theater/music performance 4-21-10-
SPersonals 7-22
o il Rides
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call a-iEU a
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
GMG TRANSPORT*Family Chiropractic* FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F. Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
373-7070 Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
8-16-25-18 Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
C F COn neCtionsMF- Pets
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
Asian male, 70 years old, professional, slim,
tall, dark. Seeking a white feamle with fair
hair between the ages of 50-70 years old.
Write to P.O Box 1823 Keystone Heights, FL
32656 4-21-10-10-19Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
FOUND: DOG
Medium-sized, brown & white, male (intact),
corgi/beagle mix? Found Fri, 4/9 south of the
town of Archer. Very friendly. 352-529-9107
4-21-3-24
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Sports
MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
DeSclafani's struggles cost Gators finale against Wildcats
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Staff Writer
achiang@alligator org
On a day meant for celebration, Anthony DeScla-
fani had little to be happy about.
The UF pitcher, who turned 20 on Sunday, strug-
gled from the start and helped dig a hole No. 7 Flor-
ida (25-10, 10-5 Southeastern Conference) could not
climb out of as Kentucky (22-14, 5-10 SEC) escaped a
series sweep with a 6-5 victory.
Harrison uiamona / Aiiigator stanT
UF pitcher Anthony DeSclafani allowed eight hits and all six of Kentucky's runs in just 2.1 innings in the Gators' 6-5 loss on
Sunday. It was the sophomore's first start since March 24.
Rosario to transfer to Florida
0 THE GUARD AVERAGED 16.7
POINTS PER GAME AT RUTGERS
LAST YEAR.
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
a berry@a Iligator org
Florida took a big step toward improving
its backcourt this weekend, and the Gators
aren't done recruiting yet.
Former Rutgers guard Mike Rosario will
transfer to UF after visiting Gainesville this
weekend, a team source confirmed, saying it
was a "done deal."
The 6-foot-3, 180-pound guard, who av-
eraged 16.7 points per game as a sophomore
with the Scarlet Knights, will have to sit out
next season but will be eligible to play during
the 2011-12 season.
Rosario becomes the program's second Big
East transfer in the last three years, joining ju-
nior center Vernon Macklin, who came to UF
from Georgetown.While picking up Rosario will go a long
way toward fixing the Gators' lack of back-
court depth in the future, UF coaches were also
working this weekend to add more guards for
next season.
Matt Carlino, a 6-foot-2 guard from Bloom-
ington (Ind.) South High, came to Gainesville
on an unofficial visit with his father.
J.R. Holmes, Carlino's high school coach,
said UF assistant coach
Richard Pitino visited Car-
lino last week, attempting
to persuade the high school
junior to graduate this sum-
mer, skip his senior year
and commit to the Gators
for next season.
Rosario "I think they're looking
to try to get him to come,
from my understanding, now," Holmes said.
"That possibility is there, and I think that's one
of the things they're looking at. I think he'd be
smarter off staying in high school and getting
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 19"The bright side is we got Paco (Rodri-
guez) back, and he threw outstanding
for five innings."
Kevin O'Sullivan
UF baseball coach
The Wildcats scored all of their runs in the first
three innings against the sophomore, who was mak-
ing his first start on the mound since March 24, and
jumped out to an early 6-0 lead.
"We obviously didn't get a great start from An-
thony," UF coach Kevin O'Sullivan said. "It's just
unfortunate we fell behind early in the game."
DeSclafani lasted just 2.1 innings and gave up six
runs on eight hits. In the three innings he appeared
in, the right-hander allowed the first two hitters to
reach base in each one.
Despite the bad start, UF still had ample oppor-
tunities to win Sunday thanks in part to the perfor-
mance of freshman reliever Steven Rodriguez.
Rodriguez, who made his first appearance since
going down with a finger injury March 24, came out
of the bullpen and threw a career-high five innings
of scoreless baseball.
SEE BASE, PAGE 19
UF drops final home game
By TONI-ANN MILLER
Alligator Writer
It was clear from the opening draw
that Florida would have to fight for
any opportunity it would get and capi-
talize on the chances it had if it was go-
ing to beat Vanderbilt on Sunday.
However, the Gators couldn't do
that.
UF (9-6, 1-3 American Lacrosse
Conference) fell 12-7 to the No. 8 Com-
modores (11-3, 4-0 ALC) behind a poor
offensive effort and sub-par defense.
Attacker Ashley Bruns led UF with
three scores, all of which came with less
that 15 minutes left in the game, while
Caroline Cochran, Caroline Chester-
man, Colby Rhea and Brittany Dashiell
each accounted for one of UF's sevenscores.
Midfielder Kitty Cullen had the
team's sole assist.
Offensively, the Gators played a
close first half. They took six of the
eight draws and had six more shots
than the Commodores, but their fail-
Lacrosseure to convert on
those shots led to a
low-scoring half. Flor-
ida had shots flying
way wide, bouncing
off the goal post, and
others going straight
to the goalkeeper's net.
"We had our opportunities, offen-
sively," UF coach Amanda O'Leary
said. "We did not shoot well at all. Our
offense really did a poor job of shoot-
SEE LACROSSE, PAGE 19
alligatorSports.org
0 UF's tennis teams both defeated
South Carolina on Saturday. The
men won 6-1 at home while the
women beat the Gamecocks 4-0 in
Columbia. Check out our Web site.TEEING OFF WITH PHIL KEGLER
U Former Rutgers guard Mike Rosario has reportedly decided to transfer to UF.
This is a nice pickup for a team that's usually on the wrong end of transfers.
.BYU all-time leading rusher Harvey Unga and his girlfriend Keilani Moeaki
withdrew from school for honor code violations. Many guess pre-marital sex is to
blame. I think they couldn't resist a cup of coffee, breaking the ban on caffeine.SOFTBALL STANDINGS
SEC EAST
1. UF
2. Tennessee
3. Georgia
4. Kentucky
5. South Carolina14-3
14-4
14-6
11-11
1-21
18, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010
ROi~b 4aDkr R om
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer
X can't be touched. Can't be stopped.
Can't be moved. Can't be rocked.
Can't be shook." These lyrics, from
"Can't Be Touched" by Body Head Bangerz,
boxer Roy Jones Jr.'s rap group, echo over
the speakers before every home UF base-
ball game, and the reason is far more than
the need for a catchy rap song.
Once Florida's athletes get the adrena-
line pumping through their veins, there is
no turning back. Whether it takes blue eye
makeup or a crazy dance move, how the
athletes get fired up is their own game.
With the continuation of the UF baseball
and softball seasons long after the halt of
classes (meaning smaller crowds ahead)
and the NCAA Gymnastics Champion-
ships on Thursday, athletes are serving up
their own jolts of energy to finish their sea-
sons strong.
O0urSoWg
If the baseball locker room had eyes,
Dangerous (Kardinal Offishall)
Until the Whole World Heals
(Casting Crowns)
Flashing Lights (K(anye West)
Amazing (K(anye West)
All The Above (Maino)
Vibe-N (Piccalo)
Driving My Life Away
(Rhett Akins)
TilK ToK (l eSha)
Can't Tell Me Nothing
(Kanye West)
Country Star (Pat Green)
Nuthin' But A G Thang
(Dr. Dre)
At Least I -n Known for
Something (New Found Glory)
Rock Star (R Kelly)
Run This Town (Jay-Z)
Warrior (Nelly)
Prelude 12-21 (AFI)
MaxWeissler/Alligator Sta fthey would witness something truly funky
during the Gators' pregame.
The most notable sight among the team's
cleats and sliders? The team's 6-foot-4
pitcher, Kevin Chapman, busting a move to
the song "Walk It Out."
But while rap is booming throughout
the locker room, there are some more, well,
sensitive songs being shared.
"I don't know if I should say this," in-
fielder Nolan Fontana said. "Josh [Adams]
and I listen to 'Our Song' by Taylor Swift.
But it was Josh's idea."
The songs oozing with femininity don't
just hide themselves for pregame pump-up
in the locker room, they leak onto the field
too.
Infielder Jerico Weitzel's at-bat song
sticks out like a sore thumb among his
teammates' Lil Wayne, Jay-Z and Eminem
tunes.
His song? The pop-club hit "TiK ToK"
by artist Ke$ha (a tune softball pitcher Ens-
ley Gammel also uses).
"I didn't choose that," Weitzel said. "I
had trouble picking out a song so Preston
[Tucker] picked that out for me."
While Tucker's prank will be vibrating
over speakers for the entire baseball season,
the team is all about seriousness during
their routine pregame prayer and discus-
sion of the opposing team's pitcher.
And when they step up to the plate, it's
time to get in the zone.
"I step out (of the box) and tell myself
what pitch I'm looking for," Weitzel said.
"Most hitters do something before getting
in the batter's box."
Fontana swipes the dirt to clear the plate
off.
Freshman Brian Johnson infuses his
faith into his on-field routines by making
a cross over the plate when he's up to bat,
and drawing another cross before the start
of each inning when he's performing on the
pitcher's mound.
"I do it because I'm so blessed to be out
there playing," Johnson said.
In ftAir TgiW
Who would've thought that a bus driv-
er's jam would become a staple on the soft-
ball field?
But sure enough, a Phil Collins song
makes its way into every UF softball game.
"At the [Southeastern Conference Cham-
pionships] in 2008, our bus driver was ob-
sessed with the song 'In the Air Tonight,"'
catcher Tiffany DeFelice said. "It became
our anthem -we kept winning with it."
Phil Collins' song can be heard during
the team's stretches, and the players even
perform the classic drum solo in unison.
However, DeFelice has her own pleth-
ora of rituals she goes through before the
series of stretching and air-drumming, and
it starts when she's getting dressed.
"I have to put my clothes on in the same
order," DeFelice said. "My stirrups go on
last. If I don't put them all on in order, then
I'm all out of whack."
And when the clothes are all on and
ready? Time to join in on the fun in what
the team refers to as "Club Locker Room."
"The locker room gets really, really
loud," Gammel said. "Sometimes, someone
busts out a dance move and things get real
rowdy."
While the locker room is popping with
music, the players still find time to primp in
front of the mirror amid the chaos.
"If I don't have a ribbon in my hair and
my nail polish and makeup and hair done,
then it is not going to be a good day," Gain-
mel said.
Once the Gators have everything per-
fectly in place, they go onto the field, andIuouriesy o jim tsurgess
The UF softball team, much like the baseball and gymnastics teams, uses music to get
pumped up before and during competitions.
each athlete brings her own ritual to the
clay.
Gammel touches the dirt before every
pitch.
After her counterpart, pitcher Stephanie
Brombacher, has applied her signature blue
eyeliner and ribbon, she has some ornate
rituals of her own on the mound.
Rather than let a teammate hand it to
her, Brombacher is sure to pick the ball up
off the ground to start the inning, and she
isn't ready to throw until she taps the ball
on her leg.
And once DeFelice has spit out her gum
and put her clothes on in just the right or-
der, she lives up to her nickname of "Rag-
ing Bull" when she makes her debut in the
batter's box.
"I'm a different person on the field,"
DeFelice said. "I'm the aggressive one and
I destroy the batter's box. But I've tried to
take that back a bit."
OShowllne"
Gymnastics meets are full of plenty of
sparkle and shine to paint the perfect scene
for some serious entertainment.
While other sports have spectators ad-
miring the back-and-forth compete Lion, the
gymnasts are performing and putting on a
show. The UF gymnastics team recognizes
its position on center stage during team
huddles, when the Gators shout "Show
time!"
In gymnastics, the beat they bounce to
is a big deal.
And unlike the bounce before a back
handspring, the melodies aren't taken
lightly.
Lots of planning goes into each of the
songs for the individual floor dances.
"In the summer, each of the girls get a
couple of weeks where I sit down with
them," UF gymnastics volunteer coach Jer-
emy Miranda said. "They know their body
and what they like. It gives them owner-
ship of their routines, and they are excited
to have work to create the final product."
Miranda oversees all of the creative as-
pects for the team, dealing with the music
and choreography.
"This year, the girls chose sassy and
strong beat music," Miranda said. "They
wanted the crowd to be clapping and they
wanted to keep a driving rhythm."
Freshman gymnast Liz Green had to
reshape her floor routine from high school
and tailor it to fit her new surroundings
competing at the college level.
It didn't take long to select her music.Once Miranda played a Britney Spears'
mix, Green pounced.
With the gymnasts, it's all about finding
confidence in their floor routine songs, and
impressing the judges is something that
could make or break them.
"If you just look at the judges and smile
at them, once they smile back you can re-
ally get into your floor routine," freshman
Ashan6e Dickerson said.
Dickerson can join the likes of Beyonc6
in that they both seem to have their own
alter ego -Beyonc6 has "Sasha Fierce" -
when performing.
Shy and reserved in everyday life with
a soft-spoken voice and timid demeanor,
Dickerson is anything but that on the gym-
nastics floor.
"It's a place where I can just let it all out
and have fun," Dickerson said.
Dickerson gets an extra pep talk before
meets through her cell phone, as her old
coaches pray with her and send her a text
before each meet.
And as a team, the Gators make sure to
pay special attention to a certain someone
in the locker room.
"When I first got here the older girls told
me that you have to be sure to touch the
alligator in the locker room before every
home meet," Green said.
Other musts of those in leotards? Each
competition, one girl is responsible for pro-
viding a motivational word and quote. One
week's word was simply "dominate," and
the word made its presence with the rep-
etition of the word alongside each rotation
during the week's meet -shouted in the
team huddle.
But it's what's outside the floor, the lock-
er room and the practice studio that makes
for the biggest difference -and it's in the
bleachers.
The gymnasts stress they get their big-
gest adrenaline boost from the fans.
"The crowd plays a big role," Dickerson
said. "Especially seeing all of those orange
shirts in the crowd at the SECs."
But the adrenaline doesn't terminate
upon the transition from stage to seats -
the audience gets in on the gymnast "show"
as well. In each floor routine, the girls have
kept the longtime tradition of incorporat-
ing the Gator Chomp to do along with the
audience.
And who says the audience can't join in
and dance to the floor or walk-up songs?
Enough thought was put into them so that
everyone can bust a move -in the locker
room or not.
MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Brombacher throws shutout in UF's 5-0 win over Kentucky
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Writer
While it was another conference game on pa-
per, Florida felt like it was in the NCAA Tourna-
ment.
"I just wanted them to take the approach of
taking this like a Super Regional matchup, where
it's a 1-1 matchup and we've gotta win it," coach
Tim Walton said. "We don't lose very often and
we're in a tight race for the SEC (Southeastern
Conference), so we can't afford to have a week-
end letdown."
After starting hot and then fizzling out down
the stretch in the first two games, the No. 3
Gators (34-5, 14-3 SEC) were able to sustain their
first-inning momentum and ride a dominant
performance from ace Stephanie Brombacher to
a 5-0 victory and a series win over Kentucky (27-
18, 11-11 SEC).
Brombacher scattered eight hits over seven
innings of scoreless softball, striking out nine
Wildcats en route to her fifth shutout of the sea-
son.
It was a bounce-back performance for the
team and for Brombacher, who gave up three
runs in 5.1 innings of action on Saturday.
"I felt like I was more in command of my
pitches," Brombacher said. "I was placing them
where I wanted them, and I actually had an in-
side pitch to throw."
Florida jumped out to a first-inning lead for
the third-consecutive game, this time scoring a
pair on RBI doubles from Francesca Enea and
Brittany Schutte.
In Saturday's doubleheader, the Gators
scored a combined seven runs in the first inning
but only brought a single run across the plate ininnings two through seven. That lone run came
courtesy of Kelsey Horton, who came through
with another home run Sunday, leading off the
second inning with a deep blast to center.
The home run was Horton's third in only 16
career at-bats, and came in only her third-career
start.
"I felt like I was more in command of
my pitches. I was placing them where
I wanted them and I actually had an
inside pitch to throw."
Stephanie Brombacher
UFjunior pitcher
"It feels really good to be a contributor," Hor-
ton said. "When you get a really good swing on
it and it goes far, it's a good feeling."
Enea led off the third with a home run and
Michelle Moultrie singled home a run in the
fourth, giving the Gators the 5-0 lead that would
eventually become the final.
Kentucky loaded the bases with no outs in
the fourth and later with two outs in the sev-
enth, but in each case Brombacher was able to
pitch her way out of it.
"Today I mentally was more prepared for it
and I stayed a little bit mentally stronger and
pitched through those tough situations," Brom-
bacher said.
The win improves Florida's record to 5-0 in
games following losses.
Sunday's victory also kept the team's goal of
winning every SEC series alive.
"I think we responded really well," Brom-
bacher said. "Our goal is to win the SEC, and we
need to win every series to do that."Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator Staff
UF's Stephanie Brombacher shut out Kentucky in the Gators' 5-0 win Sunday
to rebound after allowing three runs in 5.1 innings in Saturday's 5-3 loss.
Maddox hits three home runs in series; Tucker adds two more
BASE, from page 17
"The bright side is we got Paco
(Rodriguez) back, and he threw
outstanding for five innings,"
O'Sullivan said.
During one stretch, Rodriquez
sat down 11 of 12 hitters, giving
UF a chance to mount a comeback.
But missed opportunities in the
fourth and seventh innings would
come back to haunt the Gators as
they left the bases loaded in bothframes.
Still, UF made one last push in
the ninth, down 6-3.
Second baseman Josh Adams
came up to the plate in the final
frame with just six hits in 51 at-
bats during conference play, but
he added one hit to that total with
a two-run homer in the ninth to
make it a 6-5 game.
However, that was all Florida
could muster as sophomore Pres-
ton Tucker swung at the first pitchhe saw and grounded out to sec- we certainly aren't going to put is getting going again and we are
ond base with a Tucker taking pitches there, when swinging the bats aggressively,"
runner on first to he has a chance to put something O'Sullivan said.
end the game. out of the stadium." Along with Adams' two-run
"There was no The offense relied on the long shot, Tucker hit his second homer
sense in taking ball for the third-straight day. in as many games and freshman
pitches there," Florida hit three homers Sunday Austin Maddox racked up his third
O'Sullivan said. to push its total to nine round trip- home run of the weekend.
"We were taking pers in the three-game series. Be- Maddox sent a ball out of the
DeSclafani (pitches) early fore this stretch, it took the Gators park in each game of the series. He
in the inning to 10 games to hit its previous nine leads the team with 12 home runs.
try to get some base runners and homers. A radio broadcast contributed to
we put ourselves in position, but "I'm in belief that our offense this report.
Gators eyeing 2011 recruit for 2010
HOOPS, from page 17
another year of experience."
Holmes said Carlino will also visit
UCLA, Butler and California in the near fu-
ture. Carlino originally committed to Indi-
ana in 2008, but reopened his recruitment in
late March and has not yet made a decision
about his future.
"I think he's just testing the waters,"
Holmes said. "It was just a situation he
wasn't 100 percent sure of, and he wanted
to make sure he was 100 percent sure before
he committed to going somewhere for four
years.
Florida coach Billy Donovan is planning
to travel to Bloomington, Ind., sometime
this week to follow up on Pitino's visit, Hol-
mes said.
Holmes added that, while Carlino is a
talented scorer, he might not be ready to
play point guard at the college level yet.
Given the Gators' current allotment of
guards for next season -not including Ro-
sario, who can only practice with the team-Carlino could find playing time at either
backcourt spot if he joins the team for the
2010-11 season.
"I've only had him for one year, but he's
really athletic. He can shoot the three, take
the ball to the basket," Holmes said. "In our
program, he's trying to become more of a
point guard. Another year of that will make
him a much better prospect for the college
level."
Rivals.com lists Carlino as the 122nd-best
overall and 30th-ranked
shooting guard in the
2011 class, from which
UF has already gained a
Men's commitment from high-
Basketball ly touted guard Bradley
Beal. The Gators are also
still in the running for
2011 guard Austin Rivers.
Chris Denson, a 6-foot-2 senior point
guard from Midland (Ga.) Shaw High, also
visited Gainesville this weekend on an of-
ficial visit. Denson has already received
scholarship offers from Western Kentucky,
Buffalo and North Carolina Greensboro.Commodores pull away in second half
LACROSSE, from page 17
ing."
In the second half, UF looked to be
picking up its scoring and even led 6-5
with 10:19 to go, but draw controls were
the Gators' eventual downfall.
UF won 12 of the 21 total draws but
allowed its opponent to capture four-
consecutive draws after the 6:56 mark in
the second half, with Vanderbilt already
up 8-7. The Commodores converted on
those chances to push the game out of the
Gators' reach.
"We needed to compete harder,"
O'Leary said. "The draw is all about com-
peting for the ball. It's not necessarily
anything technical, it's just, who's going
to go harder after the ball, and they won
it."
On defense, the Gators containedtheir opponent in the first half but had
no answer for Vanderbilt's offense in
the second half as it scored seven of the
final eight goals. UF allowed Ally Carey
and Carter Foote to rack up four goals
each while Katherine Denkler added two
scores and three assists on the day.
After the game, the Gators knew they
had missed a good opportunity to take
down a top-10 opponent and to get a sec-
ond conference win. The disappointment
was blatant.
"We came out knowing that each
player had to do (her) job," Bruns said.
"We knew the players that we had to shut
down and what we had to do offensively
to start getting the goals in.
"We were all hustling all over the
field, and it is a real downer to not win,
but we're going to learn a lot from it, and
next year, we're going to come out stron-
ger."
20, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2010
Smith sets year's best time in 400 at Tom Jones Invite
By RYAN BUTLER
Alligator Writer
The Tom Jones Memorial Clas-
sic was created to commemorate
the former Florida track and field
coach. The current Gators used
the meet to make some memories
of their own.
UF athletes won 11 events
and set 16 personal-best marks
in the home meet at Percy Beard
Track. The meet gave the Gators
another opportunity to prepare
for the Southeastern Conference
Outdoor Championship Meet in
May.
The meet's highlight was
the men's 400-meter dash. Se-
nior Calvin Smith won it in a
personal-best and
world-leading time
of 44.81. He beat
World Champion-Men's ship medalists Ty-Track son Gay and Renny
Quow while slicing
off .15 seconds from his previous
best.
Senior Mariam Kevkhishvili
set a personal-best mark in the
outdoor shot put with a throw of
18.46 meters. It was the second-
best throw in school history.
Fellow senior Shara Proctor
won the women's triple jump
with a distance of 13.29 meters.
It was the last home meet for
Smith, a 15-time All-American,Kevkhishvili, a four-time NCAA
champion, and Proctor, a four-
time SEC champion.
"When our seniors like Calvin[Smith] and Mariam [Kevkhishvi-
li] joined this program, it wasn't
at the level we are at today," UF
coach Mike Holloway said. "They
Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator Staff
UF senior Calvin Smith ran a 44.81-second 400-meter dash to set the world's best time in the event at
the Tom Jones Memorial Classic in Gainesville on Saturday. The Gators won 11 events.
ANThammer throw with a personal-
best distance of 60.59 meters. It
broke his own school record and
continued Postin's record-setting
freshman season.
Javelin thrower Evelien
Dekkers, also competing in her
final home meet, won the event
with a throw of 52.12 meters.
Keely Medeiros was second in the
women's shot put and finished
third in the discus.
Junior Shot putter Kemal Mesic
landed the best distance among
collegiate competitors with his
19.38-meter heave.
UF went one-two in the men's
long jump with two-time defend-
ing NCAA indoor triple jump
champion Christian Taylor win-
ning with a distance of 7.51 me-
ters, nearly half of a meter better
than freshman Omar Craddock.
The Gators also put up the top
two marks in the men's 4x100-
meter relay. The "A" team won in
39.06 seconds while the "B" team
finished in 39.31.
UF placed second through fifth
in the men's 800-meter run, lead
by John Mitchell's second-place
run of 1:50:52.
Michael Anderson won the
men's steeplechase in 9:09:48
while Julie Northrup finished
second in the women's 1,500-me-
ter run with a personal-best time
of 4:28:90.
13 TR I
Ii
ONLYS6
MOCKS
FROM VUF!
352.338.7467
Contact us for other specials available.r -~
F
