0 the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 75 We Inform. You Decide.-
TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2010
CINCINNATI 24 5 T UF 51
Senior class finishes with third BCS win
wiazz iripp / Aillgazor swarr
UF quarterback Tim Tebow laps the field after the Gators' 51-24 win over Cincinnati at the
Sugar Bowl on Friday inside the Super Dome in New Orleans, La.
ON CAMPUS
EPA fines UF for pollution
BY JENNIFER BATE
Alligator Writer
UF has agreed to pay $175,000 in federal
pollution fines after inspectors discovered
soil and groundwater contamination on
campus from March 2008.
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said the
university has not completed its investiga-
tion of the contamination and is still trying
to determine if a cleanup will be required.
Environmental Protection Agency in-
spectors said tetrachloroethylene levels in
the soil and groundwater were higher than
allowed by state regulations.
Tetrachloroethylene is a colorless, sweet-
smelling chemical and a non-flammable or-ganic liquid.
It is commonly used in aerosol dry-clean-
ing products and as a metal degreaser, ac-
cording to the EPA.
According to the Inter-
national Agency for Re-
search on Cancer, tetrachlo-
roethylene is also known to
cause liver damage and is
suspected to cause cancer.
At high levels, tetra-
chloroethylene could also
Sikes cause damage to the ner-
vous system, according to
the Department of Health and Human Ser-
vices.
SEE POLLUTION, PAGE 10By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kmaistri@alligator org
NEW ORLEANS -It didn't end with a
Heisman Trophy or a BCS national cham-
pionship.
But it sure was memorable.
Tim Tebow and Florida's senior class
let the chance to win its third national
championship in four years slip away af-
ter losing to Alabama in the Southeastern
Conference Championship Game, but that
didn't keep them from going out winners
against Cincinnati (12-1).
Tebow threw for 482 yards and three
touchdowns as the Gators (13-1) rolled
over the Bearcats 51-24 in the Sugar Bowl.
With the win, UF became the first FBS
program to win 13 games in back-to-back
seasons.
The senior class will leave Gainesville
with two national championships, two
SEC titles and a 48-7 record, the best in
conference history.
"That's a special group," UF coach Ur-
ban Meyer said. "They made a statement
as freshmen that we want to go down as
one of the best ever and let's put a little
plan together and you guys stick together
and follow the plan and let's see what hap-
pens. And they followed the plan."
Giving Meyer plenty of time to planhas often resulted in big point totals in
bowl games.
But the offensive explosion -659
yards of total offense -was a bit surpris-
ing considering the way the Crimson Tide
held the Gators to 13 points and 335 yards
of offense.
In conference games this season, in-
cluding the SEC Championship Game, UF
averaged 26 points and 371 yards of total
offense per game.
Whenever they stepped out of confer-
ence, the Gators feasted on opposing de-
fenses.
Florida averaged 48 points and 622
yards of total offense per game against
its three non-conference bowl eligible op-
ponents this season -Troy, Florida State
and Cincinnati.
In the Sugar Bowl, Tebow shattered his
previous career high for passing yards -
338 against Florida Atlantic in 2007 -and
set a new BCS bowl record for total yards
(533), breaking the 467-yard mark set by
Texas' Vince Young against USC in the
2006 Rose Bowl.
"I didn't see this coming as far as that
many yards and everything," Tebow said.
"I knew we had a good game plan. I knew
we were going to try to spread it out a little
bit. We felt like that would be successful.
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 22
Goerings Book Store
to close after 38 years
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
One of Gainesville's oldest book-
stores will be writing its final chapter
this semester.
Goerings Book Store, 1717 NW
First Ave., will close after 38 years of
business.
"At this point in time, Gainesville
just isn't friendly to bookstores," saidThomas Rider, one of the store's co-
owners. "It's disappointing."
Rider pointed to the recession, the
store's location and
Around competition from
Gainesville online shoppingand chain book-
stores as key fac-
tors that led to the store's decline.
Although the chain bookstores
SEE GOERINGS, PAGE 10
Armed man robs local lingerie shop on University Avenue Saturday night
Gainesville police are searching for The man demanded the clerk give
a man who robbed local lingerie shop him money from the open cash register
French Addiction, 819 W University then left by bicycle after receiving it.
Ave., at gunpoint Saturday night. Police searched the area and UF cam-
According to a police report, a clerk pus but were unable to find the man.
was alone when a man knocked on the The suspect was described as a black
locked door. male, 45 to 55 years old and wearing a
He looked around then opened his dark jacket and beanie cap.
jacket, revealing a sign saying he had a -KATHERINE BEIN
gun and not to panic.Today
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
18
20
24Sunny
47/21
visit www.alligator.org0 How long
offensive coordina-
tor Steve Addazio
will fill in as head
coach while Urban
Meyer takes a leave
of absence is just
one of a few ques-
tion marks for UF
this offseason.
See Story, Page 28.ele
2, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 5,2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
DDIG Workshop
Wednesday, 4 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Marston Science Library, Room
L107
Graduate students in social,
behavioral and economic sci-
ences are encouraged to attend
this workshop on how to apply
for NSF Doctoral Dissertation
Improvement Grants (DDIG)
from $6,000 to $20,000. The
event is free and open to the
public, and no registration is re-
quired.
Get Lucky with Languages
Thursday, 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Reitz Union Colonnade
Spin the wheel, ring your buzz-
er, go fish and play games of
chance and knowledge to win
prizes. Learn a little bit of 10
languages and get a free pocket
language guide with the Center
for European Studies and Asian
Studies.
Gerard donated in his
mother's name.
*,
His gift provided shelter for
the Tyler family after a fire.
Support the Red Cross
and save a life, starting
with your own.
Call 1-800-RED CROSS
or visit redcross.org
AmericanRed CrossCopyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
Edwards
Attorneys at Law
If you or someone you love has developed a
pulmonary embolism or deep vein
thrombosis while taking YASMIN, YAZ, or
OCELLA, please contact our office to learn
more information about your legal rights.
352-371-3000 Cathy Patterson
1-877-798-7700 Gainesville, FL
Toll Free accident@lawfl.net
cases may be referred to another law firm
Check it out ataaa1bgAtQrspor.s alligatorSports.org
.S Tor subscribe onTune in for the latest Gators sports iTunesnews and analysis from our beat
writers and columnists. alligator
TCB
Your healthiest no fat, low fat frozen yogurt in the community.
Follow us on Facebook and Twitter at "TCBYgainesville"
Three Locations
S.W. 34th Street next to Crispers
Tioga Town Center Millhopper Shopping Centera the independent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 75 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared M isner, jmisner@a//igator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, cti//o@a//igator.org
Opinions Editor Will Olsen, wolsen@alligator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore, Will Olsen
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
George Pappas, Paul Runnestrand
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Sales Development Shaun O'Connor
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
John Downey, Natasha Dykes,
Brittany Fayne, Shirley Nagar,
Samantha Owen, Julian Pothemont,
Andrew Reid
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
Assistant Bookkeeper Amanda Miller
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
Freeze hits Gainesville hard
with temperatures in the 20s
*STUDENTS ARE ADVISED NOT TO DRINK
ALCOHOL AND TO WEAR LAYERS.
By MELINDA CARSTENSEN
Alligator Contributing Writer
This week, those returning to Gainesville will be
welcomed with new classes, new teachers and com-
paratively cooler weather.
The cool weather is the result of an arctic air mass
affecting Gainesville and the rest of Florida as far south
as Lake Okeechobee.
Temperatures in Gainesville are expected to drop to
21 degrees tonight and to 23 degrees on Wednesday
night, said Phil Peterson, a forecaster at the National
Weather Service in Jacksonville.
This hard freeze is expected to hit Gainesville al-
most every night through Sunday, Peterson said.
A hard freeze occurs when a temperature falls be-
low 27 degrees Fahrenheit for two or more hours.
Peterson said temperatures for this month are sig-
nificantly lower than they were last January.
Although there were two hard freezes in the middle
of last January, Peterson said there was mostly warm
weather in Gainesville.
On Jan. 6, 2009, the high in Gainesville was 80 de-
grees, and the average monthly temperature was 17
degrees higher than normal, he said.
"What's different about this air mass is that it's go-
ing to stay in one place for a week, which is very un-
usual," Peterson said. "This blocking pattern is hap-
pening all throughout the country."
Lauren McKeague of the Florida Division of Emer-gency Management advises those experiencing hard
freezes to follow the "Five P's" of cold weather safety:
protecting people, protecting plants, protecting pets,
protecting exposed pipes and practicing fire safety.
The Florida Division of Emergency Management
advises students to drink nonalcoholic fluids and wear
multiple layers of loose-fitting, warm clothing.
Students should also try to stay dry and in wind-
protected areas.
"What's different about this air mass is that
it's going to stay in one place for a week,
which is very unusual. This blocking pattern
is happening all throughout the country."
Phil Peterson
forecaster at the National Weather Service in Jackson-
ville
The Florida Division of Emergency Management
also warns against the indoor use of charcoal or other
fuel-burning devices, such as grills that produce car-
bon monoxide.
Peterson said residents should bring all potted
plants inside and cover those that are outside with
sheets or blankets.
"Plants really need to be covered up if you can't
bring them inside and insulated against the cold be-
cause we're talking a killing freeze here," he said.
Because the air is extremely dry, Peterson advises that
those in wooded areas be careful and exercise extreme
caution when burning anything.
For more information, visit www.FloridaDisaster.
org.Cnaries Koop/ Alligator
A woman walks near the Marston Science Library Monday.
The weather was clear but cold for most of the day and is
expected to continue on Tuesday.
4, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 5,2010
Locals have mixed
views on health billUF ALUMNI
Gator launches jewelry line
* ABORTION IS A KEY
FACTOR.
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
In a step toward strengthening
President Barack Obama's call for
health care reform, the U.S. Sen-
ate passed a bill on Christmas Eve
aimed at overhauling America's
health care system.
The final bill, which passed
60 to 39, calls for the injection of
$871 billion of government funds
over the span of 10 years in order
to provide more affordable health
care for millions of Americans.
Similar to the House bill, which
passed in November, the Senate
version has been met with mixed
reactions.
Liberals praise the legislation
as a necessary measure, while
conservatives are uncomfortable
with the bill's heavy spending
and potential invasion of the pri-
vate sector.
Ben Cavataro, president of
the Florida College Democrats,
praised the Senate's ability to pass
a bill he said will provide health
care to 30 million Americans,
strengthen Medicare, reduce the
federal deficit by $100 billion over
the next 10 years and allow stu-
dents to remain on their parents'
health insurance until they turn
26.
"It's really a big step forward,"
he said. "It's not easy to get 60
Senators to agree on anything, let
alone something as big as health
care reform."
Cavataro said he is disappoint-
ed with the Senate bill's lack of a
public option but believes its cuts
to inefficient programs and provi-
sions for low-income Americans
will offer much-needed relief.
Bryan Griffin, chairman of the
UF College Republicans, views
the Senate bill as reckless spend-
ing resulting from bribes made
by politicians bent on staying in
power.
He said Democrats want to cre-
ate public dependence on nationalhealth care, which would make it
harder for voters to take them out
of office.
Griffin pointed to Medicaid
provisions to states with Senators
on the fence, such as Nebraska
and Louisiana, as evidence of
shady politicking and the Demo-
crats' efforts to purchase votes.
"The corruption is really start-
ing to come through," he said. "If
I saw someone in the UF Senate
doing what they're doing in [the
U.S. Senate] now, I'd do every-
thing in my power to have them
removed. What they are doing is
criminal."
As Americans continue to de-
bate where federal money should
go, the issue of abortion has also
taken a place in the public spot-
light.
Under the Senate bill, Ameri-
cans with government healthplans
could use money for abortions as
long as they make two premium
payments: one for
National abortion coverage
News and another for
all other medical
needs.
Staci Fox, CEO of Planned
Parenthood of North Florida, op-
poses the "segregation of funds"
and said these measures discour-
age women from accessing health
services like abortion.
"We don't want to go back-
wards and create more obstacles
than women already have," she
said. "It's time for Congress to
trust women."
Jennifer Cyr, the vice presi-
dent of the UF Pro-Life Al-
liance, said most pro-life
supporters would not want tax-
payer money to fund abortion.
"I wouldn't want my money to
fund the killing of a person," Cyr
said.
Paying for abortions, according
to Cyr, would represent a sense of
disrespect for human dignity.
While voters and representa-
tives wrestle with the legislation's
effects, both the House and Senate
bills must go through a bipartisan
conference committee before be-
coming law.By ERICA JOHNSON
Alligator Writer
During Amanda Levison's
time at UF, she struggled to
find gifts for her friends on a
tight budget.
She found her solution in
jewelry.
Levison, a 28-year-old
psychotherapist from Fort
Lauderdale, expanded her
creativity with jewelry in
2006 to start AJ Designs,
through which she makes
and sells more than 90 pieces,
ranging from bracelets to dog
accessories.
Levison traced her pas-
sion for handcrafted jewelry
to a very early age.
"I was about 7 or 8, and
everyone was doing simple
knotted bracelets, but I was
"I'm not going to
make something that I
wouldn't want to keep,
and I'm very much a
jeans and flip-flops
person, so I like to make
things that are fit for
work and play."
Amanda Levison
UF graduate
doing really crazy designs,"
she said.
When Levison worked as
a camp counselor during her
summer break from college,
she learned how to create a
bracelet using beads and soon
became a craft store regular.
These days, she gets in-
spiration for her pieces by
browsing through magazines
to see what's in style, but she
said her personal style has a
heavy influence on what she
creates.
"I'm not going to make
something that I wouldn'twant to keep, and I'm very
much a jeans and flip-flops
person, so I like to make
things that are fit for work
and play," she said.
She often uses semipre-
cious stones in her designs,
the most popular being pearls
and crystal.
The stones she works with
can range from $35 to $200,
she said.
But Levison said it's im-
portant to her to keep her
pieces affordable.
Her least expensive de-signs, beaded key chains,
cost $12.
She is working to get her
creations into more stores
and she someday hopes to
have her own practice in psy-
chotherapy so she can devote
more time to developing her
designs.
"I enjoy every aspect of
what I do, especially the fact
that I have been able to keep
doing it, even though it start-
ed as a hobby," she said.
"I enjoy other people ap-
preciating my art."
Photo courtesy of Amanda Levison
Amanda Levison models a necklace by AJ Designs, her jew-
elry line.
SG FUNDED ORGANIZATIONS
BUDGET REQUESTS FOR 2010-2011
ARE DUE
Friday, January 15, 2010
Budget Request Forms available online at www.sg.ufl.edu
Submit request to Glenda Frederick at
gfrederick@sg.ufl.edu
For guidelines in completing budget request please see:
http://www.sg.ufl.edu/budgetdisk/BudgetGuidelines
For more information contact
Virlany Taboada at: budget@sg.ufl.eduClassic
Quarter-Pound Burger
with fries only $399Family Sports Pub
Come view the games on
our twenty 42" HD TVs
Expires 01/11/10
Breakfast Served Daily Beef Wines 1250W.Universit
starting @ 6:30 a.m. "0" Brady Burger Located @ Univer
352-338-9288 Full Bar Available 13th @ the HolidEy Ave.
sity SC
y Inn
TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
AROUND GAINESVILLE
Taco Bell joins national shift toward healthier eating
By NERI STEIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Some resolutions this year
might come with a side of salsa.
As many people made New
Year's resolutions, Taco Bell in-
troduced its new Drive-Thru Diet,
which includes seven new menu
items each with nine grams of fat
or less and no more than 340 calo-
ries.
Taco Bell's new diet also comes
with its own spokeswoman, Chris-
tine Dougherty -reminiscent ofSubway's Jared Fogle -as it joins
the ranks of other fast food chains
that aim to help customers lose
weight by eating their food.
Dougherty, who lost 54 pounds
by joining Taco Bell's Frescolution
by ordering items from the restau-
rant's Fresco menu, aims to align
the "fourth meal" restaurant with
the health-conscious market.
The new diet items have a layer
of fiesta salsa in place of cheese
usually found on any item at Taco
Bell.
On its Web site, Taco Bell lists"We already get lots of or-
ders with no dairy and add
salsa. You can do it with
anything on the menu."
Cassie Tillman
assistant manager at the Reitz
Union Taco Bell
a disclaimer, informing potential
dieters the new Drive-Thru Diet
actually isn't a diet at all.
Dougherty is quoted as say-
ing her results aren't typical. Shealludes to making other sensible
choices aside from the Drive-Thru
Diet, but she fails to mention what
those other choices are.
At least one Taco Bell, the Reitz
Union location, isn't participating
in the Frescolution.
Cassie Tillman, assistant man-
ager at the Reitz' Taco Bell, said
the fiesta salsa has been available
for at least a year now, but she isn't
sure if people like it for dietary rea-
sons or personal preference.
Tillman said the new Drive-
Thru Diet menu won't make itsway to campus because it's essen-
tially already here.
"We already get lots of orders
with no dairy and add salsa,"
Tillman said. "You can do it with
anything on the menu."
Tillman also added the new
diet probably wouldn't have much
of an effect at UF's location, saying
another Dougherty isn't likely to
pop up at a college.
"It depends on the students,
and if they want to eat healthy,"
she said.
UF senior wins scholarship to study at UK university
He plans to pursue a Ph.D. in biochemistry
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
Steven Robinette was working in a labo-
ratory in mid-November when he received
the e-mail.
The UF senior found out he was one of
35 students across the country and the first
from UF to receive the Marshall Scholar-
ship.
"I just couldn't believe it," he said.
The scholarship, created by the U.K. gov-
ernment after the implementation of the
Marshall Plan in 1953, will enable Robinetteto study for at least two years at Imperial
College London as he pursues a Ph.D. in
biochemistry.
Robinette said he has been looking into
scholarships like the Marshall Scholarship
since he got the information during the UF
preview orientation.
"I've known for forever that I wanted to
go live in Britain for at least a little while,"
he said.
The scholarship recipients got to choose
in which school in the U.K. they wanted to
study.
Robinette spent his junior year studyingat Imperial College London as a Barry M.
Goldwater scholar and said he is excited to
return.
"It makes it less intimi-
dating," he said.
Robinette, who will
graduate with a bachelor's
degree in biochemistry and
molecular biology in April,
said he will enter as a mas-
Robinette term's student but wants to
get funding to stay for a
third year to get his Ph.D.
He said the application process was pret-ty standard, including an online application,
an interview and four letters of recommen-
dation.
He said UF biomedical engineering pro-
fessor Art Edison, who has been working
and doing research with Robinette since
Robinette was a freshman, was one of the
people who inspired him the most through-
out the course of his studies.
Edison said Robinette is a very hardwork-
ing and deserving student. He said he is a
perfect example of how an undergraduate
student can take advantage of the research
opportunities at UF.
"He's going to go on to be a very well-
known, well-regarded scientist," Edison
said.
When you need it!
BUY CUP ORCONE
GET FREE!
*REGULAR SIZE ONLY TOPPINGS EXTRA
ONE PER CUSTOMER PER OFFER
EXPIRES 1/31/10 WITH COPY OF AD
Low Calorie; Low Fat
Avoid the Freshman 15!
Shoppes of Williston Rd. Marketplace Plaza
5218 SW 34th Street 4216 NW 16th Blvd
378-2969 375-4484
(Next to Publix) (Next to Hollywood Video)
Check which of our 115 flavors we're running today at www.gatordlites com
6, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 5,2010
Blacklisted
U.S. right to focus
security effortsR residents of troubled nations like Afghanistan, Somalia
and Iraq face daily struggles that can sometimes mean
ife or limb. So it would stand to reason that an extra
pat down at the airport would seem inconsequential, even
trivial, to someone with such an intimate knowledge of what
real hassles are.
But a recent push by the U.S. for tighter security on inter-
national flights -essentially an extra pat down and carry-
on bag search -has drawn harsh criticism.
On Monday, these measures were put in place in re-
sponse to a Nigerian man's attempt to ignite explosives on
a Detroit-bound flight. According to the Associated Press,
14 countries were named in the new guidelines, including
official state sponsors of terror such as Iran, Cuba, Sudan
and Syria.
While the security risk posed by those few flights origi-
nating in Cuba is essentially zero, passengers from the
other countries named may represent a legitimate threat to
the U.S. These include Yemen, Libya, Nigeria and Lebanon;
major acts of terrorism have been carried out or attempted
by individuals from these countries in the recent past.
Critics raise the point that the attack that brought on this
increased security originated in Amsterdam. It is true that
any flight, regardless of its origin, could be a target.
But the choice to focus limited resources on those coun-
tries that pose the highest risk is wise, especially given the
relatively poor security measures previously in place in
these countries.
Given this narrow focus, the Nigerian Information Min-
ister Dora Akunyili said Monday that these guidelines are
discriminatory. Parallels are drawn to racial profiling, a
subject with which U.S. security agencies, as well as the
Transportation Security Administration in particular, have
had a troubled past.
But the measures affect all passengers from those coun-
tries listed, regardless of race or ethnicity. Further, accord-
ing to NPR, terrorist organizations like al-Qaida are broad-
ening their recruiting efforts to individuals not fitting "the
profile" -adolescent males of Middle Eastern descent. As
the number of would-be terrorists who don't fit this profile
grows, racial-profiling (whether it's moral or not) will be
increasingly ineffective. This only furthers the need to focus
on those countries where terrorist attacks are most likely to
originate.
It is unfortunate that any group or nationality must be
singled out for enhanced security. This profiling is antago-
nistic and may even contribute to perceptions of America as
closed-minded or even prejudiced.
But when there are limited resources to accomplish such
a daunting task as preventing terrorist attacks, an addition-
al pat down or inspection is reasonable.
By focusing its efforts, the TSA is not assessing undue
blame on these countries but rather fulfilling its obligation
to the American people by pointing its flashlight (hopefully
not just a metaphorical flashlight) where it's most likely to
produce results.
The burden is now on the Obama administration to build
goodwill with the international community in spite of these
increased security measures. Hopefully as anti-America
sentiments decrease, so too will the need for such profil-
ing.
l the independent florida
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORSWill Olsen
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must includethe
author's name, classification and phone number Names wiii be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University Aye , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigato r.org/opinions
I o - jbJ
NAA
-~ % c N ~ Vd& zo. L4 V\O'J Vill, I
nuv od o on ow \kt Y\O
Hp ns 0e2.
Help wanted: Desperately seeking. you
t's that time again.
While students all over Gainesville are focused on
gathering textbooks and mapping their class routes to
pass Starbucks, we at the Alligator are pulling out our hair
and scrambling for staff.
Yes, we knew it was coming. Yes, we probably should
have started our search earlier. But the fact is that we are des-
perately seeking students for every position imaginable. So
come on over and bring your friends, neighbors, chinchilla or
anyone else who's interested to our open house Friday from
2 p.m. to 5 p.m. at 1105 W University Ave. -the old vine-
covered building next to Karma Cream.
But Friday is a long time away -four more issues of the
Alligator -so if you're really excited, you can send resumes
and samples to apply@alligator.org and start writing (or
photographing, or cartooning, or doing handstands for our
entertainment) immediately.
We have openings for an opinions editor, photographers,
videographers, columnists, news writers, the Avenue writ-
ers, cartoonists, sports writers, graphic artists, copy editors,
anyone who knows anything about Web sites, anyone who
knows anything about anything, and anyone who knows
nothing about anything. (Well, maybe not so much of the
last one.)
That's where you come in.
Whether your major is journalism, economics, political
science, ballet or wearing lots of orange and blue, we want
you to apply.
In fact, a certain opinions editor who is abandoning us for
a fancy Washington, D.C., internship is an economics major.
If he can write editorials, anyone can.
If you want to write news stories, we ask that you can
form a sentence and be objective. If you want to be opinions
editor or write for the opinions section, we ask that you be
super opinionated and willing to keep up with what's going
on locally and/or nationally. If you want to do anything vi-
sual, we ask that you. have eyes. See? We're very flexible.As cheesy as it sounds, we really do
want to represent the Student Body,
-., and the best way we can do that is to
pull our staff from all spectra of. well,
o r e the Student Body.
Emily Fuggetta However, this job is not for the
faint of heart. It requires work and
and Chelsea dedication. We should also mention
Keenan that you'll spend most of your humble
Editorial Notebook paycheck on coffee and food from the
letters@alligator org restaurants within walking distance of
our office.
It's true -we work five days a
week and hardly get any sleep (there's a big, comfy couch in
the office), but we have fun. We decorate the office when it's
our co-workers birthdays, we make brownies, watch bad TV
shows and eat a lot of Mexican food.
If that's not tempting, consider how great a job at the larg-
est student-run paper in the U.S. will look on your resume.
We're also ranked eighth in the nation, in case you were
wondering.
We offer a competitive salary, and your paycheck will ex-
ceed the wages of a stay-at-home mom, a migrant farmer and
a soup kitchen volunteer.
Still not convinced?
Consider this: We aren't above paying you in hugs and
baked goods in addition to that big, fat paycheck.
Seriously though, we need you.
So if you're confident, imagine 35,000 people reading your
work every day. And if not, rest assured that most people
only skim, anyway. Either way, you'll be entertained by the
crazies who call, e-mail, and, yes, even actually send letters
about how outrageous and horrible we are.
So send us an e-mail now while you ride the bus to your
next class (we know you all have smart phones).
Chelsea Keenan is the editor in chief and Emily Fuggetta is the
managing editor/print of the Independent Florida Alligator.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Are you cold? Previous question: Will you miss 49% YES
us? 51% NO
559 TOTAL VOTES
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 7
Letter to the Editor tive is bankruptcy. The uncontrollable,
The real problem with health care in horrible greed of the entire American
America: American doctors are exhibit- medical system must be controlled.
ing astronomical, unjustified, uncontrol- Health care for all: great.
lable greed. But at astronomical, unjustified, un-
The solution: The government should controllable prices for Americans: god-
fix health care prices. less! Kenneth ManessIf we do not control their godless Kenet M a
greed, doctors who have bankrupted Davenport, /owa
us as individuals in the past will now Editors' note: This letter was submitted
bankrupt us as a society. Price-fixing via mass e-mail and appeared in other publi-
measures must come soon; the alterna- nations nationwide.
C op righted Material
-Syndicated Content.
-Available from Commercial News ProvidersV,1 I
WE PF+9VER
ja d.~biez
SUN-WED 11AM-3AM 672-6 WI
THURS, FRI & SAT EE E
I EAm-4AM NEXT TO SWEETBAY
WWW.JDOOBIES.COM 34TH ST. PLAZA0
a-4
First United Methodist
Church
Sunday Worship at 8:25 am and 10:55 am
Sunday School at 9:45 am
Wednesday evening program held at 5:30 pm
419 NE 1st St.
372-8523
www.fumcgnv.orgSmile.
W17
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have vaid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
WireLess Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
A Biotest
From Nature for Lfe
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431GT MotorcaPs
Specializing in Collision repairs on all makes
Mention this ad and receive student discount
33 SE 13th Road www.GT-motorcars.com 371-0215
I4
8, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 5,2010
Saints rising: a journey into the lives of missionaries
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
Editors' note: Every year, more than
52,000 Mormon missionaries descend
upon the world. This is a four-part series
that follows two such messengers.
God, Guns and Glory
When you're staring down the barrel of
a 12-gauge shotgun, the Promised Land can
either look very hazy or pretty close -de-
pending on your outlook on life.
The only thing standing between James
Tate and a round of angry shells tearing
through his anatomy was his Book of Mor-
mon and a belief that there was a God and
that He had made him fast -real fast.
"We got to go," insisted a hushed voice,
carrying traces of urgency.
As Tate firmly jerked at the passenger'sside handle to the 2006 red Toyota Corolla
that would take him away from the madness,
he couldn't help but give way to a sweeping
tide of sadness. Behind the pitch-black dark-
ness that blanketed pine trees and mobile
homes lived a soul -a thriving, beautiful
soul that wanted to reach out for something
more.
Salvation would have to wait.
As he sat back against the cold leather
car seat, a mist of sweat seeping through his
short brown hair, his eyes peered through the
window and stole a glance at the hollering
bald-headed figure adorned in a ragged shirt
and cutoff jeans. Before his mind could wrap
around what had just happened, the ignition
roared to life, announcing retreat.
When he had submitted his name to be-
come a missionary for the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, Tate understood
that his work would require a lot of faith
and discipline to make it through the roughpatches. Nobody had ever told him, how-
ever, that he would need a bulletproof vest
to defend himself against shotgun-wielding,
testosterone-infused, redneck ex-boyfriends
of baptism candidates.
He had already had a long day, helping a
local Mormon ward construct the set for its
play while getting his daily
National dosage of slammed doors and
News adamant refusals. But he for-
got about those things when
he flipped open his rumbling cell phone,
which would summon him into the night.
For Tate and other missionaries, the call
doesn't end-it only gets louder.
Summoned Forth
It came on April 8, 2009. Bound in a thick
manila envelope, it took nearly all the space
within the mail box, shoving the bills and
coupon lists aside.
What laid inside was enough to bringTate's stomach to an abrupt standstill. He
knew it was coming. He had been waiting for
this package since he was 10, saving up the
money he made through household chores
and part-time jobs in anticipation.
Inside were papers that would tell him
where he would spend the next two years. As
he called his parents to tell them the news, his
mind flashed with possibilities pertaining to
where he would be going. Missionary papers
are like a cruel game of global roulette; they
could order you to any part of the world that
they saw fit. Tate could end up a few hours
away from his hometown of Mesa, Ariz., or
he could be sent to the jungles of Uruguay,
like his older brother, Zach.
"Oh man, I'm terrible with languages, and
I've got a soft stomach," said Tate, whose
brother had to eat sheep stomach soup while
on his mission. "I was not about to have
that."
MgIUFUW atd111111 / M111gatUF
Tobin and Jill Wagstaff stand in front of their home during a press conference with their children
Dallas, Rudy, Jolene and Tobia. Their home was torn down and rebuilt for ABC's Extreme Makeover
Home Edition last month.
$28$ 11OWNTOW,,
15 W. University Ave. (352) 373-4841
IH M ~ F -9 -, ~ 6 pm
www.DTBarbershop.com
I. .SPEND YOUR
HOLIDAY CASH AT
FREERIDE
:SIJRF & SKATE!Y~tw
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
L_.__.42ONW13VfTJT IL1
TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 9
Students shape
and mold for class
0 THIRTY STUDENTS ARE
IN THE PROGRAM.
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
In an era of instant com-
munication ruled by texting
and e-mails, Chandra DeBuse
molds her artistic message
with something more perma-
nent- clay.
DeBuse, a master's student
in the UF Ceramics program,
is a potter who focuses on
creating functional vessels for
tableware, such as mugs, cups
and bowls.
She is one of 10 graduate
students and one of about 30
total students in UF's Ceram-
ics program.
Students in the program
work with clay to create figure
sculptures and sculptural ob-
jects.
UF ceramics professor Lin-
da Arbuckle said one of the
great things about the program
is that it offers no limit to the
creations students can make
with clay.
"I think the idea of makingsomething permanent from a
permeable object is pretty ex-
citing," Arbuckle said.
Students interested in re-
ceiving a degree in ceramics
have to apply to get into the
program as juniors, but the UF
School of Art and Art History
offers an introductory level ce-
ramics class for nonmajor stu-
dents.
Arbuckle said students from
a variety of majors and special-
izations, including architecture
and pre-dental students, take
the introductory course.
However, students inter-
ested in getting a degree in
ceramics can use the program
as a networking opportunity
and a chance to meet visiting
artists.
DeBuse said the ceram-
ics program has developed a
strong sense of community
When someone makes a
life-size sculpture, they need
help lifting it into the kiln, and
their classmates are there to as-
sist them.
"The nature of working in
clay is that you are part of a
community," DeBuse said.Subway, Jamba Juice
headed to
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students will soon be able to
savor subs and smoothies alongside
their stash of Turlington fliers.
A new building housing Sub-
way and Jamba Juice will be built on
the southwest corner of Turlington
Hall, near where the UF Informa-
tion Booth is located, wrote Lionel
Dubay, the director of the UF Busi-
ness Services Division, in an e-mail.
Dubay said the project's con-
tractor has begun clearing the area
where the new building will stand
in preparation for construction.
The construction will be complet-
ed around May.
He said the Business Services
Division and Aramark, the campus
food service contractor, will pay for
the project, which will cost about
$1.5 million.
"We are very optimistic that this
new food service facility will pro-
vide added food service options and
convenience to our students, faculty
and staff," Dubay wrote.
Dubay said the UF InformationTurlington
Booth, run by Alpha Phi Omega na-
tional service fraternity, will remain
standing and open during construc-
tion but will be demolished once the
new facility is open.
A new booth connected to the
building with the restaurants will re-
place the old UF Information Booth,
Dubay said.
Dubay said demolishing the old
booth will help minimize some of the
congestion near Turlington Plaza, an
area filled with traffic
On that will keep Subway
CampUS and Jamba Juice busy.
Ben Meyers, a UF
sophomore and a member of the
Food Service Advisory Committee
that helped approve the project, said
the new restaurants will be designed
as more accessible eating options for
students on the go.
Rather than running into the Re-
itz Union Food Court or the Hub
and waiting in line, students can
grab food on their way to class or as
they step off the bus, he said.
"I think it's really in the center of
campus for most undergrads, and it
really serves them a lot better," Mey-
ers said.
WE
WANT
"A DIFFERENT WORLD CANNOT BE BUILT BY INDIFFERENT PEOPLE."
(HORACE MANN)
OCL in partnership with Santa Fe College, UPD, and GPD, presents
the Community Advocate Program. Join Community Advocates to:
www.offcampus.ufl.eduApplications are online at www.offcampus.ufl.edu and due no
later than 5:00PM on Friday, January 15, 2010. OCL
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDAD
a
10, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 5,2010
STATE
Fewer migrants flock to Florida
By ANDREW NORRIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Florida is known as a destination for snowbirds,
but new data released by the U.S. Census Bureau
hints at a new trend.
The data shows Florida has seen a decline in the
number of people who migrate to the state from oth-
er states.
In 2005, Florida had an influx of more than 250,000
domestic migrants and was considered a fast-grow-
ing state during a mid-decade population boom.
However, the state has recently been suffering
losses in domestic migration, losing 9,000 Florida
residents in 2008 and 31,000 in 2009 due to out-mi-
gration.
Ken Johnson, a sociology professor and a senior
demographer at the University of New Hampshire
Carsey Institute, published an article in which he
notes the recession as a major contributing factor in
Florida's migratory hang-ups.
"The slowdown means the fast-growing states
aren't getting people and the slow-growing states
that send migrants to places like Florida are losing
less," Johnson said.
He said there are two main groups of migrants
moving to Florida: older, retirement-aged migrants
who are often affluent and younger migrants who
have the potential to have children.
But the overall population in Florida still contin-ues to grow, Johnson said.
He said the growth is due to migration from other
countries as well as the population's natural increase
rate.
Johnson's article notes that the natural increase
rate, the amount of births in relation to deaths, will
now play a more important part in maintaining pop-
ulation size.
Stan Smith, a professor in the UF economics de-
partment and director of the Bureau
of Economic and Business Research,
said the decline in migration result-
ing from the recession is in turn pro-
longing the economic downturn.
"Florida usually is a national
leader in adding jobs but has lost
Smith more than 800,000 jobs in the past
two years," Smith said. "People
moving to Florida to look for jobs are leaving or just
not coming in the first place."
Smith said Gainesville has been at least partially
spared due to UF's presence as well as Gainesville's
large medical community and amount of government
jobs.
However, Smith said some people view a decline
in migration and population as a positive thing.
"It puts less pressure on the environment," Smith
said. "A decline means a slower increase in the need
for new roads and new schools and less of a loss of
green space or agricultural lands."
Store will likely close by March
GOERINGS, from page 1
have experienced rough financial patch-
es, they have enjoyed the backing of
publishers, according to Rider.
The same backing wasn't extended to
Goerings, Rider said.
"(The otherbookstores) were deemed
too big to fail," he said. "They got anoth-
er Christmas."
The store was originally located at
University Avenue and 13th Street,
where it was briefly a Little Professor
Book Center franchise owned and oper-
ated by Harvey and Viola Goering.
Originally, Goerings had two sepa-
rate operations: one for textbooks, an-
other for trade store operations.
However, the trade store folded due
to mounting pressure from competing
bookstores, and the store merged both
operations into its current location be-
hind St. Augustine's Catholic Church.
The store announced roughly six
weeks ago they would not be providing
textbooks for the upcoming semester.
"There are a lot of folks who preferred
us because we were less expensive andmore dependable than the other book-
stores," Rider said.
The store's lasting legacy, Rider said,
will be the number of years the store has
remained open and its ability to pro-
vide an important literary niche for the
Gainesville community.
"At this point in time,
Gainesville just isn't
friendly to bookstores. It's
disappointing."
Thomas Rider
co-owner of Goerings
"If you add up all the years that we
(book-sellers and past and present staff)
have worked, you're looking at 280
years of book-selling; that's a lot of expe-
rience," Rider said. "New student bodies
will come and go, and fewer of them will
remember us. It will take longer for the
townspeople to forget us."
The store will likely close by March
1, although no official date has been set,
Rider said. There are no plans to open a
new store at a different location.Denise Krigbaum, 43, and 17-month-old Clara Krigbaum browse through books in the children's
section at Goerings Book Store on Monday afternoon.
IT'S FINALLY HERE!UF also fined for
lesser offenses
POLLUTION, from page 1
Sikes said UF committed no intentional wrongdo-
ing.
"The EPA regulations are very technical and UF had
a different interpretation than the EPA of what the regu-
lation required," she said.
ZEP Formula 768, the solution in which the tetrachlo-
roethylene originated, was used to clean lawn equip-
ment on a concrete slab outside a maintenance build-
ing.
On Sikes said UF stopped using the solvent
Campus almost immediately upon learning that
EPA had a concern.
Based on testing around the site, Sikes
said UF believes the impact of the tetrachloroethylene is
limited to the area around the concrete slab next to the
maintenance building.
Because the EPA expressed concern solely for the
groundwater and soil contamination, UF has not
checked into the health of the maintenance workers who
used the product.
UF was also fined for lesser offenses, such as not
properly labeling containers of mineral spirits and bat-
teries.
o Me W1
TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 11
Las Vegas federal building shooting leaves 2 dead
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
I,,- t' n,,,_o 
.I
I
Broken part in heating system leaves campus chilly
Students are advised to wear a light jacket to class
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Writer
Students looking for sanctuary from the
chilly weather on campus might find that
some buildings are not exactly warm and
cozy.
UF's primary heating system stopped
working several weeks ago due to a bro-
ken part in the turbine engine that keepsthe system going, according to an e-mail
sent out Monday night by Ed Poppell, UF
vice president for business affairs.
The jet engine had to be shipped back
to its manufacturer, General Electric Co.,
to be repaired.
UF spokesman Steve Orlando said the
unit was back on campus as of Monday
and undergoing tests.
"They are hoping to have everythingup and running by Wednesday," he said.
In the meantime, the university has
been using a back-up steam system that
produces less heat than the jet
On turbine.
CampuS Though classroom build-
ings, offices and dorms are
chillier than usual, the heat currently be-
ing produced is going to those who need
it most.
I CLAIM YOUR FUTURE AT SAINT LEO UNIVERSE
" Conveniently Located at SFC
* Online
* Small Class Sizes
.Financial Aid Programs i
STINT LEO
U N I V E R S I T Y
What you need for where you're going.
Founded in 1889owl"The priority is given to the Health Sci-
ence Center and Shands," Orlando said.
"We make sure they get enough steam and
heat, and the rest of campus comes next."
He noted that the parts of campus far-
thest away from UF's Progress Energy co-
generation plant will probably have the
least heat.
This includes the northeast corner of
campus and Orlando's office.
"My office was a little chilly today," he
said.
TY Central Florida
-mTottice
Art & drafting -Picture Framing:
Printing. Copy Center
Office Supplies *Furniture
10% OFF
Art & Office Supplies. Valid
only with coupon. Offer
excludes furniture, drawing
boards, sale items, and prepared
art packages. See store for
details. Offer expires
01-31-2010
"MAKE CFOP YOUR
FIRST CHOICE!"
10 NW 6th Street -Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-2577 -800-330-2367
wwwcfopbizI D k I
F0~ I L
12, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 5,2010
n '~ n
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
I3elLy Darnce
Zumba & Aerobics
Hula Hooping
www.ethnicdanceexpressions.com
352-384-9200
SEYEEXAMS
I~~7NW 1thSt.
L 'JN Pb
Near Publix
EVECARE
I EXPRESS
(352)375-6133
I
.37 l 6 B fo U C.338.7467 Only 6 Blocks from UF Campus!TAKEOUT OR DELIVERY?
GATORFOO.CM FOR DELIVERY.
LOOK DO MEA FAVOR. PLEASE124 W versf Ave
YOU NEVER CALL.
YO EVER FAX.
WHT IM UP WITH
Sun-Wed 6am-10pm
T hurs-sat 6am-3am
jareadast,
Sed Nit ll
Now Open in Midtown!
1124 W University Ave
OVER 31 Different Sandwiches
to Choose From!
~1
$ $ Clip & Save with Alligator coupons! $ $352-Al
L_ --------------_j
TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 13
UA %1r(wuih feque'%t%
we~~ rma'd f'.(tiofl%
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News'Providers
Flor ida emer genc management director resign%
Get Ready, Get Connected & Get Involved:
Career Showcase
January 19 & 20, 2010 1 9am -3pm I O'Connell Center
Day One
(Non-Technical)
Accounting, communications, health care,
human services, retail, etc.
Day Two
(Technical)
Computer science, construction, engineering,
information systems, scientific research, etc.
www.crc.ufl.edu/showcase JO
Career showcase is for UF students and alumni only
U Career Resource center
UFUNIVERSITY of FLORIDAGET READY
" SHOWCASE SUMMIT
Jan. 11
1 -4 pm, RU 361 -363
-EXTREME RESUME MAKEOVER
Jan. 11 -15
10 am -3 pm, RU 282
-CAREER SHOWCASE ESSENTIALS
Jan. 14
3:30 -5 pm, CRC
-EMPLOYER MOCK INTERVIEWS
Jan. 25
10 am -4 pm, CRC
GET CONNECTED
-Create a Gator CareerLink account
www.crc.ufl.edu/gatorcareerlink
GET INVOLVED
" Join the Career Showcase
Student Planning Committee
* Be A Host at Career ShowcaseALTERNATORS STARERS BATTERIESO
O FFjY REPAIR OR SERVICE:
318-4440
@9 HANDE-
Pam Carpenter
Alachua County Supervisor of Elections
www.VoteAlachua.com
(352) 374-5252
14, ALLIGATOR TUESDAY, JANUARY 5,2010 TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2010
IV
K
AA
for cold weather has I
welcome to another
your classrooms and
let us give you a qu
we've been working o
With a budget
bring useful service
This past semester
these already help
experience at UF
performers like I
director Brett Ratn
planned! Along wi111 A
I -, 7;
-
W~Aof
YOF
-GOILTUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 15
16, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 5,2010
Letters cause Anthrax scare2010 C I to
r'w I udke lr'4d i tfxu
Copyrighted Material
Sy ndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
do ., on 9t Am
PC or Mac Problems. 0 0Free dca4gnoc
1015 W. University Ave. n4p-0Mnd -Trda
2nd Floor GrI rn pcasto
Happy Hour Bring in this ad and
Every Day 4 -7 p.m. -r A F- E r* nf
$1.50 Domestic Pints Edamame or 10% off
$2.00 Margaritas with any purchase$2.00 Daiquiris
2 for 1 Wells/Wine/Sm. Sake Dine in only
$1 Off Calls/Premium Expires 1/31/09
On Archer Rd., east of 34th St. (next to Bennigan's)
tel: 352-872-5888jcking off 2010 with.
M-W-F
$2 Domestic Pints
1/2 price pool specials
every day of the week
Saturday, January 16
Open 9-ball tournament
Other new and exciting drink specials throughout the week.
Call or visit our website.The 7 undisclosed,
unwelcome surprises
from cigarettes.
Come join us for a
"Quit Smoking Seminar"
January 13, 2010
6:00 -9:00 PM
Paul J. Schilling, M.D.
Radiation Oncologist,
William Irving, and Alexandra
Livingston, Registered Nurse
Oncology Certified
At the American Cancer
Society's Winn Dixie Hope Lodge,
2121 SW 16th St. Gainesville, FL
For SEATING Reservations,
Directions, please contact
Alexandra Livingston,
Registered Nurse a
(352) 377-1027
TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 17
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersI I 1 # I ,,I
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tannin*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
$399 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
24hr Fitness Center * 2 Pools
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-i
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$250/MO
Fully Furnished Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, Campus Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $800/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432
1-5-09-40-1
Crnssmeu
Tradition of Student Living
Fully furnished student suites
Starting @ $399 all inclusive
3700 SW 27th St 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.Com
4-21-09-71-1
Will Consider Semester Lease! Oxford
Terrace-short walk to UF. Private room/bath
in 4/4, clean and ready to move-in. Includes
furnishings, utilities, wi-fi, cable and W/D. M
or F okay, No smoking or pets.
beweiss59@hotmail.com or 321-228-3379
1-6-09-10-1Female wanted for 4/4 condo. Furn room
w/ private bath Clean, bus rte pool workout
room. Inc utilities cable internet wash/dry
$450/mth for spr sem $300 sec dep Jeff 904-
612-3944 or weeks63@comcast.net 1-20-
09-20-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
Scholars' haven in modern, elegant house
in woods 1 mi no of UF. Share w/ 1 woman
grad student. On busline. $400 + util. Jan 1+
mardavis03@yahoo.com 1-8-10-5-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA with indiv leases. $400/mo incl ca-
ble, internet & utils. Available Jan 1st, 2010.
Also avail summer& fall 2010. 239-250-6149
1-5-10-2-1
$522/2br in a 2-2. SHORT TERM LEASE!!!
JANUARY TO JULY 201 OAT THE ESTATES.
FULLY FURNISHED, UTILS INCLUDED!
SW 20th Avenue, APT #1026A.
PLEASE CALL 205-834-5852 ASAP!!!
1-12-10-7-1
Rooms available in 4 bed 4 bath apt for
Spring move-in. Furnished or unfurnished.
Starting at $399/ month. Cable, internet, tile
floor, 24 hour amenities. Waived app fee.
(352) 380-9899 universityclubapts.com 1-8-
10-5-1
Beautiful 3/3, close to schooldir. on bus!
Brand new appl, paint, bedding, remdld
bthrms, Frnt bldng, upstrs.
bdduf86@comcast.net
1-25-10-14-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 4-21-09-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
$99 MOVES YOU IN!
1 brs from $539
2brs from $599
3brs from $750
Wtr incl.*Pet Friendly*Spacious
1 mile from UF*Shands*Downtown
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
Limited Availability-Downtown Apartments
Studios-$599*One Bedrooms*$699
Two Bedrooms-$859*Three Bedrooms-$1299
Move in NOW or Fall 2010
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
4-21-09-71-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR/1 BR $465 * 2BR/1 BA $569
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now or Fall 2010.
2 & 3 Bedroom Townhomes.
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
A SPECIAL PLACE TO CALL HOME
1 BR from $585
2 BIR from $625
3 BIR from $755
Tanning*Fitness*Tennis*Pool*Playground
Washer/Dryer*Fireplaces*Pools
Call us for a tour 376-2507
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
1, 2, 3's! madisonpointe.org
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
4-21-71-2POLOS
Three Bus Routes (9,34,35,36)!
1.5m to UF, Shand's, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$799 3/3-$979
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75 SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 4-21-
71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Avewww.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
0*SPYGLASS*0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$465, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
4-21-09-71-2
BRAND NEW REDUCED RATES!
1's, 2's, 3's
Inclusive Pkgs Available
* Pet Friendly!
Immediate or Fall Move In
352-374-3866
4-21-09-71-2Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
NOW LEASING FOR FALL 2010
Utility Packages Available
*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $775/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
1-5-09-92-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Pine Rush Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1 bdr. from $459 2bdr. from $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-25-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Homestead Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
2/1 from $629 2/2 from $749
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-25-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Sunrise Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1bdr from $469 No rent until Jan,
NO APP FEE. Near UF, Schands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-25-2
TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
For Rent For Rent For Rent VFor Rent
u e u u Subleases O F nfurnishe~d j unfurnished ]a l unfurnished unfurnished ] l
WALK & BIKE TO UF
1 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$620 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St.
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <50bs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 1-6-
09-44-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 1-8-09-
43-2
Working at Shands or VA- nice 2/1 @ Summit
House across the street. $700/mo + $200
dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 1-29-47-2
WWW.BIKETOUF.COM
1 BR from $575
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $745
Tanning*Fitness*Tenn isPool
Was her/D ryer* ets Welcome!
Call us for a tour! 377-7401
4-21-09-71-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Totally Renovated 1 bdr. from $599
1 MONTH FREE! Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-92-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Ashton Square Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
2 & 3 bdrs from $709
1 MONTH FREE! Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-92-2
1 Block to UF! GREAT LOCATIONS
1 BR and 2BR Apts. See our list at
www.merrillmanagement.net
or call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 1-5-09-22-2
3BR 1.5 BA with family Room
Tile Floors, Laundry Room,
Central H & Air, Carport
319 NW 16th Avenue
$800/Mo. Call Merrill Management
Inc 352-372-1494 1-5-09-22-2
1BR 1BA, Grad II Apts
1Blk to UF! Central H & Air,
Carpet, Laundry Fac. On site,
IncIds Wtr, Swg, Pst Cntrl &
Garbage. $500/Mo. 1236 SW
4th Avenue. Call Merrill
Management Inc 352-372-1494 1-5-09-22-2
1 BR 1 BA Apt, Central H & Air
2 Blks to UF, Carpet, xtra room
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue $500/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 1-5-09-22-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 1-5-09-22-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $500/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 1-5-09-22-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst control and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 1-5-09-22-2* 3BR/1BA HOUSE
819 NW 10th Ave $850/mo
* 2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE
7209 SW 45th Pl. $600/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114
18-21-5-09-
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 1-29-09-35-2
Custom 2BR/1BA in pvt 4 Unit compix. Tiled
fir in Liv rm, Carpet in BRs w/ceiling fans. All
new BA. New Kit w/stainless appl, W/D, Cent
H/A, i-net/cable avail. Mgr pays water, pest
contrl, lawn main, security lites. Near bus rte.
Sorry no pets $635/mo Call 727-423-9463
SAlso avail: Fully furn 2BR/1BA $735/mo.
1-19-09-23-2
$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1.5 Bath
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands
on bus route. W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500
security, $550/month. 2640 SW 31st Place
Unit B. 562-2782 or 514-6869 if interested.
1-6-14-2
WALK/BIKE TO UF/SHANDS! Campus Edge
1 BR/1 bath, washer/dryer, stove,dishwasher,
pool,gym,no pets,$550/m,2360 SW Archer
Rd.561-313-1549 Owner agent 1-11-09-
15-2
MOVE IN JAN. Room in 4b/3b house share
bath. Easy walk to campus. No pets. No
Smoking. 500/mon incl. util. 250/sec dep.
kmtheo@hotmail.com or 352-262-2710/514-
4570 1-5-09-10-2
LARGE 1BR HOUSE
Urban loft design -fully remodeled. Very
nice. Backyard, trees, downtown, big city
cracker. 316-6667. $670/mo. Available now.
1-5-09-10-2
STEPS TO LAW SCHOOL
* Large 1 BR/1 BA $475/mo
* 1BR in 4BR/2BA house $350/mo
Clean, quiet, split utils. W/D. Call Tom 954-
529-4031, www.pleasantstreet.net (for pics)
1-6-09-10-2
Nice 2 BR near UF, restaurants and shop-
ping. Large utility room with WD Connections,
Dishwasher, Additional private storage, Pool.
$620 per month. (352)870-5815/(352)333-
7721 1-5-10-2
$99 Moves-U-IN! $299 + 75 utility package.
Downtown Vintage room, or 34th st condo
room w/private bath & walk-in closet. 352-
226-3535, 713-705-6279 1-7-09-10-2
3/1 Vintage House! $900/month Walk to UF!
Porch, w/d hook-ups, central AC 352-226-
3535, 713-705-6279 517 NW 8th St 1-7-
09-10-2
4 Bed/2 bath Vintage House $990/month.
Walk to UF! Univ/by Leo706. 818 SW 3rd
Ave. Central A/C, porch, w/d, and close to
downtown too. 352-226-3535, 713-705-6279
1-7-09-10-2
Serene Living at Magnolia Manor Apts
All 2BR/2BA units. W/D, mirrored wall, sky-
light, alarm. Starting at $640. Model open
daily. Call Maribeth 352-317-8150 12-09-
6-2
2BR/2BA Condo
1 Mile from Campus
Call 352-516-2545. Pets ok. 1-5-09-7-2
LARGE 2/2 PETS OK
Fenced in backyard, W/D hook-up, plus stor-
age, central heat & AC, Master bdrm has 3
closets, apt just painted, new carpet, new
frig. Now available, rent $650. Sec only $100
with reference. Call Mr. Kristoff 352-332-
5030 1-5-09-7-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.
one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceiling
fans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, secu-
rity. No dogs. 378-3704 sallygville@aol.com
1-5-09-7-2
DUCKPOND
2BR/1.5BA 1200 sq ft townhouse. Amazing
location. Tile floor, new countertops. Blocks
to downtown. Available now. $850/mo. 508
NE 4th Ave. 379-4952 1-5-09-7-2DUCKPOND
Stone cottage studio. Small but cute. Good
sized kitchen. Blocks to downtown, restau-
rants. Available now. $475/mo. 306 NE 6th
St. 379-4952 1-5-09-7-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home. Shady lot.
From $345-$375/mo. cI water. No pets.
Last month free. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887
1-5-09-6-2
BLOCKS TO UF
Available August 2010. Now showing
multiple houses. 2BR/2BA, 3BR/2BA,
4BR/3BA, 5BR/3BA. www.dalyproperties.
com or call Carol 359-3341 1-5-09-6-2
Beautiful &Affordable Townhouse w/fireplace
in SW Gville! Laminated wood downstairs &
carpet upstairs. 2BR/1.5BA near UF, Butler
Plaza, 1-75 & Oaks Mall. Short leases avail.
Great deal! Don't miss it. 352-262-2828
1-5-09-6-2
Move in Special: No Security Deposit
2/2 Condo with washer/dryer, screened-
in porch, newer condo, near UF. Shands,
located off 34th & Archer Rd. 2 units
available $750 per month. Call 317-5060
1-5-09-6-2
Move-In Now & Walk to UF
Dorm style $509 * Studio $720 * 1BR $675
2BR $338/br * Roommate Matching Avail
www.ForRentNearUF.com * 352-376-6223
4-21-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
$600/per mo. 2 br/2 baths. Close to U.F. & on
bus line. Amenities include clubhouse, exer-
cise room & 2 pools. Lots of upgrades, some
new apple; includes washer/dryer in unit. Non-
smokers only, U.F. student preferred. Call:
352-494-9724. 1-5-09-5-2
Affordable, clean NW 1br on busline,
near shops $ UF,& dwntwn
$495 mo, inclds some util.
see our webpage or call 375-7104
Edbaurmanagement.com 1-5-09-5-2
Cypress point-3/2
near Oaks Mall, hospital, & UF
$725 mo,
see our webpage special or call 375-7104
Edbaurmanagement.com 1-5-09-5-2
Treehouse Village-2/2, new carpet & vinyl
$595 mo.
See our webpage special or call 375-7104
Edbaurmanagement.com 1-5-09-5-2
Whispering Pines-2/2, two years new, w/d,
monitored alarms
$800 mo, see our rebate special or
call 375-7104
Edbaurmanagement.com 1-5-09-5-2
Monticello-NW 3/3.5, fresh paint, w/d, walk-
in closets
$1100 mo, call us at 375-7104
Edbaurmanagement.com 1-5-09-5-2
$900 / 2br -BRAND NEW CONDO. WALK
TO UF / SHANDS 2BR/2BA brand new
condo unit available now. Approx 1100 sq
ft. Campus View South Condos at 1185 SW
9th Road. W/D/parking incl. 352-337-1760.
1-5-10-4-2
2BR/2BA, kitchen, living room, loft, laun-
dry, patio, large 6 ft fenced backyard, small
pet allowed; excellent, clean; minutes to all
shops & UF. $800/mo. Call Hal at 653-281-
7414 or 800-248-7788 1-13-10-10-2
HOUSE avail Dec 15th. 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF bus
rte. Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo. Call
327-2931 or 376-6183 1-8-10-7-2
Baxter Cottage
2 blks to UF campus, 1013 SW 4 Ave
2BR/1BA, Bright, clean, completely remod-
eled, Cent AC/Ht,wood firs, DW, W/D, NS,
NPets. $650+util. ATucker458@aol.com
1-5-10-4-22BR/1 BA HOUSE
Wood floors, back porch, cent H/AC. 611 NW
34th Ave. Close to UF, SFC busline. Fenced
yard, W/D hook-up. Available now! $725/mo
352-318-8822 1-5-09-4-2
Two Blocks from UF Stadium
1 Person Studio Apartment
Available Jan. 1 352-377-2930 1-5-09-3-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 1-29-10-20-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 1-29-10-20-2
Luxury Student Condos Close To Campus
Includes internet and utilities
From $385 per month each.
Please call us for the details.
Bristol Park Realty (352) 367-2669
1-29-09-20-2
$355/Mo Newly Remodeled. Pvt BR/BA.
10 min to UF. On Bus Rte. W/D, Furn Com
Area, Secure WI-Fl, Pool & MORE! OPEN-
MINDED. 954-854-9445. UTGCondos.com
1-5-10-2-2
Luxury student condos close to calmus.
Includes interent & tuilities
From $385 per month each.
Please call us for the details.
Bristol park Realty 352-367-2669 1-29-10-
20-2
2BR/1 BA w/ small study near Shands. Large
screened room w/ W/D hook-ups. Available
now. $650/mo. Sec dep $650. Pets ok 3300
SW 23rd St. Apt #1. Call 352-371-3473 leave
message. 1-15-10-10-2-
Townhouse 2BR/1.5BA, WD hook-up. New
kitchen w/ private courtyard. $700/mo, Sec
dep $700. Pets ok. 4007 B SW 26th Terr.
Call 352-371-3473 leave message 1-15-
10-10-2
2/2.5 Beacon Hill Condo. 1400sgft built
in 2006. 1.5mi to Shands/UF. Jet tub in
Master bath with dual sinks. Balcony in 2nd
bedroom. pets ok. $800/mo. 352-256-0639
or gqgator07@yahoo.com
1-11-10-6-2
1BR/1BA apt for rent. Nice, tile floors, off
Tower Rd. $425/mo $300 dep. Call 352-356-
2563 or email snapjacksboss@yahoo.com
Section 8 accepted. 1-5-10-2-2
Historic Pettit House in dntwn Waldo. 1 bdrm
apt $575.00 (1st, last & security). front & back
porches, fenced yard. convenient to G'vlle &
Starke. Coffee cafe next door. Great for grad
student. 378-2141 lv. msg. 1-11-10-5-2
SWEET 2/1 POOL HOUSE
Prime location, 708 NW 10th Ave. incl all
Utils, W/D, beamed ceiling, swimming pool.
Avail 1st Jan. $440 + sec. Call Karl 332-5030
1-8-10-4-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Summer Place Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1bdr from $469 No rent until Jan,
NO APP FEE. Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
1-5-10-1-2
F subleass
Release Spring 2010, UClub Apts.
I'LL GIVE YOU $350 FOR THIS APT.
$555/mo. all inclusive; 1 bdrm.,
private bath; female roommate
email: cmm616@ufl.edu 1-5-09-10-3
OSOSIGNING BONUS!!@@@
Avail Jan 1st (or before) thru spring semes-
ter. Great Deal -Great Location. 2BR/2BA in
The Palms (originally $1250/mo) Downtown
Near Everything! Call 305-924-0955 1-5-
09-5-33 rooms Spring 2010 sublease, in 6 spacious
bdrm house. Awesome Location! 2 min. to
walk to campus, 5 min. walk to Sor. Row.
FREE Designated Parking Spot, wood firs. 2
kitchens, front porch & fire place
Call Ansley (772)216-5773 aplatts2@ufl.edu
1-6-5-3
FIRST MONTH FREE
1/1 in a 4/4 in Gainesville Place $399/mo all
inclusive -best deal in town!
AVAILABLE ASAP
(727)804-4765 or smithse@ufl.edu 1-8-5-
3
Male sublease in Biven's Cove available any-
time January thru July. Only $323 a month
plus utilities, W/D, direct bus route to campus
contact Trevor at 239.682.6351 1-11-5-3
eRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $299/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 4-21-09-71-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail Jan 1st.
for responsible mature individual. $400-
$800/mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer
Rd. yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566
1-5-10-32-4
Female roommate needed, 4/2.5 townhouse,
1-75 and Newberry, all included, gated, $400
baezwpa@belIsouth.net 954-557-4769
1-19-09-30-4
Room for rent. Master bedroom w/
private bath. 3/4 mile from stadium.
Quiet neighborhood. Split utils. 352-281-6618
1-5-09-9-4
Roommate wanted in Jan or Aug. 2000 sq
ft. 2 women looking for 3rd roommate. 3BR -
comes fully furnished, W/D, internet, TV. 3rd
& 2nd Ave. $600 + 1/3 utils. 561-281-9274
1-5-09-9-4
Roommate wanted. Large 3/3 house w/
2 grad students in NW. Close to UF, SFC,
shopping. $375/mo, $200 dep. Lease til 7/31.
Large room, low utils. Call Evan 352-428-
0500 1-5-09-9-4
Luxury House -room, $500 incl. utilities.
W/D, ceramic tile, micro, etc. Looking for
graduate/professional for nice place & likes
small pups. Williston/SW 23rd St. 352-226-
3535/713-705-6279 1-7-09-10-4
Roommate needed in Rockwood Villas spa-
cious room and private bath in a 3/3. $400.00/
month plus a 1/3 of the utilities 352-538-7521
1-5-09-8-4
Grad student seeking two female roommates
(NS/ND) to share a new 4/2 house in a quiet
neighborhood 3 mi. W of 1-75. With cable,
internet & security alarm. 475/mo., util. incl.
Please call 352-331-8794. Rooms are avail-
able immediately. 1-12-12-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
1-5-09-7-4
Looking for one male to share 3BR/2BA
house close to campus. Common areas fur-
nished, W/D, new tile & carpet. $425/mo +
elec. 918 NW 10th Ave. Call 561-706-5378
1-5-09-5-4
20, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 5,2010
U JRoommtes Real Estate Furnishings Autos Autos
Bedroom for rent in a 3/2. $400/mo. Own
bath, carport. Females only need apply. 4
Blks from stadium. Call 692-1958 for appt.
1-5-09-5-4
Roommate wanted. 1/1 in 2/2
2 Blocks North of Library West
Unfurnished BR, shared spaces furnished
Washer/dryer, dishwasher, wireless internet
$600/mo + half util. Call/txt 813-468-1071
1-5-5-4
3 blocks from UF Campus
1 bedroom in 3/1 house for rent
$425/mth + 1/3 util/cable/int
Available ASAP please call now! 850 529
2717 or email kalon77@ufl.edu 1-5-09-5-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room -utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Bball, pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd FIr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, or 352-636-4814 1-5-09-3-4
Roommate needed for 2BR Apt. close to
UF. Bus Stop Right Outside. $300/Mo. Plus
Utilities.Call Kyle at 954-907-8538 or email
me at kylefranzone06@yahoo.com .1-5-
09-3-4
2BRs in 4/2 house $375 ea. (or $700 both)
+ share util/cable/DSL + dep. Craigslist
ad: http://gainesville.craigslist.org/
roo/1495891104.html. 352 376-9200 1-8-
10-5-4
$355/Mo Newly Remodeled. Pvt BR/BA.
10 min to UF. On Bus Rte. W/D, Furn Com
Area, Secure WI-Fl, Pool & MORE! OPEN-
MINDED. 954-854-9445. UTGCondos.com
1-5-10-2-4
1-2 Roommates needed for 4br/4ba $385
Fully Furn Condo. ALL UTIL Incl., Pvt. bath
walk-in closet, w/d, pool. Short ride to UF on
2 bus routes. STUDENTS ONLY, non-smok-
ing 954-593-3063 1-8-10-5-4
F Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-71-
5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
130 FEET RIVER FRONTAGE! 1.5 ACRES,
BUILDABLE LOT WITH LARGE SELECTION
OF HUGE TREES ON PEACEFUL SECTION
OF RIVER. GREAT INVESTMENT! ONLY
25K. (352)665-8067 1-13-09-20-5
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Great for Students 1 BR/1 BA.
Walk to Campus. Only $49,900
Gore-Rabell Realty 378-1387 4-21-75-5Homes From $199/mo! 1-4 Bedrooms Avail
From $199/mo! For Listings (800)350-4142
12-14-1-5
TOWNHOUSE 2BR/1.5BA. W/D hook-ups.
New kitchen w/ private courtyard. $88,500.
4007 B SW 26th Terr Call 352-371-3473
Leave message. 1-5-10-10-5 Bicycles
iiiR _ rurnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6*KALEV ON KALLOI come to your location
All PC and Networking Problems
@ 352-262-6704 0 Only $25 per hour s
1-5-09-14-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
WL For Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
CHRISTMAS TREES!
Potted Leylands, Arizona Cypress, & Red
Cedar; Table-Top to 10 ft. $7-$69. 209 NW
75th St. Alachua 386-462-2060 1-5-09-6-
10
ltorcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21 -09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***Www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
Discount Motorcycle Gear
www.turn2co.com. Up to 75% off original
MSRP. 904-294-8344 Turn 2 Gear 1-5-
09-9-11
Computers WAut
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS U
ORunning or not!@
ONEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
1-29-09-75-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check 9
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
(-
-h
0
00.
02
CD9
9
9
9
3
9
9
9
9
3
9
9
9
9
3
9
9
9
9
3
9
9
9
9
3
9
0
9
9
3
Co
CL
0E,
(D
C.
0
(DC)
0*0
(0.
CD0-
iC
CD
0
IsaWfS4
3- d
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-74 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
2 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
8 Pontiac Grand Am $1499 cash
6 Kia Sephia $999 cash
52-338-1999 4-21-71-12
6 Lincoln Mark 8 $999 cash
5 Pontiac Bonnville $999 cash
8 Chrysler Cirrus $999 cash
6 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
52-338-1999 4-21-71-12
2 Honda Accord $1499 cash
7 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
2 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
6 Mits Galant $1999 cash
52-338-1999 4-21-71-12
7 Jeep Cherokee $1900
6 Chevy Astro Van $1900
6 Chevy Blazer $1499
8 Ford Expolorer $2500
52-338-1999 4-21-71-12
5 Dodge Ram PK $2900
8 Dodge Ram PK $2900
8 Pontiac Transport $2900
4 Toyota Camry $2900 SOLD
52-338-1999 4-21-71-12
7 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
0 Hyundai Elantra $2900
4 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
7 Mits Diamonte $2900
52-338-1999 4-21-71-12
6 Honda Accord $2500
4 Toyota Camry $2900
6 Cadillac Deville $2900
1 Hyundai Sonata $2900
52-338-1999 4-21-71-12
TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 21
Autos Help Wanted Help Wanted Help Wanted H hServicej
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
Cars from $29/Mo!
Hondas Chevys Jeeps and
More! 0$ Down 36 Months @
8.5% apr for listings Call
800-366-9813 ext 9765 4-21-71-12
STUDENTS GUARANTEED FINANCING!
Do you have a valid drivers license?
Do you have a part time job?
Ride today for $750 down!
Call Angie @ 352-672-5048 1-19-10-12
WIWantedP
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 1-8-09-71-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 1-8-
09-71-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings0 the independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,FI 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
Hair models wanted for long hair in motion
studies. Hip-length or longer only. No experi-
ence necessary. $70 to $120 and hour. Call
352 792-1824 modelslh@yahoo.com
1-14-09-32-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
408 W University Ave. suite 106
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$8/hr + BONUS + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES 4-21-
09-71-14
PRC NOW HIRING
Find a job you'll love. Immediate Openings
for Customer Care Representatives. $10.00
to $10.50 per hour. Paid Training and mul-
tiple schedules available. For more informa-
tion contact us at 386-326-5030 or 386-326-
5008 or apply online at www.prcnet.com
1-5-09-20-14Full time NANNY needed for Jan: M-F
toddler $10/hr; must have newborn exp
grad students welcome; exp req;
Noah's Ark Nanny; send resume, photo,
short bio to gnv@nanoneone.com 1-5-09-
10-14
NANNY ASAP for adorable 1yr old:
3 full days/ wk; 25-30hrs; $9/hr;
starts asap or Jan.
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com 1-5-09-
10-14
MWFSat NANNY NEEDED Jan
6:30am; 15hrs/wk average (days vary)
3 yr old twins + 1yr old;
must be avail thru August 2010
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com 1-5-09-
10-14
"Have Bad Credit?
Want to make $1?,000s for doing nothing?"
Call (877) 465-8463 for more information.
1-5-09-6-14
PROJECT COORDINATOR: All aspects of
psychologist's private practice, training insti-
tute with online studies. Need very strong or-
ganizational skills, extensive computer skills,
able to master complex software. Fun job/
will train. Honors BA or MA. 28 Hr/Wk. M-Th.
$11.00 hr. Alachua location. Email resume/
reference list to RobertGlazerPhD@gmail.com
1-5-09-5-14
RGIS INVENTORY SPECIALISTS
Part-time hourly work
Flexible schedules
$8 an hour to start
Apply online at RGIS.COM 1-8-09-8-14
Need mature, reliable, dedicated, full-time
live-in caretaker for elderly mom to help with
daily personal care, companionship, cooking,
and house cleaning. $41,000/yr, full benefits
pagkage, appreciative family. 3+ yrs expe-
rience, excellent references, background
check required. Contact
lewjufa@gmail.com 1-5-09-5-14
Live in companion needed for disabled
woman. Light housekeeping asst, vehicle
needed. Experience req. background check.
send resume to vendorslynz@gmail.com
1-11-10-8-14
HIGH-END NIGHTCLUB OPENING
Now hiring: Bartenders, Barbacks, Security,
VIP, Go-Go Dancers, Door People, Bathroom
Staff. Some exp req'd. Call 239-910-1235 or
email rupkey@gmail.com 1-5-09-3-14
lHowiGotAnAU
Have a 3.6 GPA & want to earn some extra
cash? We are hiring notetakers & office staff
for spring '10. Go to www.HowlGotanA.com
1-8-10-6-14
Experienced Horseperson: Still looking! Need
someone to live rent free in mobile home on
small horse farm 12 miles from the University
in exchange for 40 hours work/month. 386-
462-3725 1-5-10-2-14
Archer Road Pet Resort
Hiring all positions
Exp. Preferred
16011 SW Archer Rd
arpetresort@aol.com 1-5-10-20-14
Need 50 typists/transcriptionists to start
January 2010. Must type minimum 65 wpm.
Create your own work schedule, but you
must maintain 16 hours a week between
7am-midnight, M-F. Need impeccable
English skills. Ideal for PT and Students.
Productivity based compensation, profit
sharing, close to campus. Contact now to
reserve a spot for January training sessions.
gnvjobs@uigfla.com
1-8-10-5-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
SPRING 2010
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
1-15-10-9-14PT lead generation/appt. setting: Work from
home or your location, Day/evening options,
Hourly rate plus bonuses, Paid training, pre-
fer some phone experience. Check us out:
www.onsitetm.com/join-our-team.php send
resume to: careers@onsitetm.com 1-11-
20-5-14
UCB
Looking for energized individuals to work part
time as an office assistant mainly for packing
online orders.
High paced environment so attention to
detail is key. Hourly pay $8.50/hr. Very
nice job environment and 10 min from
UF! Preferred bilingual English/Spanish,
but not required. Please send resumes to
universitycollegebooks@gmail.com and
make sure your contact information is in-
cluded.
Thanks 2-2-10-20-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 1-7-09-
120-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS**
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
GOT A TICKET?
TAKE TRAFFIC SCHOOL 100% ONLINE
STATE OF FLORIDA APPROVED
NO POINTS ON LICENSE
www.EasyTrafficSchoolNow.com 1-8-20-
15
The Law Firm of Chris McChesney
a sustainable virtual law office for Floridians
landlord/tenant -residential real estate -wills
wwww.chrismcchesney.com
physically located in Arlington, VA 1-11-5-
15
Your roommate hasn't done the dishes in
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the
Alligator Classifieds.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards
Employment Visas & Naturalization
www.ruthlaw.com (352) 335-6748
2-2-40-18
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-21-09-71-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
Gentle Women.through the lens of
Douglas J. Nesbitt, newly released book
now available for holiday gifts!
www.gentlewomen.us
1-11-09-10-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
o il Rides
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23ces Personals
22, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 5,2010
National Signing Day gives college football fans offseason excitement
The football season might have endedfor the Gators, but my favorite time of
the year is quickly approaching.
To me, the first Wednesday in Febru-
ary presents college football fans one of
the best things to look forward to in the
offseason.
On that day, your team's future starts
to take shape.
This year it is on Feb. 3, and it is also
known as National Signing Day.
As usual, this is supposed to be a great
day for Gators fans, but with questions
looming over the coaching staff and a
bunch of juniors expected to leave, Urban
Meyer can't afford to let any recruits get
away.
The Gators have already lost the com-
mitment of safety Matt Elam.
With two other safeties committed -
Demar Dorsey and Jonathan Dowling -
losing Elam is not the worst thing for the
Gators.But they can't afford to lose too many
more. Not only will it hurt them in the
future, but other commits will start wor-
rying why others are jumping ship, espe-
cially with all the coaching issues.
Over the next month, Meyer has to go
out and hire replacement coaches and get
them visiting the players they will coach to
calm any nerves.
Meyer has done a great job of recruit-
ing positions that will soon be in high need
for Florida, but he has done an even better
job of getting those players a year or two
earlier than needed so they don't have to
jump right into playing.
The defensive backfield for the Gators
will be overhauled over the next two
years. Cornerback Joe Haden leaving early
for the NFL and safeties Major Wright and
Ahmad Black going to be seniors next year
if they stay, which I think they will. What
does Meyer do? He goes out and gets five
defensive backs to commit this season toA
Bobby Callovi
Bobby's World
bcallovi@alligator orgreplace them.
The offensive line
could also be a work
in progress the next
two years, but Meyer
took care of that last
year by adding five
last year.
He also has three
receivers and two
tight ends committed to replace a receiv-
ing corps that is mostly graduating this
year.
Even though he has done a great job
so far, he needs to reassure all of those
players that Florida is the place for them
despite the uncertainty of the program,
which will not be an easy job.
And he can't just settle for the players
he has already gotten commitments from.
There are still some big-time prospects out
there that would put this class at the top of
all the recruiting sites' rankings.The biggest two are outside linebacker
Jordan Hicks and defensive end Ronald
Powell.
Hicks would go a long way in 2011
when A.J Jones and Brandon Hicks are
gone, but Powell could be a recruit that
could play right away.
Jermaine Cunningham is graduating
and Carlos Dunlap is likely to take off for
the pros, leaving Justin Trattou as the only
proven defensive end.
The Gators have fallen in love with us-
ing three ends in passing situations and
behind Trattou none have stepped up.
Powell is a five-star recruit from Cali-
fornia, who is the type of player ready to
play right away.
Despite needing to rest, Meyer will be
hard at work again over this next month
trying to secure and improve one of the
top classes, but all the questions are an-
swered on Feb. 3, making it one of my fa-
vorite days.
Cooper, Hernandez combine
for 292 receiving yards
FOOTBALL, from page 1
And just coming into the game, we
just were hitting and clicking, so
we kept going with it and ended
up obviously throwing for a lot of
yards."
"You hear a lot of guys talk
about dynasty around here
and taking the sport to a
new level, and I think we've
done that."
David Nelson
UF senior wide receiver
As was the case all season, senior
wide receiver Riley Cooper and ju-
nior tight end Aaron Hernandez
were the primary beneficiaries of
Tebow's passes.
Cooper hauled in seven passes
for 181 yards in his final game asa Gator, including a 80-yard deep
ball down the left sideline, and Her-
nandez grabbed nine passes for 111
yards and a touchdown.
It was the first time two UF
players went over the century mark
in receiving yards since Andre
Caldwell and Percy Harvin did it in
the Gators' 49-22 win over Vander-
bilt on Nov. 3, 2007.
Despite Meyer's health con-
cerns, coaching changes and a pos-
sible lack of motivation, the senior
class cemented a legacy that won't
soon be forgotten by Gators fans.
"You hear a lot of guys talk about
dynasty around here and taking
the sport to a new level, and I think
we've done that," said senior wide
receiver David Nelson, who caught
two passes for 37 yards. "We really
didn't care who we were going to
play tonight. We didn't care who
was going up against us, it could've
been the Dallas Cowboys."UF senior wide receiver Riley Cooper runs for a touchdown on an 80-yard
Gators' win over Cincinnati in the Sugar Bowl on Friday.Matt Tripp/ Alligator Staff
catch-and-run during the
Five or more sunburns double your risk
of developing skin cancer.
Protect your skin.
www.aad.org * 888.462.DERMegg .-.e -1 sl r -
I * *
TMBr~ oneen
e \\ a \
It ekek te~ ~
20%-60% cheaper 50% cheaper
than online stores than bookstores
on average* on average
BWORDS Iwest prc with hpg~~ I ~dht hpft
TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 23
Spring Sports Season Preview
Baseball
The Gators have improved
each year since coach Kevin
O'Sullivan took over the team in
2008.
This year, the baseball team
will look to improve on last
season, which ended in the NCAA
Super Regional.
With most
of the core
returning and a
freshman class
many considered
the top in the
nation entering, Florida is primed
to contend for not only a South-
eastern Conference title but also
a national championship.
Sophomore slugger Preston
Tucker will be expected to provide
the Gators with pop after his
impressive freshman campaign.
A group of sophomore pitchers
-Nick Maronde, Alex Panteliodis
and Anthony DeSclafani -will be
counted on to lead the rotation,
and the return of Tommy Toledo,
who missed last season because
of injury, will be back to add
depth at pitcher.Gymnastics
The No. 4 UF gymnastics team
gears up for another season after
finishing fourth at the NCAA Champi-
onships last year.
Last season the team was
decimated by injuries and only eight
healthy gymnasts were available for
the championship meet.
This season, the team has added
five freshmen and should have every-
one backfrom injury, including senior
Amanda Castillo.
However, the Gators will be
without one of the gymnasts they
were most counting on. All-American
Melanie Sinclair was suspended
indefinitely and is no
longer on th6 roster
because of her ar-
rest on three felony
charges.
The team travels to Norman,
Okla., to launch its season against
the Sooners.
Florida does have an advantage
in finally winning a national cham-
pionship that has been just out of
arms' reach for the last few year as
Gainesville is the site for the 2010
NCAA Championships.Lacrosse
The Florida women's lacrosse
team is set to begin its first
NCAA season on Feb. 20 with a
home matchup against the Jack-
sonville Dolphins.
The team, led by coach
Amanda O'Leary and assistants
Jennifer Ulehla and Erica LaGrow,
consists of 24
freshmen, two
sophomores, one
junior and two
seniors.
Inside Lacrosse
magazine ranked
the group of 24
freshmen as the
No.1 signing class and lists four
of UF's players in the magazine's
Top 25. The Gators will have the
tasks of facing some of the top
teams in the country, includ-
ing five-time defending national
champions Northwestern.
The newly constructed Florida
Lacrosse Facility is located across
from the Katie Seashole Pressly
Softball Stadium on Hull Road
and will be the site for home
matches.Softball
There's no question what
the early season storyline is for
the softball team: How will they
be able to replace All-American
ace Stacey Nelson?
Welcome to the Stephanie
Brombacher era. The junior,
who went 42-0 with a 1.10
ERA in her first two seasons,
will take over for Nelson in the
circle.
Finding a No. 2 to fill in
Brombacher's old role will also
be crucial. That job might be
opt to freshman
,g Ensley Gammel.
Returning
starters Franc-
esca Enea, Kelsey Bruder, Aja
Paculba, Megan Bush and Cor-
rie Brooks will give UF plenty
of pop at the top of the lineup,
but some new faces will have
to step up and become every-
day players if the Gators hope
to make their third straight
Women's College World Series.Track and Field
Both the men's and women's
track team finished in the top 10
last season, and both won the
Southeastern Championship titles.
The women's team is deep at
both sprint runners and long-dis-
tance runners, but its star athlete
is one of its throwers.
Mariam
Kevkhishvili has
won the NCAA
title for shot put
her first three
years and will
look to finish her
collegiate career
with another.
As for the men's team, it will
be led by Calvin Smith. The senior
is a 13-time All-American and
three-time SEC Champion. The
SEC Runner of the Year was part
of the NCAA Champion 4x400
team.
The men could also get a boost
if Jeff Demps can recover from
an injury he suffered while playing
football in time to contribute to its
postseason run.
-ALLIGATOR SPORTS STAFF
Max Weissler / Alligator Staff
Happy Hour 4-9 pm
$4 Pitchers
Trivia
Tuesday
Win Beer
Manda /3Jight:
ctl LnmT Li Qun
|Wednesdag
X =~n M9U Ltwssrai
WilLatrdayi:
maB3YLvmOUTJEUUKarake Mondaly
$10 all youcan drink wellsand drafts
DJ -JD
Ladlies Drink Freel
Beat the Clock,
FREE BEERaV
Sports
TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Parsons' desperation heave caps turbulent break
"IS
-
Florida's Chandler Parsons (25) makes a 75-foot shot at the overtime buzzer to give Florid
Carolina State on Sunday in Raleigh, N.C. The Gators were 3-3 during the winter break.
Meyer needs trip to Bourbon St.
As expected, the Urban Meyer situ-ation dominated the talk lead-
ing up to Florida's Sugar Bowl
matchup against Cincinnati.
Coaches and players on both sides
were constantly hit with questions like:
What did you think when you heard
he'd retire?
Do you think he can change his ways
and still be successful?
Are you afraid he might die?
That last one sounds pretty ridiculous,
but then again, we don't really know
what's up with Meyer's health. He's
keeping the specifics quiet, and that leads
some to run wild with speculation.
To me, he's a very successful and su-
per-rich 45-year-old who needs to take
a vacation, step back and re-evaluate
the way he operates to cut down some
stress.Mike McCall
McCallin' It
Like I See It
m mccaIlI@a IIi ga to r o rgHis daughter,
Nicki, said after the
Sugar Bowl that
her dad just needs
a break.
"We've all seen
how stressed he
is, and for him to
be able to recover
for once and do
something for him-
self for one time in four years is so great
for us," she said. "He deserves it. He has
worked his butt off for five years, and he
needs to recover and be healthy."
She added: "He's so good at what he
does, and it's because he literally puts ev-
ery minute of his life into that team."
All week in New Orleans, a cure was
SEE MCCALL, PAGE 27By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
RALEIGH, N.C. -With Florida down by two
points and only two seconds remaining in over-
time, Chandler Parsons pulled down a rebound off a
missed free throw, took one dribble and let the ball fly
just before the final buzzer sounded.
Parsons said he doesn't usually take three-quarter-
court shots in practice -unlike some of his team-
mates -but his heave found the bottom of the net,
sending the Gators into a raucous celebration on the
floor of the RBC Center as UF prevailed 62-61 against
North Carolina State on Sunday.
"I feel like someone's about to
pinch me right now, and I'm gonna
wake up from a dream," Parsons
Men's said. "I've never had this feeling in
Basketball my life, and I'm just glad I could stepup for my team and knock it down."
UF (11-3) had a dismal shooting
performance from beyond the arc against NC State
(10-4), going just 3 of 24 from 3-point range, but the
shots fell when they were most important.
-- Freshman guard Kenny Boynton hit a leaning
-'3-pointer with 14 seconds left to pull within two, and
sophomore point guard Erving Walker drained four
free throws in the final seven seconds.
The Wolfpack had plenty of chances to put the
game away after jumping out to a 53-48 lead that held
for nearly half of the overtime period. But they failed
to connect on five free throws in overtime, including
Ethan Hyman / AP Photo the final one by guard Farnold Degand, whose miss fell
a a 62-61 win over North right into Parsons' hands for the last shot.
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 26
UF RECRUITING
UF lands two commits
By GEORGE C. PAPPAS
Alligator Writer
ST. PETERSBURG -The Gators' 51-24
victory over Cincinnati in the Sugar Bowl
on Friday marked the end of an era for the
nation's most celebrated senior class and
ushered in a period of uncertainty heading
into the 2010 season.
Seven members of the defense graduat-
ed and as many as eight juniors on Florida
may opt for an early start at a career in the
NFL.
But UF's incoming recruiting class gave
Gators fans something to look forward to
with their performances at the Under Ar-
mour All-America Game on Saturday at
Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg.
The seven UF commits entering the
game shined, as safeties Jonathan Dowling
(Bradenton Southeast High) and Demar
Dorsey (Lauderdale Lakes Boyd Anderson
High) led the way.
The three-star and four-star prospects,
respectively, combined for three intercep-
alligatorSports Picks Column
U After finishing the regular season tied,
Kyle Maistri topped Bobby Callovi by pick-
ing Boise State to cover the +7.5 spread
against TCU to win alligatorSports Brand
Picks Column.tions -one of which Dowling returned for
a score -and declared their squad's sec-
ondary to be a "no-fly zone."
Palmdale (Calif.) High cornerback
Joshua Shaw, another player committed to
helping replace a Florida defensive back-
field that could lose three juniors to the
NFL Draft, added a pick of his own.
"The Florida secondary came up big to-
night," Shaw said. "Hopefully we showed
the fans that our secondary is going to be
one of the best for years to come."
The good news kept coming for the
Gators, as they added two more commits
during the game: Staten Island (N.Y.) Cur-
tis High defensive end Dominique Easley
(the game's co-MVP) and Pahokee High
receiver Chris Dunkley, ranked as the na-
tion's No. 8 wideout by Rivals.com.
"The group of players here, the people
that I am going to be with for the next four
years of my life, really helped me make my
decision," Easley said. "I always wanted to
be a Gator and to be a part of the history.
SEE RECRUIT, PAGE 26
POLL QUESTION
Today's question: What player leaving
will be the hardest for the Gators to
replace?TEEING OFF WITH KYLE MAISTRI
U Anyone else intrigued by the idea of Gilbert Arenas and Javaris Crittenton
settling their gambling debt in an old Wild West style dual? Arenas has traded
plenty of dollars over shooting contests, but none quite like this. .I'd like to
thank my boy Kellen Moore and Boise St. for locking up the picks column title
for me. Oh, and Rutgers for sucking as Bobby inevitably picked them each week.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 25
Florida ii% Cincinnati M 3
SWAMP STUDS
It had to end this way. Tebow wasn't playing in the game he had hoped
for, but he turned in the most jaw-dropping performance of his career.
Tebow's 533 total yards shattered the BCS record of 467 set by Texas
quarterback Vince Young in 2006, a number Tebow had surpassed before
the end of the third quarter. He also set a new UF record for total offense
Tim Tebow in a game. He started the game 12-for-12, and his halftime statline (20-
QB, Sr of-23, 320 yards, three touchdowns) was better than any of his full-game
-outputs since the 2007 FAU game.
31-of-35 passing, 482 yds, 3 TD; 14 rush, 51 yds, TD
Cincinnati's Mardy Gilyard came into the game with most of the hype,
but Cooper left the Superdome with the distinction of the game's best
wideout. His statline blew up thanks to an 80-yard touchdown catch, but
his most impressive work came on a 44-yard grab in the third quarter. On
that catch, he reached back over Cincy defensive back Dominique Battle's
shoulder to haul in the pass, then wrestled it away after Battle tried to
snatch it. Cooper said he still plans to play baseball professionally, but his
eye-catching night in New Orleans could cause a change in plans.
7 catches, 181 yds, 1 TDN
Riley
Cooper
WR, Sr.
It's pretty rare that a receiver puts up the numbers Hernandez did and
finishes a distant second on the team, but it's hard to overlook the
performance UF's tight end turned in. Hernandez was his usual self,
finding open spaces in the defense, showing sure hands and bullying
defenders after the catch, and it was clear that UC didn't have an answer
for him. Florida fans will keep their fingers crossed that Hernandez turns
down the NFL to come back for his senior year, but if he leaves, at least
it's on a high note.
9 catches, 111 yds, TD
FINAL STANDINGS
T Tebow -21 J. Brantley -2
R. Cooper -7 D. Doe -2
C. Rainey -7 C. Dunlap -2
J. Cunningham -6 C. Henry -2
A. Hernandez -6 A. Jones -2
J. Demps -5 C. Sturgis -2
R. Stamper -5 D. Thompson -2
J. Haden -4 B. Hicks -1
A. Black -3 Ja. Jenkins -1
B. Spikes -3 D. Nelson -1TOP THREE PLAYS
Chris Rainey's 6-yard
touchdown run in the
fourth quarter, when he
pulled a UCdefender from
beyond the 3-yrd line.
Deonte Thompson's
7-yard touchdown catch
in the corner of the end
zone
Riley Cooper's 80-
yard touchdown before
halftime.
TURNING POINT
The only turning point in this one
was when the game turned from an
easy win to a rout. The Bearcats
got on the board with 3:11 left in
the first half to cut the lead to 23-3,
but just nine seconds later, Cooper
turned his defender around, hauled
in a perfect pass from Tebow and
streaked down the sideline en
route to an 80-yard touchdown
that made the score 30-3. The play
sucked the last ounce of hope from
Cincinnati fans and gave most
impartial TV viewers a reason to
change the channel at halftime.
~~wo 0
Short of Cash? Donate Plasma! Thousands do.
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6th St Gainesville (352) 378-
"Where It Pays to Care"
-0 0
ArC)9204
_,_. 
*H
Aaron
Hernandez
TE, Jr.
SCORE BY QUARTERS KEY STAT
1 2 3 4 Final
UF 9 21 14 7
UC 0 3 7 14533
total yards by Florida
quarterback Tim Tebow
26, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 5,2010
How the basketball team
fared over the break
Date Result Top Scorer
Kenny Boynton
(20)
Alex Tyus (15)Dec. 10, Loss to
2009 Syracuse
in Tampa
(73-85)
Dec. 19, Lost to
2009 Richmond
in Sunrise
(53-56)
Dec. 22, Lost to
2009 South Alabama
in Gainesville
(66-67)
Dec. 28, Win over
2009 American in
Gainesville
(76-60)
Dec. 30, Win over
2009 Presbyterian
in Gainesville
(79-38)
Jan. 3, Win over North
2010 Carolina State in
Raleigh (62-61)Things to take
away from game
The Gators were domi-
nated inside by Orange
big man Rick Jackson,
who scored 19 points.
Florida blew a 9-point
lead heading into half-
time to lose its second
game of the season.
Tyus (16) South Alabama forward
DeAndre Hersey scored
on a putback with 1.8
seconds left to win.
Tyus (20) The Gators ended their
three-game losing streak
against the overmatched
Eagles.
Another one where theChandler Gators were far superiorParsons (21) to their competition and
cruised to a victory.
Ve rnon Florida needed a
Vern ( Chandler Parsons three-MackIn (14) quarter-court shot at the
buzzer in OT to pull out a
win.
Max Weissler / Alligator StaffUF rides win streak into SEC play
Hil P1, from page 24
"We're very, very fortu-
nate to win. It was one of
those shots where there's
nothing diagrammed,
there's no play, there's noth-
ing like that," Florida coach
Billy Donovan said. "It was
just a guy who took the ball,
and you talk about strange
things happening. If the ball
bounced anywhere except
where it bounced, maybe a
different guy shoots it."
With the victory, the
Gators will enter their South-
eastern Conference schedule
on a three-game winning
streak despite a disastrous
start to their break.
Florida has gone 3-3 since
Dec. 9, losing three straight
to Syracuse (85-73 on Dec. 10in Tampa), Richmond (56-53
on Dec. 19 in Sunrise) and
at home against South Ala-
bama (67-66 on Dec. 22). The
three-game skid knocked
the Gators out of the top 25,
where they enjoyed a brief
stay at as high as No. 10.
Despite struggling with
a multitude of injuries and
illnesses, UF bounced back
from the tough string of loss-
es with a 76-60 win against
American and a 79-38 rout
of Presbyterian, both in the
O'Connell Center.
With only sophomore
center Kenny Kadji still seri-
ously injured -he has a her-
niated disc in his lower back
-and an emotional win to
cap off the break, the Gatorswill move on to start their
SEC schedule this weekend
against Vanderbilt.
Donovan said his team
needs to play defense like it
did against NC State in the
second half, when UF al-
lowed only 19 points, to find
success in the SEC. However,
he said the Gators also can't
afford to shoot like they did
against the Wolfpack.
"When you start getting
into the conference -I'm
not trying to put pressure
on our guys, but you've got
to make some shots," Dono-
van said. "It's really, really
hard for our team -for any
team -when you're shoot-
ing 12 percent. There's been
a lot of games where we've
had these kinds of shooting
performances."
Class holds steady amid turmoil
RECRUIT, from page 24
Talking to the coaching staff, everything was
going to be all right."
Since UF coach Urban Meyer's initial an-
nouncement of his plans to retire, only one
recruit, Matt Elam, backed out on his commit-
ment. The remaining members of the recruit-
ing class expressed concern for their coach but
stood strong by their decisions.
"I know [Meyer] is doing that to get him-
self healthy," Shaw said. "Forget football, for-
get everything else. Your health is far more
important. I am happy for him to have the
guts to go out and do that, and I know thatin his heart he will go out and do what's best
for him."
Shaw also commented on defensive coor-
dinator Charlie Strong's exit from the program
to take the head coaching position at Louis-
ville, and he was not worried about losing one
of the nation's best defensive coaches.
"It's all right," Shaw said. "Coach Strong is
probably the greatest defensive coordinator in
college football. I wish the best for him, but I
also know that being at UF you are always go-
ing to get the best. There are going to be hun-
dreds of coaches wanting to get that job, and
they will get the best guy."
Verbal commitments are non-binding until a
letter of intent is signed on or after Feb. 3.
GENERAL NUTRITION CENTR
25% OFF anv one GNC Product
Cannotbecombi n ed. OneCou ponpe customer r
y39 lSW Archer Rd
afl DTySecal 377-6020 E p
MOVING & STORAGE
GAINESVILLE, FLORIDA
L
WELCOME
BACK!
NEW SEMESTER!
SAME GREAT DEAL!
5 area locations.
For the Jiffy Lube
nearest you please visit
jiffylubesoutheast.comGainesville ojo
Boxing or Kickboxing
Purchase 3 months at
regular price and get
4th month free
378-3070 536 SW 2nd Ave
Must present coupon.
-vve III SdItLa y IIIUve yVUi
belongings across town or
across the country.
-Storage spaces
are available.
Contact Us!
(352) 374-4791
www.gatormoving.bizVVEH lE TIGER
-MI I So I/I MInKI"
l',I F-1, RN
Hhdl, i, g ihu,
$8OFFJiffy Lube
Signature Service"
Oil Change
No Coupon Needed! No expiration date to remember!
Just bring in a valid student ID to any Gainesville Jiffy Lube.
See storefor more details. Not valid with another offer. Restrictions may apply. Jiffy Lube, the Jiffy Lube
i arnJiffy L reS'- n t urA Seer istered trademarksofhffyLubeInternational, Inc.HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShieldof FloridaAl~,,,tL ..f1. 373-0775
For Nm Eir ..BI -S NOW 366 .-tdAvnu
3669 S.W. 2nd AvenueForm Number: 18533-599SU7
TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 27
Gators continue holiday success in conference opener
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Staff Writer
etorrens@alligator org
Freshman Jennifer George walked off
the court with a smile after sinking two free
throws that put her team up seven points with
2:37 left in the game.
The Gators went on to defeat Arkansas
59-53 to open Southeastern Conference play
Sunday.
"I've been going to the line a lot, but I
haven't been converting them," said George,
who came into the game shooting 61 percent
from the free-throw line. "I just told myself I
was going to make it. I just told myself to have
confidence and it's going to go in."
Days before Sunday's game, senior Steffi
Sorensen said she talked to the freshman
about the heightened intensity of a conference
MCCALL, from page 24 I'mbender
staring him in the face. the Bla
Just six blocks from the Gators' take ca
team hotel, there's a magical place skip to
made for those in need of relax- Go I
ation and unwinding. Bourbo
Bourbon Street. make t
Ever seen that picture of Meyer the pia
with his wife Shelley, a glass of sing ka
wine and a slightly buzzed look on Thi
his face? raoke?
That's the Urban Meyer that did it.
needs to be released for the next I'd rec
few months: Bourbon Meyer.tudes,game now that the Gators will only play SEC
opponents until March.
"Everything is just up another level,"
George said. "Each possession is critical, every
turnover, every basket, everything. And that's
the biggest thing I realized from SEC games
from non-conference games."
The first win of the new decade gave UF
(8-6, 1-0 SEC) its longest winning streak of the
season at three games. The Gators have gone
5-1 in their last six games since classes ended
for winter break. The 75-68 loss to High Point
in the confines of the O'Connell Center -the
sole loss in that six-game stretch -left a bad
taste in the team's mouth for the weeklong
Christmas break.
To end 2009, the Gators hosted Ohio and
Jacksonville and won both contests by an
average of 27.5 points. It was the confidence
boost the team needed before its trip to Fay-
not suggesting he go on a
He just needs to hand off
ckBerry to an assistant to
re of the recruits and then
wn.
back to New Orleans and hit
n Street, I'm sure UF will
he jet available. Check out
no bar at Pat O'Brien's and
raoke at Cats Meow.
nk he's too square for ka-
I thought I was too until I
He loves Jimmy Buffett, so
ommend "Changes in Lati-
Changes in Attitudes" asetteville, Ark.
UF shot 75 percent (18 of 24) from the char-
ity stripe to put away the Razorbacks (8-6, 0-1
SEC) in a game that saw five lead changes and
seven ties. The Gators sank 11 of their last 15
free-throws to ice the game.
"When you win on the
road in the SEC, it's like get-
ting two wins. It's huge,"
Sorensen said. "It's a step in
the right direction for us. Ev-
eryone feels good, but at the
same time it's only going to
George get harder from here."
Coach Amanda Butler
said the team talked about how everything
was magnified in conference play, including
free-throw shooting.
UF was unable to rely on its 3-point shoot-
ing (5 of 19) against the Hogs, except for Lon-
appropriate.
After a day or two of a little
drinking, a lot of eating and listen-
ing to some jazz, he should head
up the road to Baton Rouge with a
boombox, stand outside Billy Gon-
zales' bedroom window and blare
Peter Gabriel's "In Your Eyes."
There -in a moment ripped
from John Cusack in "Say Any-
thing" -he can make things right
with his former receivers coach,
who left UF for LSU, and maybe
win him back.
While he still has the jet, maybenika Thompson, who scored nine of her 12
points on 3-pointers. While the 3-point shoot-
ing perhaps hasn't met the team's standard,
the team has been doing a better job generat-
ing a balanced offensive attack.
Center Azania Stewart has averaged 12.6
points in Florida's last five games and has shot
71 percent with a pair of career-high 18-point
games in an eight-day span.
George has also been progressing as a pres-
ence on the boards, bringing in 40 rebounds in
that 5-1 stretch.
Defensive rebounding was a highlight for
Butler because of the ability to hold Arkansas
to one-shot possessions.
"That was what I was most pleased with,"
Butler said. "We did a great job in the second
half in particular, on the defensive boards -it
was something we didn't so well in the first
half."
stop by Knoxville and toilet paper things will run more smoothly for
Lane Kiffin's house. Go to Atlanta Meyer upon his return.
and visit Nicki, who plays volley- This all boils down to needing
ball at Georgia Tech, and eat at a break from the daily grind and
Gladys Knight and Ron Winans' the pressures of being Florida's
Chicken and Waffles. football coach, and if Meyer hangs
Then, he needs to spend a week around Gainesville, I can't imagine
or two at a remote beach resort,
somewhere without access to a
phone.
He has a good system in place
at UF, and it should be able to car-how he'd accomplish that.
If he's in town, he won't be far
from the football offices or spring
practice when that starts up. And
if that's the case, it's hard to believe
ry on without him for a little while. he'd stay away, especially after he
Then, after his assistants get used said his gut feeling is that he'll be
to bearing a little more of the load, on the sidelines by August.
E&IUESVILLE PET RESCUE
Won't you help us to make a difference in the lives of animals
in your own community? We have many opportunities for
voluteering: OFoster Homes *Adoption Counselors
*Transport 0FundraisingeSpecial Events
5403 SW Archer Road -Gainesville, FL -32608
www.GainesvillePetRescue.org
GHFC.com GHalesilleHealth &, Fitness*
h ----------------A
HSRN#3 First time local guests. 18 years and older. Expires February 28, 2010SG FUNDED ACADEMIC ORGANIZATIONS BUDGET
BUDGET REQUESTS FOR COLLEGE COUNCILS FOR 2010-2011
ARE DUE
Friday, January 15, 2010
Budget Request Forms available online at www.sg.ufl.edu
Submit request to Branden Clarke, Treasurer
Board of College CouncilsGovt
28, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, JANUARY 5,2010
Gators face uncertainties heading into offseason
By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kma istri@a Iligator org
NEW ORLEANS -Florida said
goodbye to the winningest class in
school history, the greatest player
in school history and its defensive
coordinator with a 51-24 win against
Cincinnati in the Sugar Bowl.
With Tim Tebow, Brandon
Spikes, Charlie Strong and others
on their way out the door, a lot of
uncertainty surrounds the future of
UF's program.
Coach Urban Meyer will take a
leave of absence and hand the reins
over -temporarily -to offensive
coordinator Steve Addazio, whose
only head coaching experience came
at Cheshire (Conn.)
High School.
I feel a great ob-
ligation and an hon-
Football or to be able to hold
this thing together
for coach until he
gets back here," Addazio said. "If
we can give him this piece of stabil-
ity, that he knows this program is in
good shape and good hands and go-
ing well, then that's what we're gon-
na do. That's what we owe him."
Meyer said again after the game
he feels he will be back in the fall for
the start of the 2010 season to coach
a brand new football team.
John Brantley will take over for
Tebow at quarterback, but that may
be the only certain thing about next
season.
The defense loses starters Spikes,linebacker Ryan Stamper and end next year. senior season, and end Carlos Dun-
Jermaine Cunningham, and that's Cornerback Joe Haden has al- lap is expected to be a first-round
if every junior decides to come back ready announced he will forgo his pick if he declares for the NFL Draft.
AV
4
Anarew btannlI / migator stan
UF offensive coordinator Steve Addazio will take over as interim head coach until Urban Meyer returns
from his leave of absence. Addazio's only previous head coaching experience was at a high school.Safeties Ahmad Black and Major
Wright have also submitted their
papers to the advisory committee.
"I'll talk to my coaches and if
they think I'm ready, then I'll go,"
said Dunlap, who recorded two
sacks against the Bearcats.
All of those departures leave one
of the best defenses in the country in
a transition period for next season.
Spikes said he thinks freshman
Jon Bostic will take over his middle
linebacker position, depending on
who stays and the type of defense
UF will run with a new coordinator.
"Those younger players, they
know what we started, the legacy
we have here, and they just want to
keep it going," Spikes said.
On offense, wide receivers David
Nelson and Riley Cooper played
their last games as Gators, and a few
third-year players -offensive line-
men Carl Johnson, Marcus Gilbert
and Mike and Maurkice Pouncey,
tight end Aaron Hernandez and
running back Chris Rainey -still
have NFL decisions to make.
"You hear a lot of guys around
here talk about dynasty and taking
the sport to a new level, and I think
we've done that," Nelson said.
Now, the challenge will be stay-
ing on top with a different nucleus
of players, some of which have yet
to sign with UF.
"I'm going to do everything I can
to keep this train going in the right
direction," Meyer said when asked
if he plans to recruit over the next
month. "That all will be discussed in
the next few days."
Building a Healthy Foundation for the Gator Nation
The Student Health Care Center's licensed and
board-certified medical professionals are available 24/7.
UF students can use our personalized services:
" Primary Care
" Acute Care &Trauma Clinic
" Psychiatry Services
" Physical Therapy
" Sports Medicine
" Women's Clinic
" Travel Clinic
" Allergy Injection Clinic* Dermatology Clinic
* Mole Screenings
" Massage Therapy
" Immunizations
* Full-Service Pharmacy
* Clinical Laboratory
" Radiology & EKG
" Nutritional Services
Phone first to make an appointment:
(352) 392-1161
UF IStudent Health Care Center4*-
