0 the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 117 We Inform. You Decide.-b
FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 2010
LOCAL
City votes on rezoning
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
The Gainesville City Commission took a
step toward realizing Project Grace's goal to
fight homelessness in a meeting Thursday
night.
The Commission unanimously passed a
motion during the meeting to rezone prop-
erty that is planned to become the One Stop
Residential Homeless Center and Food Dis-
tribution Center for the Needy.
The land, located at 820 NW 53rd Ave.,
was originally designated as industrial
property, but the rezoning initiative has
changed it to a planned development dis-
trict.
The homeless center is a key part of the
Gainesville/Alachua County 10-Year Plan
to End Homelessness Program, and the cen-ter could not be built on industrial property.
Attorney Karl Sanders questioned the com-
mission's ability to make an unbiased deci-
sion before it voted.
Sanders represents Nalbandian Prop-
erties LLC, which is located south of the
planned development.
"This is not your nor-
mal rezoning process," he
said. "It was suggested
by the city of Gainesville,
and it is being voted on
by the city of Gainesville."
Commissioner Scherwin
Henry Henry told Sanders the
Commissioners would vote
fairly regardless of what was recommended
to them by other city groups.
"We can go against the grain if it is un-
warranted," Henry said.Shot student in
critical condition
0 OFFICERS INVOLVED NOT
EXPECTED TO BE CHARGED.
By MINCH MINCHIN
and KATHERINE BEIN
Alligator Writers
Ghanan graduate student Kofi
Adu-Brempong was in critical but
stable condition as of Thursday
afternoon, according to Alachua
County Sheriff's Office Public Infor-
mation Officer Art Forgey.
ASO spokesman Lt. Steve May-
nard said Adu-Brempong is under
custody of the Alachua County De-
partment of Jail.
Adu-Brempong's location was
not confirmed by Maynard, but
anonymous sources maintain he
was taken to Shands at UF.
Criminal charges are not ex-
pected for the five University Police
Department officers who were in-
volved in the incident, said Spencer
Mann of the state attorney's office.
The officers included Keith Smith,William Sasser, James Mabry, Stacy
Ettel and William Ledger.
"I know of no reason why they
would press charges against the of-
ficers," Mann said.
The state attorney is still deter-
mining how to handle the six charg-
es against Adu-Brempong, he said.
Adu-Brempong, a UF Ph.D. stu-
dent and geography teacher's as-
sistant, was shot by UPD with an
assault rifle Tuesday night at his
apartment across from the Levin
College of Law.
According to UPD Capt. Jeff Hol-
comb, the 35-year-old student was
shot after an hour-and-a-half stand-
off with UPD officers.
A representative from Shands at
UF reported having no record of a
patientby the name Adu-Brempong,
where police said he was taken.
According to an anonymous
source, Adu-Brempong checked
into the hospital under a fake name.
But Shands' nursing coordinator
Doug Wallace said he was "under
command" not to comment on a
possible false identity.
Thomas Center voted
great place to tie knot
By CINDY TAVERAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
A fainting uncle, temporarily mis-
placed rings and painful shoes were
not enough to keep Adriana Sanchez-
Lindsay from having her fairy-tale
wedding.
Because of the Thomas Center, a
historical building used most often
to host venues, her wedding dreams
came true, she said.
"Everything looked beautiful," shesaid.
And Sanchez-Lindsay isn't the
only one who feels that way.
For the third consecutive year, the
Thomas Cen-
Spotlight on the ter was recog-Swamp nized as one of
the best wed-
ding reception and ceremony sites by
The Knot, a magazine for brides and
grooms.
"To know that we are getting posi-
SEE WEDDING, PAGE 8
0 UF junior Chan-
dler Parsons and
the Gators face a
must-win situa-
tion after losing
their previous two
games when they
play No. 3 Kentucky
on Sunday in Lex-
ington.
See Story, Page 16.Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
A Available from Commercial News ProvidersT day
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
11
13
16Sunny
62/33
visit www.alligator.orgJump on It
UF philosophy major Mike Alvarez does a "cat" over a concrete picnic table on campus
Wednesday afternoon. Alvarez, who has been practicing parkour for a month, was practic-
ing with others who are part of American Parkour. See story at alligator.org.ee
2, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, MARCH 5,2010
News Today
LOCAL
Student Finance Group
challenges UF clubs to hot-
chicken-wing contest
The Student Finance Group
is challenging all UF student or-
ganizations on campus to take
on the nuclear chicken wing.
The Student Finance Group
is teaming up with the Beef '0'
Brady's on University Avenue
to host the Nuclear Chicken
Wing Eating Inferno on March
18 at 8 p.m.
The registration deadline for
the contest is Friday at 11:59
p.m., and any student organiza-
tion can participate, said Bastian
Bockenhuser, Student Finance
Group fundraising director.
Bockenhuser said the event
gives student organizations the
chance to win cash prizes and
gift cards.
Students will also sample
some spicy wings, which Stu-
dent Finance Group President
Jonathan Saxer has already
sampled.
"I've tried these nuclear
wings, and I felt like my tongue
was going to fall off," Saxer said.
"I seriously couldn't eat for two
days afterward."
Each registered organization
must supply one representa-
tive and at least 10 supporters,
Saxer said. The representative
will have 10 minutes to eat as
many nuclear chicken wings as
possible.
Tim McGivern, the co-owner
of the West University Avenue
Beef '0' Brady's, said the win-
ner will receive $250 in cash for
his or her student organization
and a $50 Beef '0' Brady's gift
card for his or herself.
"It's great exposure for us,
and it's a great cause," Mc-
Givern said. "We want to give
back to the community."
Other prizes include a $50
gift card for the best costume
and a $50 gift card for the or-
ganization that brings the most
supporters, he said.
Organizations can e-mail
Bastian Bockenhuser at
bastiannicolas@ufl.edu to
register.
-LYN KRAMER
DouL deweiry Hall liUlil
523 NW 3rd Ave * Pawn Brokers
371-4367 * 371-GEMS
Aist A N C E RJdWP R 0 J E C T
Finally!
Aprescnption with side efcqyou zont.Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Miss Gainesville pageant
kicks off Saturday
Growing up, Elizabeth
Gonzalez never expected to
compete in beauty pageants.
The 21-year-old from New-
berry said her style was "boy-
ish" during her adolescent
years, preferring jeans and
T-shirts to skirts and stilettos.
But earning the title of Miss
Gainesville would help her do
what she's passionate about:
reaching out to young people.
She and other contestants
of the Miss Gainesville pag-
eant will strut down the stage
to compete for the crown Sat-
urday in the Cofrin Theater at
Oak Hall School at 6 p.m.
"The Miss America Schol-
arship Organization chal-
lenges young women to excel
in all areas of their life, but
most importantly to change
the lives of others by giving
back," Gonzalez said.
Merissa Amkraut, the ex-
ecutive director for this year's
pageant, said between 20 to 25
young women usually com-
pete.
The contestants must have
at least six months of residen-
cy in Gainesville and be avail-
able for rehearsal.
Each year, the pageant nor-
mally consists of a mix of stu-
dents from UF and Santa Fe
College, Amkraut said.
According to the Miss
Gainesville Web site, the Miss
Gainesville Scholarship Pag-
eant is affiliated with the Miss
Florida/Miss America Orga-
nization.
The program provides
more than $45 million in
scholarship annually, accord-
ing to the Web site.
The title holder will ad-
vance to the Miss Florida
Scholarship Pageant.
-DANIELLA DORCELUSNudist group to play vol-
leyball this weekend
While the recent cold weath-
er has encouraged Gainesville
residents to bundle up, there is
one group of students who is
choosing to do the opposite.
The Naturist Gators, a nudist
group which includes UF stu-
dents, is heading to Lutz, Fla.,
near Tampa this weekend for a
nude volleyball tournament.
Daniel Phillips, 24, creator of
the Naturist Gators Facebook
group, will play volleyball with
about 40 nudists during the
ninth annual Super Bowl South
volleyball tournament in Lutz,
Fla., at Lake Como Family Nud-
ist Resort.
The event, which will cost
about $50 for participants and
$6 for attendees with student
IDs, is a spin-off of the Volley-
ball Super Bowl in Pennsylva-
nia, which began in 1971.
Participants will enjoy a
weekend of camping at the re-
sort and playing volleyball in
the buff.
Phillips, a UF advertising ju-
nior, recently started the natur-
ist group as a partner organiza-
tion of Vita Nuda and hopes to
educate others about a naturist
lifestyle.
He wants people to under-
stand some of the misconcep-
tions about naturists.
"We are not exhibitionists,"
he said. "We only get naked
where it is legal and socially ac-
ceptable."
-LAUREN MARKS
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the independent florida
Notioffiiall
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 117 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta @alligatororg
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner,jmisner@alligator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, cti//o@a//igator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Corey McCall, Amanda Milligan,
Emily Morrow, Andrew Pantazi,
Paul Runnestrand, Colin Simmons,
Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator. org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FlIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSI NESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions IncCentral Florida meM rrnot Vli e Croil
Art & drafting -Picture Framing -Printing*
-Copy Center Office Supplies -Furniture *
We carry all the art supplies for you to create a masterpiece.
Then bring it in for custom picture framing
-Final Projects
-Invitations
-Diploma Framing
10 NW 6th Street * Gainesville, FL 32601 # 352-378-2577 s www.cfop.biz
FRIDAY, MARCH 5,2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
A
SATURDAYS& SELECT NIGHTS
NOW THRu APR17
'9I
I
INAa
LI LII 1!l ;II
UNIVERSALORLANDO.COM + 866.PASS.4.FUN 4
4, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, MARCH 5,2010
Dorm timers save water
* USE IS DOWN 3.83 GALLONS.
By NATASHA BETTY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Lather. Rinse. Don't repeat.
The on-campus water conserva-
tion campaign started last year shows
promising results.
Comparing November's water us-
age with last November's amount,
residents of Yulee and Reid halls saved
3.43 gallons of water per resident, per
day. Mallory Hall residents saved 3.39
gallons of water per resident, per day.
Starting this spring, the "Can You
Take a Five-Minute Shower?" water
conservation campaign in Yulee Area
was expanded to the Murphree and
Graham areas. The campaign placed
Shower Coaches, small timing devices,
on the walls of 86 showers in Yulee,
Mallory and Reid as part of a test run
that began Oct. 12 to conserve water on
campus.Combined together, the three dorm
areas have about 3,000 residents, ac-
cording to each area's front desk
clerks.
A five-minute shower uses 12.5 gal-
lons of water, and each additional min-
ute uses 2.5 gallons.
Residents are asked to take shorter,
cooler showers to support water and
energy conservation campus-wide.
"The Shower Coach timers are a fun
way to remind residents
pecia l about water and energyReport conservation while they are
actively using resources,"
said Sharon Blansett, assistant director
of housing at UF, in a press release.
One month after the launch of the
campaign in the Yulee Area, residents
were surveyed concerning their aware-
ness and participation in the campaign.
Of those surveyed, 94 percent reported
awareness of the campaign, 80 percent
reported participating in the campaign
and 43 percent reported using the show-
er timers every time they showered.LOCAL
Tomato shortage hits Fla.
By ANDREW PANTAZI
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jack Frost's prolonged and icy grip
on Florida farms is now reaching into
grocery stores and restaurants across the
country.
With tomato costs surging to near-
ly five times their normal cost after
Florida's harsh winter led to a small-
er crop, restaurants are now finding
ways to conserve the popular food.
"Instead of six slices of tomatoes per
sub, we're now doing four slices per
sub," said Tom Neal, owner of the
Subway at 1005 W University Ave.
Harry Klee, a UF horticulture professor,
said the tomato shortage will not affect
grocery stores as much as restaurants be-
cause the stores will simply charge more
to recover their costs.
"[Restaurants] can't just raise
their prices, so they'll temporar-
ily have to eat their costs," Klee said.
Jay Scott, managing editor for Tomato
Genetics Cooperative, a group of tomato
researchers sponsored by UF's Institute
of Food and Agricultural Sciences, said
although tomatoes could be bred to with-"What happens when there's a
freeze is that people lose a crop.
Then they replant, and the freeze
ends. Everybody replants at
once, so the tomatoes all come
out at once."
Jay Scott
managing editor for Tomato Genetics
Cooperative
stand the winter, it wouldn't be worth it
because Florida isn't likely to have these
extreme temperatures again.
"Working on freeze tolerance would
be difficult and might be really hard to
get the types of horticultural character-
istics that farmers want," said Scott, who
holds a doctorate in horticultural sci-
ence.
For tomato growers, the winter will
continue to hurt even after the freeze.
"You go from a short supply to an
oversupply, and the prices are hurt,"
he said. "It's a double whammy."
Klee expects tomato production to reach
normal standards by mid- to late April.
ALTERNATOR , RTERS & BATTERIES F
$50FF ANY REPAIR OR SERVICE 0 * -t: .i0I,
378-4440Ln 4a--WMndy- hrsa
School Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 1 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.com
I help safe drivers save up to 15%.
Frugality is back. But it's not all bad. Some of us are actually
enjoying the hunt for new ways to save. Here's one: drive safely.
You can save up to 15%. And that's just for starters. Call me first
to get the discounts you deserve.
Eddie Dugger
(352) 375-7511
3720 Nw. 43 St., #100
Gainesville
eddiedugger@allstate.comW44jAIlstate.
You're ingoodhands.
Auto Home Life RetirementThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
alligator and@ II-- lgator~or9
announces the openings for the positions
Editor,
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
AND
Managing Editor/Online,
Paid positions. Unpaid member of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the reception desk
at the entrance of the first floor of The Alligator Building at 1105 W.
University Ave., each weekday between 1-4 pm from now until Monday
March 15th. Please do not call. Further written information is available
at the time an application is picked up. Please allow up to 15 minutes at
that time to read information you will need for the application process.
The application must be returned to the same desk by 4 pm, Tuesday
March 16th. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews and
selections by the Board of Directors will be held at The Alligator offices
in a meeting open to the public beginning at 2 pm, Friday, March 26th.
Applicants must be present at that meeting to be considered. Applicants
must be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will
be given to those who have experience at The Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity EmployerDiscounts are subject to terms, conditions and availab lity Actual savings will vary Allstate Fire and CasualtyInsurance Cornpany, Northbrook, IL 2009 Allstate Insurance Cornpany
FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
ON CAMPUS
Students show off talent at Upward Bound showcase
By ALLYSON FOX
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sixteen-year-old Bianka Sanders
went to the front of the room, placed
her violin on the left side of her chin
and filled the air with music.
But this Eastside High School ju-
nior wants to do more than just play
the violin. She has big dreams.
"I want to go to Princeton andbecome an anesthesiologist," she
said.
Upward Bound at UF, a pro-
gram that helps low-income high
school students prepare for col-
lege, will help Sanders achieve her
dream.
Through Upward Bound, Sand-
ers has gained knowledge about
college and has adapted to new
study habits and work ethics, shesaid.
Doctors, attorneys, professors
and business owners
Local were invited to learn
News more about the partic-
ipants in the program
Thursday night in Dauer Hall.
Barbara McDade Gordon, di-
rector of Upward Bound, said the
event's goal is to showcase the stu-
dents' talents and gain its supportto the community.
"Our kids can learn from them,
and they can share their resources,"
she said.
Upward Bound is funded by the
U.S. Department of Education and
serves the public schools in Alach-
ua and Bradford counties. Partici-
pants in the program take classes
in the fall and spring from 9 a.m. to
1 p.m. on Saturdays. They are alsooffered after-school tutoring and
attend a six-week summer session
where they live on campus.
Participants come from low-in-
come households with parents who
don't have bachelor's degrees when
starting the program, she said.
About 85 to 90 percent of the
students go to college the year af-
ter they graduate, McDade Gordon
said.
SG minority party wins
most seats in 8 years
* IN 2002 THE IGNITE PARTY WON
48 PERCENT OF SENATE SEATS.
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
The Student Alliance party formed this
semester, but it earned more Senate seats
than any minority party participating in
Student Government elections since spring
2002.
The Student Alliance party won 20 out
of the available 49 Senate seats, or about 41
percent of the available seats.
The Unite Party won 28 seats, and the re-
maining dentistry Senate seat went to Dusty
Pfundheller with 76 write-in votes.
In the 2002 spring election, the Ignite Par-
ty, the minority party, won about 48 percent
of Senate seats against the Swamp Party.
Minority parties participating in fall SG
elections during the past 10 years have not
earned more than about 32 percent of Sen-
ate seats.
Ben Cavataro, the former Student Al-
liance party candidate for Student Body
president, said he could think of multiple
reasons for his party's success.
He said the Student Alliance party's
stance on the Reitz Union fee was a major
point that attracted voters, but other plat-
form points, such as setting up free printing
labs in residence halls, were also major sell-
ing points for the party.Sandy Vernon, the SG office manager for
about 27 years, said she thinks the Student
Alliance party did so well in the election
because of all the hard work it put into its
campaigning efforts.
Vernon said she saw a large number of
Student Alliance party volunteers and can-
didates around campus handing out fliers
and speaking with students.
Cavataro said the Student Alliance party
definitely had more resources available dur-
ing this election than other minority parties
in the past five to seven years.
"I think we had a great deal of unity,
which is a sign that the formation of our
party was a success," Ca-
vataro said.
In an interview Mon-
day Cavataro said Tues-
day's Senate meeting,
during which the new
senators were sworn in,
Cavartaro would mark a positive
shift for the university.
Student Body President-elect Ashton
Charles said the success of the minority par-
ty during this past election probably had a
lot to do with students' lack of education on
the Reitz Union fee.
She said she is very proud of the Unite
Party and hopes that the two parties can
work well together in the future.
"I think it's very important to focus on
business within the chambers and leave per-
sonal things outside of it," Charles said.0
Copyrighted MaiSyndicated Contet
Available from Commercial News Providers
4.
-- I_-__
-Saturday&
-Free Beer-
'Fridaysr Live- '-
Beat the Clock
i__- -_ 352-378 __GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF any one GNC Product
Cannot be combined. One Coupon per customer.
3914 SW Archer Rd
DalSec als 37-6 xp33/
Legalize it. Don't criticize it!
Pd. Pol. Adv. approved by Richard Selwach
RichardSelwac
www.selwachformay ,m
ALL WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTERS
ABORTIONS
.Abortion by Pill n's
(RU-486) Ieafth
* Early &Late Term Ceters
Abortions t S
* Morning After Pill
" Birth Control & Gyn Services
" Insurance & Credit Cards Accepted
www.abortiongainesville.com
1135 NW 23rd Ave Suite N
3 5 2 037-9191 -800-869-0440
6, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, MARCH 5,2010
Praise whatever God you do or don't choose to believe
in -it's Spring Break!
We're going to cut to the chase because the only thing
standing between us and one glorious week of freedom is
this week's we-know-none-of-you-are-reading-this-because-
you're-already-off-gallivanting-at-the-beach edition of.
Darts & Laurels
But don't think for a second that just because Spring Break
is here our hearts aren't heavy.
Those filthy thieves who stole our distribution vehicle
have really put a damper on things, and we're holding a
grudge. That's why we're gathering a bunch of DARTS,
welding them to a steel strip to make road spikes and hoping
the dirty Alligator Vandits drive over them (but not with Van
of course).
While we're on the subject of sketchy individuals, the De-
partment of Darts & Laurels would like to shoot out an it's-
all-going-to-come-to-the-surface-eventually DART to the
multitude of UF's secret keepers.
Don't be lulled into a false sense of complacency over
break. We've got reporters working on a story, and we're
going to figure things out -you know what we're talking
about University Police Department.
On a happier note, Sunday marked the end of the 2010
Vancouver Winter Olympics and a very successful run for
Team USA.
Among the gold winners was UF alumnus Steve Mesler,
who helped the four-man bobsled team to its first gold medal
in bobsledding since 1948.
Therefore, we'd like to give a thanks-for-giving-The-Ga-
tor-Nation-one-more-thing-to-brag-about LAUREL to Steve
Mesler.
And just when you thought it was safe to go back to your
pre-SG-elections, pre-Renew-Your-Reitz-hullabaloo life, the
Department of Darts and Laurels is here to show you, well,
it's not.
We're going to hand out two more DARTS before our
break begins.
The first is going to all the whiny individuals who aren't
happy with our coverage of the "SG audio tape scandal."
Well we've got some news for you, just because we had a
fair and unbiased story regarding those tapes doesn't make
us bad journalists.
So stop questioning our integrity, and stop telling us to be
more like the University of Central Florida's paper, whose
headline, "Scandal rocks UF Student Government" is sensa-
tional and untrue.
That's why we're going to throw a round of contrary-to-
popular-belief-we're-not-a-tabloid-and-actually-practice-
ethical-journalism DART to all those SG complainers.
We prefer not to be threatened with lawsuits.
And last, but certainly not least, for the 17 people who are
still in Gainesville the day before Spring Break, (extra-special
condolences to those whose professors sadistically scheduled
an exam today) you might notice that UF pulled another fast
one on us Thursday.
Our beloved Noodle Bar, purveyor of greasy-bottomed,
sauce-saturated noodle bowls and seafood of very question-
able origin, was stricken down in its prime for a younger,
hotter, prettier Panda Express, which UF alleges will be
ready by Summer B.
So, for stripping us of our indie-feeling, sweaty-cook
sauce noodle and sushi bar for a corporate, mass-produced,
sodium-soaked, calorie-crammed, Panda Express, we're
throwing a big it's-not-even-close-to-being-good-enough-
and-we're-still-pissed-about-Wendy's DART to Aramark,
UF's food provider, for not even asking us before pulling the
plug.
And Papa John's? We're not even going to start on that
one.
With that being said, be safe and don't get arrested.
0the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include theauthors name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University A e, or send them to PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.a Iigator.org/opinions
(3 )!T FINE/CAT YOU
Alligator readers quick to attack writers
ou've got to love Monday morning. Most spend theit with a bitter sense of injustice at having to wake
up after a relaxing weekend. I partake in that ac-
tivity with the added sense of injustice at having to go to
Orgo 2. This particluar Monday, however, I was greeted
with a new sense of wrong.
The story began over the weekend when I went home on
a spontaneous decision to visit my family. Sunday morning,
I woke up bright and early at 7 a.m. to watch my beloved
Celtic Football Club take on its bitter rivals the Rangers Foot-
ball Club in what is, without a doubt, the most heated and
intense derby game in all of sports. As a Celtic fan, I've gotten
used to having decisions during the course of the season go
against my team. Celtic is the Irish-Catholic team in Scotland,
a group that is discriminated against to this day in the coun-
try. Rangers is the team of the establishment. A team that'
until recently, had an internal policy at the club to not sign
Catholic players for the team.
Sunday morning was slightly different from any other
Celtic-Rangers game I've seen in recent history, though. The
blatant cheating against my team was increased, believe it or
not, as Rangers players took it upon themselves to kick every
Celtic player off the ball at every opportunity. This came with
little-to-no discipline, and most times a free kick wasn't even
awarded to Celtic. To make matters worse, Scott Brown, the
Celtic's captain, was sent off for inexplicable reasons. Rang-
ers finally scored in the 93rd minute of the game. The goal
came from two players who shouldn't even have been on the
park at the time due to previous bad fouls.
The referee was praised after the game by the biased Scot-
tish media, as Celtic Football Club declared an official appeal
into the red card for Brown.
And then came the later sense of injustice. I've noticed
that on a number of occasions this year, while writing for the
Alligator, my words have been twisted and turned around
on me. Usually, though, af ter hearing a counter-argument tomy piece, I understand where the per-
son came from, and I formulate a new,
bipartisan opinion on my own.
The letters I don't understand are
the ones like the one Frank White, UF
alumnnus, sent Monday. I completely
Paul Mu rty understand if Frank disagreed with
letters@alligator org my view on the Conservative Political
Action Conference. What I can't wrap
my head around is why someone
would take the time to try to make me seem like a bad person
for a throwaway line in my column. The line that Frank was,
in a satirical or serious manner, so incensed over was the fol-
lowing: "And Democrats must call attention to the -let's face
it -crazy groups represented at the CPAC and the seeming
endorsements by the Republican speakers."
I would like to make the following point clear, because it
apparently wasn't clear to some: I am not saying that every-
one at CPAC is mentally ill. I'm saying that what some of the
groups represented at CPAC are saying is crazy.
Far too often, it is evident that Alligator readers are very
quick to attack the person writing the article and not the opin-
ions in the article. There have been letters criticizing what I
have been writing about but offering no specific reason why
Iam, say, "unoriginal."
These letters frustrate the hell out of me because I write
these opinions columns for fun. I genuinely enjoy writing for
the paper. I guess what I'm saying is, if you are going to take
the time to write to the paper about my columns, try to offer
some sort of advice so I can improve my writing.
The point is, whether it is injustice over waking up early
for class, getting cheated in a sport or having your words
misunderstood in a public arena, we all suffer from wrongs.
So thank God it's Spring Break. Have a good one every-
one, and be safe.
Paul Murty is an English sophomore. His columns appear on
Fridays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Thursday's question:
Will you miss Noodle Bar in the Should Senate pass Joe
Reitz Union? Lieberman's bill?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org52% YES
48% NO
29 TOTAL VOTES
FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
UPD had no reason to shoot in-
nocent graduate assistant
I'm a student of Kofi Adu-Brem-
pong's class, Geography of a Chang-
ing World. I just want to say that
there's absolutely no valid reason
for the police to resort to shooting a
handicapped man in the head who
has trouble walking with a cane.
The claim that a group of police-
men wearing protective gear weren't
able to bring down a crippled man
without using assault rifles is sad
proof of how inadequate the Univer-
sity Police Department is. The Alli-
gator article states that Kofi "came at
police with a knife and pipe."
I don't dispute the fact that he
might have had a knife; however,
there is a very high probability that
the pipe was actually his cane. Not
many people have spare pipes lay-
ing around in their apartments. A
police officer who can't distinguish
between a pipe and a cane should
not be armed with an assault rifle.
Throughout the semester, Adu-
SE
S
T
SEE SOPHOMORE
GATOR AFTER --
FRESHMAN 15
S
GA
TH
SEE SENIOR
GATOR READY
TO TAKE ON -*
THE WORLD!Brempong never showed any signs
of being delusional, let alone trou-
bled. Being worried about a student
visa renewal doesn't make a person
delusional. It's a frustrating process
with the ever present fear of being
deported. I know this from personal
experience.
Jeff Holcomb is as quoted say-
ing police didn't know if there was
anyone in a the room. If there was
no one in the room, who was Adu-
Brempong screaming at? I highly
doubt he was screaming at himself,
even if he was delusional. And if he
was yelling on the phone, that's not
a crime.
He was always happy and cheer-
ful. He was a great professor and ac-
tually made the class pretty interest-
ing. Adu-Brempong was the reason I
even took Geography of a Changing
World. When I saw him during of-
fice hours he wasn't any different.
Also, Adu-Brempong has a son
not, a daughter. He's mentioned a
son several times in class.
Shanti Wisniewska
UFstudent
FRESHMAN
GATOR
CARED OF
HE SWAMP
L
EE JUNIOR
TOR AFTER
REE YEARS
AT UF
L$
Through it all, you've been there,
done thatseen it,and even read
about it in
alligator FUS should fight discrimination
know I will probably catch some criticism forwriting about this, but I feel it needs to be said.
Wednesday, Sen. Joe Lieberman introduced
the first "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" repeal bill. Al-
though the bill lacked any Republican support, it
was still a step in the right direction.
Though it's a little late, it's still better than
nothing. According to the Servicemembers Legal
Defense Network Web site, an advocacy group
for LGBT military personnel, more than 13,500
members of our armed forces have been dis-
charged since the ban was passed by Congress in
1993 and enacted in 1994.
Regardless of how people feel about the is-
sue of gay and lesbian Americans serving openly
and honestly in our armed forces, these brave in-
dividuals are risking their lives to fight for you.
Something I and the majority of Americans have
never considered. I am honored by this brave
commitment. To fight for a country that doesn't
want you to be honest about who you are takes
a lot of courage. This type of courage should be
encouraged, not punished.
Around the time of President Barack Obama's
State of the Union, I was talking to a friend about
repealing "Don't Ask, Don't Tell." She thought
it was a great idea but didn't know if it should
17 L~I 17
C)
fmt ke till you Choke 51. Pa.
ilookah Specials s5 Pabst Pitchers
$8.00 per person $2 Well D'ins
Friday and Saturday, 9pm-close ALL.DAY.DAY
7 New Flatscreens for all your sports
352-378-5179 1 120 W. University Ave
GT Motarccwr~
We IL PuKt Vou4 Iack In S5hape-!
Specializing in Collision Repairs
on All Makes
mention this ad oAlMae
and receive
s--- tudent discount 371 0215
33 SE 13th Road
vvwww.GT -motorcars com
What c ors do You bleedP
Blood Drive Challenge
Help us
beat UK
by donating
blood!
Monday, March i- -Friday, March 5
9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
LifeSouth Donor Centers and Bloodmobiles on UF Campus
Join LifeSouth for a competition to see which team can bring
in the most blood donors. Help Florida beat Kentucky on and
off the court.
Donor Center Locations:
North of Campus, 1221 NW i3th Street
West of Campus, 4039 Newberry RoadLIFEso 'uthCommunityBlodCentersNicholas Smith be done just yet because
Speaking Out of hostile actions in the
military. My response: It's
been 17 years. How many
more soldiers have to lose their jobs before they
can do what they love? The simple fact is that we
need brave men and women to serve our country.
Why are we going to get rid of perfectly qualified
candidates?
Lieberman has taken a huge step in repealing
this discriminatory rule -just like former Presi-
dent Truman when he decided to desegregate
the military. He was met with opposition and
skeptics, but look where we are today. The only
difference is that Truman ended this discrimina-
tory practice in 1948 through an executive order
instead of waiting for legislative action. President
Obama has made clear he wants to work with
Congress to end the "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" poli-
cy. This is the president's chance.
We live in the land of the free because of the
brave. But these brave men and women deserve
the same rights as everyone else. The military was
desegregated 62 years ago. I hope to look back 62
years from now and be proud of our elected of-
ficials for fighting discrimination once again.
Nicholas Smith is a UF student.
Gainesville Dojo
Boxing or Kickboxing
Only $85 for all of
March and April
378-3070 536 SW 2nd Ave
Must present coupon.
rI" -1
EXAMS
W 19,1, "' Corner ofI NW 13th St.
& 39th Ave.
Near PublixIEYECARE'
I EXPRESS
L (352)375-6133
Foreign & Domestic
Free Electrical Check
with purchase508uth Ave.
8, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, MARCH 5,2010
COMMUNITY OUTREACH
Student uses Facebook to fundraise for service trip
By CHRISTINA STINE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Wet T-shirt contests. Sandy beaches. Booze.
Community service.
Often when you combine the first three,
you can end up being court mandated to do
the last. But Florida Alternative Breaks has
done it again -broken the stereotypes of the
typical college Spring Break trip by sending
hundreds of students around the nation and
around the world to serve their communities.
With the state of the economy, some stu-
dents have put a creative twist on typical
fundraising techniques like scholarships and
car washes.
Megan Iseman, a UF health science soph-
omore, is going on a FAB trip to Guatemala
with 14 other students to work on poverty and
development issues.To help fund her trip, she turned to Face-
book.
Because Iseman's trip is international, it is
much more expensive than a domestic desti-
nation, and she could only afford half of it on
her own.
She said she didn't want to give up on the
trip because of financial hardships, so she cre-
ated a Facebook group and invited her friends
to donate as much as they could.
Iseman said the fundraising her FAB group
did together, like working concessions at
Gators basketball games and soliciting dona-
tions at Walmart, did not even begin to put a
dent in her expenditures.
Slowly but surely, donations from $1 to $50
began to pour in from friends. Just one month
after creating the Facebook group, she had the
other half of her trip cost covered, collecting
$680 in total."My friends are the reason I am still going
on this trip," Iseman said.
She said the reason she is so passionate
about the alternative break is because of the is-
sue of poverty and development that she will
be addressing, through which she hopes to
make a positive impact on the oppressed na-
tive Mayan people.
"I see it as an awesome opportu-
nity for personal career develop-
ment, community service and a
little relaxation in the Florida sun."
Katie Conlon
UF sophomore
Katie Conlon, another FAB trip sophomore,
chose marine life protection as her issue and
will be spending her Spring Break in Naples,Fla., cleaning beaches and trails, rebuilding
docks and removing invasive plant and ani-
mal species.
Family members and friends helped her
pay for the trip by giving her money for
Christmas.
"My Christmas present definitely didn't fit
under the tree," Conlon said.
Instead of asking for a new iPod, Conlon
asked to spend her Spring Break doing hard
labor while learning more about her major, en-
vironmental science.
"I knew that the fundraising we did
wouldn't cover all of it, and I don't work dur-
ing the school year so I didn't have much to
put towards the trip myself," Conlon said. "I
don't look at it as a sacrifice at all. I see it as
an awesome opportunity for personal career
development, community service and a little
relaxation in the Florida sun."
Thousands rated vendors
* V
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
The Thomas Center has been named one of the country's top 100 wedding locations by The Knot maga-
zine.WEDDING, from page 1
tive reviews from the people who
use us is the most important thing
to us," said Erica Chatman, facilities
coordinator for the Thomas Center.
Thousands of North Florida
brides and grooms were asked to
rate their vendors, from wedding
photographers to bridal salons, ac-
cording to The Knot magazine's
Web site.
Sanchez-Lindsay said the cen-
ter's success probably stems from
its combination of historical beauty
and affordability.
"The building itself has so much
character that it doesn't require a lot
of decorations," she said.
Sanchez-Lindsay, whose father
paid $3,000 to rent four of the Thom-
as Center's rooms for 10 hours, be-
lieves she couldn't have gotten abet-ter deal elsewhere.
"Compared to other venues, I
found that it was a lot more inexpen-
sive," she said.
The Thomas Center, which just
celebrated its 100th birthday this
year, hosts about 60 weddings an-
nually, Chatman said.
It's also used for business meet-
ings and
Spotlight on the workshops,
Swamp conferences,
art gallery
receptions,
plays and other events.
Sanchez-Lindsay said she would
recommend the center to other
brides looking for their own fairy-
tale wedding.
"Anybody can get married at
a hotel," she said. "You can do so
many princess fairy-tale fantasies at
the Thomas Center."
Issuance Scbool
www.hi1datu ker.cc
4040 Newhjnry. Poa
-8-9902
2 ~-
-!
FREERIDr,%E
SURF SHOP
WWW.FRERIDESURFSlORCOM
,420 NW 13TH ST 373-SURF(7873)0 0 C
Due to Spring Break, the Alligator will have the following
advanced deadlines:
Deadline for Tuesday, March 16 paper:
TODAY by 4 pm
Theses deadlines apply to both Display and Classified advertising, as well as all
customers wishing to renew their classified ads March 15 or March 16.
Classifieds 373-FIND Display 376-4482ALILLY PULIZER VIA SH1P
R -
"Look Fit for Spring Break"
SIng Dresses for. Easter -Spring Rush -Graduation
Now Open!
FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 9
SPRING BREAK
More than 100 students to study abroad for break
By GLENN COINE
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF study-abroad students will
be left with little time for a break
this spring while taking weeklong
courses overseas.
When the regular semester gets
put on pause, 113 UF students will
travel to one of five international
destinations, said Angela Grindal, a
study abroad adviser.This year's Spring Break pro-
grams include trips to France, Be-
lize, Belgium, Costa Rica and United
Arab Emirates.
The costs for both undergraduate
and graduate programs, which do
not include airfare or passport ex-
penses, range from $1,200 to $2,264.
The UF International Center
provides financial assistance for
students, said Maureen Turim, the
director of film and media studies in"I heard we won't be in the
classroom hardly at all,
which is pretty exciting."
Chase Den Beste
UF sophomore
the Department of English. Turim is
teaching a film course in Paris dur-
ing the break.
Churchill Roberts, a telecom-munications professor, is teaching
a course about the history of docu-
mentary film in Paris. He said Eu-
rope is expensive, but it is possible
to do the trip on a budget.
Students can eat at all the most
expensive restaurants in Paris, Rob-
erts said, or at the McDonald's on
the Avenue des Champs-Elys6es.
Grindal said weeklong programs
also offer a financial advantage when
compared to longer programs.For Chase Den Beste, a sopho-
more double majoring in telecom-
munication production and theatre,
next week will be his second time
in France but his first visit to Paris.
He said he found out about Roberts'
Paris documentary course during
his advanced writing for electronic
media class with Roberts at UF.
"I heard we won't be in the class-
room hardly at all, which is pretty
exciting," Den Beste said.
Residents react to passed gay-marriage legislation
H IT PASSED IN WASHINGTON, D.C.,
AND MEXICO CITY, MEXICO.
By ANNIE BOGGS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Recent legislation passed in Washington,
D.C., on Wednesday and in Mexico City,
Mexico, on Thursday legalizing gay mar-
riage has received many different reactions in
Gainesville.
* UNIVERSITY OF ST.
F 0 R H E A L T H S
eoi4 y .
41- ow Yeciul.Joe Antonelli, founder and president of the
local lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender
organization Gainesville Community Alli-
ance, said he was pleased with the new laws
in both capital cities.
"In my opinion there should be gay mar-
riage. Period," he said.
However, Antonelli admitted LGBT activ-
ists still have a lot to achieve.
"I've seen great change since the '60s, '70s
and '80s," he said. "But we still have a long
way to go."
AUGUSTINE
C V31E1N1C1E1S1LGBT organizations on campus were also
excited with the news.
"I thought it was awesome they did that.
I'm happy that it passed," said Whitney Blake,
vice president of outreach for
National UF's Pride Student Union.
News Not everyone was as
pleased as Blake.
"Of course I don't agree with it," said Tame-
sha Kirkland, a Gator Christian Life member.
"As of right now, there's nothing I can do but
share the gospel."
WE 9 RIVER
j. d.~bie
SUN-WED 11AM-3AM 672-6111
THURS, FRI & SAT FREE WIFI
IAM-4AM NEXT TO SWEETBAY
WWW.JDOOBIES.COM 34TH ST. PLAZAPerhaps the strongest voice on the issue
in Gaineville was the Dove World Outreach
Center.
"We are opposed to the legalizing of gay
marriage. It is against God and the Bible. The
legalizing of gay marriage puts the stamp
of approval upon it, thus giving it the appear-
ance that it is OK." read a statement released
Thursday by Senior Pastor Terry Jones.
With their new laws, Mexico City and
Washington, D.C., join the five states and sev-
en countries that allow same-sex marriages.
SSoups Salads Sandwiches e Smoothies I
384-9497 2 W University Ave.
BABBERiSHOP
15W. University Ave. -(352) 373-4841
H,,,,: M ~ F -9 .- ~ 6 pm
ww.Drarbershopcom
Join us in beautiful St. Augustine, Florida to learn about how
a career in Physical Therapy or Occupational Therapy could
change your life.
Attend our Open House to meet with the faculty and students
of the University of St. Augustine (USA). View hands-on
demonstrations, learn about the continuously growing
professions of Physical and Occupational Therapy, and take
a tour of our beautiful St. Augustine, FL campus.
USA is a graduate institution that focuses solely on health
science education. It is our mission to provide professional
development to health care providers through innovative and
individualized education. We look forward to meeting you on
campus and sharing with you all that our university has to
offer.
To RSVP, please visit us at www.usa.edu and click on the
"Events" tab. If you have any further questions,
p!epsq call Kelley Hart at (800) 241-1027 ext. 233.6 Gator Women's Tennis
A
10, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, MARCH 5,2010
Breaking Spring Fever
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer
UF's campus is bursting with students
packing up their shades and bathing suits,
eager to hit the beach and make their mark
on Spring Break. However, some Gators
will be left behind, and rather than donning
their swanky swimwear, they'll be sporting
jerseys.
Spring Break is a phenomenon that's for-
eign to UF athletes, as most will be on the
field or in a gym rather than on the sandy
shores of Cabo or some other tropical lo-
cale.
Despite not having any scheduled meets
for the week of March 8, the ladies of the UF
gymnastics team will still be in the all-too-
familiar O'Connell Center while the rest of
campus gets to take a breather.
"What's Spring Break?" UF gymnastics
coach Rhonda Faehn said. "Though the girls
get to relax mentally from their studies, we
are still keeping our goals in sight and
are maintaining focus."
The heaviest part of the gymnas-
tics season is underway, as the Southeast-
ern Conference Championships are right
around the corner on March 27. To prepare,
the gymnasts will put in their usual practice
time on the indigo mats over the break -
three hours per day, five days a week.
"We essentially have the same training
schedule over the course of Spring Break,
but our practice times will be pushed back a
little bit," senior gymnast Courtney Gladys
said. "Instead of hitting the gymnastics stu-
dio at 6:30 a.m., we'll get the opportunity to
sleep in and practice closer to 8:30 am."
And though the gymnasts won't be greet-
ing the sunshine at dawn, they still plan on
taking advantage of the rays when they
aren't busy practicing.
They hope the temperatures will turn
around so they can soak up the sun by relax-
ing poolside at their Gainesville apartment
complexes.
They will also be shining some light on
the community, devoting the little time
off they have toward giving back, usually
through service work at the Ronald McDon-
ald House.
It would be fair for the gymnasts to be
envious of peers boasting about their up-
coming cruises, but surprisingly, their atti-
tudes are quite the contrary -especially the
senior team members."I don't really feel like we are missing
out," senior gymnast Ashley Kerr said. "This
is the seniors' last year in Gainesville. We
really want to work hard for the remaining
time that we do have left, while getting the
chance to hang out with our friends and fel-
low UF athletes that will be here as well."
In Good Company
The members of the gymnastics squad
aren't the only ones stuck in Gainesville for
the break. The UF lacrosse team will host
Georgetown on March 9 and will then leave
for Maryland to face Johns Hopkins on the
March 13.
"[Eighteen] of us are actually from Mary-
land," freshman midfielder Julie Schindel
said. "So it'll be nice to be able to tailgate
with our families before the match."
When not taking part in its games during
the break, the team will still have three-hour
practices all week long, as well as morning
weightlifting sessions.
I define a good vacation as
And with the break from classes result-
ing in a deserted UF campus, attendance for
the home matches during the week is up in
the air.
The Gators drew 2,114 fans, and more
were turned away at the gate for their in-
augural game on Feb. 20, a 16-6 win against
Jacksonville, but they don't expect a similar
turnout during the break.
"Just as the basketball team experiences a
drop in attendance during winter break, we
expect the same to happen to us over Spring
Break," freshman midfielder Caroline Ches-
terman said. "It should be an interesting
turnout, but we can only hope for a large
amount of spectator support."
The Maryland natives on the lacrosse
team won't be able to spend much time in
their home state, but the Californians on the
softball team will get a sweeter deal.
Back, Back to Cali, Cali
The Gators will take their annual trip to
California for the DeMarini Tournament
from March 5-7. Seven UF players call the
Golden State home, so many will get to
squeeze in some family time in the midst oftheir five scheduled games in Fullerton.
"We are all going to eat at my aunt's
house in the mountains of Anaheim," senior
left fielder Francesca Enea said. "Her house
overlooks all of Orange County, and the
view is absolutely gorgeous."
A chef who goes by the title of "Taco
Man" will come in to prepare food for the
team's dinner. And in hopes of viewing
more oddities, some teammates will get to
make the switch from athletes to tourists in
Hollywood for an afternoon.
However, the trip is also about represent-
ing southern softball on the West Coast.
"Play is different on the other coast,"
Enea said. "The teams out west are sup-
posed to be the best. It's imperative for us to
represent the South and make Florida stand
out to them."
For the Gators who've played softball for
the majority of their lives, passing up sand
for the clay on the field is nothing new.
"Growing up playing softball, I never re-
ally got to have a Spring Break," junior Aja
Paculba said. "So by now, I'm used to it."
The softball team will also make a
stop in Athens, Ga., over the break to
face Georgia in a double-header. The
Gators will wrap up the week by taking on
Ole Miss at home, racking up a staggering
10 games during Spring Break.
The Final Lap
Athletes view Spring Break as a major
advantage, as the halt in classes allows an
opportunity for more training time. Such
training is especially crucial for UF's track
and field teams as they prep for the NCAA
Indoor Championships on March 12-13.
The teams will compete in "Last Chance
Meets" over the Spring Break period, which
will be the final opportunity for individuals
to qualify for the NCAA Championships.
"Now is the time to really pump our in-
tensity up," sophomore jumper Christian
Taylor said. "It is time for us to take care of
business".
The track team will be spread all over the
map, competing in meets in Arkansas, Vir-
ginia and Indiana throughout the week.
And those trips will be enough to satisfy
the athletes' need for a spring escape from
Gainesville.
"I define a good vacation as being able to
compete," sophomore decathlete Gray Horn
said. "We wouldn't be out here if we didn't
thoroughly enjoy it."9th Tuesday
* Baseball: vs. Illinois State, 6:30 p.m.
* Lacrosse: vs. Georgetown, 6:30 p.m.
lath Wednesday
* Softball: at Georgia, 3 p.m., 5:30 p.m.
* Women's Tennis: vs. North Carolina, 5
p.m.
* Baseball: vs. Illinois State, 6:30 p.m.
11t Thursday
* Men's Basketball: Southeastern
Conference Tournament, TBA
12t Friday
* Men's Golf: Las Vegas Intercollegiate
* Swimming and Diving: NCAA Zone Diving
Championships (Atlanta)
* Track and Field: NCAA Indoor
Championships (Fayetteville, Ark.)
* Men's Tennis: vs. Auburn, 3 p.m.
* Women's Tennis: at Auburn, 3:30 p.m.
* Baseball: vs. Charleston Southern, 6:30
p.m.
13th Saturday
* Men's Golf: Las Vegas Intercollegiate
* Lacrosse: at Johns Hopkins, 1 p.m.
* Softball: vs. Ole Miss, 1 p.m., 3:30 p.m.
* Baseball: vs. Charleston Southern, 4 p.m.
14t Sunday
* Men's Golf: Las Vegas Intercollegiate
* Softball: vs. Ole Miss, 12 p.m.
* Baseball: vs. Charleston Southern, 1 p.m.
* Men's Tennis: vs. Alabama, 1 p.m.
* Women's Tennis: at Alabama, 2 p.m.
Erica Ervin / Alligator Staff
'Delicious fo d .M a vsrDswu' sd MaC's Auto Repair Shop
Snacks and Beer 635 NW I 3th Street #1
ban Sand ches, Plates, Pastries coffee, and more!(352) 375-3334
Downtown Across Itomn 8 sec,371-2000-' next to Durty Nelly's
-. 0I
352.
3 2371.
4644
I/2 Off Pool for Students
Everyday Until 9:00
Monday Night
Beer Pong Tournament
$100 Grand Prize
Every Tuesday & Wednesday
Pool League
Daily Drink Specials
Best Place to
Play Pool in Town! 16oMetI Al Getflb %7eL X LUr4 VeCfl"tfle Ch fleUJeS&
Out By ASE Certified Technicians
L 1 ires Iransmissicin 'epair _1
We will match or beat any written estimate for repair
Monday -Friday 7am-Spm
Saturday -8am-l2pm
100/oOFFi
with ad on service work
Li ---MV 79901--_4-
ME AND ORSON WELLS
"A little velvet sack of diamonds a sparkling love letter to a gigantic
Cin em a Today at 6 :30 & 9:0pmr / Sat 4 s5,645 & 9:i5pm / Sn at 2:00 & 4:30pm
Tickets and Information 352-375-HIPP I THEHIPPORG
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
Reduced Summer Rates!
4/4s & 2/2s from $399 to $519
All-inclusive, Roommate Matching
GainesvillePlace.com*352-271-3131
4-21-71-1
FULLY LOADED @ $399
Individual w/free roommate matching
Cable, Internet and utilities
Pick New 42" TV or Sofa Set
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, University Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1
Experience Why We
Define the Good Life
2/2*4/4*All Inclusive
Filling Fast for Fall!
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST Townhouse near UF,
Shands, shopping; easy access. 2BR/2.5BA
greatfor student/family. Only $750/mo; short-
term lease available. Renovated & ready! Ed
305-972-6432 3-24-10-85-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. 239-250-6149 3-19-10-45-1
LUXURY 2STORY TOWNHS. 2B/2.5Ba
FULLY FURN. 2 min to UF, Great bus routes
& parking, Pool/gym, Free wifi, All utils incl.
Both rooms avail June 1st or later, Individual
Leases $540/$520 Martha 786 246-3049
3-5-29-14/4 COUNTRYSIDE APTS. Spacious 4 bed-
room close to UF! Close to major shopping
areas and located on 3 bus routes that go to
center of UF. Every room has full bathroom
& large walk-in closets. Entire place is fur-
nished. High efficiency W/D. Rent is $400/
room/month. Utilities included! SD $200.
Available June or August. Call (305) 799-
7042 3-25-30-1
IMMEDIATE/SUMMER AVAILABILITY
2,3 and 4 bedroom suites
STARTING @ 349
All inclusive, fully furnished
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 373.9009
4-21-10-30-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
2/2*3/3*4/4
Experience the Good Life
Text "Enclave" to 47464
4-21-09-71-1
ADORABLE VINTAGE HOMES 2BR/1BA.
Minutes from UF. Wood floors, stone tile, util-
ity room. Cats ok. $625, first, last, $200 sec.
352-256-0999 3-16-10-10-1
>2 FULLY FURNISHED BEDROOMS<
Each with private bath in 4/4 Oxford Terrace
11. Located 3 blocks from campus on sorority
row bus route. $575/month & parking avail-
able. Call (305) 747-1532. 3-16-10-10-1
1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $400/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished +
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 3-17-10-26-1
Summer Sublease
Private Bedroom and Bathroom furnished
Oxford Terrace 11
-walking distance to campus and across the
street from sorority row bus stop
Dates: May 3- August 3
Cost: 575/month
If interested e-mail: ccally@ufl.edu or call
(985) 264-1691 3-19-1 -1
$600/month Room for rent in 3/2.5 town-
house. 1.5 miles to UF and on 2 bus
routes. Fully furnished with W/D. Digital
cable/internet & utilities inclu. Avail. May 15.
(772)633-6687 3-16-10-5-1
Spacious 4/4 fully furnished condo available
in SW G'ville area 5 minutes to UF! Indiv.
leases, $375/room/mo. On 3 bus routes
and close to major shopping/food areas.
Utilities incl. up to $200/mo. $200 SD. Avail.
immediately/summer/fall. (352) 262-0628
3-31-10-16-1
2BR/2BA Condo at University Commons
East (1 mile from UF) Great price $300
per Month. Includes Washer/Dryer, wood
floors, walk-in closets, fully furnished. Email
fa_alfaro@yahoo.com or call 407-844-8641.
3-16-5-1
2 Blocks to UF $290/mo
Furnished bedroom in 4BD condo.
Rent includes utils, cable TV & internet.
378-4626 / 262-4290 4-21-10-31-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901 4-21-
10-71-2*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
THIS FALL LIVE DOWNTOWN!
Live where you play, love where you live
Studios*Ones*Twos*Threes
Big city living without the big city price
Limited availability! 352-338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
AFFORDABLE RATES! QUIET COMMUNITY!
www.frederickgardens.com
1 BR/1 BA $469 * 2BR/1 BA $569
Great Move-In Fee Specials!!!
Adopted pets live free!! 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec- ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOWor FALL 2010.
2/2 from $999 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$699 2/2-$799 3/2-$899
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464
4-21-71-2
*THE POLOSO
Already have your roommates?
ALL utilities Included
2's: From $479/person; 3's: From $399/person
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 *Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
HUGE FLOORPLANS!
1 Bed-$589*2Bed-$719
Tennis*Pool*Basketball
FREE Personal Trainer!
Great School Districts!*332-7401
4-21-71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255
4-21-09-71-2
SORORITY ROW 2BR
2BR/2.5BA for $1199
W/D & utils included. We <3 pets!
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-20 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $505 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Cable, Internet and Utilities
$394
42" Flat Screen- Ask how!
GainesvillePlace.com*352-271-3131
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
.IBR 1 Mo free 2BR 2 Mo free
if everyone is full time undergrad at UF.
3 Mo free if full time grad at UF.
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
*1BR/1BA $425
* 2BR $450-$600 -W/D ind
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
12, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, MARCH 5,2010
SRent M-For Rent For Rent W For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 3-5-10-85-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -WE'VE GOT IT ALL!
1/1 from $589 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis*1 mile to UF*Huge Laundry Facilities
377-7401 * www.biketouf.com
4-21-09-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $540;
1BR $465. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $490;
2BR $590 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 3-19-10-45-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
4 1- NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-21-65-2
* One Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1 bedroom from *$457 2 bedroom from *$558
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 bedroom 1 bath from *$549
2 bedroom 2 bath from *$641
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Additional $200 off next month
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 *$549
*Rate includes One Month Free!
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
3-18-10-40-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
GOT ROACHES?
Buy Harris Famous Roach Tablets.
Guaranteed to kill. Available at: Zells
Hardware, 3727 West University 3-17-10-
35-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Clean modern
4BR/2BA (accessable from all BRs) house.
fenced backyard, pets ok, fireplace, W/D
provided, wooded pvt big yard. $1425/mo,
cent H/AC. 2606 NW 34th St. 352-339-2342
3-5-10-25-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 3-5-10-25-2
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 2 bd/ 1 ba
Hardwood floors, must see
$900/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Large 5 Bedrm House**
1 full & 3-1/2 baths
Plant Atriums, Unique floorplan, W/D
Plenty of Parking, 8 blocks N of UF
$2,500/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Great Parking! Walk to UF! 4BD/4.5 BA
Located near SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St.
Call today to view @ 352.373.7578
Union Properties www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-23 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
NEWLY REMODELED
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer cl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
3-31-36-2
$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1BA
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands.
W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500sec., $495/
month. 3120 SW 26th Way Unit A. 562-2782
or 514-6869 if interested. 3-16-25-2
2BR/1 BA cent heat mobile home.
Shady lot. From $300 -$450/mo
First month half price incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887 3-31-36-2
705 NW 10th Avenue <9Blks from UF
3BR/1 BA, 8rooms + 400 sq.ft.porch, Central
A/C, W/D, $1,250 + util. Avail. Aug. 275-
1259, ATucker458@aol.com 4-2-10-37-2
**MUST SEE -IN-LAW SUITE**
1BR full BA, living room, dining room, full
kitchen. w/cable & W/D. Inc all utils. Near
Haile. Quiet. $750/mo. Call 352-367-0372
3-5-1-21-2
10houses.com
3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$1000 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
3-5-10-20-2
WALK ONE BLOCK TO CAMPUS!
1, 2, 3, and 4 BR units available now and
for Fall 2010. Locations between SW 1st
ave, SW 5th ave & SW 12th St. Call Kinetic
Properties at 352-337-9600 (no dogs please)
3-19-10-25-2
4Br/3Ba Large Home w/ 2 car gar, 8 min from
UF, large fenced yard, dogs ok. Exquisite
oaks & landscaping, wood & tile floors, new
appliances. $1,600/mo. 352-466-0358. Avail
summer or Aug. 3120 NW 31st Blvd. 3-5-
10-20-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 3-5-
10-20-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 3-22-
10-25-2Baxter Cottage 2 blks to UF campus, 1013
SW 4 Ave 2BR/1 BA, Bright, clean, complete-
ly remodeled, 500 sq ft, Cent AC/Ht,wood
firs, DW, W/D, NS, NPets. $450+util. Lease
runs thru 7/1/10 ATucker458@aol.com 4-2-
10-33-2
$650, 2 bdrms, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet
school & campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furnished; Parking; 352
376 0080; 352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
3-5-10-17-2
2BR/2.5BA townhouse condo, 1 mi from
UF on bus route. Inc W/D, community club-
house, pool & fitness center. Wired for inter-
net & security sys. $878/mo. Avail 5/1 or 8/1.
Call/text 332-8841 lindalu@gatorhomes.com
3-22-10-20-2
*THE POLOSO
"You want it, We got it!"
#1 in Amenities
2/2's: From $799; 3/3's: From $979
Includes FREE Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-21-10-42-2
Amazing 4/4 house Fall-walk to UF or Law
Sch.-on bus line 2 blocks north of university.
Huge bedrms-new paint, c/air, high ceilings,
Ig home. Need 2 roommates @ $575/each
Can email pics-954-270-4000 3-15-10-14-
2
2BR HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area. Wood floors, new kitchen
vinyl, Cent H/AC, DW, fenced yard, wood
deck, parking, $1080/mo. Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 3-17-
10-15-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2BLKS to UF -Sorority
Row/Norman Hall area. W/D, ice maker, ce-
ramic tile. Cent H/AC, DW, parking, fenced
yard. $1545/mo. Pets extra? Avail Aug 16. 1
yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg 3-17-10-15-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA 2BLKS to UF -Sorority Row/
Norman Hall area, remodeled baths, new:
stove, DW, disposal & AC, W/D, wd firs. cent
H/AC, parking. $2400/mo Pets extra? Avail
Aug 16. 1 yr lease. 665-8166 lv mssg
3-17-10-15-2
2 Bd,1.5 Ba,1200 sq ft townhouse in the
heart of the Historic Duckpond. Tile, french
doors,hardwood fls,DW.Amazing location,
blocks to downtown.379-4952 $895mo 508
NE 4th ave. avail now 3-5-10-10-2
Large 4BD/2BA home with D/W, W/D, Tile &
Wood flooring. 1 block from Newberry Rd &
Royal Park Plaza, 1 mile from UF. Available
now! $1500/mo + utils. 3806 SW 2nd Ave.
(407) 363- 7198 or cell (407) 234-1380
3-16-10-11-2
Houses Available for Fall!
2631 NW 1st Ave -$1845
402 NW 36th -$1425
315 NW 17th St. -$875
4 NW 25th St -$1499
717 NW 34th St -$1320
FREE UF Parking!
352.371.7777
4-21-71-2
DOWNTOWN 414 SE 2nd St 2BR/1BA
DUPLEX apt w/loft, central heat, window air,
off-street parking, convenient access to ev-
erything. $630/mo, 1st, last, $600 dep. Call
352-373-6551 3-16-10-2
3 br/1ba house near corner sw 34 st & nw 8
av separate dining & living areas, new kitch-
en, carport, wd/hook up, storage shed, front
lawn and fenced back yard. Water included
in rent. $945/mo -call 258-4184 3-26-18-2
APTS and HOMES for rent near UF!
Avail Summer and Fall, visit our website at
merrillmanagement.net or
Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494 x10
3-30-10-19-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue. St. Croix Apts
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-22BR 1BA, Wood Floors, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 or tazzie2l@bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
3BR 1.5 BA Home off NW 16th
Ave. Tile Floors, Laundry Hkups,
Central H & Air. $750/Mo
319 NW 16th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie2l @bellsouth.net
3-30-10-19-2
*2BR HOUSE 611 NW 34th Ave. Cent A/C,
wood floors, close to UF. Flex lease. $625/
mo. Avail now. *1BR huge, close to UF,
SFC busline. Water included 352-318-8822
3-16-10-9-2
Short Term Lease Thru 7/31
ibdrm in Historic Mansion OR
3bdrm/2bath Condo
Close to Campus. $350 obo
Contact: Eric 352.682.7424 3-5-10-6-2
***HOUSE 4BR/2BA***
Available 8/1. Lovely, remodeled. W/D. Bike
to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. $1400/
mo. 373-1558, 246-8645, or 256-8370 3-16-
10-8-2
Hidden gem 2/2 walk to shands/VA
just renovated/wood floor/new paint
w/d pool balcony free parking,water
REDUCED $850/mo.352-281-0733
thuycarroll@yahoo.com 3-25-10-15-2
2BR/1.5BA upstairs/downstairs. Half carpet,
half tile. Pet friendly. Close to Bus routes 9,
34, and 36. $625/mo 352-275-4889 3-19-
10-11-2
$199 Move-In Special
$500-$700 2BR/1BA
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or 352-505-9264 4-16-10-
30-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $700/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220. (leave
a voicemail) 3-31-17-2
Available now. HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo. All
4BR/2BA $1100/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183
3-22-10-10-2
5 BEDROOM HOUSE
Walk to Class, Right Across from the
football stadium, $530 per room, please call
John @ 561-866-8234 for additional info
3-5-10-4-2
Like Rural Living? Horses? Barn
Eff Apt, Stalls Avail, Loft Bed
W/D provided, Pets OK, 15 Ac
Jonesville, $400 Apt, $150/Stall
Whole Oper $1350 954-292-2244
3-1 8-1 0-7-2
Spacious 1 BR apt for rent.
1 BR/1 BA apt near Oaks Mall.
Walk to mall, restaurant and coffee shops.
New appliances. Call 352-258-4695 3-16-
10-5-2
CHARMING 3BR/2BA HOUSE
Walk to UF. Near law school. Small pet ok.
No smoking. Available for fall. Want $1295/
mo. OPEN HOUSE MARCH 20, 11am -
2pm. 352-371-0601 3-19-10-6-2
Brick home for rent in Newberry. 3 br, 2 bath.
Tile/carpeted flooring, refrigerator, stove,
microwave, ceiling fans. 2 car garage, great
neighborhood & Schools. 407-864-2104
3-5-10-1-2
FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 13
subleases fmes Roommates Real Estate Furnishings
Short Term Lease Thru 7/31
lbdrm in Historic Mansion OR
3bdrm/2bath Condo
Close to Campus. $350 obo
Contact: Eric 352.682.7424 3-5-10-6-3
2b/2b available for immediate sub-lease,
Cobblestone townhouse, 1270 sq ft, free
cable, 24 hr fitness ctr, free wireless at pool,
free unlimited tanning, only 5 mths left in
lease. Originally $1000 mth, March already
pd, will discount to $900 for remaining 4
mths. call 352-514-5904 3-15-10-7-3
$575/mo OBO furnished/unfurnished 1/1
directly behind Midtown at College Park.
Walking distance to UF. Parking includ-
ed. Female or male. Call 305-587-1122
3-26-10-3
IVE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Your roommate hasn't done the dishes in
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the
Alligator Classifieds.Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES
IN FURN 4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF.
$290/mo incl elec, cable tv, internet, pool,
laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626
4-21-09-71-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
3-19-10-38-4
Buy 1 Swamp
IN- J Dessert and Get
the Second Free
T H E S W A M P R E S T A U R A N I With coupon. Exp 3/26/10
m6
Copyrighted Mat
Syndicated Con
Available from Commercial
U, U
op,
.3'
tF
I-m
.3Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
3-26-10-35-4
Looking for roommate to share 2/2 at
Lakewood Villas. $525 per month with inter-
net/full digital cable/utilities included. On bus
route. 850-585-4405. 3-5-10-13-4
Female wanted to share new 3BR/3BA home
near campus(SW area)2400sf. On bus route.
Washer & dryer included. Furnished, except
your bedroom. $395 plus utilities. Serious,
non-smoking students only. 813-610-1698
3-18-10-4
STUDENT NEEDED
New townhome, W/D, clubhouse, pool, gat-
ed, packing, bus route. $350 + utilities. 727-
729-1561 3-31-19-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room -utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Bball, pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd FIr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, or 352-636-4814 3-31-10-18-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsNA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$350/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220
(leave a voicemail.) 3-31-17-4.
$350 Room 4 Rent!
FEMALE ONLY! Available now in 2BR apt!
Rent (incl water) +1/2 utils. (786) 797-1377
3-16-5-4
3 Female Roommates needed beginning
summer A, 375+utilities, 4/4 condo, walk in
closets, pool +hot tub, fitness center, on bus
route, Countryside Apts. washer and dryer.
561-719-5558 3-19-10-7-4
Real Estate
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Campus Edge / Somerest VillageWalk to
Shands/VA/class 2units, 2bd/2ba vault-
ed ceilings 2nd/3rd floor w/d in unit,best
locations parking. $8,000 tax credit.
$164,900/$132,900. Move in Ready 954-
439-2301 stedel@bellsouth.net 4-21-10-
41-5
Large 4BD/3BA home 1 block from Newberry
Rd & Royal Park Plaza, 1 mile from UF.
Ind separate in-law apartment, wood &
tile floors. 3806 SW 2nd Ave $249,000
Call (407) 363-7198 or cell (407) 234-1380
3-16-10-11-5
GAINESVILLE $199,000
3BR/2.5BA, large yard
Double (+) garage
3794 SW 56th Rd.
352-494-8848 3-22-10-10-5PRIME REAL ESTATE AUCTION. 194+/-
Acres. April 3rd. Oconee County near
Westminster, SC. Approximately 20 miles
East of Clemson, SC. (800)442-7906 www.
rogersrealty.com SCAL#1874. 3-5-5-1
2BR/2BA Home For Sale. Must See! 1800
sqft, 2 car garage, block from US Hwy 44,
neareverything. Citrus County, FL.$125,000.
Call (352)637-1242. 3-5-5-1
Central Florida 1.4 acres, 3 adjoining lots.
High ridge of rich topsoil. Great Location in
Citrus County, FL. $84,000. Call (352)637-
1242. 3-5-5-1
2 Mobile Homes For Sale, 1 in Inglis, FL
($59,000) and 1 in central location just off of
SR200 near Hernando, FL ($39,000). Each
1+ acre lot, excellent location. Call (352)637-
1242. 3-5-5-1
TEXAS LAND FORECLOSURES! 20 &
40 acre tracts. Near Growing El Paso. No
Credit Checks/Owner Financing Money
Back Guarantee 0 Down. Take Over $159/
mo. (800)843-7537 www.sunsetranches.
com. 3-5-5-1
Taylor Co., GA 223 AC -$995/AC Great
hunting tract in an excellent hunting area!
(478)987-9700 St. Regis Paper Co. 3-5-
5-1
UPSTATE NY -BANK SAYS SELL! 10
acres $24,900! Borders State Land. Stream,
woods, fields, great valley views! Must sell
to avoid repo! Hurry! (888)464-9551. www.
NewYorkLandandLakes.com. 3-5-5-1
LAKE LOT SALE! 5 acres only $24,900 in-
cludes FREE BOAT SLIPS! (was $59,900)
Sale March 6th! Beautiful mix of woods/
meadows- walk to private fishing lake. Quiet
country road, utilities, warranty deed. Low
financing. Call now (888)792-5253, x.3427.
3-5-5-1
LAND OR DEVELOPMENTS WANTED. We
buy or market development lots. Mountain or
Waterfront Communities in NC, SC, VA, TN,
AL, GA, FL. Call (800)455-1981, Ext.1034.
3-5-5-1
-Furnishing I
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
W -computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
OCERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECHO
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
3-31-10-52-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
L For Sale
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
GIGANTIC 3-DAY AUCTION March 10, 11,
12, 2010 Montgomery, Alabama. Crawler
Tractors & Loaders, Hydraulic Excavators,
Compactors, Articulating Dumps, Motor
Scrapers & Graders, Loader Backhoes,
Rubber Tired Loaders, Environmental
Grinding Equipment, Hydraulic Cranes,
Forklifts, Trenchers, Paving & Compaction,
Service & Water Trucks, Rollers, Tri,
Tandem & Single Axle Dumps, Flatbeds,
Truck Tractors, Live Bottom & Dump Trailers,
Lowboys, Skidders, Feller Bunchers, Log
Loaders & Trailers, Farm Tractors. For
Details Visit WWW.JMWOOD.COM J.M.
Wood Auction Company, Inc. Bryant Wood
AL Lic#1137 3-5-1-10
ALL CASH VENDING! Do you earn $800 in a
day? 25 Local Machines and Candy $9,995.
(888)629-9968 B02000033 CALL US: We
will not be undersold! 3-5-1-10
Premium cigarettes for 83 cents a pack! Roll
a pack of premium cigs in two minutes with
our new automated tabletop rolling machine.
www.smokesmoke.com or (503)713-3051
3-5-1-10BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC Bicycles
Pillow-top mattress & box Name brand OSell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4erial V Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
tent AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.News Providers Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
14, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, MARCH 5,2010
For Sale Autos Wanted Help Wanted Help Wanted
Backyard Fun! Pools create generations of
memories everyday, vacations never end!
Simple DIY pool kits and pool accessories
on sale. Visit FamilyPoolFun.com or call
(800)950-2210 3-5-1-10
AUCTION: All New Furniture, Artwork, IT
Equipment and More to be Sold, Regardless
of Price. BIDDING ENDS MARCH 9. 15%
B.P. www.tarbid.com or call (877)824-7653.
Lic. #AU707 3-5-1-10
Motorcycle, MopedS
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
*www.BuLyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
S AutosP
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
3-31-09-103-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-1292 Chevy Camero $999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
96 Chevy Blazer $1999 cash
97 Plymouth Voyager $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699 cash
94 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Kia Sephia $999
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1999
97 Olds Delta 88 $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
98 Ford Explorer $1900
97 Mits Diamonte $1999
98 Ford Contour $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
94 Nissan Altima $1999
98 Pontiac Transport $1999
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Chevy Malibu $1999
95 Chrysler LHS $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
02 Kia Rio $3900
03 Buick Century $4900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k, $8999CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k, $6999 CASH
2000 Ford Mustang, 111k, $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Ford Escape, 95k, $6999 CASH
2000 GMC Sierra, 166k, $5999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k, $5999 CASH
2007 lsuzu Trooper290 Truck, 46k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Dodge Stratus, 78k, $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
W IWantedZ
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948. 3-15-10-72-13LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 3-15-
10-72-13
OSOSOPERATION CATNIPOOSO
Many needs and opportunities can be found
at www.nmhp.net. Feral cat capture, spay-
ing, volunteering, office work earn Disney
Tix, etc. Email: operationcatnip@nmhp.net
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
LATE NIGHT DRIVERS
$15-$17/hr 10pm -4am.
Apply @ gatordominos.com 4-21-10-60-14
Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have a fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
r
L kt>1,
CaU Ita tfles rep todayOSOATTENTION SMOKERS!@@
SODo you want to quit smoking?00
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking
cessation study. You may be compensated.
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic 328-6603 or
email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com 3-15-
20-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable.
Writing skills a must, accounting skills a plus.
Call Carrillo & Carrillo @ 352-371-4000.
3-29-10-20-14
HIRING STYLIST AND NAIL TECHS!!!
LOCATION: THE SALON 0" EXPERIENCE;
ON NW 6TH ST GAINESVILLE, FL 32609.
50% COMMISSION OR RENTAL IF
DESIRED. CONTACT SALON MANAGER
MRS. CAROYLN 0 AT 352-284-1320 OR
352-672-6339. 4-1-23-14
SPA COORDINATOR NEEDED.
Must be available spring break. Call 352-562-
4610 to set up an interview. 3-5-10-7-14
Web company seeks Office Manager for
administrative, accounting, general of-
fice tasks. Must be computer + internet
savvy. QuickBooks exp a +. Resume to
GnvWebCo gmail.com 3-17-10-10-14
HOUSEKEEPING -CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available
Mon-Fri, 10am -5pm. $7.25/hr, experience
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323
for more info and interview. 3-5-10-6-14
Sales rep for Internet finance company.
Must be able to work independently & meet
deadlines. Strong attention to detail, organi-
zational, & research skills are a must. Sales
exp is helpful. Salary starts at $24k/year +
commission. Excellent earning potential
for motivated individuals. Email resume to
jobs@nationaltechmark.com or fax to 1-866-
728-4579. Put "Financial Sales" in subject
line. 3-18-10-10-14
F/T sales associate wanted for specialty run-
ning store. Enthusiastic personality with pas-
sion for running preferred. Please email re-
sume to mike@runningandwalkingstore.com
3-5-10-5-14
GENERAL HELP WANTED!
Mon-Fri, 10am -5pm. starting $8/hr
No experience required. Apply in person at
1031 NW 6th St. Suite A-3. Contact number
352-379-2812 3-17-5-14
allIatrStjl~lent Liv16 Guide
Spirin6 2010
By advertising in the
Student Living Guide,
you will YeaCh over
50,000 readers who
are looking for new
apartments, condos,
furniture, appliances,
household items and
more!
FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
ZHelp Wanted Services services Services Event Notices
BARTENDERS OPENINGS
Earn $150-250/day. No exp required. Will
train. Call now 352-678-5246 3-17-10-5-14
PSYCH MAJORS WANTED
Full or part time. Good pay.
352-337-8333 3-5-2-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT
Need help -Spring Break -40 hrs. Clerical
work, proficient Word, Excel. Email ASAP
sival950@yahoo.com 3-15-10-2-14
LEASING AGENT FT
Friendly, energetic person. Experience
preferred. Hourly & bonus. Great benefits.
Must be avail. weekends. Apply in person.
Spyglass or Hunters Crossing Apts. DFWP
4-21-10-29-14
Need Help during Spring Break. One seri-
ous hardworking and trustworthy UF student.
Gen or const labor, exp w/electrical & plumb-
ing, carpentry, chainsaw & heavy lifting. PT
flex hrs. $7-7.50/hr. 327-2931 or 376-6183
3-5-1-14
Heating/Air Tech Training. 3 week accelerat-
ed program. Hands on environment. State of
Art Lab. Nationwide certifications and Local
Job Placement Assistance! CALL NOW:
(877)994-9904. 3-5-1-14
Drivers -FOOD TANKER DRIVERS
NEEDED OTR positions available NOW!
CDL-A w/Tanker REQ'D. Outstanding pay
& Benefits! TEAMS WELCOME!! Call a re-
cruiter TODAY! (877)484-3042 www.oak-
leytransport.com 3-5-1-14IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-
15Local Immigration Attorney -Marriage
Green Cards/Fiance Visas/Naturalization
Matters -$295.00 Attorney Fees Plus Costs
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
6-1-45-15
Horseback Trail Rides
with gentle horses, eco-tours,
mule-drawn hay rides, bonfire parties
safe and fun. 352-682-4192
3-5-5-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 3-16-
10-15
ANY JOBS -LARGE OR SMALL
JC Landscaping & Janitorial
Landscaping, Hauling, Inside/Outside
Cleaning, Power Washing.
Call 224-5693 or 303-9831 3-15-10-5-15
Advertising that Works. Put your ad in Over
100 Papers throughout Florida for one LOW
RATE! Call (866)742-1373 or visit: www.
florida-classifieds.com 3-5-1-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging?
Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low
rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today!
Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 3-5-1-15
W6z % Guide
New Life Community
Chapel
Westside Park Rec. Center
Sunday at 10:30 AM
www.newlifecommunitychapel.org
phone: (352) 214-4462
Creekside Community
Church
Sunday Worship at 10:30am
College Large Group at 7:00pm
at the Christian Study Center
Visit www.creeksidecc.org
for more information
Islamic Center
of Gainesville
All Day Prayers
Friday Prayers @ 1:30pm
Quran and Arabic Classes
Available Phone: 352-372-1980
1010 W. University Ave
www.lCGMembers.org
For more information
contact Patrick Wilson,
Alligator Advertising,
at 376.4482.Chabad Lubavitch
Jewish Student Center
-Your home away from home.
-Friday Night Live!
-Services & Shabbat Dinner.
-7:30pm ALL SPRING
-352-336-5877; 2021 NW 5th Ave.
-(5 blocks north of the stadium)
-www.JewishGator.com
Trinity Metropolitan
Community Church
Offering truely open and GLBTS?
inclusive Christian worship.
Sunday Worship, 10:15a.m.
11604 SW Archer Road
For info: mccgainesville.org
Or call: (352) 495-3378
"Tearing Down Walls; Building
Up Hope"
University City Church of
Christ
Gators for Christ campus ministry
college group meets at
University City church on Sundays
at 9:30am and Wednesdays at
7pm -practical application from
God's word, plus service projects,
large group events, free meals,
and much more. (directions and
events calendar at
www.gatorsforchrsist.org)Faith Presbyterian Church
lOam Worship -Lunch Following
9am Sunday School
5916 NW 39th Avenue
Phone: 352-377-5482
www.fpc-gnv.org
First Presbyterian Church
www.1stpc.org
Sunday Worship:
Early service-8:30am Chapel,
Worship-I 0:55am Sanctuary
College Ministry:
College Caf6-Following 10:55am
worship service. Free home-
cooked meal.
Trajectory-Wednesday night
8 pm. Discipleship studies,
Recreational activities,
Missions and Evangelism.
"Set the Trajectory of your life
on Christ"
Unitarian Universalist
Fellowship
Imagine a religion embracing
many different beliefs.
including yours.
Join us on Sunday at 11 AM
4224 NW 34th St.
Info: 377-1 669
or www.uufg.org
and Facebook, Twitter, YouTubeAIRLINES ARE HIRING -Train for high
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA
approved program. Financial aid if qualified -
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of
Maintenance (888)349-5387. 3-5-1-15
3 Health Services 9Book reading and signing by Fred Malphurs,
retired CEO, of the North Florida/South
Georgia Veterans Health System. Fred's
internet radio show, Adventures in
Healthcare will also be discussed.
His books: MY Life in the VA, Meanie
Mouse verus the Orlando Operators and
Mexia. At the Thomas Center,
March 10, 5:30 to 8:30 pm
3-5-10-8-20
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING EntertainmentAlachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
Grieving the loss of someone?
National Students of AMF
Join our Facebook group:
TGator Students of AMF"
TalkAboutLoss.org 4-21-43-16
A Woman's Answer
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716 8-24-74-16
MFPersonals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
FINALLY.SPRING BREAK!!
Going to the beach? You need new flip-flops.
Reef, Roxy, Quiksilver, Chaco, Keen and
Teva Sandals. Just call Lloyd Clarke Sports
352-372-7836. 1504 NW 13th St. 3-5-7-18
STRETCH BOARDSHORTS!
Great for surf, volleyball or just hanging out.
Quik, Billabong, Fox and Hurley. Check
it out. Lloyd Clarkes 1 mi N or UF on 441.
www.Iloydclarkesports.com 3-5-7-18
SAVE $ ON RUNNING SHOES!
We'll help you find the right shoe for your
unique foot, strike and run style. We offer
free gait analysis. Hundreds of choices in
stock. Lloyd Clarke Sports. 352-372-7836
3-5-7-18
M ICOnnections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
Male professional, 70 years old, tall, from Sri
Lanka seeking white female, fair hair, 60-80
years old. Animals okay.
Write to MFP P.O. Box 1823, FI 32656
3-26-19-19WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-8-74-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
GIF Rides
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
Designated drivers are the greatest
WLiFZPets
Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
@ 2 yr old male Boxer named Macado, AKC
certified, fawn color with black mask & white
markings. Ears and tail cut, declawed, well
trained, very obedient. $500
* Male boxer puppy $250 -(386) 496-1058
3-16-10-5-24
Dog Wheelchair 15to20 lbs never used
paid $150.00 will take $75.00
if picked up 352-378-5622 3-5-10-2-24
Event Notices 7 0 L ost
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
Sports
FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
UF BASEBALL
Gators set for road
series with 'Canes
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
tjett@alligator org
Florida looked like an elite team
for eight innings.
But, against No. 3 FSU on Tues-
day, there was that one inning -the
seven-run first inning.
Playing their first nationally
ranked opponent of the season,
the Gators lost 10-5. The loss raised
doubts about whether No. 5 UF -
a popular preseason pick to reach
the College World Series -could
match up with the nation's best.
But Florida has a chance to re-
deem itself tonight at 7, as it takes
the field against No. 16 Miami (6-
1) in Coral Gables. With a win, the
Gators (5-1) can prove they aren't
just bullies who feast on underdogs.
"We just got a little ahead of our-
selves," third baseman Bryson Smith
said. "There are a lot more games.
Playing good competition, I think
we can handle it."
After winning its first five gamesby a combined score of 42-18, UF
coach Kevin O'Sullivan said his
players were undisciplined at the
plate Tuesday.
The Gators swung for the fences
-and missed -instead of settling
for singles against accurate pitches.
Smith said that's why he struck
out with runners on second and
Smiththird in the sixth
inning Tuesday.
"I had pretty
good success last
year, and I've al-
ways had pride
bringing runners
in," said Smith, a
transfer who had
90 RBIs at Young
Harris College last season. "I was
trying to do too much."
Four other Gators stranded run-
ners in scoring position Tuesday, so
the team worked on situational hit-
ting to prepare for Miami.
For example, assistant coach
Craig Bell told designated hitter
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 19Florida travels to No. 3 Kentucky
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
The term "must-win game" has been used
around the Florida basketball team quite a bit
lately.
UF's 78-76 loss at Georgia on Saturday was
supposedly a must-win, and several Gators said
the same before their 64-60 home loss to Vander-
bilt on Tuesday.
If UF (20-10, 9-6 Southeastern Conference)
supposedly had to win those two, how much im-
portance does it place on its final regular-season
game, a noon matchup against No. 3 Kentucky
(28-2, 13-2 SEC) on Sunday in Rupp Arena?
"A must, must win," junior forward Chandler
Parsons said. "We think we can beat anybody."
No game occurs in a vacuum, but upsetting
the Wildcats in Lexington, Ky., might be enough
for the Gators to punch their tickets to the NCAA
Tournament, barring a disastrous showing in the
SEC Tournament next week in Nashville, Tenn.
ESPN.com's Joe Lunardi currently projects
UF will make the Tournament as a No. 11 seed
-perhaps a surprising prediction, considering
the team has lost four of its last seven and isn't
being given much of a chance this weekend.
A late-season win over Kentucky wouldboost the Gators' r6sum6, likely taking them off
the bubble and removing some of the sting from
their back-to-back losses in supposed "must-
win situations.
"A must, must win. We think we can
beat anybody."
Chandler Parsons
UFjunior forward
Kentucky has no shortage of talent, as it fea-
tures three potential first-round NBA draft picks
this year in guard John Wall (17 points, 6.2 as-
sists, 4.1 rebounds per game) and forwards De-
Marcus Cousins (15.9 points, 10.1 rebounds) and
Patrick Patterson (15 points, 7.6 rebounds).
As much trouble as the Wildcats' big three
gave the Gators last time, it was guard Eric
Bledsoe who exploded for 25 points on 10-of-13
shooting.
UF hung with then-undefeated UK in the
teams' first matchup of the season, tying the
game at 72 with 5:14 remaining before the Wild-
cats finished on a 17-5 run and pulled out an 89-
77 victory.
"Every game, especially getting down to the
wire, feels like a must-win," junior power for-
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 19
UF rebounds at home
0 THE GATORS SCORED A
SEASON-HIGH 22 GOALS,
WITH 15 IN THE FIRST HALF.
By TONI-ANN MILLER
Alligator Writer
If there was any doubt that
Florida had moved on from its
devastating loss to North Caro-
lina, the Gators dispelled it with
a convincing 22-11 win over St.
Bonaventure on Thursday night.
Donald R. Dizney Stadium
was UF's playground as it scored
15 of its 22 points in the first half,
one goal shy of its previous game-
high total of 16 this season.
A pair of freshmen led the
charge for UF coach Amanda
O'Leary's squad.
Attacker Ashley Bruns had
five scores and two assists while
midfielder Julie Schindel tacked
on four goals and one assist.
Midfielder Caroline Chester-
man scored three times, and mid-fielders Kitty Cullen, Sam Farrell,
Rachael Zimmerman and attack-
er Janine Hillier each tacked on
two.
The Gators (3-1) started the
game focused on bouncing back
from the loss at UNC.
The team scored its first goal
less than 30 seconds into the
game and followed with another
18 seconds later to take a 2-0 lead
with 29:14 remaining in the first
half.
Bruns scored three of UF's
first four goals and continued to
thrive from her
position behind
the goal through-
Lacrosse out the half. She
scored her fifth
goal with 8:39 left
in the period.
Schindel then took over where
Bruns left off, scoring her first
goal at 8:17 and helping the
Gators take a 15-8 lead into the
intermission.
SEE LACROSSE, PAGE 19Chandler Parsons and the Gators are currently projected as a No. 11 seed in the NCAA Tour-
nament by ESPN's Joe Lunardi, and a win at Kentucky on Sunday would solidify their bid.
U F TRACK AND FIELD
E Three members of the women's
team won yearly SEC awards: Shara
Proctor (best field athlete), Lanie
Whittaker (co-freshman runner) and
Mike Holloway (best coach).INSD
E While UF students enjoy the week off,
many student-athletes will be practicing in
Gainesville or competing across the country.
For a story on how the Gators handle Spring
Break and a schedule of events, see pg. 10.TEEING OFF WITH MIKE McCALL
U For Washington Wizards' fans, buying five cups of Dunkin' Donuts coffee
means two free tickets to a home game. I'd advise drinking those directly before
tipoff to have any hope of staying awake. .Mike Tyson is rumored to be consid-
ering a return to boxing at age 43. Don't worry. In the boxing world, if something
is rumored, it just means it definitely won't ever happen.
FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 17
UF SOFTBALL
Gators head to California for annual DeMarini Tourney
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Writer
Although the Gators have to
travel almost 2,400 miles to get
there, this weekend's DeMarini
Tournament in Fullerton, Calif.,
will be a homecoming experience
for seven Gators.
Francesca Enea, Kelsey Bruder,
Megan Bush, Aja Paculba, Shau-
nice Harris, Ensley Gammel and
Brittany Schutte will all have
an opportunity to catch up with
friends and family in their home
state this weekend, as the No.
3 Gators (12-1) play five gamesagainst West Coast opponents,
starting with Pacific today at noon
followed by a game against No. 10
Stanford (12-2) at 4:30 p.m.
This will be the fourth-straight
year UF will be participating in
a California tournament, and the
trips have become a highly antici-
pated experience for the players.
"This is what we look forward
to," Bruder said. "Playing in front
of the whole home crowd, friends
and family, it's really exciting."
Recently, it has become a Flori-
da tradition for one of the players
to host a dinner where the entire
team and their California familiesgather and get to know each other
while they are all out there.
Junior first baseman Bush's
familyhosted during her freshman
year, then-senior
Kim Waleszonia
hosted last year,
and this year,
Enea, who is a
senior, will do
the honor.
Bruder and
Enea her teammates
are particularly
excited to have a "Taco Man"
come by and provide the food.
"I don't think they have themin Florida," Bruder said. "It's
when a guy comes with a little
cart and he actually makes any
taco you want.
"It's really popular out there
and nobody's even heard of it
here. It's really fun, I love it."
While all of the girls enjoy the
trip, none have proven it on the
field to the extent Bush has, as
she is batting .357 with four home
runs and 12 RBIs in her 11 games
in California as a Gator.
"It must be my family. They
must be my good luck charms,"
Bush said.
For some of the younger Cali-fornians at UF, like Schutte, who
is a freshman, returning to their
home state could be a slightly
stressful experience the first time
around.
With all of her friends and
family watching for the first time
since she joined the college ranks,
Schutte knows how important it is
to give them a good show.
"There's kind of an expecta-
tion because you play for the Uni-
versity of Florida," Schutte said.
"There's some type of pressure
just trying to make them proud,
and I don't want to disappoint
them at all."
Florida knocked out of SEC Tournament in first round
* AUBURN BEAT THE GATORS 74-61.
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@alligator org
UF topped Auburn in a double-overtime
rollercoaster-type game in early January,
but the Tigers brought the Gators' ride to a
screeching halt Thursday.
Behind a career-high 29 points from guard
Alli Smalley, Auburn beat Florida 74-61 in
the first round of the Southeastern Confer-
ence Tournament in Duluth, Ga.
Smalley's play was redemption for her
nine-point, 2-of-13 performance earlier in the
season against UF.
She hit 10 of her 14 shots, including fivethree-pointers.
"It was actually really nice," Smalley said.
"I had a lot of open looks, a lot of air."
From tipoff, the Tigers (15-15, 6-11 SEC)
distanced themselves from the shoddy first-
half team the Gators (14-16, 7-10 SEC) beat
Jan. 7.
And they did so without a big game
from 6-foot-7 center KeKe Carrier. Carrier
posted six points and seven rebounds after a
24-point, 12-rebound outing last meeting.
UF center Azania Stewart returned from a
five-game absence due to a stress fracture in
her left foot, but she played just 14 minutes,
tallied eight points, zero rebounds and three
fouls.
The Tigers sustained several Florida runs
throughout the game and put pressure on the
Gators by shooting 51.9 percent from the fieldand 57.1 percent from three-point range.
Blanche Alversonhad 13points and Jordan
Greenleaf added 15 points and 13 rebounds
to notch the game's only double-double.
"The way their guards played in par-
ticular, was fantastic," UF
coach Amanda Butler said.
"Alli shot the ball really, re-
ally well. Blanche seemed
Women's to have such timely shots
Basketball as well. It's just disappoint-
ing because they really only
have two true shooters, and
those guys got shots off."
Florida couldn't answer, shooting a pedes-
trian 36.1 percent from the floor and hitting 7
of 22 three-pointers.
UF guard Steffi Sorensen, who was score-
less for the first 45 minutes during the firstmatchup against Auburn, didn't take nearly
as long to find her offensive rhythm this
game.
She had a team-high 12 points before in-
termission on four three-pointers, while the
rest of the team combined for 14.
But AU's Parrisha Simmons held Sorensen
to two points in the second 20 minutes.
"Parrisha did a great job of blocking her
down in the second half," Smalley said. "She
was chasing her the whole way, was contest-
ing every shot, and she wasn't getting hardly
any looks."
Fellow senior Sharielle Smith had 11
points, but no other Gators scored in double
figures and they were outrebounded 41-30.
A television broadcast contributed to this
report.
18, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, MARCH 5,2010
I
'S -
/
*
FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
UF GYMNASTICS
Three-team meet serves as warm-up for postseason
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
The Gators still have two regular
season meets left on their schedule,
but they are treating tonight's meet
as an opportunity to prepare for the
postseason.
No. 4 Florida (6-2, 5-1 South-
eastern Conference) takes the floor
tonight in the O'Connell Center
against North Carolina (7-5) and
Ball State (5-7) in a tri-meet.In triangular meets, teams don't
alternate taking turns with routines
like they do in the usual dual meets.
As a result, each team has a gymnast
performing at the same time during
each rotation, much like what the
Gators will see when they reach the
SEC Championships and beyond.
"I refer to it a little bit as a three-
ring circus because everything is go-
ing on all at once," UF coach Rhonda
Faehn said.
It will be the team's first officialtriangular meet of the season af- the meet will be familiar to its vet-
ter its originally
scheduled one
for last month
was changed to a
dual meet when
weather pre-
vented George
Washington from
traveling to N.C.
State.
Even though it's the team's first
one of the year, the configuration oferans, as well as some of the fresh-
men, including all-around gymnast
Ashan6e Dickerson.
"It's just going to feel like I'm
in [Junior Olympic] competition
again because in J.O. everyone was
performing at the same time, too,"
Dickerson said.
While the format of the event will
help prepare Florida for postseason
meets, Faehn said that won't be the
team's only focus tonight as she feelsthe team has yet to reach its maxi-
mum potential.
Even though the Cardinals and
Tar Heels are the Gators' opponents
in the O'Connell Center, Faehn said
her team will also be competing
against itself in hopes of topping its
last two competitions, which were
its two best of the season.
"We want to come out on vault
and just blow it out of the water and
carry that momentum throughout,"
Faehn said.
UF aims for more qualifying times at Last Chance Meets
NCAA Championships are next weekend
By RYAN BUTLER
Alligator Writer
After several men's and women's track
and field athletes put up career-best marks at
the Southeastern Conference Indoor Champi-
onships, others will look to do the same this
weekend.
UF coach Mike Holloway selected a group
of athletes to compete in Last Chance Meets
Saturday in order to record qualifying marks
for the NCAA Championships March 12-13.The Gators will use this weekend's meets
to create the greatest number of lineup options
possible for the championships.
"We don't leave any stones unturned to
get the best athletes to that meet," Holloway
said. "If you're not at the meet, you can't score
points."
Coming off its season-best time (11:47.95)
last weekend, the women's distance medley
team competes at the Alex Wilson Invitational
in South Bend, Ind. The relay team was 21
seconds behind a NCAA provisional qualify-
ing time and more than 42 seconds behind anautomatic mark. It will feature a new lineup
with SEC mile champion Charlotte Browning,
Lanie Whittaker and Stacey Johnson.
Whittaker and Alishea Usery, the other
leg in the distance relay, will
compete individually in sprint
events. Usery has reached pro-
visional qualifying marks in theTrack 60- and 200-meter sprints and
will try to improve her 60 time
this weekend. Whittaker, the fourth-place fin-
isher in the 400 at the SEC meet with a time
of 53.78 seconds, will look to cut a second off
her time and secure an automatic qualifying
mark.The pair will also compete on the 4x400
relay team. That group also includes Danielle
Williams and Ije Iheoma, and they will try to
reach an automatic qualifying mark for the
first time this season.
At the Virginia Tech Qualifier in Blacks-
burg, Va., SEC triple-jump champion Chris-
tian Taylor will compete in the long jump. He
was disappointed with his third-place finish at
the SEC Championship and expects to land an
NCAA qualifying mark.
Florida's top 60-meter dash runners will
also compete in Blacksburg. Jeff Demps was
.06 seconds away from NCAA mark last week-
end and has the best chance of qualifying.
Defense needs improvement
UF midfielder Julie Schindel runs down the field during the Gators' 22-11 win against S
on Thursday night in Gainesville. She had four goals and an assist.
Wildcats fighting for No. 1 seed
HOOPS, from page 16
ward Alex Tyus said. "They have great play-
ers. We just need to try to contain their whole
team and make the game uncomfortable for
them."
The Wildcats, who clinched at least a share
of the regular-season SEC title Wednesday
night, don't have quite as much to play for as
the Gators do, but they are still motivated to
earn a No. 1 seed in the NCAA Tournament.
UF, meanwhile, is still fighting for its 10th
win in conference play.
The team hasn't had 10 league victoriessince winning consecutive national titles, as
the Gators won eight SEC games in 2007-08
and nine in 2008-09.
Prior to the 2007-08 season, UF had won
10 or more league games
in eight of its previous nine
seasons.
"I wanted that 10th winMen's bad," Parsons said. "I think
Basketball the whole team did, our
whole university did. With
everything on the line, we obviously wanted
to win and lock up a spot, but our backs are
against the wall, so we're going to have to see
how tough we are."t. BonaventureLACROSSE, from page 16
In the second half, Schindel
scored the first goal, and later
added another along with an as-
sist for the win.
"We wanted to basically show
everyone that we're the kind of
team that after a tough loss (is)
going to come out, and we're go-
ing to go hard, and we're going
to win; not just win, but win big,"
Schindel said.
She added that the team was
pumped up from the start of the
match because it wanted to make
up for what happened against the
Tar Heels.
The coaches wanted to see
how the young players would re-
spond after they loss and to have
a more effective scoring attack
early in the game.
However, the Gators still
showed they have plenty of room
to grow.
"Our nemesis is putting peo-
ple on the 8-meter arc line, and"We just need, really need
to be more disciplined,
throughout the entire
field."
Amanda O'Leary
UF lacrosse coach
we're not coming up with saves,
and we're not doing a great job of
defensively holding them out,"
O'Leary said.
During the match, O'Leary
had to put backup goalkeepers
Mikey Meagher and Marissa Hig-
gins in the game after starter Cara
Canington gave up seven goals in
about the first 20 minutes of the
game.
"We're trying to alleviate
those big runs, because the mo-
mentum swings can really get
you," O'Leary said.
"We just need, really need to
be more disciplined, throughout
the entire field."
Situational hitting key for Florida
BASEBALL, from page 16 1/3 innings, and Panteliodis expects
the Gators pitchers will be fine against
Austin Maddox not to hit fly balls dur- good teams.
ing batting practice Wednesday. In fact, he thinks they will thrive
Sophomore Alex Panteliodis will against the Hurricanes and other high-
take the mound for the Gators, and he quality opponents.
hopes to be more effective than Antho- "With in-state rivalries, for some
ny DeSclafani, who only faced five FSU reason, you get more pumped up," he
batters before O'Sullivan yanked him. said. "Everything just happens to be
Against lesser competition, UF start- better that day. Obviously, (Tuesday)
ers allowed just two earned runs in 23 was a little misleading."Faehn
20, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, MARCH 5,2010
UF TENNIS
Gators open SEC play
By ANDREW OLSON
Alligator Writer
The Florida men's and women's
tennis teams begin Southeastern Con-
ference play against Arkansas today.
The No. 7 men's squad will try
to get its first road win of the season
against the Razorbacks in Fayetteville,
Ark., at 2:30 p.m.
The No. 6 women's team will be
some of the only UF students left in
Gainesville when it hosts the Razor-
backs today at 5 p.m.
The women enter conference play
as the favorites to win the conference
title. UF is the highest of the five SEC
teams ranked in the top 25.
The Gators come into today's match
against No. 15 Arkansas with two-
straight shutout victories over other
top-15 competition -No. 8 Duke and
No.13 FSU.
UF women's coach Roland Thorn-
qvist credits the strong start to a com-
bination of "super freshmen" talent,
No. 11 Allie Will and No. 15 Lauren
Embree, and the team's senior lead-
ers, Marrit Boonstra and Anastasia
Revzina.
"We are blessed right now to have
Marrit and Nastia on this team,"
Thornqvist said. "We are not in the
same position we are right now with-
out their leadership."
The men's team has proven it can
beat top-10 competition, win at a neu-
tral site and come from behind to win.
However, a win in Fayetteville would
be the team's first win on the road.Arkansas is not one of the six SEC
teams ranked in the top 25, but the
Gators face an Arkansas team that has
won eight of its last nine matches, in-
cluding four straight.
UF's only road trip so far this
season was a 5-2 loss to Baylor. For
men's coach Andy Jackson, the road
trip served its purpose of getting the
team's four newcomers ready for play
against top competition away from
Gainesville.
"I don't expect to see the 'deer in
the headlights' look from them I saw
at Baylor," Jackson said. "They defi-
nitely had already matured on the trip
to Charlottesville."
The current SEC
Freshman of the
Week, Bob Van Over-
beek, enters today's
match with the con-
fidence of having de-
feated the then-No.
57 and previously
unbeaten Abe Souza,
Thornqvist of Illinois.
Another newcomer to watch is
sophomore Nassim Slilam.
After losing his singles match in
Baylor, Slilam has been unbeatable at
home and on neutral courts at the No.
6 spot.
Both Gators tennis teams will con-
tinue their SEC season with matches
against LSU.
The men's team will play at LSU at
2 p.m. on Sunday.
The women's team hosts the Tigers
on Sunday at 1 p.m.Small squad races to qualify
0 SEVEN MEN'S SWIMMERS WILL
COMPETE IN AUBURN.
By MATT RUBIN
Alligator Writer
Seven members of the Florida men's
swimming and diving team will be com-
peting at the Auburn Last Chance Meet
today in hopes of qualifying for the 2010
NCAA National Championships.
This will be the final opportunity of the
year for freshmen Jason Taylor and Rodi-
on Davelaar, sophomore Gabriel Huen,
juniors Logan Storie and Manuel Rabelo
and seniors Ryan Crete and Roland Ru-
dolf to swim as fast as they can with one
goal in mind.
"This meet is strictly about qualifying
for Nationals," UF coach Gregg Troy said.
"It's not a big team event."
If these swimmers end today's meet
earning low NCAA provisional-qualify-
ing times or even automatic-qualifying
times, the Gators will not only increase
the chances of individual swimmers doing
well, but improve the chances of placing
high as a team at the national meet.
"We have three or four that we think
have a real shot at qualifying," Troy said.
"But it's going to take some really out-
standing performances."
Crete and Rudolf appear to have thebest shot at qualifying out of the seven.
Crete, who transferred from Georgia
Tech after his freshman year, was a mem-
ber of Florida's fifth place NCAA Champi-
onship team last year and a member of the
squad that finished eighth the year before.
Rudolf, who missed out on qualifying last
year, competed for the Gators at the na-
tional level his freshman and sophomore
year.
The women's swimming and diving
team found out Wednesday night that 12
swimmers will be traveling to the 2010
Women's NCAA Swim-
ming Championships.
When the three-day
S i event starts March 18Swimming in West Lafayette, Ind.,
the Gators will have the
fifth-most swimmers competing.
"We had a couple others that were close
that we thought might qualify," Troy said.
"We have some good relays and some
good individuals."
Out of the 12 swimmers, nine are fresh-
men and sophomores.
"We've had a really young squad all
year," Troy said. "It's good for the fu-
ture."
Seniors Gemma Spofforth, Liz Kemp
and Stephanie Napier rounded out the
women qualifiers. All three will be swim-
ming at the NCAA Swimming Champion-
ships for the fourth time in their careers.
YOUR HEALTH IS
OUR PRIORITY
Our medical professionals are on-
call around the clock to help when
you are sick or injured. Just call us to
reach a health care provider at any
hour. In case of an emergency, dial
9-1-1.
Call 352-392-1161
UF IStudent Health Care Center
