the independent florida
the
page 8 Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 86 We Inform. You Decide.toCYj16
THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2010
SG party names
president pick
0 CAVATARO IS A FORMER
ORANGE AND BLUE SEN.
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
Its name still remains a mys-
tery, but the newly formed Student
Government party has found its
candidate for Student Body Presi-
dent in former Orange and Blue
Party Sen. Ben Cavataro.
The new party is a combination
of the Progress Party and the Or-
ange and Blue Party.
It will announce its name and
the other party leaders on its ticket
at the end of the week, Cavataro
said.
"We are looking forward to
having a very exciting ticket withleaders from all across campus,"
he said.
Cavataro, who served on the
Student Senate for two years, said
his campaign focuses on making
changes in SG and protecting stu-
dent interests.
"We need a system that's go-
ing to work for all of us, not just a
handful," he said.
He said the
Student party hopes to
Government protect funds
delegated for
Bright Futures.
It also hopes to use the multi-
million-dollar SG budget responsi-
bly and make SG and its expendi-
tures more transparent, Cavataro
said.
"We want to make sure that any
SEE CAVATARO, PAGE 5
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Bouncers aren't the only ones
dealing with fake or borrowed IDs.
Regional Transit System and
UF s RecSports employees are find-
ing non-UF students are trying to
cash in on the perks enjoyed by
Gator 1 Card holders.
UF students pay the transporta-
tion access fee of $6.79 per credit
hour in their tuition, but for non-
students, a free bus ride is as sim-
ple as finding or stealing a Gator 1
Card.
Non-students caught using
fake or borrowed cards cannot be
charged with using fake identifica-
tion because the Gator 1 Card is not
state-issued, said University Police
Capt. Jeff Holcomb.
However, offenders can face
penalties ranging from being kicked
off the bus, being stripped of thecard or being issued a trespassing
warning.
"The warning means: 'Don't
come back to UF's campus,"' Hol-
comb said. "If you come back again,
you can be arrested."
"The warning means:
'Don't come back to UF's
campus. If you come back
again, you can be arrest-
Jeff Holcomb
University Police Captain
Chip Skinner, spokesman for
Regional Transit System, said bor-
rowed and fake Gator 1 Cards have
been a problem in the past.
"We've seen it going on for quite
a while -ever since we had passes
on the bus," Skinner said.
SEE GATOR 1, PAGE 5Juliana Jimenez / Alligator
POST SECRET
Seniors Nate Stein, right, and Jeff Goetz, left, stand on Turlington Plaza Wednesday wearing
underwear and Post-its for their Digital Frontiers class. Students donated $1 to victims of
the earthquake in Haiti by sticking a Post-it note somewhere on Stein's and Goetz's bodies.
Mayor gives last yearly address
She praised GPD, fire dept.
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
Gainesville Mayor Pegeen
Hanrahan delivered her fi-
nal State of the City address
Wednesday morning at the Hip-
podrome State Theatre.
Hanrahan, who spoke for 40
minutes to a crowd of roughly
80, addressed many of the city's
successes and shortcomings.
"Each of us carries an obliga-
tion to take individual respon-
sibility for our community'squality of life and to nourish our
shared dreams and plans for the
Hanrahanfuture," she
told the audi-
ence.
H a n r a -
han stressed
Gainesville's
efforts to com-
bat the turbu-
lent economic
climate de-
spite recent setbacks in the job
market.
"It is in this crucible of finan-cial pressure where together as
a community we should find the
strength and courage to care for
one another, to support one an-
other, to provide for one," she
said.
another, to help one another
and through that process, to cre-
ate the Gainesville
we want.
She also discussed the city's
efforts to promote environmen-
tal awareness, urging citizens to
keep Gainesville clean.
"There's no place for a de-
cades-old, contaminated super-
fund site," she said. "With your
SEE MAYOR, PAGE 5
Coprigehted teiI
Syndidotd Conoeo
F.-AII&i A Available from Commercil News Providers* Students
swapped heels for
slippers Wednesday
to raise money for
Relay for Life at The
Swamp Restaurant.
See Story, Page 3.Today
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 11 Thunder
CROSSWORD 13 storms
SPORTS 15 77/60
visit www.alligator.orgSPECIAL REPORT
'Fake IDs' give RTS,
RecSports problems
0 Sophomore
Erving Walker and
the Gators take on
the Razorbacks
in Fayetteville,
Ark., tonight
before returning to
Gainesville to face
the Gamecocks on
Saturday.
See Story, Page 15.
2, ALLIGATOR I THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2010
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Florida Alternative Breaks TCBY
fundraiser
Friday 8 p.m. to 9 p.m.
3102 SW 34th St.
FAB's I-Vl/AIDS trip is hosting
a fundraiser at TCBY to lower costs
for its spring break service trip.
Hungry for Haiti Fundraiser
Friday, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Kappa Alpha Theta sorority house
Kappa Alpha Theta and Sigma
Phi Epsilon are hosting a fundrais-
er where, for $5, guests can enjoy
an all-you-can-eat pancake brunch.
Proceeds from the event will go to
Gators United for Haiti to benefit
earthquake victims.
Peace Corps Education Globe
Talk
Today, 6:30 p.m.
Interested in working in edu-
cation abroad? Come out to the
International Center in the Hub
to hear returned Peace Corps
volunteers speak about their ex-
periences around the world. A
recruiter will answer questions
about the Peace Corps applica-
tion process. E-mail peacecorps@
ufic.ufl.edu with questions.
Got something going on?
And want it posted in this
space? Send an e-mail to efug-
getta@alligator.org with "What's
Happening" in the subject line.
Please model the format after the
above events.
CORRECTION
An article in Wednesday's Al-
ligator incorrectly identified Bryan
Griffin as the UF College Republi-
cans executive director. He is the
president of the UF group and ex-
ecutive director of Florida College
Republicans.lCyrgIedl OMMerIms au
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org
Five or more sunburns
double your risk
of developing skin cancer.
Protect your skin.
www.aad.org * 888,462,DERMa the independent florida
Not fficall
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 86 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner, jmisner@alligator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, cti//o@a//igator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agonilessan@alligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ashley Hemmy, Amanda Milligan,
Emily Morrow, Paul Runnestrand
Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Shaun O'Connor
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Natasha Dykes, Brittany Fayne,
Stephanie Howick, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
Students
wear PJs
0 THEY RAISED MONEY FOR
RELAY FOR LIFE.
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
Students in pajama pants and slip-
pers gathered on the second floor of The
Swamp Restaurant Wednesday night,
but no one was sleeping.
The UF Relay for Life committee host-
ed the pajama party-themed meeting to
parallel this year's theme, "A Relay Big
Party."
"We thought we would do a pajama
party to get everyone in the spirit of the
theme and get everyone motivated," said
Andrew Ruiz, the event's chairman.
During the meeting, team captains
were instructed how to get donations
from companies and motivate members
of their team to raise money. Committee
members also asked team captains to get
cancer survivors involved in the event.
American Cancer Society commu-
nity representative Brett Hipsley chal-
lenged UF students to raise more money
through Relay for Life than Florida State
University.
Hipsley, a UF alumnus, referenced a
UF commercial that featured Gators en-
couraging each other to succeed in their
field. In the ad, one person tells another
to "go cure cancer."
"That's why they say that in the com-
mercial -because the University of
Florida is going to cure cancer," Hipsley
said.
Ruiz hopes each team can raise be-
tween $1,000 and $1,500.
Advertise in the country's
largest college newspaper.
With a daily circulation of 35,000
and a daily readership of 52,000,
reach the Gainesville college
community.
F EE L T HE IB E NEFI TI,.
-Contact us at [3521 373.4482. -
allig-aorMet r~4 er~
S
Copyrighted MaterW
Synd~eated Content
Ava~ ab e from Commerda News Prov~ders
Steven H. Keys / Ailigator
Devon Vickers, a cancer survivor, and Chantal Jones talk to a group of
Relay for Life participants about fundraising for cancer research.
Transcendental Meditation'
Improves: creativity memory relationships
Simple, natural, effortless
Learn more at our next free introductory lecture:
Sat., Jan. 23,1:00 pm Dauer Hal, Room 215
(Corner of Buckman Dr. & Union Rd., across from 'urlington)
352-338-1249, AByxbe@TM.org -TM.org, DoctorsOnTM.org
Maharishi Vedi Ed ucation Developmnt Corporatin d areused und sublicc s h prn sion
YOU NER Vr.
~1124 W University AveYOU NEVER CALL.505-0224
YOU NEVER FAX-.
505-0223
HOURS
WHAT, I'M UP WITH
THE CHICKENS!
Sun-Wed 6am-10pmklast Thurs-Sat 6am-3amn
WE!) TAKEOUT OR DELIVERY?
COME GET, OR VISITNow Open in ARFD.MFRDEVEY
Midtown! BO SEVN
11124 W University Ave "' BE & I M -d
OVER 31 Different SandwichesHEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShieldof Florida 3 3 0 7
ED BV13-Cssnd81u.Shdsn 3669 S.W. 2nd Avenue
Form Number: 18533-599SUto Choose From!_JGEA T ~
A I-F-1-E A-D. 1
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2010
UF's Ice Hockey club wins Georgia tournament
More than 5,000 fans attended The club team, founded in 1996, competes The players have nowhere to practice 1
in Division III in the American Collegiate Gainesville, so they make a weekly trip
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Writer
UF's Ice Hockey club skated away with
the Thrasher Cup after winning the Savan-
nah Tire Hockey Classic in Savannah, Ga., last
weekend.
Three Gators, including goalie Casey Fer-
ris, team captain Jonathan Pavlinec and defen-
seman Matt Stankowicz, made the all-tourna-
ment team.
After beating both Univeristy of Georgiaand Florida State Univeristy, the team's record
is now 8-4.
Ferris, a senior, said he thinks the team is
winning because the players have bonded
more than in previous years.
Ferris said the team has never defeated
Georgia and FSU in the same tournament un-
til this year.
Ferris, a three-year veteran, was happy to
see the team grab the attention of other teams
and more than 5,000 fans who attended.
"We're finally getting recognized in our di-
vision," he said.Hockey Association.
But second-year head coach Joel Pagett said
the players approach the sport as if they were
playing in Division I,Gators which is their goal.Special teams "We're definitely
committed to getting
the team to the next level," he said.
As a member of the Southeastern Colle-
giate Hockey Conference, the club plays fa-
miliar SEC opponents, including Univeristy of
Alabama and Univeristy of Tennessee, in the
regular season -October through February.n
0
Jacksonville Wednesday nights to get on the
ice.
Despite the recent winning streak, assistant
coach Dan Boutin said the team's poor history
has kept it from cracking the rankings, which
are determined through a coaches'poll.
He insists, however, that it only inspires
the team more.
"I'm smiling inside because it's a motiva-
tional tool," he said.
The Gators' next game is against Embry-
Riddle Aeronautical University at Jacksonville
Ice & Sportsplex at 7:30 p.m. Friday.
NATIONAL
Loss crushes Dems
By MATT HARRINGER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Republican Scott Brown's
win in the Massachusetts Sen-
ate race Tuesday night sig-
naled a political tug-of-war
between Alachua County of-
ficials.
A victory for the Republi-
cans, his election destroyed
the Democrats' super major-
ity and struck a blow to health
care legislation.
Stafford Jones, chairman of
the Alachua County Republi-
can Party, said he was "tick-
led pink" when Brown won
Tuesday night.
Because Brown's victory
makes 41 Republicans in the
Senate, Jones said he thinks
they will be able to halt health
care legislation.But Jon Reiskind, chairman
of the Alachua County Demo-
crats, said he's disappointed
with the loss.
Reiskind said he doesn't
know what the Democratic
leadership in Congress will
do, but he'd like to see health
care reform-succeed in
the future.
"We can-
not put it
off another
decade," Re-
iskind said,
Brown "We'll see a
problem far
worse than today."
Reiskind said the country
is facing a health care crisis.
"It's not a Democrat or a
Republican problem," he said.
"It's a national problem."Students discuss survey results
0 MORE THAN 28,000 STUDENTS TOOK
THE SURVEY ABOUT UF EXPERIENCE.
By ALLY FOX
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 75 students gathered to discuss the results
of the Student Experience in the Research University
(SERU) survey in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom
Wednesday night.
The survey was conducted in the spring of 2009
and asked all UF undergraduate students about their
campus experiences at the university.
The survey was distributed at six universities
across the country, and UF ranked first in social expe-
rience and value of education, according to the Office
of Institutional Planning and Research Web site.
Participants talked about results and about their
classroom and academic experiences.About two-thirds of UF undergraduates said they
were satisfied or very satisfied with instruction.
UF junior Ismail ibn Ali said he noticed a decrease
in his class sizes from his freshman to junior year.
He said the quality of education gets better as class
sizes get smaller and believes the smaller class sizes
contribute to student satisfaction with the quality of
their professors.
Students also talked about the impact of socioeco-
nomic status on student academic experiences.
The survey showed 82 percent of those who con-
sidered themselves of higher socio-economic status
feel respected, compared to 37 percent of the lower
socio-economic status.
The groups discussed how the way students dress
could affect people's perceptions of them.
Anthony Crenshaw, assistant director of multicul-
tural and diversity affairs, said the event went well.
"It's good for people to be able to hear experiences
from different students," Crenshaw said.
I am-EYEGRAL NUTRITION CENTERS E Y E
2%OFany one GNC Product
Cannotbecombned OneCouponrcustomer. EXAM S3914 SW Archer Rd (by Independent Optomeris)
NW Wt , Corner of
SNW 13th St.
STUDENT LOANS ON ANYTHING!! & 39th Ave.
e TV's 9 Stereo's e Jewelry 9 Near Publix
Musical Instruments e Tools
We buy gold & cash checksE EC RE
BEST JEWELRY & LOANEXPRESS
523 NW 3rd Ave. (352) 371-4367(3 )7 -6 3pawn brokers(352)375133L J
Lose weight by Spring Break
Alliance
Permanent Weight Loss Program
Healthy lifestyle alterations
developed for your individual needs by
Physicians & Medical Practitioners
Appetite Suppression Medication
No special foods or starvation -
We show you how to be healthy
and lose weight at the same time.
ALL Medications and Injections included.
Call Donna at (352) 337-3961
or information & appointments
ww .Alin , egh 0os6o6ATOR SWIMMIN6 + DIVIN6
wo WDuuhu
mu(1,RC EI A MI-**24 @w. )|wi f@ii
*SEN10R DAY* -COME EARLY FOR A
PRE-ME ET CEREMONY TO RECOGNIZE GATORADI
ALL OF THE (ATOR S ENIORS!
' EATEEEZANETCEMA N
r~wna OCONNELL CENTER 6ATE 2 ADMISSION is FREE
THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 5
Party name to be released this week
CAVATARO, from page 1
fees that are imposed on students
are approved first," Cavataro said.
Cavataro said he is confident
the outcome of this election will
be a good one for his party and UF
students.
"We haven't been in power
forever, and we may not have the
resources of the incumbent party,
but we have the students on our
side, we're fighting for their issues
and that's what really matters,"
Cavataro said.He said he decided to run after
encouragement from friends and
colleagues.
"It's an honor to run, and, to-
gether with many
others, we're go-- ing to win this
thing and change
the university for
the better," Ca-
vataro said.
Cavataro He said the
party's primary
focus is fighting for changes that
will benefit students.
"We're in it to win it," CavataroThe Unite Party is also in the
process of choosing its party lead-
ers.
Unite Party spokesman Ben
Meyers said the Unite Party can-
didates and platform will be an-
nounced soon.
He said the Unite Party was
founded one year ago with the
goal of uniting the campus and
representing the entire Student
Body.
"We feel that it's time to show
that we've done that," Meyers
said.
44 suspended from intramurals last fall
GATOR I, from page I
He estimated 75 percent of bus riders are UF stu-
dents, faculty and staff, and nine of 23 bus routes to UF
run strictly on campus.
Holcomb said counterfeit cards were not used as
much for getting football tickets or for campus activi-
ties such as GatorNights because the events require the
cards to be scanned. People scanning IDs often overlook
the pictures on cards, so borrowed cards are easier to
pass off in these situations.
Jon Broska, assistant director for UF intramural
sports, said non-students have also been using fake or
borrowed Gator 1 Cards to play intramurals and gain
access to UF fitness centers.
Last semester, there were 22 instances of people us-
ing fake or borrowed cards to play, Broska said, usually
for outdoor sports.
Broska said when a person is caught trying to use a
borrowed card, that person and the card's original own-er are suspended indefinitely from intramural sports.
Forty-four players were suspended last semester.
After the owner of the card is notified, the card is
revoked from its holder and placed in a lockbox in his
office, Broska said.
"If they want to play again, they're going to have to
set up a meeting with me, so we can work something
out," he said.
David Looney, assistant director of theSpecial l business services division at UF, said it isReport more difficult for non-students to attain his
or her own Gator 1 Card than borrowing a
card, and it comes with higher stakes.
When applying for a Gator 1 Card, students must
be able to produce a valid UF ID number along with
another form of government-issued identification, Loo-
ney said.
He added if the applicant could not show valid iden-
tification after applying for a card, the case would be
treated as identity theft, and a Gator 1 Central employee
would then contact the University Police Department.Hanrahan: Much more to
be done within the city
MAYOR, from page 1
perseverance and your voice, we will prevail."
She praised the performance of Gainesville Fire Rescue
and police departments, notably Police Chief Tony Jones.
"Chief Jones is moving quickly to restore public confi-
dence in a department whose distinguished record of ser-
"Each of us carries an obligation to take indi-
vidual responsibility for our community's quality
of life and to nourish our shared dreams and
plans for the future."
Pegeen Hanrahan
Gainesville Mayor
vice has been unfairly tarnished by the individual actions
of a few disgraced officers," she said.
Looking toward the future, the mayor addressed proj-
ects concerning the city's proposed $18.2 million traffic
management system, which is slated to be finished by
September, as well as Gainesville's homelessness preven-
tion campaign.
Although she recognized many of the city's successes,
Hanrahan said there's much more to be done within the
city, especially improving graduation rates, attracting
more businesses to the area and reducing poverty.
"This is not the time to go back to old, outdated para-
digms, but to capture the innovation and market advan-
tage that define who we are," she said. "I encourage all
of us to lift ourselves on the buoyancy of hope and begin
now to fulfill our aspirations. That's the way to achieve
the Gainesville that we want."
Legalize it. Don't criticize it! h&
Pd. PoL Adv. approved by Richard Selwach
9 Richard -YEAR GUARANEESeiw ach Butler Plaza Newberry are
www.selwachformayor.com 335-1232 332-3937
Make it a
SAmp event
parties
socials
family weekends
business meetings
and more 
.
Call us today at 352-380-9291
i This paper used to keep squirrels warm on cold nights. i
I Please recycle it.
6, ALLIGATOR E THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2010
Sorry, Ted
Democrats shouldn't
give up after lossQne of the bluest states in the country spat on Ted Ken-
nedy's grave Tuesday when Massachusetts elected
Republican Scott Brown, and the Editorial Board
can't help but feel that Massachusetts voters delivered a
sucker punch to the U.S. as a whole.
Granted, Coakley ran a lackluster campaign, and Demo-
crats should have pulled for her harder if for no other reason
than to block Brown.
But now isn't the time to look backward and point fin-
gers -at Coakley, at Obama, at anyone. It's time to look
forward and figure out how health reform can survive de-
spite the GOP's best efforts to pull the plug.
With reform inching -albeit slowly -closer to real-
ization, progressive Democrats need all the help they can
get to overcome vehement Republican opposition, and
with some Democrats making the process more difficult
by refusing to back their peers, 41 Republican seats will
make the struggle even more intense.
But as they fight the battle for health care reform, Dem-
ocrats need to stick to their ideals and refuse to admit de-
feat. If they try but lose, they will have earned our contin-
ued respect.
But if they let this slap in the face rupture their will to
rebuild a broken system and help millions of Americans,
they will alienate even the most devout liberals.
As Kennedy said, "If the Democrats run for cover, if
we become pale carbon copies of the opposition, we will
lose -and we deserve to lose. The last thing this country
needs is two Republican Parties."
Stayin'Alive
he New York Timesannounced Wednes-
day afternoon that in
2011 it will offer online read-
ers only a limited number of
articles for free each month.
In this "metered system,"
once users reach their limit,
they will be charged or de-
nied access.
The Times optimistically
presents this as bringing in
another revenue stream on
top of advertising. While this
contradicts the long-held be-
lief that pay walls destroy
advertising revenue, it's pos-
sible that the Times has an
answer to this hidden in its
new plan.
However, details on what
access will cost or the exact
article cap are scarce, and
the balancing of these two
variables while increasing
revenue and keeping readershappy and dedicated will be
a feat heretofore unseen in
the online age.
Some will cheer this deci-
sion as a sign of newspapers
standing up for their true
worth. Others will scoff and
quote lines of doom, preach-
ing that people have only
ever paid for the paper, not
the words printed on it.
Either way, in our opinion,
it's better than waiting for the
slow decay that the current
model has promoted.
By making a move, the
Times may hasten its own
demise or it may eventually
discover the model that will
save itself and the few pa-
pers in its league, who would
surely follow suite.
Ultimately, if the business
of large-scale journalism is to
stay alive, it's going to have
to stay on its feet.
0 the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Aye, or send them to P0 Box 14257,
GainesvilIle, FL 32604-22570Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigato r.org/opinions
CV.No ONG ftV6-
weCA
4T1
'Avatar' parallels
ead as a straightforward attack on capitalism in a
blue-green hue, many conservatives have angrily
vented across all media platforms belittling "Ava-
tar" as yet another Hollywood-leftist-socialist-homosex-
ual-pantheistic-anthrophobic diatribe.
This conclusion is painfully myopic and does not take
into account any level of nuance, which is where director
James Cameron truly shows his esoteric genius.
Full disclosure -I wholeheartedly believe "Titanic"
was an obvious parable for the Cuban Missile Crisis
(Leonardo DiCaprio is JFK, Kate Winslet is the Soviet
Union and, of course, the boat is the soul of Karl Marx.
Cuba is the iceberg, and Fidel Castro looks pretty much
exactly like Billy Zane anyway).
Seeing that American conservatives are the indig-
enous, blue humanoid population of the planet Pandora
isn't exactly groundbreaking. The Na'vi would rather die
than give up their weapons, and their fiercely libertarian
take on property rights was even mentioned in a Wash-
ington Post blog last week.
Cameron, though, evidently meant to set up the Na'vi
not just as American conservatives, but as specific con-
servative commentators. Seething with righteous rage yet
sensitive enough to cry, the female protagonist Neytiri
looks eerily like a caricature of Sarah Palin. Pretty, more
than a little bit earthy, handy with a bow and arrow and
oblivious to global political ramifications -sounds like
a match to me.
Neytiri's regal-but-doomed family is clearly a nod to
the Bush administration in a time of great tumult and
disarray for the right, with Dick Cheney conspicuously
depicted as Neytiri's mom -the all-knowing witch doc-
tor.
The Tree of Souls, where everyone goes to get pluggedRepublican Party
in and recharged before battle, rep-
resents the Fox News Channel. The
shows and hosts rejuvenate view-
ers with a buoyant feeling not un-
like the power of the mystical tree.
In fact, when Glenn Beck drops acid
Tommy Maple and starts thinking about FEMA,
letters@alligatororg his tail begins to glow with a soft
white light.
Obama and the Dems in Congress are the evil military
industrialists in my deduction, and it is hardly a stretch
-even the name of the quasi-governmental corporation
they all work for, the Resources Development Adminis-
tration, sounds like something to which Obama would
appoint a czar.
Obama orders his Congressional troops to blow to
smithereens the limits on political power that keep the
government from interfering with the American econo-
my (Hometree), and then he wants to use nuclear weap-
ons to enact a series of wholesale changes to American
life. Unobtanium, the precious resource atop which the
Na'vi have developed their society, is the symbolic soul
of American wildcat independence -like a magical pick-
le jar containing Andrew Jackson's heart and testicles.
Seen in this new light, "Avatar" is instantly trans-
formed into a redemptive Republican flick worthy of
praise from even the staunchest conservative. Fun DVD
extra to look out for: About two and a half hours into
the movie, one can clearly see scared gunship pilot Harry
Reid have his face smashed in by Na'vi warrior Glenn
Beck, riding a majestic and angry flying Toruk that looks
suspiciously like Rush Limbaugh.
Tommy Maple is an international communications gradu-
ate student. His column appears on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Wednesday's question:
Did you go to the career Do you support mandatory
showcase? student health insurance?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org36% YES
76% NO
66 TOTAL VOTES-c --~ oGCOR D gfn o w
IVI
--r0 ~~~s I~~ Q vlItUhu -D i4IL-$
A 
WHERE TH eU UMUS
)Q (KA)N
))AK 1Dk s
7-OX w &,
moourTHURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Guest column
TV lessons lessen with time
o offense to my parents, but Iwas raised by television.
They simply couldn't com-
pete with the hundreds of channels TV
offered me. Even as I got older, I real-
ized that everyone in my generation
could bond over one show or another.
That fact alone is not troubling.
However, the content of these pro-
grams is.
From staged reality shows to nev-
er-ending sports coverage to the latest
stalker-esque update on some talent-
less pop-culture star, every program
seems to just numb the mind.
You might be thinking, "Well, isn't
TV supposed to numb the mind?" The
lack of mental stimulation would not
be a problem if TV were not placed
in the center of our living rooms, our
bedrooms, our entire lives. We can
even stream TV on our phones. The
sheer amount of hours spent in front
of it might make it our most influential
teacher.
The Learning Channel (now com-
monly known as TLC to hide the fact
that it teaches you nothing) airs a re-
ality show about the now infamous
Octomom, while The History Channel
has quests for fictional monsters and
biased documentaries on conspiracy
theories.
Once you think of TV as our gen-
eration's greatest teacher, it suddenly
becomes clear how damaging a lesson
in numbness can be.
While these shows may be put on
TV with the best of intentions, the end
result always seems to be a dumbing
down of our culture.
And like someone much smarter
than me once observed -maybe be-
cause he didn't have a TV to distract
him -the road to hell is paved in
good intentions.
So what is the solution?
America needs more smart people
on TV. We need more intellectual dis-
course.
We need to show each other that
smart people can be entertaining too,
and that watching some celebrity train
wreck to make yourself feel betterEric Tegethoff about your life
Speaking Out doesn't actuallymake your life
any better.
I've noticed a trend in TV's educa-
tional value. Shows meant for children
appear to be getting smarter, but as
you get older, programs teach you less
and less.
For instance, "Dora the Explorer"
teaches children functional moral les-
sons (and even a little Spanish).
Once children get to "Jonas," star-
ring the Jonas Brothers, TV teaches
less, though there are still some moral
lessons. Plus, they get the added bonus
of learning how to hide their sexuality
with promise rings.
Finally, at our age, we have "Jersey
Shore," which teaches us how to hide
our sexuality with hair gel.
Imagine a country where, instead
of discussing the latest revelation on
Tiger Woods' sex life, we discussed
the topics that now seem so forbidden,
(but we nonetheless think of) like re-
ligion.
What if we discussed democracy as
was intended by our forefathers when
they set out a government "by the peo-
ple, for the people"?
I often question our dedication to
democracy when sports are easier to
discuss than politics.
If Gator fans and Bulldog fans can
talk football every now and then, why
can't liberals and conservatives find a
way to discuss politics?
I've wondered lately how the void
in human life that was set aside from
work and finding food was occupied
before TV.
Long ago, hunting took up most
of the human brain power. Once food
was easier to get, it was work that took
up most of human time, but there was
still some leftover.
What did people discuss in their
time off?
Did they have intellectual discus-
sions? Did constant media exposure
kill those discussions? And even if it
did, can't we use TV to bring it back?
Eric Tegethoff is a biology senior.
Guest column
Student's arrest brings to light America's flawed priorities
bout two weeks ago, Haisong Ji-ang, a graduate student from China
studying biosciences at Rutgers,
saw his girlfriend off at the Newark Liberty
International Airport.
The only problem was that the restrict-
ed-access area after security wasn't very
clearly marked. He went too far down the
terminal to prolong his goodbye. It was a
security breach. TSA freaked out, Terminal
C was closed for seven hours, more than
a hundred flights were delayed, and poor
Haisong Jiang was arrested for trespass-
ing. New Jersey Sen. Frank R. Lautenberg
called for his deportation, but now at least
the Chinese Consulate is helping handle
the situation.
I studied Chinese for two years, includ-
ing seven months abroad in 2008, so I know
firsthand what it can be like to live in a dif-
ferent country where you don't really un-derstand the culture. UF has a program in
which people who are studying a foreign
language can partner with students study-
ing abroad here. Half the time is spent help-
ing the other person learn English, and the
other half is for you to practice speaking a
foreign language to a native.
You learn about school habits, dating
codes, parental interaction, etc. I remem-
ber this summer I watched "Titanic" with
my Chinese-language partner and had to
explain why Rose would say, "I'll be God
damned."
"Shouldn't it be 'Damn you?"' he
asked.
Language partners are great, but right
now I would hate to be Haisong Jiang's
language partner. It would be difficult to
explain to him why he was on national
news. But I've been playing it through in
my mind, and here's my imagined interac-Will Penman tion.
Speaking Out "Haisong, Haisong,
Haisong," I would say
with a smile. "That
sucks. I should have explained before.
See, you know how last week we visited a
church? Well, that's not really how we live
any more. In America, our god is airport
security."
At first he wouldn't know if I was jok-
ing, but I would continue. "A god is the
thing you sacrifice everything else for. And
we do that with airport security. You ap-
proach the security temple, and out of rev-
erence, you must take off your shoes; You
are on holy TSA ground."
I act it out. "You offer everything you
have: keys, change, outer clothing, laptop,
toiletries. All of it goes on a belt where it is
examined by machines that divide soul and
spirit, joint and marrow. It is practicallyable to judge the thoughts and intentions
of the heart. The TSA priests are never hap-
py with you, but airport security is a very
strict god. Some people are regular wor-
shippers; others only come on holidays. If
the TSA god has any doubt, you must show
your devotion. Raise your hands and an-
other machine will see if you are sincere."
Haisong is interested. "So you see, Hai-
song," I say, "by crossing the roped-off area,
you ignored everything we love: airport se-
curity. If you want to live here, you have to
worship our god. Come to him with peace,
good thoughts, and not too many liquids,"
We smile. "And he will let you in, too."
"Ming bai le," says Haisong. "I get it."
And I think he does. At the very least, when
he gets out of jail, he'll be able to explain to
all of his Chinese friends about America's
new religion.
Will Penman is an English senior.
theAvenue thursday, january 21, 2010
Chug this, NOT that!
Mixologist Richard 0. Stehli sampled light beers, lagers and ales to find the perefct marriage of bubbles
and flavor that will work with your taste buds, your wallet and that bathing suit you want to look good in
for Spring Break. Check out alligator.org/theavenue for more footage on the beer, what you missed at the
Golden Globes and why boys in bands should stop thinking they're so cool.
page 10by Benjamin Evans
U The Drums
For fans of: The Smiths, Soft
Cell
This Brooklyn indie-pop four-
piece is the most hyped New
York band since The Strokes.
The band released its debut EP,
Summertime!, last October and
will be quick to silence those
who say they have a Beach Boys
vibe. The Drums sound more like
Joy Division if Ian Curtis was re-
placed with The Cure's Robert
Smith.
P]J. Cole
For fans of: Kanye West, Jay-Z
As an aspiring rapper, J. Cole
waited hours in the rain one day
to hand Jay-Z a demo, only to
get the cold shoulder. But he
went on to be featured on The
Blueprint 3's "A Star is Born."
And when Jay-Z started his la-
bel last year, Cole was the first
to be signed.
i Free Energy
For fans of: Cheap Trick, Tom
Petty
When you're packed in a car
with friends on a Saturday night,
dazed and ready whatever
mischief is next, you should blast
Free Energy. They're bringing
the hefty guitar riffs and hooks
of '70s bands like Thin Lizzy
to a new generation. And who
doesn't like Thin Lizzy?
theater b
No boundaries:- Gainesville Improv Festival plays all
By ALLISON BANKO
avenue writer
Don't you dare throw this lovely
piece of literature that we call The Al-
ligator away. And I'm not suggesting
that you go green and skip your pretty
little feet on over to the recycling bin
either. Save your newspapers; they
could be used as the inspiration for
one of this year's performances at the
Gainesville Improv Festival.
The festival is set to be at the Phil-
lips Center for the Performing Arts
until Saturday, and Chicago-based
headliner, Whirled News Tonight, uses
newspaper clippings brought in by the
audience as inspiration for its perfor-
mances.
"Before the show, the audience is
asked to bring in outrageous articles
that they would like to see interpret-
ed. The articles are tacked on a peg
board on stage, and the Whirled NewsTonight performers pick an article
from the board and just go with it,"
Gainesville Improv Festival's co-found-
er Skyler Stone said.
(Masturbating library man, any-
one?)
Differing from the traditional stage
performances, improv shows hold a lot
of audience interaction, so the line be-
tween the performers and the specta-
tors is thinner than the curtain rope.
"There are no boundaries in these
shows. They depend on the energy of
the night's audience," Stone said.
Although Whirled News Tonight
is the headliner, there are more than
20 other improv troupes from around
the nation setto perform atthis year's
event. Each group is unique in their
own, quirky and unscripted perfor-
mances.
Due to the plethora of performers
at the festival, each performance is
one of a kind. Some troupes act outtheir suggestions (some are even giv-
en via text message) through the use
of musical instruments, while others
may channel it through a one-act play.
"There is so much variety in these
performances. Each troupe is made
up of such a diverse array of people.
Interpretations are never one in the
same, so a performance is never re-
peated," Stone said.
Many of the performers in the
event are UF alumni. Co-founders of
the Gainesville Improv Festival, Stone
and Tom O'Donnell, are not only for-
mer Gators but also former members
of the UF improv troupe setto perform,
Theatre Strike Force.
The workshops held by the
Gainesville Improv Festival are open
to the public and those interested are
encouraged to visit gainesvilleimprov.
com to learn more about the work-
shop's instructors and how to reserve
a spot.All right kids, here's a way to re-
lease your bottled up idea: Whether
you want to witness them through the
start of newspapers, text messages
or musical instruments, GainesvilleImprove Festival offers all delicious fla-
vors. Catch them all through Sunday
Jan. 23 at the Philips Center. Tickets
may be purchased at
performingarts.ufl.ed u/tickets.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2010 +ALLIGATOR, 9
amenican
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and
Stacks. The only way to
describe the Stack is that is
outrageously delicious! Its
uniquely different presentation-
three 6 inch flour tortillas
stacked high with fresh grilled
ingredients and just the right
accent of cheese- is strangely
inviting to one's palate. Come
out & try our 1/3 lb Burgers,
steak seasoned Panchos, &
Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the Home Grown
and Homemade Black Bean
Hummus! Now serving draft and
Red Stripe beers! We deliver!
Open late to serve your late
night cravings! Sun-Wed:1 1am-
3am. Thurs-Sat: 11 am-4am.
34th St Plaza (Sweetbay)@
2124 SW 34th St 672-6111
www.idoobies.com
barbecue
David's BBQ
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, Eat-
in, Takeout, Drive-thru, Cater-
ing, or Tailgaiting. Everyone
loves David's BBQ because,
unlike ordinary BBQ places,
David's cooks over a real wood
fire! Eat where the locals eat!
Voted #1 BBQ in Gainesville!
Approved caterer for UF's
Emerson Alumni Hall. Mon-Sat
7am -9pm. Sundays open at
8am. Drive Thru until 9:30pm
7 days! 352-373-2002. Have
David's BBQ delivered by Ga-
torfood.com. FREE WIFI. 5121
NW 39th Ave
www.davidsBBQ.com
cracker
cuisine
The Yearling
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog legs,
and alligator, as well as USDA
Prime beef, seafood, grits, greens
& hush puppies. Open Thursday
& Friday 5pm-1Opm, Saturday
12pm-1Opm & Sunday 12pm-
8:30pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999
www.theyearlingrestaurant.com
cuban
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301frozen freat65
D'Lites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
d'licious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly without
the diet taste. We also feature a
whole array of cookies, chips, and
various grocery treats that appeal
to Atkins®, Weight Watchers@,
and other dieters. Our every day
daily specials make shopping
at D'Lites a special value!
Come weigh your options at
the Marketplace Plaza at NW
16th Blvd. and 43rd St. (next to
the Hollywood Video) or at the
Shoppes of Williston at S.W. 34th
Street and Williston Rd. (next to
Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!
Karmo Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts,
loose leaf teas, and beer, with
lots of vegan options. Now open
24 hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
blocks east of campus at 1025 W.
University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve frozen
yogurt as a healthy dessert
alternative. Our yogurt has 0%
fat and contains live and active
cultures. Choose any combination
of 8 different flavors and over 30
toppings. Everything for just 45
cents an ounce. 3841 SW Archer
Rd (next to Bento Red) Open
from noon to midnight daily!
alan
Manuel's Vintage
Room
This family owned restaurant
is perfect for dinner any day of
the week. Come in and check
out one of the best wine lists in
town. Ask questions and learn
while you wait for the chef to
put out nothing but goodness
from the kitchen using fresh,
simple, and local ingredients.
Try the Early Dinner Sunday,
Tuesday-Thursday 5-7pm. $3
wines/$10 bottles. $10 Menu.
Ask about our Monday Wine
Dinners and private parties for
lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
St. (352)375-7372dnd an and
vegetarian
Green Mango
The best Indian food in
Gainesville. Serving Gainesville
since 1991. The best Samosas
in Florida. Offering many vegan
dishes. We are specialized in
catering any group size. Delivery
available-free delivery on any
purchase over $25! Open 7 days
Mon-Sat 11:30am-9pm, Sunday
1pm-8pm. Call 352-505-6200.
7625 W Newberry Rd
japanese
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a hip,
trendy atmosphere. Two great
locations with outside eating.
Open every day for carry-out
or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.
Cabana Cove
Keg West Grille
Now offering a new bistro
inspired menu.
Open for lunch and dinner.
Full martini and mojito bar.
Voted nicest outdoor dining.
COUPON -DATE NIGHT -COUPON
Choose 1 appetizer, 2 entrees, a
bottle of wine, and share a slice
of Key Lime Pie.
All for only $39.99 (expires
12/31/09)
2410 NW 43rd StreetEGainesville
352-377-3278
Please visit us online at
www.cabanacove.net for
additional savings and coupons.
Ichinese
Green Plantains
The best MoFongo, churrasco,
& chofan in town. $5 To-Go
Dinners. Mon-Sat from 4pm.
Don't miss out $4.95 dinner +
soda on Thursday, student night
from 4pm-1Opm. Visit us at
5150 SW 34th Street at the new
Publix Shopping Center 7 days
a week. We cater. Check us out
on Gatorfood.com
352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.comocal &orgarnc
THE JONES
Gainesville's own independently
owned community restaurant
dedicated to bringing sustain-
able, local, and organic food
to the table. Oh, and it's really
yummy. Herbivores, carnivores,
& omnivores welcome! NOW
SERVING DINNER EVERY
NIGHT! New hours: open every
day 8am-1 Opm. Check out our
facebook page for specials and
events. 401 NE 23rd Avenue.
352.373.6777
Mildred's
Big Cit9 Food
Eat Gainesville's Best Food at
Mildred's. We support LOCAL
and SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh
Dishes Made From Scratch!
OPEN SUNDAYS!
CONVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371-1711
MildredsBigCityFood.com
New Deal Caf6
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burgers! This l2oz.
Goliath is Naturally Aged and
Fresh Ground. MONSTROUS
desserts. HUGE Martini's. $5
glasses of wine and 20 wines
under $20! Mon-Thurs. 11am-
10pm
Fri & Sat. 11 am-i 1pm
371-4418
newdealcafegainesville.com
Located next door to Mildred's.
Keepin' it fresh -Keepin' it real!
mediterranean
Ti Amol
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine
agrees, "[the chef] adds visual
flair to every dish to make it as
good-looking as it is flavorful."
NEW Happy Hour Specials!
Every day from 4pm-7pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices & terrific
service.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.com
12 SE 2nd Ave. 378-6307mexican
Boca Fiesta
Best Margaritas in Town!
Fresh-squeezed + all natural!
Tasty tacos, burritos, nachos!
Cheap beer, full bar, open late!
232 SE 1st St Downtown
336-TACO!
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta, & desserts. All you
can eat buffet available!
Outdoor dining. Visit www.
newyorkpizzaplus.com for
coupons. We Deliver!
490 NE 23rd Ave.
376-3444
vegetarian
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade, meals,
sandwiches, soups, home-baked
desserts. Brunch Weekends.
Specials: Cupcake Mon.,
Southern Cooking Tues., Greek
Wed 6pm, Ethiopian Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 1Oam-Bpm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
efnane,3e
I
USaigon Legend
Delicious traditional Vietnamese
cuisine with popular Asian
favorites. Pho-Banh Xeo, Banh
Tom Ha-Woi. Enjoy great food
at great prices. Family owned
restaurant. Next to Holiday
Inn. Vietnamese subs-pork,
chicken, & tofu. Dine-in or take
out. Catering available. Mon-Sat
10:30am-9:30pm, Sun 11:30am-
9pm
374-0934
1228 W Univ Ave
o Q9qo Q@
C-0)~J
I1O O
10, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2010
Hard OFF: When Penises Flop
* HOW TO DEAL WITH ALL YOUR
WHISKEY DICK PROBLEMS
By AMELIA HARNISH
avenue writer
She says.
I love sex. And lucky for me, and the
rest of my fellow females out there, I
have little standing in my way as far
as making it happen. (Except maybe
reputation, but that's a whole other
column.)
It's unfair, really, which is why I feel
especially bad when a guy I'm hook-
ing up with is having performance is-
sues. Maybe he's just had too much
to drink, maybe this is a recurring
problem, but whatever the situation,
it's uncomfortable for both parties. I
can only imagine the embarrassment
that comes along with not being able
to get it up, and I bet it's worse thanthe frustration I feel upon realizing
I'm not getting any. But still, I can't
help but think, "Damn it!"
Whenever this happens to me or
a friend we obviously talk about it.
From these conversations, I've no-
ticed some common questions and
thoughts about the experience.
How am I supposed to handle this?
Guys, we are not dick experts. Please
do not make things weird by allowing
us to fondle your semi-limp member
for longer than a few minutes. Be hon-
est with us and yourselves. And do
not ask us to go down on you to get
you going. Gross.
Ladies, don'ttreat it like the elephant
in the room. Be sensitive to the issue,
but at some point you've got to just
give it up and avoid beating his failure
into his head, doingway more psycho-
logical damage than necessary.
Maybe it's me. Being naked in frontof someone is going to make any girl
self-conscious at first. If an erection
does not happen immediately after
you take your clothes off, it is not your
fault, ladies.
Guys, this is why it is importantfor you
to be upfront about the situation be-
cause before we think of your short-
comings, we're thinking: "Oh my God,
are my boobs weird?" or "This is such
bad lighting for my vagina!" Just tell
us you've had too much to drink, and
we can all move on with our lives.
Maybe some guys just get harder
than others? Please enlighten me on
this one, masses, because I just can't
come up with an answer. Is there a
spectrum of hardness or something?
Or isthis a sign that my girlfriends and
I should start hooking up soberly?
For He says., or to share your com-
ments, visit alligator.org/the avenue.HEAVY METAL
by ASHLEY McCREDIE, Avenue Writer
Punk rock is making a comeback through studded cloth-
ing and accessories, and you can keep up with this easy
DIY project. Take a simple piece of clothing and give it a
metal makeover by adding silver studs.
S1
Step 2Ste 1
Grab some pliers and your preferred
spikes and studs. Use something like
Jewelry Essentials assorted box with
186 studs, $5, Michaels.
Find a garment or accessory that
could use some rocker flare. We
used a little black dress, $50, Zara,
but anything from tank tops to shoes
to leather jackets will do. K
LA
a
Low-cal, high-quality
By RICHARD 0. STEHLI ries, it shouldn't fill you up or add to
avenue writer your Freshman 15.
Lightest Beer: For those sophomores
Whileyou were out havinga good time and juniors trying to drop the Fresh-
Friday night, we blindly sampled a list man 15, your best option is to stop
of light beer so you wouldn't have to. drinking beer! But, we know you must
Two dozen beers later, we are weary drink, so go with Budweiser Select 55
but wiser. What should you drink? and MGD 64. With 55 and 64 calories
What shouldn't you drink? What helps . respectively, these
you stay slim? What if you don't like Behind beers sacrifice a lot
beer at all? We have everything you of taste and alcohol
need to know to get started. to make themselves
Best In Show: Drink Sam Adams Light, more healthy. But it's still fizzy, yellow
especially if someone else is paying. It and beer-flavored. Plus, it only has half
was the most expensive beer we tried the calories of other light beers.
but was the hands down favorite, as Pseudo-Beer: Although hardly beer,
well. It's rich, malty and complex but youshouldtryBud LightLimeand Miller
drinks a lot heavier that the prototypi- Chill. In one sip you will know whether
cal "light beer." you love it or hate it, and maybe you'll
Best Light Beer: For a true light taste, find yourself a new summertime favor-
drink Amstel Light. More reasonably ite. If you aren't a big beer drinker, try
priced than Sam Adams, Amstel Light Michelob Ultra Lime Cactus. It has a
delivers crisp, easy flavor that a few soft, flowery lime taste with hardly any
tasters described as "exactly what a trace of beer flavor. As well as being
light beer should be." At only 95 calo- cheaper, compare its 107 calories tochug fest
the 228 in Smirnoff Ice. They make
a pomegranate-raspberry and an or-
ange-grapefruit flavor, as well.
Best Value: In charge of drinks this
weekend? Buy Keystone Light. It has
a nice beer taste with no off-flavors.
Keystone Light isn't quite as good as
bestsellers Miller Lite and Bud Light,
but the price tag is nearly cut in half.
Natural Light and Busch Light were al-
most as good, but Keystone was our
unanimous favorite among the cheap-
est beers.
Avoid at All Costs: Unless there is a
gun pressed against your temple, do
not drink Heineken Light or Corona
Light. Heineken Light smelled bad
enough to make some of us gag, and
the taste was sour and tinny. Corona
Light was not only skunky but also had
an aftertaste quite reminiscent of ciga-
rette butts.
For complete results and video reviews
of the best and worst beers, check out
alligator.org/theavenue.Decide on a pattern for the studs.
They can be scattered, in a perfect
line, in a shape or used to make
words. Attach the studs by piercing
them through the fabric and using
the pliers to secure them in the back.
Step 4
After creating your first look, draw
inspiration from more studded items.
These Jeffery Campbell shoes and For-
ever 21 purse can easily be replicated
and made into original pieces by you!
J. Hunter Sizemore / Alligator Staff
Hot dogs, hot deals
By ALEX ORLANDO
avenue writer
Deciding where to eat on your next
late-night food run just got harder.
You now have more to add to your
repertoire of fast-food options.
Sandwiched between Blockbuster
Video and Target Copy on Southwest
Archer Road, Orange Tree Hot Dogs,
a mom-and-pop shop gone fran-
chise, is setting up its first store in
Gainesville.
Orange Tree will open at the
Gainesville location on Jan. 28
and has tentative plans for a grand
opening in mid-February featuring a
hot-dog-eating contest and reduced
prices, said Shawn Emling, director
of franchising and grandson-in-law
of Orange Tree's founders, Carolyn
and Peter Koppenberger.
Emling also said Orange Tree is
looking to add two new stores in
Gainesville: one near the Oaks Mall
and the other on UF's campus.
"It fits the mold for a budget-minded
college student," Emling said.
He attributes simplicity, cost and
originality to Orange Tree's growing
popularity.
"It's the simplicity of the menu tied in
with the uniqueness of the toppings,
without having the price point that it
dictates," Emlingsaid.
Emlingsaid that specialty items usu-
ally keep customers coming in thedoor like the Orange Frost (a type of
orange smoothie), the Onion Sauce
Dog and personal-size pizzas, all fea-
turing secret recipes.
Although Orange Tree is about tra-
dition with most of its locations be-
ing virtually identical, Emling said
the company is willing to change its
hours of operation to accommodate
the college crowd.
The new store will be open 10 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Mondaythrough Thursday
and 10 a.m. to midnight Friday and
Saturday. These hours are consider-
ably extended from any of the other
Orange Tree res-
taurants, Emling
said.
Deborah Butler,
vice president
and general man-
ager of Butler
Enterprises, said
she thinks Orange Tree Hot Dogs
will benefit existing shops and res-
taurants in Butler Plaza and will add
variety to the area.
Butler said she remembers eating at
Orange Tree Hot Dogs as a child. The
restaurant's longevity made it ap-
pealing as a tenant, she said.
Butler said, because of all the stu-
dents and families in Gainesville,
she was not surprised to see a new
restaurant looking to set up shop.
For a complete look at the menu, go
to orangetreehotdogs.com.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
*3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
$419 all inclusive 4/4
$509 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
24hr Fitness Center * 2 Pools
Now Feline Friendly352-271-
3131*GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-1
**CUT ME OUT AND SAVE BIG**
C ressti
The coupon is good for a $1200 value
Sign for a 2/2,3/3 or 4/4 for fall 2010
Furnished. All inclusive. Student suites.
$0 Signing Fees, 42" TV or New Sofas
352.373.9009 lexingtoncrossinguf.com
**CUT ME OUT AND SAVE BIG**
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$250/MO
Fully Furnished Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, Campus Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1
REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2*3/3*4/4
Rates from $386*Close to UF
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $750/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432
2-3-09-55-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
Beautiful 3/3, close to schooldir. on bus!
Brand new appl, paint, bedding, remdld
bthrms, Frnt bldng, upstrs.
bdduf86@comcast.net
1-25-10-14-1Rmmate wanted NOW to share very nice
3BR/3BA condo. Very close to UF & Santa
Fe. Fully furnished. Prv't BR/BA. Pool &
porch. No pets please. $550/month ALL
UTILITIES INC!! Call Talia (305)304-1703.
1-21-10-10-1
Kensington South Townhouse 2bed/2.5bath.
Furnished Downstairs. $450/month per
room including internet and alarm system.
954-598-3986. Available immediately or for
Summer/Fall 2010. 1-27-14-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4/4 indiv leases. $395/mo ind cable, inet &
util. Unfurn optional. Avail fall, or June + July.
dyeung888@embarqmail.com 239-250-6149
1-29-10-15-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Unit. $450 ea. W/D.
Property has clubhouse, fitness and busi-
ness/computer ctr. Utilities incl. On bus
route. Windsor Park.
305-788-5681/Windsor5l5@gmail.com.
2-26-10-28-1
For RentF unfurnished
LOW COST MOVE IN
1 BR & STUDY -$395/mo.
372-6881 or 213-3901 4-21-10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
*HUGE FLOOR PLANS*
1/1 -$569 2/1 .5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app!
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
Limited Availability-Downtown Apartments
Studios-$599*One Bedrooms*$699
Two Bedrooms-$859*Three Bedrooms-$1299
Move in NOW or Fall 2010
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
4-21-09-71-2
1 & 2's * AFFORDABLE RATES!
1 BR/1 BA $469 * 2BR/1 BA $569
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Adopted pets live free!! 2 Pools!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOW or FALL 2010.
2/2 from $1019 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -Affordable Luxury!
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness
Pool * W/D * Tennis * Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA Fireplaces
Individual Leases Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1-$679 2/2-$779 3/2-$829
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464 for info
4-21-71-2
P OLOS
Three Bus Routes (9,34,35,36)!
1.5m to UF, Shand's, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$799 3/3-$979
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-21's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75 SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 4-21-
71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$465, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
4-21-09-71-2
BRAND NEW REDUCED RATES!
's, 2's, 3's
Inclusive Pkgs Available
* Pet Friendly!
Immediate or Fall Move In
352-374-3866
4-21-09-71-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$419 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2*3/3*4/4
Rates from $386*Close to UF
EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
WaeAND be on time!
Studios from $499, is from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$600 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
1BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St.
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <50bs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 1-29-
10-60-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 1-22-
10-52-2
Working at Shands or VA- nice 2/1 @ Summit
House across the street. $700/mo + $200
dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 1-29-47-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -WE'VE GOT IT ALL!
1/1 from $589 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis*1 mile to UF*Huge Laundry Facilities
377-7401 * www.biketouf.com
4-21-09-71-2
0 2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE
7209 SW 45th Pl. $600/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 2-3-10-
38-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 1-29-09-35-2
12, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2010
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished Raml
BLOCKS TO UF
Available August 2010. Now showing
multiple houses. 2BR/2BA, 3BR/2BA,
4BR/3BA, 5BR/3BA. www.dalyproperties.
com or call Carol 359-3341 2-26-10-43-2
Move-In Now & Walk to UF
2BR $300/br * 1 BR $599 * Studio $720
Dorm style $509 Roommate Matching Avail
www.ForRentNearUF.com * 352-376-6223
4-21-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 1-29-10-20-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 1-29-10-20-2
Luxury Student Condos Close To Campus
Includes internet and utilities
From $385 per month each.
Please call us for the details.
Bristol Park Realty (352) 367-2669
1-29-09-20-2
Luxury student condos close to calmus.
Includes interent & tuilities
From $385 per month each.
Please call us for the details.
Bristol park Realty 352-367-2669 1-29-10-
20-2
$199 Move-In Special
$500-$700 2 bed/1 bath
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or (352)505-9264 2-17-10-
30-2
Holiday Special/ Valentine's Day
NO MOVE-IN COSTS -Free Rent
(Don't Pay Anything til 2/14/10)
Please Hurry. Only A Few Units Avail!
(We speak Spanish) 352 240-9009
2-12-09-27-2
Rocky Point Apts 3100 sw 35th pl- 376-1619
Country Garden 2001 sw 16th st- 373-4500
Regency Oaks 3230 sw Archer rd 378-5766
Southwest Villas 3643 sw 20 ave 336-9000
Archer Woods 3020 sw Archer rd- 373-8727
2-12-09-27-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
Cute & Clean! Vintage 1-BR with wood floors
& great front porch in quiet NW area. Walk to
Ward's, Publix & buslines, bike to downtown
& UF. Avail. NOW! $575/mo. 352-338-7670
or email shepley@cozygator.com 1-27-10-
17-2
Baxter Cottage
2 blks to UF campus, 1013 SW 4 Ave
2BR/1BA, Bright, clean, completely remod-
eled, Cent AC/Ht,wood firs, DW, W/D, NS,
NPets. $650+util. ATucker458@aol.com
1-29-10-16-2
LARGE 1BR HOUSE
Urban loft design -fully remodeled. Very
nice. Backyard, trees, downtown, big city
cracker. 316-6667. $670/mo. Available now
1-21-10-10-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
1BR home on a hill, 14' x 24'living room with
view, dining area seats 6, huge patio, private
entrance, carport, near UF, NW 8th Ave. All
utilities paid. $850. 352-395-6250 or 332-
1429 1-29-10-16-2*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile floor, W/D
in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate. 239-250-
6149, dyeung888@embarqmail.com
1-29-10-15-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
1-29-15-2
$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1.5 Bath
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands
on bus route. W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500
security, $550/month. 2640 SW 31st Place
Unit B. 562-2782 or 514-6869 if interested.
1-25-10-2
MOVE IN NOW!
Sweet studio w/large porch, deck, on creek.
Safe area. On busline. Tiled, laundry priv.
$395/mo, 1/3 utils, lst/last/$400 sec. 352-
384-0111. 24/7 apt326@yahoo.com 1-25-
10-10-2
One Block to UF:2/2.5 bath townhouse. W/D,
Dishwasher, Garbage Disposal, wood floors,
ceiling fans, GUARANTEED Parking call
Todd at 514-4915, VERY Nice townhouse
1-29-10-13-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1st Nice large
4BR/2BA house. Big bedrooms, big living rm.
W/D provided, game rm $1425/mo. 2100 NW
8th Court. Call for diretions. Pets ok, fenced
yard. Other houses available 352-339-2342
1-26-10-10-2
Perfect 3BR for grad students or profession-
als. Close to SW Rec Center & Archer Rd
conveniences. hardwood floor, cent H/AC,
new appliances, nice yard. 2627 SW 31st
Terr. $750/mo until August. 215-7199 1-26-
10-10-2
Across From UF
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1075
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111 4-21-
65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1 bdr. from $459 2bdr. from $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/1 from $619 2/2 from $729
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Sunrise Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1bdr from $469
NO APP FEE. Near UF, Schands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1 bdr. from $599
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Ashton Square Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2 & 3 bdrs from $719
Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Summer Place Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1bdr from $469 No rent until Jan,
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Sundowne Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Studio from $439 1 bdr from $479
Walk to Butler Plaza and Regal Cinemas
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2*1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Gator Village Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1bdr from $489
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
Walk to UF. Openings in Feb, May & Aug.
* 2BR/2.5BA $850 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
2-26-10-32-2
$300 ALL Inclusive, Utils, CableTV,
SecureWiFi, BR/Pvt. BA, W/D, Newly
Remodeled & Furnished Common Area. On
UF Bus Rte. January FREE. OPEN MINDED.
954-854-9445 1-28-10-10-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
2-1 1-10-20-2
4 BR/4 BR apt in Oxford Terrace 11. $545 a
month. Fall'10-Summer'1l. Utilities, cable,
internet, Washer/dryer, all included. Very
close walk to campus! Call 954-608-9531 or
email geoff265@ufl.edu. 1-29-10-10-2
*2/1 Brandywine $495 sm. pet ok***
*3/2 House W/D $725 pets ok***
Near UF, Shands, VA. On bus route.
Short term ok.
AVAIL NOW 352.284.2654
1-29-10-10-2
DUCKPOND
Stone cottage studio. Small but cute. Good
sized kitchen. Blocks to downtown, restau-
rants. Available now. $475/mo. 306 NE 6th
St. 379-4952 1-29-10-10-2
DUCKPOND
2BR/1.5BA 1200 sq ft townhouse. Amazing
location. Tile floor, new countertops. Blocks
to downtown. Available now. $850/mo. 508
NE 4th Ave. 379-4952 1-29-10-10-2
roommate wanted for 1/1 w/ private bath-
room in a 2/2 house on SW side of town.
$600 includes cable, utilities, & internet! Call
352-870-5351 and speak to Jessica to see
the room! 1-21-10-3-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 1-29-10-9-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
216 SW 12th St. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 1-29-10-9-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 1-29-10-9-2
SORRENTO SUBDIVISION
Newer 3BR/2BA 2 car gar, split plan home.
Eat-in kitchen, living & dining rms, fireplace,
high ceiling, lanai, fenced yd, sec sys. $1300/
mo yearly lease. 813-205-0220 lv mssg. 2-1-
10-10-2
*2BR Home cent AC/heat, wood floors, 611
NW 34th Ave $625/mo + sec.
*3BR wood floors, close to UF/SFC, bus.
Flex lease $625/mo Available now
352-318-8822 1-26-10-5-2The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
2BR/2.5BA 1308 SW 61st St.
$595/mo. $300 sec dep.
Call 352-332-4088
2-2-10-10-2
GOT ROACHES?
Buy Harris Famous Roach Tablets.
Guaranteed to kill. Available at: Zells
Hardware, 3727 West University 3-17-10-
35-2
r subleases
DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
CALL TODAY!!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
$300 ALL Inclusive, Utils, CableTV,
SecureWiFi, BR/Pvt. BA, W/D, Newly
Remodeled & Furnished Common Area. On
UF Bus Rte. January FREE. OPEN MINDED.
954-854-9445 1-28-10-10-3
Sublease a 1BR/1B in a fully furnished
2BR/2B apartment. $520/month Includes:
Utilities, cable, wireless internet. Willing to
pay deposit/application fee! Email valk44@
yahoo.com ASAP!! 1-22-3-3
Very nice 2bed/1 bath Apt @Sun Bay, pet-
friendly, minutes to UF/Shands, available
Mar-Dec at $655/mo (includes water bill) +
$1000 check (drops your rent to $555/mo)
+ furniture (all yours). Call 352 378 2996.
1-22-10-3-3
room in 3/3 at the woodlands. male or female
welcome. $580, all inclusive. First month
free, no move in fees. Move in Immediately.
3059236495 1-29-10-7-3
OFRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $299/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 4-21-09-71-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail now
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 1-26-
10-46-41 ROOMMATE NEEDED ASAP For 4bd/3ba
House. Shared With 3 UF Dance Students.
$440 + 1/4 Utils. House Fully Furnished.
Private Bath! Car Garage. W&D Inc. Call
Jessi 813 244 1919 Ready To Move In!
1-29-10-17-4
1-2 Roommates needed for 4br/4ba $375
Fully Furn Condo. ALL UTIL Incl., Pvt. bath
walk-in closet,w/d,pool.Short ride to UF on 2
bus routes.STUDENTS ONLY, non-smoking
954-593-3063 1-21-10-7-4
$300 ALL Inclusive, Utils, CableTV,
SecureWiFi, BR/Pvt. BA, W/D, Newly
Remodeled & Furnished Common Area. On
UF Bus Rte. January FREE. OPEN MINDED.
954-854-9445 1-28-10-10-4
Share 4br, 2.5ba, 3fl home with
2 h/m. Gorgeous view. Privacy &
space. Safe, quiet & accessible.
Huge bly, deck, frpl, prch, hdwd,
w/d, d/w, gar, furn. 716.446.3588
1-22-10-5-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
2-2-10-10-4
15 Minutes to UF/SFCC 1900sf, 5/3 MH. Will
rent by room 350 up, or whole house 1400.
Mth to Mth lease. 352-301-2403 1-29-8-4
3000+sf home, nw 13th & 16th, 4/3, reno-
vated, rent whole house 1900 or by the room
500. 352-301-2403 1-26-5-4
GREAT DEAL. I am NEVER there. 2BR/2BA
townhouse. Downtown. W/D hookup. Jan
rent paid. Arlington Square Apts. Pet friendly.
No deposits. $500.00/month. 863-258-6350.
Scubagirl404@gmail.com 1-27-10-5-4
Mill Pond/Gainesville Health & Fitness!!
Need roomate to share 2BR/2BA condo
on the water. Completely furnished except
your BR! Move in immediately and receive
free month rent!!! 352-538-5170 ask for Kyle
2-3-10-10-4
WALK TO CAMPUS! Room available in 3/2
house, 1.5 blocks from UF, cent Ht/AC, W/D
parking. $350/mo. Grad students preferred.
352-367-9128 375-1474 1-27-10-5-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-71-
5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
NEW HOMES -3.2 MILES NORTH OF UF
US Dept of Energy, professionally energy
tested, est elec bill $80. 3 different plans,
starting at $208,900. Schackow Realty, de-
veloper 352-514-5060 or rlschack@aol.com
1-21-10-10-5
THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2010 M ALLIGATOR, 13
Furnishings Furnishings Furnishings cycles, Mopeds Autos
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
IAv#befo omr~ N~ rvdr
PIP.,
w 8
E
L.EBed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
UF-omp uters
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
CERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECHO
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
1-29-10-14-7
F Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
Discount Motorcycle Gear
www.turn2co.com. Up to 75% off original
MSRP. 904-294-8344 Turn 2 Gear 1-29-
10-26-11
Or IAutosZ
*FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS 0
ORunning or not!@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
00ver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy6Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Ties Only. Call K.T. (,352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
U1 Fo al I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
Discount Hookahs at www.Hookaa.com.
Value Hookahs at dirt cheap prices.
We offer wide variety of Hookahs and
Hookah Accessories at deep discounts.
Visit us @ www.Hookaa.com
2-2-10-10-10-
Motorcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11Call Anytime 352-339-5158
1-29-09-75-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
94 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $1499 cash
96 Kia Sephia $999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1499
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
95 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900 SOLD
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-122003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
MFWanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
" Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
" ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 1-28-10-71-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 1-28-
10-71-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14CoyIhe Matr
SdoteonI 4
14, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2010
FHelp Wanted Help Wanted f Help Wanted Health Services Entertainment
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
Hair models wanted for long hair in motion
studies. Hip-length or longer only. No experi-
ence necessary. $70 to $120 and hour. Call
352 792-1824 modelslh@yahoo.com
1-29-10-42-14
HowiGotAnA U
Have a 3.6 GPA & want to earn some extra
cash? We are hiring notetakers for
spring '10. Go to www.HowlGotanA.com
1-25-10-16-14
UCB
Looking for energized individuals to work part
time as an office assistant mainly for packing
online orders.
High paced environment so attention to
detail is key. Hourly pay $8.50/hr. Very
nice job environment and 10 min from
UF! Preferred bilingual English/Spanish,
but not required. Please send resumes to
universitycollegebooks@gmail.com and
make sure your contact information is in-
cluded.
Thanks 2-2-10-20-14
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
Linux Administrator
Full time career position with a success-
ful 30 year employer located in Gainesville.
Must have strong Linux/Unix background
and should be conversant with the following:
kernel compiling, network configuration, ip-
tables/ipchains, Sendmail, Procmail, MySQL
and Apache. Please apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com. 2-3-10-20-14
LPNs & RTs NEEDED IMMEDIATELY
to work for a home health agency. Flexible
hours, great pay. Full-time & part-time avail-
able. Call 352-284-2336 or email
hcpservices@bellsouth.net 1-21-10-14
F/T Legal Assistant, salary negotiable, expe-
rience a plus. Call Carrillo & Carrillo, PA @
352-371-4000. 1-22-10-10-14
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Full or part time. Some weekends,holidays.
Experience preferred. Apply in person
at Jonesville Animal Hospital 14145 W.
Newberry Rd, Newberry. 1-25-10-10-14
GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS
FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY
PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT
JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-6300
2-8-10-20-14
OSOATTENTION SMOKERS!@@
SODo you want to quit smoking?@
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking
cessation study. You may be compensated.
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic 328-6603 or
email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com 1-22-
10-14Bartenders and Wait Staff wanted at
Newberry's Backyard Bar-B-Q Restaurant.
Our friendly, high volume restaurant needs
capable, friendly, and smart employees to
deliver a great experience to our Guests.
Please apply in person. 25405 West
Newberry Rd. Newberry, FL 32669
(Across from City Hall)
1-29-10-12-14
Perry Roofing Inc is a multi-million dollar
company seeking a self-motivated, ener-
getic individual that is eager to help build
our Marketing Department from the ground
up. We've earned a reputation for excel-
lence by giving driven, motivated people the
opportunity to shine. 1-2 year of experience
in Marketing or Advertising is a plus. Submit
your resume to jocampo@perryroofing.com
1-21-5-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT for real estate office.
Approx 25 hrs/wk, afternoons and some Sat
mornings. Tasks include taking rent pay-
ments, answering phone, filing, writing let-
ters. Min 1-yr commitment expected. Starting
pay $7.50/hr. Good PT job for student.
Please send resume and cover ltr to rabell@
atlantic.net or fax to 378-2411. No phone
calls please. 4-21-10-64-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
Full time NANNY needed M-F
recent newborn exp req. $450/wk
grad students welcome;
Noah's Ark Nanny; send resume, photo,
short bio to gnv@nanoneone.com 1-29-
10-10-14
Gainesville-based travel agency
now hiring experienced sales agents.
Candidates must be outgoing, computer
proficient, and quick learners.
GREAT STUDENT JOB. GREAT PAY.
Please send your resume and availability
to bestontravelnet@gmail.com.
1-29-9-14
COUNTER HELP FOR PIZZARIA
Experience a must. PT/FT available. Call
376-3444 1-25-10-5-14
Educational group travel organizer seeking
career-oriented FT Reservations Manager
with fluency in Spanish for long-term posi-
tion. Position requires excellent organization-
al and communication skills. Please email re-
sume to: Stephanie@holbrooktravel.com
1-27-10-7-14
PART TIME WORK
Great Pay
Customer Sales/Service
Flexible Schedule
Scholarships/Internships
No experience Needed
Conditions apply,
CALL 352-371-9675
2-16-20-14
Hiring a skilled computerworker
with experience using TaxWise.
Call 376-2253 1-26-10-5-14
student wtd w/ exp in wrtng newspaper ar-
ticles to write & layout (4) shrt news-type
articles for local biz for spc advt to appr in
gvl sun. Will pay $75 & Itr of recommenda-
tion. Submit min of (3) smpls and sht bio of
qualifications/ exp to soofinc@yahoo.com
1-22-10-3-14
Help teenager with autism after school.
Help with therapies, social acitivities, home-
work, and chores after 2:30 M-F. Occasional
weekend hours for activities. Transportation
and references required, experience/train-
ing a plus. Send resume to afterschool-
care4son@gmail.com 1-29-10-8-14
Mothers Helper -Must be fun, energetic &
loving. Responsibility includes child care for
2yr & 4yr old. Picking up & laundry. Mon,
Thrs & Fri 7AM-5:30PM. $10/hr.
352-213-7449. Referrences/background
check. 1-27-5-14Salesperson, $15-$20/Hr. Attorney based
Debt Settlement. No experience required.
Good communication skills. Evenings shifts.
Apply in person 4-6pm. 3501 SW 2nd Ave,
Suite 2300, 2nd floor Creekside Mall 1-29-
7-14
Sexy party promotions / Fantasy role play
/ Costume models $50 hr.+ to start, South
FL. Call 954-593-8120 No exp. req. Will
train, Full career support, Safe & legalSexy
only pls. (954)593-8120 for more info.
2-5-10-12-14
LATE NIGHT DRIVERS
$15-$17/hr 10pm -4am.
Apply @ gatordominos.com 4-21-10-60-14STD/Pregnancy Testing
Confidential, Affordable, Fast and Easy.
www.JustGetTested.com
5% Off with Discount Code UF2010 2-3-
10-20-16
Typing ServiCes
Free Resume Review
Visit www.advanced-resumes.com
1-25-5-17
Mfl Personals
Services HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS * *
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
1-28-15-15
Elseo's Painting-Offering to pressure-wash &
paint your house for the low price of $1500
ind materials (1500 sqft house). If you want
your house to look good call 352-642-2737
or 352-792-4745. We make lawns pretty too
1-21-10-5-15
Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16334-7960 for appt ( Optional $2- fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards
Employment Visas & Naturalization
www.ruthlaw.com (352) 335-6748
2-2-40-18
3COn netionsE
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
loveWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-21-09-71-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
Need performance credit?
5$ student tickets to "Swan Song"Event Notices Jan. 25, 7.30 pm at the The Hipp
352.375.4477 1-25-10-3-21
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
"Swan Song", Jan 25, 7.30 pm
an hour of dance/theater/music/poetry
5$ student tkts, (352)375-HIPP
http://thehipp.org/news/events.php 1-25-
10-8-20
,,,,,,Students currently practicing Maharishi
Mahesh Yogi's Transcendental Meditation
program and who wish to start a TM club
on campus, please call Allan Byxbe at
352-338-1249.
Interested students who have not yet
started the practice and who wish to start a
club may ask about scholarships avail-
able through the David Lynch Foundation
through January 31st.
Free follow-up checking and advanced
lectures are available on a continuing basis,
as always, for those already practicing the
TM program.
There will be an introductory meeting and
lecture on Saturday, January 23rd at 1:00
PM in Dauer Hall, Room 215. Please use
the Keene Faculty Center Handicapped
entrance.
1-26-10-7-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF
Teaching Center. Monday-Thursday, 1/25
1/28 from 5:00- 7:00 p.m. Verbal sessions
on M & W, Math on T & R. Call 392-2010 to
register and learn the room location. 1-25-
10-5-20
ATTENTION RUNNERS
Join us for the Newnan's Lake 15K Road
Race on Saturday, January 23rd starting at
the Newnan's Lake Boat Ramp at the Earl
P. Powers Park. For more information con-
tact Lloyd Clarke Sports @ 1504 NW 13th
St. 372-7836. Race begins at 8:00 am sharp.
1-22-3-20MF_ Rides
,f:4n ff I=
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
TORTOISE SHELL KITTEN
7 1/2 months. Spade. All shots. Inside. Small,
loving and really playful, smart. Good home
only. Contact 352-4682056 1-27-5-24
FLost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's lost
what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND KEYS
between bus stops across from Lexington
Crossing. Turned in to bus driver of RTS
bus route 9 1-21-3-25
Sports
THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2010
UF faces Arkansas
to start bu
0 THE GATORS WILL PLAY
TWO GAMES IN THREE DAYS.
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
The Gators will be in need of
a comfortable flight home from
Arkansas, as the trip back will be
their only chance to rest during the
next three days.
Tonight's matchup against the
Razorbacks (8-9, 1-1 SEC) at 9 in
Bud Walton Arena will kick off a
hectic period for UF, which will
then have just one day to prepare
for its 6 p.m. home game against
South Carolina on Saturday.
The Thursday-Saturday sched-
ule is new to the Southeastern
Conference this year, as the league
signed a deal with ESPN in order
to get more conference games on
the network, ESPN2 and ESPNU.
UF (12-5, 1-2 SEC) will have to
get used to the quick turnaround,sy stretch
as the team will repeat this sched-
ule two more times this season.
"It's going to be different for
everyone in the league. It's almost
like an NCAA Tournament situ-
ation where you have one day in
between to prepare," UF coach
Billy Donovan said. "The only dif-
ference in that situation is in the
NCAA Tournament, if you're for-
tunate enough to advance, you're
at least staying at the same site."
But Florida will be without the
luxury of staying put this week-
end, as the team will have to fly
back from Fayetteville early Friday
morning and prepare for South
Carolina on its only day off.
"Because of a lack of depth for
us, how quickly we can get them
back physically and the balance
of preparation going into the next
game .that is difficult, and that is
challenging," Donovan said. "But
that's what comes with the TV
package that the league was able
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 16Steven Keys/ Alligator
Sophomore Erving Walker will only get one day to rest before Florida's game against South Carolina on
Saturday. The point guard leads the team in minutes per game with 32.4.
UF WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
Gators look to avoid upset
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@alligatororg
In its last three games, the UF women's
basketball team has gone 1-2, with losses to
top-10 teams Georgia and Tennessee by a
combined 11 points.
The sole win in that stretch was a road
win against a Mississippi State team with a
12-6 record.
"We drew great confidence from [Ten-
nessee]," UF coach Amanda Butler said.
"What we come away with is can you get
up to play Mississippi State the same way
you played Tennessee? Might be a little
harder."
After the tough competition last week,
facing Alabama (8-10, 0-5 Southeastern
Conference) tonight in Tuscaloosa at 7 may
seem like a step down, but UF (10-8, 3-2
SEC) will attempt to play with the same
intensity it played with against the Volun-
teers to avoid getting upset by the Tide.
"We're not going to have any blowouts
in the SEC," sophomore guard Jordan Jones
said. "Our confidence is high but it can't betoo high where we overlook a team like Al-
abama -their record may not show how
good they are. We don't want to go there,
coming off a couple of good performances
and have a let down."
Part of that "good" basketball against the
Volunteers meant crisper play with limited
turnovers -something
the Gators had trouble
with on the road against
Georgia and MSU, when
they turned the ball over
21 times in each contest.
Butler said 14 of the
16 first-half turnovers UF
Butler had against UGA were
self inflicted, saying some
turnovers were a byproduct of her team's
aggressive, up-tempo style of play.
"The Mississippi State game was uglier
than it had to be," Butler said. "We do have
to learn to live with a certain amount of
mistakes. The thing we really emphasize is
if we make mistakes, let's make sure we're
making aggressive mistakes. We don't
SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 16Floyd rumor tops them all
t's no wonder Florida was ableto bring in what many recruiting
analysts are calling one of the best
classes in recent memory.
Urban Meyer's short-lived retire-
ment turned leave of absence left him
with one helluva sales pitch.
The latest you-wont-believe-this
message board story comes right
from The Man Upstairs, through Ur-
ban Meyer's lips and to new UF com-
mit Sharrif Floyd, the No. 1 defensive
tackle prospect according to Rivals.
com.
Here's what's being floated around
and attributed to Floyd's high school
coaches:
"Sharrif was really confused and
put a call into coach Meyer. When
they spoke, coach Meyer told him
that he had a 'dream' the night before,
and that coach Meyer saw himself on
the sideline coaching Sharrif. Toldhim that it was
a message
from God that
I should come
back and coach,
as I guess if it's
Kyle Maistri my time to die,
Kyle Points I'd rather die
kmaistri@alligator org on the sidelines
coaching you
than anywhere else in the world.'
"Sharrif talked to us the next day and
said Ohio State is great and all, but
coach Meyer said he would DIE for
me. That's pretty intense. From that
day on Sharrif mainly kept to himself.
But that was the turning point in my
eyes."
This report hasn't been confirmed
by either Meyer or Floyd, and we will
never know whether this actually hap-
pened.
SEE KYLE, PAGE 16
POLL QUESTION
Today's question: Do you believe
the story about Urban Meyer's re-
cruiting pitch to Sharrif Floyd?VOLLEYBALL MAGAZINE
U UF sophomore Kelly Murphy was named to
the Asics/Volleyball Magazine's All-America
second team Wednesday. She finished
second in the nation in triple-doubles last
season.ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
TEEING OFF WITH PHIL KEGLER
0 The All-American Basketball Alliance is taking the "White Men Can't Jump"
mantra to a new level. The group hopes to form a league with teams in 12
Southern cities, and only male natural-born citizens with two Caucasian parents
can play. No word yet on whether "Commissioner" Don "Moose" Lewis has a pair
of white robes hanging in his closet. .I'm projecting a Vikings-Colts Super Bowl.
16, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2010
Gators must stop balanced attack
HOOPS, from page 15
to put together, so everyone's going to have
to deal with it."
UF's players are much less concerned
with the new Thursday-Saturday schedule.
Freshman guard Kenny Boynton pointed to
the team's early season success in Atlantic
City, N.J., when the Gators beat then-No. 2
Michigan State and Rutgers on consecutive
nights.
"We did it before when we played the
back-to-back games in New Jersey," Boynton
said. "We did it before, so it's just a mental
thing."
Boynton and sophomore point guard Erv-
ing Walker will have to recover quickly af-
ter matching up with the talented Arkansas
backcourt of Courtney Fortson (17 points,
7.3 assists per game) and Rotnei Clarke (18.4
points per game, 48.8 three-point percentage)
on Thursday.
But Walker played off the responsibil-
ity as no big deal for him and Boynton, whoare first and second on the team in minutes
played this season at 32.4 and 32.3, respec-
tively.
"We're young. We'll have Friday," Walker
said. "We'll just do South Carolina on Friday.
We're not going to look ahead to them. It's all
Arkansas now."
Florida will have plenty to prepare for,
as four Arkansas starters
are averaging more than 13
points per game this year.
,e' The Razorbacks' sub-
.500 record is indicative ofBasketball their struggles early in the
season, when they were
dealing with injuries and Fortson's suspen-
sion. But Donovan pointed to the team's last
three games as a sign of Arkansas' potential:
a 96-85 loss to then-No. 2 Texas, a two-point
loss at Mississippi State and a 71-59 win
against Alabama.
"I don't think they're a team whose record
speaks to where they're at right now," Dono-
van said.Tide enters with zero SEC wins
W HOOPS, from page 15
want to make mistakes because
were hesitant or passive or any of
that. "
The Tide has zero conference
wins this year, but Butler is weary
of an improved team playing at
home with seasoned players like ju-
nior Tierney Jenkins.
Jenkins is the SEC's second-
leading rebounder (9.3) and scores
10.8 points per game -one of three
Crimson Tide players averaging
double figures.
The guard play Butler braced her
team for, featuring Dedrea Magee
at point and guard Ericka Russell
(10.9 points per game) took a hit onSunday.
Junior guard Varisia Raffington,
who led Alabama with 12.2 points
per game, is out for the season with
a torn MCL and partially torn PCL.
The Gators will look to apply
the same type of defensive pres-
sure they have their previous three
games, holding opponents to 59.6
points per game and 39.7 percent
field-goal shooting in that span.
Florida also wants to get out to
a faster start on the road than it did
in Starkville, Miss., where the team
scored seven points in the first sev-
en minutes.
"We're still experiencing some
lulls," Butler said. "We've got to be
hungrier for win No. 4 (in the SEC),
than Alabama is for win No. 1.
KYLE, from page 15_
True or not, it says something
about how crazy the recruiting pro-
cess gets.
Either Meyer played the God
card to solidify a commitment from
a kid who was on the fence, or
someone floated a rumor out there
about Meyer going to such lengths
with the intention of soiling his
reputation.
This easily tops the story ofMeyer telling Jevan Snead not to
worry about competing with Tim
Tebow for snaps at quarterback
because Tebow was going to play
linebacker for the Gators.
Again, I can't be sure if either of
these stories are true. The only peo-
ple who know for sure are Meyer,
Floyd and Snead.
One thing I've learned as a re-
porter is that rumors usually aren't
true, but that doesn't mean they're
never true.Here's where I may differ from
some people out there who some-
times chose to believe stories like
these: I don't care if Meyer did say
these things.
Recruiting is so clearly full of lies
and deceit, and anyone -coaches,
media members or players -who
chooses not to take that as fact is
only being naive.
Coaches lie to players to get
them on campus. Players hopefully
understand that.And guess what, players also
lie to coaches; something Meyer
knows first hand.
Former Tennessee wide receiver
Nu'Keese Richardson was commit-
ted to the Gators up until signing
day and even told the Gainesville
Sun's Ed Aschoff that he was com-
ing to Gainesville AFTER already
signing and faxing his papers to
Knoxville.
It's not always the big bad
coaches taking advantage of theyoung gullible players.
UF recruits likely have to wade
through a fair amount of B.S. from
Meyer, but be sure that Meyer also
has to guard himself against poten-
tial Richardson situations.
As long as everyone under-
stands that recruiting is a two-way
street filled with broken promises
and abused trust, we can all learn
to laugh at stories like these.
To quote Omar Little from HBO's
the Wire: "It's all in the game."
PHONE
FIRST
Call ahead to reserve a
convenient appointment time.
Appointments are available the
same day or within 24 hours.
Save our number in your cell
phone for easy access.
Call 352-392-1161
UF IStudent Health Care Center
