I I
41
Ni: DJ
SOFTBALL SEASON PREVIEW
Editor Bobby Callovi Cover Photo Harrison Diamond
Alligator, Friday, February 12, 2010
AceI
Hole
B b h t kNo ' fistmistake is peobably goig to Brombacher takes over as No.1 ls t" o
After her freshman year at UF,
By GREG LUCA opponents. Brombacher once again joined the
Alligator Writer But coach Tim Walton and the rest Gold Coast Hurricanes, the travel
of the team know this was merely a team she'd been playing with for
Despite a 42-0 start to herFlorida product of how good Nelson was the previous four years under Mar-
softball career, the number42rep- and take nothing away from Brom- ty Cooper, who was also the coach
resents a challenge more so than an bacher's accomplishments. at American Heritage.
accomplishment for Stephanie Bro- In fact, as Walton describes it, And once again, Brombacher
mbacher. Brombacher oftentimes had the won a championship. Only this time
That's because the junior pitcher tougher end of the deal. it was the Amateur Softball Associa-
is now tasked with replacing the "A lot of times opponents would tion's 18U Gold Championship, by
graduated Stacey Nelson, who wore throw their No. 1 in Game 2 cause far her biggest yet.
the number 42 for the duration of they knew Stacey was getting Game "Just getting that experience un-
her iconic career. 1 and Game 3," Walton said. der my belt and winning a big-time
Last season, Nelson posted a 41-5 As far as the level of competi- national championship for amateur
record with a 0.61 ERA as the Gators tion is concerned, Brombacher's was a great experience," Brombach-
made it all the way to the finalsof one-run ball in a win er said.
the Women's College World Series against then-No. 4 Alabama allevi- Brombacher started and won six
before falling to Washington. ated any concerns among the squad of the team's seven games and was
But now, Nelson and her 15 UF about how she'll fare against the na- dominant every step of the way,
pitching records are gone, and Bro- tion's toughest teams. shutting out her opponents in mul-
mbacher is charged with leading "She hasn't even lost a game, of tiplecontests.
what is still an extremely talented course she's going to be fine," se- Beontespnalineup back to the finals. nior outfielder Francesca Enea said. b bacher'snpefortncesve
While the focus is primarily on "She's an amazing pitcher and an Coopeer she'll have success as the
replacing the best pitcher in team awesome person." No.e lshe a esUe a
history, Brombacher and therest of Few people who have known NA. tsaeresUF.
the Gators know that the ultimate Brombacher for her entire career All those are pressure sita-
goal is to not only match, but also have any concerns about her ability tions, pitching nder pessure, try-
improve upon, the performance to handle big time situations. to win theain higameCand r
of their predecessors by bringing That's because she has been play- smd. "She amsons the Pny ch-
the program its first-ever national ing on championship teams against pid.shipe too heony ha-
championship. the nation's best players since heroin too. She's somebody thatn
feeshman year in high school, when anw the big game, and playing
she and logtime battee ote Tif- atthe University of Florida, she has
Championship experience sb many big games, and that past expe-
It's hard to argue with 42-0, but fany DeFelice helped Plantation rience will clearly help her perform
plenty of people have tried. American Heritage High take home well under those conditions.
Detractors point to matchups their first of two consecutive Class
against the adversary's number 3A sthte chakpie ships. Replacing the best
two pitcher, or to games with some "I thin it gets yo eady fo Those who have gotten to know
of the Gators' lighter foes. They Brombacher closely point to both
cite the fact that Beomachee ny know those ball games are always
pitched four of the tea's 34 WCWS going to be really close," DeFelice her demeanor and her work ethic as
picgsshur owinguthee wmseeming- said. "Those are gonna be 1-0, 2-0, the primary reasons forhersuccess,inn2ngg, htesnsojuthhowsyoingeseitht and ae entirely conviced thoseat
ly untested she is against top flight 2-1 games, so I think you learn thaetrbutesenllhelpeee toan otheesc-
basically the team that makes theHarrison
Former UF pitcher Stacey Nelson left big shoes for Stephanie Brombacher to fill, finishing her
different school pitching records.
cessful season in 2010.
"Everybody always says it's
about what you do when nobody
is watching, and she's one of those
people," DeFelice said. "She'll go
out and run on the weekends when
no one is telling her to.it's definite-
ly one of those things where she's
working when no one is watching."
It seems the days of her work
going unnoticed are behind her, as
Brombacher recently earned a spot
on the 2010 USA Softball Collegiate
Player of the Year Preseason Watch
List.
The intensity with which Brom-
bacher strives to improve her game,
and the effect it can have on a team,
was not overlooked by herformer
coach either.
"Stephanie Brombachereis the real
deal," Cooper said. "She is as good
as it gets. I haven't had anybody any
better than her as a player, as a per-
son, as somebody that's a teammate,
or as somebody that comes out ev-
ery day. She's not selfish, she works
for the team. All of the hard work
that she does is her doing her part
to help the team win."
And while Brombacher's actions
are not selfishly motivated, they
definitely have the potential to yield
some high-profile individual acco-
lades.
Not only was she was named
to the Preseason All-Southeastern
Conference team after earning a
spot on the second team last Vear,
Harrison Diamond/ Alligat r Staff
UF catcher Tiffany DeFelice (left) has caught pitcher Stephanie Brombacher since before they played together in high school. The battery has built a
relationship that should help Brombacher continue the successful start to her college career now that she will be the team's ace.Starting Lineup
IMichelle Moure
Francesca Enea | Kelsey Bruder
Brittany Wale
Aa Paculba
StephanieBrombacher
Brittany
SchutteI
Tiffany
DiFelice
but she'll also have an outside shot
at some highly prestigious career
marks if she can continue to play at
her current level.
"I told her she has to beat all my
records," Nelson said.
As things presently stand, Brom-
bacher has a long way to go before
she reaches that level of greatness.
She would need to win 95 more
games, lower her ERA 0.12 points,
record 42 more shutouts, and log
804 morestrikeouts topass Nelson
for tops in Florida history in each of
those categories.
But if Nelson could become as
dominant as she was aftergoing 48-
26 overherfirst twoseasons, then
the sky is the limit for Brombacher.
"I think she can do it," Nelson
said.
Familiar partner
As Brombacher has advanced
through Pony leagues, through high
school, through amateurs, and now
all the way up to being the full-time
starter on the No. 3 college team in
the nation, there have always been
two constants: her infamous grunt
and the girl behind the plate.
For almost as long as Brombacher
has been playing competitive soft-
ball, DeFelice has been her catcher.
The chemistry between the two has
developed to the point where all
Brombacher has to do is shake off
the first pitch, and they'll both know
exactly what's coming next.
"She kinda reads my mind,"
Brombacher said. "If coach calls a
pitch and I don't want to throw it,
normally, she knows exactly what I
want to throw, exactly what I want
to do and where I want to place it."
Being able to communicate and
make changes on the fly is key for
a pitcher like Brombacher, whose
game is predicated on placement
and finesse rather than pure power.
In addition to these strategic de-
cisions, Brombacher and DeFeliceMegan Bush
Max Weissler /Alligator Staff
have been able to help each other
keep their mechanics sharp.
"I used to go to her pitching
lessons, so I picked up on certam
things," DeFelice said. "Sometimes
she'll ask me, 'Hey do you see this?'
Or I'll see something and I'll tell her.
I'm not criticizing her, I'm justsay-
ing, 'Hey, watch out for this.' But
it's a two-way street because she
can help me out with things too."
Both pitching and catching are
heavily reliant on technique and
consistency, so it can be helpful to
have an extra set of eyes looking for
anything that's out of place.
The real irony of the relationship
is DeFelice's ability to pick up on
things as minute as a shift in shoul-
der position, while at the same time
effortlessly tuning out what has be-
come the signatureof Brombacher's
game.
"The thing with the grunt is, I
don't even hear it anymore," DeFe-
lice said. The only time I notice it is
when it's different."
After what happened when Bro-
mbacher and DeFelice were playing
in their 14-and-under league, it be-
came pretty obvious that tuning it
out and dealing with it were going
to be her only two options.
"Backwhen we were mi14-and-
unders we bet Stephanie that she
couldn't not grunt when she pitched,
and, well, she did it," DeFelice said.
"I did it foe aboufive oe i
pitches," Bobacher said. "I pulled
all the muscles in my sternum and
ended up in the emergency room, so
now the grunt just happens."
In the first yearof the post-Nelson
era, Brombacher will need to be at
100 percent for the team to have any
hope of returning to the WCWS.
If she has to spend any part of the
season in the ER, it will likely put
the Gators' postseason chances on
life support.
Seems like it would be best for
UF to just let the grunts, and hope-
fully the wins, keep on coming.nthe
ALL U CAN EAT
WINGS! $1 Domestic 50C1 St. Practice Day $499 HOSPITALITY7pm- close PITCHERREE Domestic DAYUniersty ve. $9.99 Bnls rft 0 sPfCKFE AUniversity Ave. $s.99Tonl draft and PBR with Appetizer Pitchers 3-4-1 Wells
Monday Night Trivia special& purchase $1 domestic draftsAll Day, Every Day 7pm -9pm $1 Hot Dogs specials 6pm-12am 6pm-close $2 Captain Hospitality ndustry ony-
Great Drink Specials Karaoke 9pm -close 9pm-11pm Morgans Vlid RoofRequired
& 59C wings Mon-Fri -close *I Corrie Broks|
0the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 102 We Inform. You Decide.-01 c y,
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010
Lorraine Ogan / Alligator
Hamming it Up
Ryan Huling, left, gives a flier to Laura Crots Thursday advertising the The Great
Animal Rights Debate with the UF College Republicans today at 11:30 a.m.
SPECIAL REPORT
Police assess local safety
By KATHERINE BEIN
Alligator Writer
From apartment shootings to on-campus
burglaries, the rate for student-related crimes
has been on the rise in Gainesville throughout
the past year.
Although the amount of motor vehicle theft
on UF campus decreased, the amount of bur-
glaries reported by University Police Depart-
ment more than doubled from 2007 to 2008.
The amount of aggravated assaults also in-
creased, according to UPD crime statistics.
Crime for the city rose by about 8 percent in
2009, with increases in larceny, burglary, rob-
bery and aggravated assault, according to data
compiled by the Gainesville Police Depart-
ment.
Recently, there has been an increase in
crimes reported at off-campus apartments andhousing developments with high populations
of student residents.
In September 2009, there was an armed rob-
bery at Rockwood Villas Association, 900 SW
62nd Blvd.
"We immediately put resources to-
gether to try and curb [crime]."
Tscharna Senn
spokeswoman for GPD
There was another robbery reported in the
parking lot of the apartment complex in Febru-
ary.
A Santa Fe College student was shot and
killed while visiting a friend at 5811 NW 23rd
Terrace in Pine Ridge on Jan. 6.
On Jan. 27, there was an armed robbery in
SEE CRIME, PAGE 10Delta Gamma in hot
water for boat video
0 THE VIDEO WAS REMOVED
FROM YOUTU BE.
By STEFANIA FERRO
and CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Staff Writers
Members of the Gamma Theta chapter
of Delta Gamma at UF are making waves
after creating a video last year that took jabs
at other UF sororities.
The Delta Gamma executive offices in
Columbus, Ohio, have conducted an in-
ternal review to hold the chapter and the
members involved accountable, according
to a press release.
But the Delta Gamma executive offices
would not release the names of the mem-
bers involved in the video, the release date
of the video or the nature of any potential
punishments for the members of the UF
chapter involved in the video.
Members of the UF Greek community
have identified three of the girls who ap-
pear in the video as Student Government
Supervisor of Elections Ariana Alfonso, for-
mer Miss UF and American Idol consestant
Brooke Helvie and UF junior Ani Sanchez.
The video was a parody of the song "I'm
on a Boat" by The Lonely Island. It is nolonger available on YouTube. The link now
reads, "This video is no longer available
due to a copyright claim by Delta Gamma
Fraternity."
In the video, the three members of Delta
Gamma replace the lyrics of the song with
references to other UF sororities, including
Kappa Delta, Zeta Tau Alpha, Delta Delta
Delta, Alpha Omicron Pi and Alpha Delta
Pi. The video shows the women dancing in
front of different sorority houses.
"I'm on a boat, and it's going fast,
and I got a nautical-
themed metallic head-
band," they sang.
"We're the queens of
the row, so fuck you ha-
tas, and if you ain't that
cute, then you probably
went Zeta."
Brakovich A thread on the on-
line forum Greek Chat
included comments about the video. One
poster, Barbie'sRush, said, "Not exactly
the image Brooke projected when she was
on american idol."
Jamie Dollinger, who served as presi-
dent of the Panhellenic Council from Janu-
ary 2009 to January 2010, said she watched
the video in December. When she watched
SEE VIDEO, PAGE 10
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
Local political candidates
brought campaign buttons and bal-
loons onto the Plaza of the Americas
Thursday.
Candidates participating in the
Senate and the City informed stu-
dents and faculty about their cam-
paign ideas and encouraged them to
vote in the upcoming city and Stu-
dent Government elections.
People also had the opportunity
to register to vote in city elections.
Students chatted with candi-dates for Gainesville city mayor and
Gainesville city commissioner, as
well as Unite Party and Student Al-
liance party candidates.
Nicole Sarrine, director of the SG
Community Political Affairs Cabi-
net, which host-
Student ed the event,Government said the cabi-
net wanted to
host an event allowing students to
mingle with future SG leaders and
future Gainesville officials.
"These are the people who will
be representing you and your ideas,
SEE ELECTION, PAGE 10
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersToday
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS6
16
17
21Rain
45/33
visit www.alligator.orgCandidates mingle
0 UF women's
basketball coach
Amanda Butler and
the Gators were
held to an all-time
low in points in a
conference game,
losing to LSU 70-30
on Thursday in
Gainesville.
See Story, Page 21..'"
-
2, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010
News Today
ON CAMPUS
UF Friends of Music to host
gala to benefit UF's music
department
Swing into Spring will trans-
form UF's Steinbrenner Band
Hall into a big-band-era dance
club this weekend.
The gala, hosted by UF
Friends of Music, will support
the College of Fine Arts and the
School of Music Saturday at 7:30
p.m.
Singer and band leader Mi-
chael Andrew will headline the
gala, and Scott Wilson, UF assis-
tant professor in jazz since fall,
will make his premier.
Wilson said he hopes the
swing theme will delight older
guests.
"Older people will want to
danc,e and it's a memory of
the past," Wilson said. "It's the
equivalent of a whole bunch of
college kids getting together
and listening to Eminem saying
'Oh, yeah I remember that."'
Andrew, a crooner and for-
mer band leader at the Rainbow
Room at Rockefeller Center Club
in New York City, was paid
about $1,000 for this appear-
ance, said Cherie Fine, president
of the Friends of Music.
About 200 guests are ex-
pected to attend the gala, and
each ticket costs $100, Fine said.
Proceeds go toward the group's
scholarship fund for UF's music
department.
Although the tickets may be
a little expensive for the average
student, Fine said she feels stu-
dents may want to spend their
money to help the music depart-
ment.
"What would it be like if
there were no carillon bells or
no Gator marching band at UF?"
she asked. "It would be a dry
and almost heartless place."
-LEANDRA VALENTINE
UF team hosts Indian
dancing event to help Bhu-
tanese refugees
Anyone who wants to learn
more about Indian dances and
culture can do so at UF's Hindu
Cultural Society's Spring Char-
ity Garba tonight.
The free event will feature
the traditional Indian dances
of Garba, Raas and Bhangra in
the Reitz Union Ballroom from
8 p.m. to midnight.
"It's really just a big dance
party," said Krishna Dipnarine,
president of the society.
Group sessions will be of-
fered to help newcomers learn
the dances, said Reenal Patel,
the society's treasurer.
"It's very interactive," Patel
said.
There is no dress code for
this event, but Dipnarine said
several of his non-Indian friends
borrow clothes from him to get
into the spirit.
"It really is a culture shock
for someone who has neverFORECAST
TODAY
RAIN
45/33WEDNESDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
53/28THURSDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
58/37
been before," Patel said.
"We're hoping to get a di-
verse group of people at this
event," Patel said.
The Gator Bhangra Team, a
competitive dance team at UF,
will also be at Garba to pres-
ent a surprise performance.
While there is no entry
fee, the society is asking that
attendees bring a nonperish-
able canned or boxed food
item, which will be donated
to Bhutanese refugees in Jack-
sonville.
"I guess you could say
we're dancing for a cause,"
Dipnarine said.
-KELLY MORGAN
CO
CO
COCn>FRIDAY
RAIN
60/30SATURDAY
SUNNY
54/31
CO
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the Emdependent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 102 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Flonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Man
Manage
Assi
Assi
alligatEditor Chelsea Keenan,
ckeenan@alligator.org
aging Editor/ Print Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
ing Editor/ Online J. Hunter Sizemore
jhsizemore@alligator.org
stant Online Editor Stefania Ferro sferro@alligator.org
Metro Editors Jared Misner,jmisner@a//igator.org
Alison Schwartz,
aschwartz@alligator.org
University Editor Carolyn Tillo, cti//o@a//igator.org
Sports Editor Bobby Callovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
stant Sports Editor Mike McCall, mmcca//@a//igator.org
orSports.org Editor Anthony Chiang,
achiang@alligator.org
Editorial Board Chelsea Keenan, Emily Fuggetta,
J. Hunter Sizemore
Photo Editors Ana Goni-Lessan,
agoniPessan@a/ligator.org
Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Rachael Pino, rpino@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Emily Blake,
Alex Chachkevitch, Kyle Maistri
Copy Editors Ana Devine, Ashley Hemmy,
Corey McCall, Amanda Milligan,
Emily Morrow, Andrew Pantazi,
Paul Runnestrand, Colin Simmons,
Hannah Winston
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
Retail Advertising Manager Shaun O'Connor
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Caitlin Dilks, Sara Ingebretsen,
Samantha Owen
Sales Representatives Rachel Crane, Shayon Donaldson,
Brittany Fayne, Stephanie Howick,
Mary Jaca, Samantha Owen,
Julian Pothemont, Andrew Reid,
Patrick Wilson
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Dyana Sanchez
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 3
( 1111 Ic
===0-40
4=111111of()VV3 O
9IL
UF study warns against mixing alcohol with energy drinks
0 THE RESEARCHERS SURVEYED
ABOUT 800 BAR PATRONS.
By KAITLIN MULHERE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Throwing back Jagerbombs and siPmg
Red Bull and vodka may do more than leave
you with a nasty hangover, according to a
recent UF study that says combining energy
drinks and alcohol creates a dangerous cock-
tail.
Researchers found that students who
mixed energy drinks with alcohol were three
times more likely to leave a bar intoxicated.They were also four times more likely to in-
tend to drive after drinking compared to those
who drank alcohol not mixed with an energy
drink, according to the study.
"When caffeine is mixed with alcohol it
overcomes the sedating effects of alcohol,
and people may perceive that they are less
intoxicated than they really are," said Dennis
Thombs, the study's lead researcher, in a press
release. "This may lead people to drink more
or make uninformed judgments about wheth-
er they are safe to drive."
Bruce Goldberger, co-author of the study,
said the study is the first to evaluate the effects
of alcohol mixed with energy drinks in a bar
rather than a research facility.
Researchers waited outside midtown barsbetween 10 p.m. and 3 a.m. and interviewed
800 bar patrons as they left to determine their
drinking history and intoxication level, Gold-
berger said.
The average breath alcohol concentration
for the 6.5 percent of study participants who
reported mixing alcohol and
U F energy drinks was 0.109 per-
Research cent, well above the legal
driving limit of 0.08 percent,
according to the study. Research did not in-
clude the levels of people who did not mix
alcohol with energy drinks.
The researchers found that students who
mixed energy drinks with alcohol also left bars
later at night, drank for longer periods of time
and ingested more grams of ethanol, accord-ing to the study.
The study, funded by UF's Office of the
President, will appear in the April issue of the
journal Addictive Behaviors.
Goldberger said he does not think most
students realize the harm associated with mix-
ing energy drinks and alcohol. He said the re-
searchers have plans to do additional studies
to determine why there are changes in behav-
ior when students combine the two liquids.
Brooke Marsh, a UF political science senior,
said the results of the research sound accurate.
While she does drink a lot of energy drinks,
she never mixes them with alcohol, but she
has many friends who do.
"It's like they're super hyper and drunk at
the same time," she said.
-.
Saturdays,
---Free Beer-
'FridayS--LiveDJ
Beat the Clock
.- _ -_ .
Ly -DJ --352-37871 171 8-W-.~,, r-.AV-GNRLNUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF any one GNC Product
Cannot be combined. One Coupon per customer.
3914 SW Archer Rd
DaHlySpecials 377-6020 Exp 2128/10
I AALTERNATOR T TERS&BATTERIES
$5OFF ANY REPAIR OR SERVICE
378-4440 ____
Take beginning Chine e 1 & 2
this Summer in China!
$3992 -13 weeks lodging, excursions,
transfer credit tuition (13-16 credits)
For more info, contact
Kristen Eller at klanfer@ufic.ufl.edu
Enrollment cap is 16 students
Application deadline is March 5
Info session, Wednesday Feb 17 at 5pm
at 302 Pugh HallTalking Politics
Ilan Berman, the vice president of the American Foreign Policy Council, addresses a crowd
of about 30 students at the UF Hillel Thursday night. Berman said the U.S. needs to create
a plan to counter Iran's nuclear threat. He suggested weakening Iran's economy by reduc-
ing its weapons sales.-40b--Nmmp
sc=
4CML20
-40b--Nmmp
sc=
4=3111,
C.=w
4CML20
4, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010
k
Ii
I9p
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Mayoral candidate advocates equal rights, diversity
Joey Flechas / Alligator Staff
Mayoral candidate Craig Lowe poses for a portrait Thursday after-
noon.Editor's Note: This is the final
installment of the Face in the
Race series.
ByCJ PRUNER
and ALISON SCHWARTZ
Alligator Writers
When Craig Lowe graduated
from UF in 1989 with a master's
degree in zoology, he was pre-
pared for a career in the lab.
He ended up taking on a whole
new animal -City Hall.
Now, he's moving up the politi-
cal chain as he runs for Gainesville
mayor.
"The desire to serve the pub-
lic is very inspiring," Lowe said.
"Now is a good time to talk about
the future of Gainesville."
Lowe, who has served as city
commissioner for the 4th District
since 2003, has advocated environ-
mental awareness and equal op-
portunity throughout his political
career.
Although Lowe said he would
follow the framework of current
mayor, Pegeen Hanrahan, he has
his own vision for the future of
Gainesville.
"I'm a different individual,"
Lowe said. "I'll bring a differentstyle."
If elected, Lowe plans on con-
tinuing the Koppers Inc. cleanup
efforts, stressing the need to pro-
mote environmental protection in
the community.
He also emphasized the need
to address the city homelessness
regulations without compromis-
ing service to those in need.
He supports the one-stop home-
less shelter still in the planning
phase.
Although these issues con-
tribute to his campaign platform,
none are seemingly
Faces more personal than
Race his fight to ensure
equal opportunity
in Gainesville.
Lowe, who is gay, has been
open about his sexuality from the
get-go of his political career.
One of the key voices behind
the passage of the anti-discrimi-
nation ordinance, which provides
protection from gender discrimi-
nation, Lowe said he will continue
to promote Gainesville's diverse
community.
"It's important that we provide
an atmosphere and community
where every person is treated fair-
ly and every person can contribute
to the city of Gainesville," he said.For Lowe, this vision includes
students.
He emphasized the value of stu-
dent participation in a city known
for its college-aged population.
And while Lowe said he is
attached to Gainesville and its
charm, his passion for politics was
developed in the town he grew up
in, Roswell, Ga.
While a student at Roswell High
School in 1971, he participated in
an anti-war demonstration, fueling
his enthusiasm for political action.
And nearly 40 years later, not
much has changed.
Lowe has raised $12,797 for his
campaign, according to the latest
financial reports. This figure puts
him ahead of the second-leading
opponent, Richard Selwach, by
more than $9,000.
Although Lowe's legislative ex-
perience has elevated his standing
in the public eye, Lowe maintains
that he will not grow complacent
as the campaign season continues
to unfold.
For the zoologist-turned-politi-
cian, Lowe hopes to lead the city
he calls home.
"I care about Gainesville,"
Lowe said. "I care about its future
and the future of those who live
here."
PetSmart, AEPi Fraternity to hold annual adopt-a-thon
0 ADOPTION FEES TANGE FROM $50
TO $300.
By ALINA TORRES
Alligator Contributing Writer
While some Gainesville residents are look-
ing for love in people this weekend, others
may find that love in a different type of com-
panion.
PetSmart will be hosting its annual pet
adopt-a-thon Second Chance for Love this
weekend in all of its stores. It's held an adop-tion similar to this since 1987.
The PetSmart store, located on 3736 SW Ar-
cher Road, will be working with UF's Alpha
Epsilon Pi Fraternity as well as Helping Hands
Pet Rescue of Newberry.
The adopt-a-thon is scheduled for Friday
from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. and Saturday and Sun-
day from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
The majority of the pets available for adop-
tion come from the animal shelter in Alachua
County, said Robert Ryan, a Helping Hands
Pet Rescue representative.
In order to adopt an animal, each potential
owner must complete a 30-minute application"Participating in such an event is
a tremendous opportunity to really
make a difference for a fantastic
cause."
Craig Colsky
service chairman of the fraternity
and interview process.
Upon approval, the pet can go home with
its new owner, Ryan said.
Adoption fees range from $50 to $300,
which cover the costs of all animals being
spayed or neutered, microchipped, vacci-nated, tested for heartworms, dewormed and
given flea preventative medication.
"Participating in such an event is a tremen-
dous opportunity to really make a difference
for a fantastic cause," said Craig Colsky, ser-
vice chairman of the fraternity.
Colsky said he is excited at the prospect of
finding homes for these pets in need.
"What a better way to spend Valentine's
Day than by saving an animal's life," said Matt
Friedman, president of Alpha Epsilon Pi.
Check out the Facebook group AEPuppies
to learn more about Second Chance for Love,
and to see how you can make a difference.
"Islamic Threat to the West:
Myth or Reality?"
with Professor of Islamic Studies:
Dr. John Esposito
of Georgetown University
Tuesday, Feb. 16th
7:30pm(doors open 7pm)
Rion Ballroom
Reitz Union
free and open to the public
DEPARTMENT OF
ReligionI C
IsIamOn Campus"Muslims in the US: Between
Rejection, Assimilation and Integration"
with Pulitzer Prize winner:
Andrea Elliott
of the New York Times
Thursday, Feb. 18thI
7:30pm(doors open 7pm)
Rion Ballroom
Reitz Union
free and open to the public
9Legalize it. Don't criticize it!
Pd Pol Adv approved by Richard Seiwach
RichardSelwac!a
www.selwachformay ,m
352.1 8
4644
Sign up for Pool League!
Tuesday Night
9 Ball Tournament
Starting Feb 23rd at 8:00 pm
Wednesday Night
8 Bal Tournament
Starting Feb 17th at 8:00 pm
Free pool everyday until 9:00
for all pool league playersIslam Awareness Month
February 2010
www.IslamOnCampus.comI
E
M
6, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010
With spring break only three short weeks away, visions of
beaches and bathing suits are already dancing in the heads of
the Department of Darts & Laurels.
So before our mid-semester blues start to kick in and we
become more obsessed with spring break plans than our jobs,
we're going to present you with a we-should-probably-squeeze-
in-a-few-visits-to-the-gym-and-put-down-the-pizza-before-it's-
too-late edition of.
Darts & Laurels
We're not the only ones who should find more productive
things to do with our time.
Several members of the Delta Gamma Sorority found them-
selves on a sinking boat this week when news of a video mak-
ing fun of other UF sororities came out -again.
Even though no one's talking about it (well everyone's talk-
ing about it, they're just not talking to us about it) and Alliga-
tor reporters had to go all Woodward and Bernstein just to be
rejected from about every person in the Greek community -
which didn't surprise us -we're putting on our night-vision
goggles, looking through our scopes and shooting a you-can-
run-but-you-certainly-can't-hide DART at Delta Gamma So-
rority's UF chapter, the Delta Gamma executive offices and
UF's Panhellenic Council.
A little bit of advice -it works out better for everyone when
you're just honest about it. Saying "no comment" only makes
you all look like you have something to hide.
And while we're on the subject of this video, we're going to
throw a leave-the-"I'm-on-a-Boat"-singing-to-Andy-Samberg-
and-T-Pain DART at the video's stars for getting that dumb
song stuck in our heads for the past three days and for being the
reason we wasted an hour last night deciphering your Greek
Speak.
Speaking of Greeks, Student Body President Jordan Johnson
announced earlier this week he'll be proposing a relief from the
financial burden of the Reitz Union fee for graduate assistants
at the next board of trustees meeting.
The Editorial Board is happy to see that Johnson listened to
these students' concerns and is actually doing something about
it. That's why we're going to throw a we-always-believed-in-
you LAUREL to Johnson.
And while we're on the subject of someone we've always be-
lieved in. Al Gore is getting a lot of crap this week as the greater
part of the Northeast is being covered in the house-burying,
nose-numbing, electric-bill-skyrocketing snowmageddon.
Nonbelievers are doing a jig and singing victory songs. But
we have news for you: The snowpocalypse doesn't disprove
global warming.
So the Editorial Board is revving up its blowtorch and
shooting a nice hot we-know-you're-gloating-now-but-wait-
until-your-grandchildren-have-to-rely-on-melting-ice-caps-
for-drinking-water DART at all the climate skeptics. Really,
though, haven't they taken any science classes? If they had,
they'd know that increased moisture in the air due to rising
global temperatures mean more intense storms. We just wish
people would get out of denial and admit their Hummers and
45-minute showers are destroying the planet.
Another thing about environmental irresponsibility, SG par-
ties have only been leaving fliers on our cars for a day, but we're
already sick of it. We usually don't notice until we're already in
the car and they're obstructing our view. And when we finally
reach our hands out the window and peel them off our wind-
shields, they're usually too soggy from the rain to even read.
So the Editorial Board is going around campus, gathering
the fliers, folding them into paper airplanes and sending a
we-know-you-won't-stop-covering-our-cars-in-the-fliers-but-
could-you-at-least-print-them-in-neon-pink-to-make-it-fun
DART at SG.
Well, it's been a long week, and we have nothing else to com-
plain about or commend. Until next week, gather as many fliers
as you can -we're going to paper the Alligator office walls and
use them as a dart board.
0I the independent floridaalligator
Chelsea Keenan
EDITOR
Emily Fuggetta
J Hunter Sizemore
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one letter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Ae , or send them to PO Box 14257,
Gainesvi rle, FL 32604-2257OC olumns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions
'T N
\'A-
r- < -
\ '/ALLIGATOR
www.a Iigator.org/opinions
6)-
America needs voice for the center
would like to start out my column today by addressing
the accusations directed at the Alligator and its staff by
some readers. I will be the first to admit I lean to the left
in my political opinions, but there's not much I can change
about that. This isn't anyone's fault. And if people from the
other side of the political spectrum want to have their voices
heard, I'm sure they can go to the Alligator's open houses,
just as I did, and get a weekly column. I honestly thought I
was being closer to center than I actually was, so I will make
a better effort to be a bit more neutral.
That being said, I would like to discuss John McCain,
a Republican I respect and one who I liked until this past
election. Sen. McCain has been in the news a lot recently be-
cause of his U.S. Senate primary election battle against J.D
Hayworth, a conservative talk show host in Arizona. Mc-
Cain has been shifting his views further and further to the
right so he can cinch the conservative vote in the election, a
group of people who seem to back Hayworth.
If John McCain ran his 2008 presidential campaign under
the same political opinions he had in the primaries against
Bush in 2000, he would be our president. I actually might
have voted for him as well in the last presidential election.
Looking back at his previous political stances, he seemed to
have had the best shot at leading this country by being able
to draw from both political parties.
McCain is the quintessential bipartisan politician in
Washington D.C. when he wants to be. To get the chance to
be on the Republican ticket for president he had to pander
to the right wing to prove he was ultra-conservative enough
to be nominated for president. He had to get rid of any cen-
trist or left-of-center or not-far-enough-in-right-wing-land
ideas in favor of things he hasn't believed in in the past.
Specific examples of this are approving then criticizing the
stimulus and changing his opinion on the closing of Guan-
tanamo Bay, having gays in the military and offering little
opposition to the Supreme Court decision that would al-Paul Murty
letters@alligator orglow corporations to fund campaigns.
In fact, McCain pretty much ran his
2000 primary on getting big busi-
nesses out of Washington, but now
he has had little to say about the Su-
preme Court decision.
All these changes are coming in
the wake of a potentially difficult
primary for his Senate seat against
Hayworth. I understand McCain has
changed his political opinions to more popular views in the
past but never to the extent that he is doing so today. At least
in the past he was still a "maverick," willing to go against
his party in Congress when necessary. Now he simply falls
in line with the other 40 obstructionists in the Senate rather
than working with the Democrats and the president, like
the old John McCain would.
I'm disappointed in McCain because he has the poten-
tial to be such an important figure in American politics.
If there's one thing the Senate and the country need, it's a
voice that can speak to both sides. This past week, as liber-
als like Keith Olbermann made fun of Sarah Palin for writ-
ing notes on her hand during her Tea Party speech, White
House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs joined in the fun and
wrote "hope" and "change" on his hand during a press
conference. This came right after President Obama spoke
about bipartisanship, and it was a slap in the president's
face.
The problems are on both sides of the aisle. America
needs a voice for the center so meaningful legislation can
actually be passed in the next three years, and it has to start
in November. I'll never understand why politicians don't
keep themselves open to ideas from both sides. In the age of
rhetoric, the loudest are the most important. And that tends
to be the wingers.
Paul Murty is an English sophomore. His columns appear on
Friday.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Thursday's question:
Will you be spending Valentine's Should people get over the
Day with a date? Crist-Obama hug?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org86% YES
14% NO
28 TOTAL VOTES
Haiti needed help before eart
After the recent catastrophe
has been amazing to see the re
Student Body and the rest of
helpers. It is becoming visible -
group of people, especially a gr
can make. But it is disheartenin
took a disaster as big as a 7.0-ma
quake to spark this.
Now is a great opportunity f
the world we can help people
whether they be disaster-strick
needing to talk. Before this ea
people of Haiti needed just a
but we never talked about it. N
floundering in another problem
tries have declared: We will stall
in your most desperate hour.
While it is great to stand behi
are in their most desperate hour
to stand behind them in their no
Have we done this with Haiti
to be the best we can, let us sta
people when they are in need
more importantly, when they
help.did before. This would make
hquake credit-hour rate $156. With the
e in Haiti, it $160 per credit hour. If Bright
sult from the ues to pay $126 per credit hour,
the country's undergrads will have to pay a
the impact a next year. (Without the fee an
)up of Gators, sued increase in tuition cost
to see that it be a $30 differential.) This doe
gnitude earth- much but consider the cost for s
15 credit hours. With the $30
:r UF to show an extra $450 per semester. W
in all cases, ferential, it's $510 per semester
en or simply between the two? Sixty dollars
rthquake, the bills for two months.
s much help, Undergraduate and grad
ow, as Haiti is who were already squashed b
, other coun- strain will be squashed even m
nd beside you al tuition and fee raises. And i
and graduates will continue t
nd those who of not having enough money w
, we also need tial financial help in the form.
rmal hours. it would have a higher impa
? As we strive students, it still would have a
nd behind all undergrads.
of help, and, Additionally, the Reitz Uni
don't need be necessary, but expanding a
backs of students in a time of e
DougJohnson and uncertainty is a loathsoi
UFstudent best.
U U U
Reitz Union fee will have large effect on
undergraduates too
Let's look at some numbers regarding
tuition and fees. When I started at UF in fall
2008, tuition and fees were $126 per credit
hour. Bright Futures Scholarship Program still
paid 100 percent of this cost. This year, tuition
and fees are $146 per credit hour. That's a $20
increase per credit hour. This becomes $300
more in total for an undergraduate taking 15
credit hours. At the same time, Bright Futures
no longer pays 100 percent of tuition and fees
costs but a fixed $126. The $20 increase in tu-
ition/fees had to come from the pockets (or
other scholarships) of undergraduates.
The Reitz Union fee is proposed to be a
$20 flat fee and $3 per credit hour. The $20
becomes about $1.34 when divided over 15
credit hours. So the fee would be a total extra
of about $4.34 per credit hour.
Let's assume that tuition and fees (exclud-
ing the Reitz fee) go up by half the amount theyU U U
Alligator's criticism of Mich(
campaign is unwarranted
Way to miss the point of Mi
"Let's Move" campaign in We
torial. There are way more w
criticize than the first lady's
America become healthier.
The editorial mentions t
healthier eating is a lack of
foods while in the same breath
it's just too hard in this econo
healthier choice. I find it dising
Alligator can't offer a single sug
situation.
How about we petition Ob
of subsidies for corn, which m
high fructose corn syrup that fi
every processed food? How ab
with local farmers and supportnext year's per-
fee, it would be
Futures contin-
this means that
$34 differential
d using our as-
it would only
s not seem like
omeone taking
differential, it's
ith the $34 dif-
The difference
That's electric
uate students
y the economic
ore with gener-kets and food co-ops? Michell
wants to use her position to
healthier eating. We all know I
are influenced by what they v
more people demanded health
businesses would meet that r
may even be convinced to sul
fruits and vegetables. What's n
that? The Alligator should foci
issues instead of complaining
ing time to go to the gym.
U U U
undergraduates Reader distressed over Stud
feel the stress party's campaign tactics
ithout substan- I woke up this morning to
of loans. While of flyers scattered all over Sor
ct on graduate flyers were anti-Unite Party in
high impact on and excessive in their nature. F
derstand, these flyers were all
on repairs may massive quantities.
building on the I'd like to consider myself e
conomic chaos friendly. What I saw today w
me decision at sheets of nonrecyclable paper t
campus like garbage. Would c
not do the trick? Instead, the St
Rachel Shapiro party saw it fit to waste res
3LS that's what they meant when
debate Wednesday that they
extra mile. I wish I could belie
Cavataro and Rafael Yaniz say
lle Obama's to be sustainable. It seems like
to use that word as a campaign
chelle Obama's As much as I resent the ou
dnesday's edi- ronmental waste, I resent the
rthy things to flyers even more. What I noti
efforts to help bate on Wednesday was that
of both parties had something
he obstacle to their answers, they both talked
cheap, healthy the Unite Party.
admitting that The Student Alliance par
my to pick the and candidates are so viciousl
tenuous that the it brings me to wonder what
gestion for this makes them so angry. I try to
in everyone, but I'm having re
ama to get rid this one.
akes the cheap I remember the Orange a
ids its way into campaign in fall. I remember
out we engage find "I voted" stickers thrown i
t farmers mar- Sorority Row to try to discouraFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 7
e Obama only out. When police attempt to catch serial killers,
help advertise they look at what they call the modus operandi
ow much kids or M.O., which is the way the individual goes
atch on TV. If about achieving his or her goals. I look at the
hy foods, more M.O.'s of the Student Alliance party and the
teed. Congress Orange and Blue Party, and it is painstakingly
sidize healthy obvious that they are one in the same.
ot to like about Orange and Blue Party 2.0 is trying to run
s more on real a campaign that smears the Unite Party's re-
about not find- cord of positive and tangible results on this
campus. I am a Unite Party member. I am a so-
rority girl. I am also a human being, and I am
Iris deeply hurt by the Student Alliance party's
Alligator reader seemingly inhumane rage toward my com-
munity. I wish they would run this campaign
about them not us.
ent Alliance Amy H amil
UF freshman
find thousands
ority Row. The U U U
their message
rom what I un- Student Alliance's distribution of flyers is
)ver campus in wasteful, irresponsible
I found the Student Alliance party's recent
environmentally distribution of flyers around the Plaza of the
as hundreds of Americas and along Fraternity Row unnec-
hrown around essary and offensive. The flyers were placed
)ne larger flyer sometimes on walls or cars (something I per-
udent Alliance sonally loathe), but mostly they were just
sources. Maybe thrown around on the ground.
hey said in the This distribution of flyers is wrong. First of
would go the all, it is not environmentally sound. The flyers
ve it when Ben were used excessively. For a party that urges
that they want sustainability both in Student Government
they just want policy and in personal choices, I expected
tool. more. If the party spends its own money reck-
trageous envi- lessly, I'd hate to see how irresponsible they
message of the act when trusted with "real" money.
ced in the de- I am also disappointed with the Student Al-
the candidates liance party and was hoping that this behavior
in common: In was something that wouldn't carry over from
mainly about the Orange and Blue Party. Its unrelenting at-
tempts to undermine the Greek community is
ty's campaign beyond disrespectful. The Greek community is
y negative that a vital part of our campus. Our philanthropic
inside of them events raise incredible amounts of money for
find the good charity. We maintain academic excellence and
al trouble with promote leadership on campus. I call upon the
Student Alliance party to stop being so nega-
nd Blue Party tive and irresponsible.
waking up to
i the bushes on Jake King
ge Greek turn- UFstudent
keep it40~CMOL
Auto A/C
Starters
Alternators
Repair/Service
Foreign & Domestic
Free Electrical Check
with purchase
AAMAC
378-7676
508 8th Ave.
8, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010
Dog park reopens after revamp
0 A DOGGY DAYCARE AND PET STORE WAS
ADDED TO THE PARK.
By MATT HARRINGER
Alligator Writer
Dog lovers can celebrate Valentine's Day jog-
ging, shopping and playing fetch with their furry
friends at the grand reopening of Dog Wood Park.
Under new management, the park, at 5505 SW
Archer Road, has added a doggy day care and a
pet store, which will sell natural food and custom-
made dog beds.
Admission to the park, which is usually $10, will
be free from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday and Sunday.
Kip Adkins, a manager at the park, said guestscan play with their pets in an area that includes a
jogging trail and an aquifer-fed pond for dogs to
swim in. Pet owners can also let their dogs roam
on their own.
There will be food and a raffle for free member-
ships, park discounts and dog toys.
In the spirit of the holiday, a
Around photographer will be taking Val-Gainesville entine's Day-themed pictures.
Second Chance Farms Inc. will
host pet adoptions at the park on Saturday from 1
p.m. to 4 p.m.
The park will also accept applications from any-
one interested in volunteering to work at the park
in exchange for free or discounted membership.
To insure safety for all the animals, Adkins said
new visitors must bring proof of vaccinations with
their pets.
By MELINDA CARSTENSEN
Alligator Contributing Writer
After General Motors Corp. hit
the breaks on the Saturn brand last
year, Saturn of Gainesville finished
its transformation into Summit
Mitsubishi.
The new car lot, located at 3737
N Main St., was a Saturn dealership
for 15 years. It began its conversion
into a Mitsubishi dealership after
getting its first shipment of 30 new
Mitsubishi vehicles Wednesday.
Summit Mitsubishi owner Ro-
land Daniels said it sold its last new
Saturn three weeks ago."We could either close the
store and put a bunch of
people out of work or find
another franchise to fill
the void."
Roland Daniels
Summit Mitsubishi owner
He also said the decision was in
the interest of the dealership's em-
ployees.
"We could either close the store
and put a bunch of people out of
work or find another franchise to
fill the void," he said.All 28 of Daniels' employees at
Saturn of Gainesville are staying
for the switch, and it will continue
to service Saturn cars.
Sabrina Case, the dealership's
marketing manager, said a tempo-
rary sign will go up at the dealer-
ship either today or Monday. The
dealership ordered a permanent
sign, which is expected to go up in
about four to five months.
Case said Mitsubishi appeals to
a diverse group of people.
"It's a great car for students to
get started with because it's safe,
has won a lot of awards and looks
pretty darn hot at the same time,"
Case said.
"What are your strengths?"
Prepare yourself for work after college by building your resume and
gaining valuable work experience with the nation's largest student-run paper.
Open House
TODAY
2pm to 4pm
The Alligator is currently hiring for:
Opinions editor, graphic designers,
Greek life, multi-cultural, and other writers
and photographers.
Interviews will be held on-site, so please bring your resume, clips and portfolio if you have one.
The Alligator is located at 1105 W. University Ave, two blocks
east of UF campus, across the street from the Bank of America.the independent floridaalligatorAROUND GAINESVILLE
Saturn dealership now MitsubishiValentine's Day not
so sweet for some
By MAHA CHAUDHRY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Valentine's Day can bring some not so sweet emotions to sin-
gles and couples alike.
"Everyone loves Valentine's Daywhen they're with somebody.
It's when they're single that they despise it," Zara Malik, 22, said.
Malik will be spending Valentine's Day single this year but
said she doesn't mind as long as she spends the day with her sin-
gle friends.
According to Cirecie West-Olatunji, associate professor of coun-
selor education, feeling alone on Valentine's Day is very normal.
West-Olatunji said she feels Valentine's Day adds more stress
on the single folks because they may not feel
complete. However, if couples have pre-exist-
ing conflicts, Valentine's Day can aggravate
relationship problems.
"There may be more relationship breakups
around Valentine's Day than new relation-
ships," West-Olatunji said.
Linnda Durre, certified psychotherapist be-
West-Olatunji lieves romance, chemistry and sex are crucial
to a healthy relationship, and couples need to
know what defines romantic and sexy for them.
"Tell each other. Be honest," Durre said. "If you're not friends
with your partner, it's not a relationship."
Durre also feels that for those whose expectations are not met
on Valentine's Day, the holiday can result in anger and depres-
sion, possibly even a breakup. She feels it's important that people
not put so much emphasis on one particular day.
"Every day should be Valentine's Day," Durre said. "Treating
your loved one, friend or spouse with kindness, gifts and thought-
fulness shouldn't be limited to just one day."
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 9
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Political parties raise money, spend $13K on shirts
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Writer
Although election season is just begin-
ning, student political parties have raised
and spent a good deal of money for cam-
paigning in the weeks leading up to Stu-
dent Government elections.
The Unite Party has received a total of
$11,770 in donations as of Sunday, and the
Student Alliance party has received a to-
tal of $5,828 as of Thursday, according tocampaign finance records.
The Action Party last updated its cam-
paign finance records on Jan. 27, posting
$81.85 in donations.
Supervisor of Elections Ariana Alfonso
said the Action Party has not submitted fi-
nancial reports since Feb. 1.
According to finance records, the big-
gest donors for the Unite Party and the
Student Alliance party were their candi-
dates for Student Body president.
Ashton Charles, the Unite Party candi-date for Student Body president, donated
$6,000 as of Feb. 2, and
Ben Cavataro, the Stu-
dent Alliance party can-
didate for Student Body
president, donated $1,500
as of Feb. 1.
Marcus Dixon, the
Unite Party's Student
Charles Body vice presidential
candidate, and Virlany
Taboada, the Unite Party's Student Bodytreasurer candidate, each donated $2,000.
Sagar Sane, the Student Alliance party's
candidate for vice president, and Rafael
Yaniz, the Student Alliance party's candi-
date for treasurer, both donated $500.
The majority of expenditures have been
spent on T-shirts, fliers and stickers.
Records show the Unite Party spent
about $10,000 on T-shirts, and the Student
Alliance party spent $2,900 on T-shirts.
For more on party campaign expenses see
alligator.org
S e 11%Copyrighted MaterialIC'
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
GAToR INVITTIONAL
SATURDAY
SUNDAY
0
Ni-k H.-k Glf C- t th, U .mty f Fl-d.
R 1, -n
= :h. UM 8- -- -1 -
1,, T , N41 (TDD) _ J
Short of Cash? Donate Plasma! Thousands do.
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6th St Gainesville (352) 378-9204
"Where It Pays to Care"#27
Thing to do
before you die
Play strip poker
with Hooters girls!
Saturday, Feb. 13 from2-7pm
at Ocala Poker andai-Alai
"Taking It Off for Charity"
benefitting the St. Francis House
visit
pledge5.orglevents
fordetails-N
10, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010
Students heard policies
Max Reed / Alligator
Cheryl and Wendell Porter, left, speak to Mayoral Candidate Monica Leadon Cooper during Senate and
the City on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday.ELECTION, from page 1
so it is very important for students
to take the time to get to know the
candidates and their stances," Sar-
rine said.
Nick Mildebrath, campaign
manager for the Student Alliance
party, said he thinks it is important
for students to be more active in
city and SG elections. He said zon-
ing laws and alcohol restrictions are
two things that directly impact stu-
dents and are controlled by the city
government.
"Local and Student Government
elections probably affect people's
day-to-day lives more than national
government, and students don't al-
ways realize it," Mildebrath said.
Ashton Charles, Senate presi-
dent and Unite Party candidate for
Student Body president, said it is
very important for students to have
a voice in city politics as well as SG.
"I think students have a big
say not only on campus, but in theGainesville community," Charles
said.
Craig Lowe, one of the may-
oral candidates at the event, said
he wanted to speak with students
about his ideas for the future of
Gainesville.
"I had an opportunity to talk to
a lot of students about my goals for
the future of the city of Gainesville
and the importance of voting by
the entire uni-
versity commu-
nity, including
faculty, staff and
students," Lowe
said.
Morgan Long,
a member ofMildebrath a mmbr O
the College Re-
publicans, said it is important for
students to start getting informed
about politics now, while they are
still in school.
"It's good to get them in as a
grassroots movement and get ener-
gized for the rest of their lives to be
political," Long said.
Enclave increased night security
CRIME, from page 1
the parking lot of Enclave Apartments, 3000
SW 35th Place, and one man was shot in the
leg as he ran away, according to Alligator ar-
chives.
An employee of the Enclave could not
comment on the incident itself but said the
complex increased night-watch security in
the weeks that followed and sent fliers to
residents to raise awareness.
But statistics alone can be misleading, ac-
cording to Cpl. Tscharna Senn, spokeswom-
an for GPD.
Senn credited the increase in crimes on
the city annexation of a large portion of land
in 2009.However, GPD is not making excuses,
and Senn said the police department is ad-
dressing the growing crime rate.
"We immediately put resources together
to try and curb that rate," she said, referring
to Chief Terry Jones' recent initiative to en-
sure problem areas get the officer coverage
they need.
S ecial Senn also said students tendreport to be easy targets for criminals.
"They're so transitory in na-
ture," she said. "They're always coming and
going and not always remembering to lock
their door," she said. "If they take the extra
time to secure their bike and make sure .
that their cell phones and computers are put
away from plain sight .then the criminal is
going to go somewhere else that's easier."Those involved would not comment
VIDEO, from page 1
it, Nicole Brakovich was president.
The video was taken down because
it was offensive to other women in the
community, Dollinger said.
Alfonso declined to comment.
Student Body President Jordan
Johnson said Alfonso's role in SG will
not be affected by her involvement in
the video.
He said she has done a fantastic job
as supervisor of elections.
"I have no doubt in Ariana's abili-ties," Johnson said.
Helvie did not return phone calls or
an e-mail.
Heather Hare, president of Delta
Gamma's UF chapter, did not return
several phone calls and text messages.
Brakovich did not respond to sev-
eral phone calls and an e-mail.
Abby Myette, program coordinator
of the Office of Sorority and Fraternity
Affairs, declined to comment.
Jack Causseaux, associate director
of the Office of Sorority and Fraternity
Affairs, declined to comment.
The Adventures of
A section of the Alligator dedicated
to giving students tips on healthy
living and exercise!
change your business
from a zero.
Deadline: Thursday, Feb. 18
Run date: Wednesday, Feb. 24
Contact the Alligator today!
352-376-4482
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 11
Available from Commercial News Providers
March 12th -14th
Orange Co. Convention Center
GEORGE PEREZ -DICK GIORDANO * JIM CALAFIORE * DAVE DORMAN * JOE BENITEZ
AMANDA CONNER * ADAM HUGHES * FRANK CHO -PAUL PELLETIER MARV WOLFMAN
DON ROSA * GREG HORN -CASEYJONES * PHIL NOTO -BARBARA KESEL -MIKE MCKONE
GRAHAM NOLAN * OLIVIER COIPEL * CHRISTIAN SLADE -ANDY SMITH * JIMMY PALMIOTTI
GREG LAND *DOUG MURRAY * BILLY TUCCI -ETHAN VAN SCIVER -SERGIO CARIELLO
JIM CHEUNG -BRIAN STELFREEZE * LAURA MARTIN * DAN PARENT -CHUCK DIXON
ROB HUNTER -JUSTIN GRAY * TONY BEDARD * MARK MCKENNA * JOE JUSKO -ALVIN LEE
MIKE PERKINS -ERIC CANETE * STEPHEN PERRY -BRANDON PETERSON e MIKE CHOI SPONSORS:
SONIA BACK NELSON DECASTRO * DREW GERACI * DEXTER VINES * GEORGES JEANTY vuM. an
?4EPIA @UgE74:
LEVAR BURTON e ROBERT PICARDO e BRENT SPINER * LEA THOMPSON -JAMESIHONG * KEVINSORBO--'*-
KRISTANNA LOKEN -JEREMY BULLOCH CHERAMI LEIGH * MARIA DE ARAGON -ELLEN DUBIN -NICHfCOURTNiE *CHUCK HUBER
NEIL KAPLAN -RICHARD HATCH * VIRGINIA HEY -ROB RES
PETER MAYHEW * DAVE BARCLAY * SONNY STRAIT *CLAUIA WELL
DARRELGUILBEAU -DAVID ACORD -MATTHEW WOD
ANIME COSTIIME CONTEST! 4,;; .-1
KID5 EVENT S, ACTIVITIEShosted by Skiffytown
RuNPtur r EAU~ **nAn. nmii, ai'~ Chileirsan nan 10) nd. uner FREE with naidl adltl$ OFFJiffy Lube
Signature Service'
No Coupon Needed! No expiration date to remember!
Just bring in a valid student ID to any Gainesville Jiffy Lube.
et over $100 in savings when you donate $3 to Go Red For Women
February 1 -March 14, 2010
s arealocations.
Forthe J iffy Lube nearest you please visit jmffylubesouthaast corn
S e e tdeai t vi wh any other offe Rest icti ay happy ffy Lube, the Jify Lub design
markand Jiffy Lube Signature Service' are registered trademarks of Jiffy Lube International, Inc.s200 fyLbe 12at lbs by SepBdr
Lose 15-20 lbs by Spring Break
www.AllianceWeightLoss.comNATIONAL
F ( )0*I
C 0.
Alliance
Permanent Weight Loss Program
Healthy lifestyle alterations
developed for your
individual needs by
Physicians & Medical Practitioners
// Appetite Suppression Medication
No special foods or starvation -
We show you how to be healthy
and lose weight at the same time.
ALL Medications and Injections included.
Call Donna at (352) 337-3961
for information & appointmentsjfl %kit '#of VK
12, ALLIGATOR 0 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010
Bill, My RTS bus driver
Anyone can catch your eye, but it takes
someone special to catch your heart.
Kathy
Hey babydawl
u know ur my cakiest cakes. Miss you and
love you more than there are compound
structures in orgo.
Muah W
I've had the most amazing year with you. I
love you so much, handsome!!
MHA Ws TCH
Andrea:
6513 miles, 10481 kilometers, 8 time zones,
12 hours by plane, and 6 months time sepa-
rate us, and yet I couldn't feel any closer to
you if I tried. I miss you every second. Before
you know it, you will be in my arms again.
Love from Tel-Aviv, Nate
Honestly Heather,
I hate you sometimes.
But that means we've
agreed on the big issues.
Love Your Taylor.
Congrats to my awesome interns!!!
Ana, Cassandra, Stephanie, Ally, Zoya,
Breanne, Eric, Courtney, Cristina, and Max.
Great Job!
Sara
Sumit,
you are my everything. I love you more than
words could ever say. I am so happy to have
you in my life and know our lives together will
be wonderful. w*
Love, Lisa
LL (MJ)-
I hope you are ready to make some magic
happen! But you have to work for it. If you
choose to accept your mission, the first clue
will be at the site of our third date (I think).
I LOVE YOU!
W BC (OB)
Love means knowing you can live
without someone but wishing you
didn't have to
I cant wait to see you again
but until june
our memories will have to do
we'll always nave marco
happy valentines day I love you
You make me happy.
Just saying.Vegetable Tempura .9.95
Chicken Tempura. 10.95
Chicken Sawamura. 10.95
Shrimp Tempura .11.95
Combination Tempura. 11.95
Chicken and Shrimp. 12.95Lucas,
You are the Eomer to my Eowyn, the Richard
to my Kahlan, the Gambit to my Rogue. From
one standard nerd to her boyfriend, I love
you, Michele.
Your eyes meet mine, I look away.
Your eyes meet mine, I forget what to say.
Your eyes meet mine & my guard falls weak.
Your eyes meet mine & it's your lips I seek.
Your eyes, your lips, your V. meet mine.
Drew, will you be my Valentine?
Josh,
"Everything I have in this world, and all that
I'll ever be, it could all fall down around me.
Just as long as I have you, right here by me."
I Love You With All My Heart
V Cassandra
PUPPIES! If you just freaked out, your
boyfriend's wishing you a Happy Valentine's
Day. You're the best girl ever I said it, and
I love you more than jelly beans. Be mine
today and always. O Love, Flat Stanley to
It started out as a feeling. Which then grew
into a hope. Which then turned into a quiet
thought. Which then turned into a quiet word.
And then that word grew louder and louder.
9OO I Love You Haley Grace OP00
Dear CRH,
I'm so lucky I can call you mine. Thank
you for these past five years. I love all the
memories we have, and look forward to all
the future ones. I you Huggles!
%, VLS
Teppanyaka Vegetable. 9.95
Shrimp Teppanyaka. 11.95
Scallops Teppanyaka. 12.95
Sukiyaki and Chicken .12.95
Sukiyaki Steak.12.95
Sukiyaki and Shrimp. 12.95I
LYLAnfgo.gV Vi
B "J" S
Every moment I spend with you, the world
seems so perfect. Your love has made me
wealthy beyond my sweetest dream. I know
that I am the luckiest girl to have you as my
partner through this crazy life, you are the
greatest man I know. I want to always make
you the happiest and most satisfied man
through the journey of our love, hopefully for-
ever. I V you Jew -~VEGA
You once said "We are like a puzzle, the
pieces are COMPLETELY different, but they
fit together PERFECTLY!" and I fell madly in
love with you ever since. I want you to know
I LOVE YOU FOREVER AND A DAY!
Happy Valentines Day Jerry.
Thanks for 17 years and here's
to many more.
w Your Wife, Sall
hi poop. you're my beastie and
i Q you. happy valentine's day!OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK WN
Th
co
0
4408 all
WTCMAT.
[h Ilrt2
to brn
muo beor
ValnierEs;
I peopi
g in thi
le (or 01
els Da,
E limill
r -shir
I you 44
IN
TH S7
,MOM A
Happy Valentine's Day!
Roses are
red,violets are
blue, lubricant
keeps condoms
from breaking and
it feels good too!
392-1161, ext.4281
http://www.shcc.ufl.edu/gatorwell
Lube Always, xoxo4,
1 LOVE YOU and I'm telling the world.
XOXO Your HLB, Stormy
To My Menfolk:
You are my anchor in this world of uncertainty.
You are my strength and my happiness.
You are my past, my present, and my future.
I love you.
Gabriel,
Thank you for the most amazing years of my
life so far. We love each other so profoundly
and with that, we have the best thing in this
world.
xoxo Dyana
Happy 30th Anniversary Tommy & Mari!
You are an exemplary couple.
May you have 30 more!
With Love, Dyana & Gabriel
lITR
Sunday February 14th
$2 ots
$2 J1.~vorez,$2 ~ VobkA
Bring a pictureof
your ex and have it
paced in the
* U
Spring Break Essentials
Spring Dresses for- Easter- Spring Rush- Graduation
Now Open!-F0Dear Laundry Boy-
You are hott, let's meet.
-Girl in Graham Hall
John-
You are one of the coolest people I know. =]
-Stephanie
Phi Mu Sisters-
You all are the best!!
Pi Rho Pi until we die!!
-Stephanie H.
Jessica S.
I LOVE YOU!!!
-Little
Thornehrook Chocolates
wihabo fchclte n
o r
Sweetheart Special!
i 12 gorgeous roses in a vase 4
0 with a box of chocolates and
Happy Valentine's Day balloon
$72.00
does not mclude sales tx or delivery fee
Must mention this ad to get discount
on 12 roses, balloon, and chocolates
335-0100
www.pranges.com
16 E University Ave., DowntownBrad,
You are the best big brother ever.
-Steph
V Our past is history and our future is
together so it isn't a mystery and every
moment I get to spend with you is a gift
I guess thats why it's called the present V
To my Future 4rm ETC
TEG,
If those infamous Grog nights never took
place, I don't know what I would do! You are
the best thing that has ever happened to me.
I can't wait for our future together.
Love, Butter Bean
Luvvie:
You make my sugar sweeter.
%Pxoxo
A Ways there for me and the chit chats.
N ever a dull moment w/ you around
I ncoherent and ALL over the place
E xceptional & Awesomest roomie/friend ever!
Good luck in your 1/2 marathon! W Wildie
To Chris P
Ever thine, ever mine, ever ours.
I love you babe. 4 Lidice F
- IMarissa M.
You're weird & super nerdy. You like coffee,
tea, tomatoes, & Keith Urban. You go on &
on about mucolas cells. Despite all this, for
some odd reason, I still really like you.
Happy V-Day! -Kevin
If only I could be with you
To hug, to hold and caress
If you'd make my wish come true
And accept my friend request.
Hearts come from heaven above,
that send out love,
But since you're my flower guy,
Be Kind,
and be my Valentine. wLenora
0 Happy Valentines to my lovely Lauren.
Each February you remind me how this cor-
rupt world can still produce wonderful things
-i.e., YOU!
Love you tremendously, Sal WStephen,
Thank you for always making me laugh and
taking care of my problems! I can't wait for
this weekend! lqU Happy V-day
My love always, Sara 9OW*
Sweets
When I saw you, it was the beginning of time.
With the adventures over the years, we have
become lovers, soul mates. After 32 years of
marriage we have become bestest friends.
You asked if I loved you. Yes. A kiss wrapped
around a starburst of love to the end of time.
BabesX0X
Valentine's Haiku
He may seem perfect
He could give you everything
Plus Chlamydia
O Your Local Chlamydia Enthusiasts
My Dearest CB-
Have I told you lately that I love you?
Have I told you there's no one else above you?
Fill my heart with gladness,
Take away all my sadness
Ease my troubles, that's what you do.
Love, Kid
Alex,
I love you with my entire heart. You are my
best friend, boyfriend, and the one person
who can always make me smile.
Happy Valentine's Day baby.
Love always, LaranDearest Roomie, you are the coolest!
I love our random excursions! Thanks for
putting up with me leaving the lights on and
forgetting the trash, and taking me on Publix
adventures. Ego club forever! -A
To my incredible boyfriend,
Yeah this is a little cheesy but
I wanted to publicly tell you
That I love you forreal forreal
Happy Valentines Day R Rashielle
You wrote me a poem once
and it melted my heart.
It was what I needed to hear
when we were miles apart.
We're finally together and
all I do is ruin my behavior,
I promise to try harder, starting
with this poem to return the favor.
I will never betray you, Daffodil.
Love, Buttercup
Maria, you are my divine muse,
Against the best you're easy to choose
With a swish of your hips
And a kiss from your lips
Sweetheart, with you I can't lose
I'll always remember you for the little things.
Whether it's your desire to show me your
latest dance or to simply give me a kiss
at a least expected moment. No letter, no
novel, no clever song can ever do justice to
how I feel about you. So with no end to the
amount of times I can say this to you, Kylie
I love you. Now and always -Ricky.
I E I-? , \\A/ 1 I 3th t. Gloi r-ie sviFlce, F--
.352.-37l3. 1 C ) Z7
~ ~of g ilfards,in.
Gainlesville's Ultimate Sports Bar
Valentine's iDay
Couples Only 0Tournament
Sunday Feb. 14th
Doors open at noon
" Free registration at 6pm, Tourny at 7pm
" 1st, 2nd, & 3rd place prizes
.Complimentary gift for all ladies
" Complimentary glass of champagne
-I-m2lFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010 0 ALLIGATOR, 13
9Brenda,
I will never forget the nights we spend togeth-
er playing darts and stealing phonebooks. I
love when you ring my doorbell. Congrats on
becoming a grandma.
0 Heathcliff
Amy Lynn and Marissa,
Hey hey you you I don't like your girlfriend.
No way no way I think you need a new one.
I love you both!
0 Rachel
Dear Dev,
Two rubber ducks are sitting in a bath tub
One says, "Will you be my valentine?"
The other says, "Holy crap a talking duck!"
Love, Rocky
Scott,
We miss you here!
Ellen, Ashley, & Wildie
P Happy Valentine's Day Jenny!!! V
Here's to another wonderful day.
Thanks for being the best!
-Edgar
Dear Yeh-hyonie, 0P
Could you be my Brownie? 4
Could you be my Cookie? P
You are my Yuhcninee. 4
We are soLovey Dovey. 0
Kelke I lovey you.
-Your Namchinee Chantaekie-
Princettia,
It's hard to believe that one year ago we were
having our first date. I love you so much and
know we will have a wonderful weekend.
Happy Valentine's Day & Happy Anniversary.
Whitney
Words can't begin to express the love that
I feel for you. Sometimes the feeling is un-
bearable and these deep emotions are mind
blowing. These past 4 years have shown me
that I can love you unconditionally. For ev-
ery breath, every tear, every talk, every kiss,
and every hug, you make me whole. I want
to give you all of me and confess to the world
my love for you. From the first time we kissed
in high school to the time we made love, I
knew you were something special. From the
time we both confessed our love in college,
I knew you were the one. You are my first
love, my life, and my everything. Now I am
overjoyed to know that I am ready to spend
the rest of my life with you. I am so blessed
and I thank God every day that He made you
especially for me. I love you baby, yesterday,
today, tomorrow, and forever.
Always loving you,
Alyssa
When I think of happiness, I think of you
When a smile lights up your face, I smile too
From the moment Cupid drew his bow,
our love has been so true
My Valentine I hope you know, how much I
do love you
To Sara with 4 From Stephen
Grandpa,
Were the strangest people we've ever met,
so we decided to know each other a long
time. Om Nom Nom!
Grandma
Go gator love!
Did I leave me heart in the Netherlands?
Can I get a loved heart in the States?
I dreamt -me and a Gator, holding hands.
No doubt to leave, time can be better spent!
Every day the sun shines bright.
50k students, a chance for dinner w candle light!
I just wait wno will set my heart on fire.
I bought popular glasses & a getorthong,
I am sure I won't have to wait too long!
14, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010
I'm random, get jealous easily and make you
worry and yet you continue to stay by me
everyday. Thank you for always being there
(even if you're a sleepy hamster). I love you
q Your crazy little one
To my baby: Thanks for giving me the
best months of my life. W Our future to-
gether looks brighter every day! Love you!
^ ^ :D :3
Your presence lights up my eyes
Your love brings life to my soul
Your name an echo of my every heartbeat,
Would it not be suicidal to dare to let you go?
I love you Shona
To Will, Love Katie:
You're in my thoughts and in my
heart wherever I may go.
On this day, I'd like to say
I care more than you know
We are what people write ballads about, the
kind of magic people spend their whole lives
looking for. put your hand on my soul and
celebrate with me, my love, and they'll write
our names in the stars. V0
Dear D,
Two walls have fallin' and a door of wonder
of how great a person you are and wonder-
ing where this will lead, has opened. Never
thinking that this day would have any mean-
ing to me, you mean a lot to me.
Happy Valentine's Day!!
Sincerely,
S
For DPE,
The breath to my life and my best friend.
Happy Valentine's Day!
Love forever, MJP
W,
Thank you for always providing me a never
ending supply of toilet paper!
Hugs and Kisses,
T
To my cuddle monster, Ashley
From your snookle bear, Ryan
T (HINT, HINT)
Nexus never liverpooled the office and ice
cream and the straps are pirated apple.
Happy Valentine's Day.
VW (your tp supplier!)
Need to look
good for
Valentines Day?
Get your hair cut
the "Reitz" way!
<-
Offering Men's &
Women's Services
By appointment or walk-in
379-4686
Located on Ground FloorSweet Topanga,
Despite everything we're going through, I
want you to know that you still reside in my
heart's most special place and that I love you
right up to the moon and back.
% I Love You With All My Heart 4P
You are my best friend and true love
I am so proud to say that u will be my
husband.1 knew from the moment I met you
that you were the one for me. I can not wait to
see where our life is going to go from here.
Happy Valentine's Day.
Love, Beautiful
My mighty Thor-bell with your Mjollnir only
you can yield, is it no wonder that you have
given me the greatest gift ever in our lovely
Thrud? Your lightning strikes my heart with
every beat. Faithfully yours, Sif-bell
W, S, T, & C -Another year has passed by
again! How I wish to slow the time & enjoy
you in your youth! To the beginning of a new
generation, Wil! (w/ the lovely Megan).
Shawn, what more can be said than what I
try to say to you everyday!. Ty, Jim Carrey
is a great actor!. Cheye, my mini-me, be-
coming a young lady!. Laugh often; dance
like crazy; and enjoy every minute of life! I'm
proud of all of you! With love forever, Mom
Martin,
From the moment we kissed I knew we had
something special. The past 2 months have
been such an amazing whirlwind of romance,
that I am still trying to catch my breath from
when you swept me off my feet. You give me
hope when I feel lost, confidence when I am
down and love, even when I don't deserve
it. You make me a better woman because
of the way you love me. 4,704 miles seper-
ate us but I am closer to you than anyone. I
have enduring faith in you, us and our future
together.
I love you my "jerk" -Shannon.
SHANE-
Another Valentine's Day
And another chance to say,
You are so very, very special
in every single way.
You have been wonderful to live near
a pleasure to see you grow over the years.
Happy Valentine's Day.
Love, TriciaSince I'm the little hug bug,
I want to be kind, and say to all my student
friends have a ball and happy valentines.
Lenora
Hey Rod, stop taking a nod,
Since you're so kind,
you can be my valentine
and shower me with flowers.
Lenora
Benny Ba: I would hog yea
with eight tentacles if I had
them, but I am not a cephalopod
I know. I'm disappointed too.
Love, Nicole
Dear Gymnast,
An angel kissed a star which fell to earth. Upon
it was written what I am about to say to you now,
and burned upon my heart was your name.
Should a thousand angels tear out my heart
with the forsaken instrument of death, it
would still beat for a million times and call
your name in the night. I just cannot explain
the passion inside which burns for you.
What human being would not appreciate those
gorgeous green eyes of yours, which remind
me of the tiny sparkling green M&M's inside
your eyeballs? There have been many occa-
sions where I have felt like picking them out
with a plastic spoon and eating them, but I don't
think you would like that. Maybe it is because
you plan to eat them yourself. Who knows?
I admire the way you brush your lovely brown
hair, and it isfunny when your haircollects static
and stands on end. It reminds me of a cute little
hedgehog, or even one of those little troll dolls.
Sitting at home on the couch and cuddling with
you has always been something I loved.
Especially when we get into an argument
about something pointless, like the color of
cheese or the price of fish, and end up hav-
ing a huge pillow fight over it. (Even though I
always win, and you end up crying because I
heat yea op at a childish game!)
I can't remember if I already told you but I really
do love your eyes, it is such a turn on to look at
and it's one of the many reasons I love being
with you my love. Sometimes I wish I could do
nothing but stare into your eyes all day, but I
am not sure that is such a good idea my love
as people will probably think I am some creep
and might be taken away by the men in blue.
With every breath in my body and every fi-
ber of my soul, I wish you drenched velvet
kisses, and love-soaked Valentine's Day.
Love, Swimmer
:00 W" u"p. U|||
Mi
Mavhe it's time to uit smoking. 41161gyit's valentine's day, our second yeari hope this poem will bring you cheer
with you as my girlfriend
my head's in a whirlwind
all i can say is i love you dear
BRIAN encounters a KELLY in tall grass!
BRIAN uses FLIRT, it is ineffective!
KELLY uses CLEVER GIRL!
BRIAN uses CLICHE GIFT!
It is super effective! KELLY swoors!
Will, "You're awesome. You should think
about how awesome you are." Happy
Valentine's Day! You're the best. I love you
oh so much. Can't wait for this weeeknd
% XXXO Chels XXXO V MINES
To the D G Girls,
When you take me to bingo, I take a chance
when we go to Eagles we swirl and dance,
and since you're so kind, Happy Valentines.
Lenora
AAAAARRRRRRROOOOOOOOOOOOOO
I MISS YOU
Happy Valentine's Day Lyd V
LoVe Dee
That magical Halloween night when Bob
Marley met the Gypsy, the dance floor came
alive. The stars twinkled as they kissed with
the passion of long-lost lovers. And the beau-
tiful Gypsy now asks her sweet Valentine,
will you be mine? I love you baby! VP
Am- from Baton Rouge and NOLA to Atlanta,
I can't imagine having done any ofit w/o you.
Tebow may be Superman but he wears Arnie
S. pajamas! I " u, my own nat'l champion!
-MRoses are red,
Violets are blue.
I call you dragon,
Because I love you.
Love, Ryan
Oh Nicole, I am your biggest fan,
That's why I wish that you would be my
lesbian,
You broke up with me after just two days,
But I still love you anyways,
There is no one else for me in all the lands,
Even though you have no hands.
To my silly goose. I'll never stop loving you.
-D
Ry- You watch Heroes without me, are WAY
too bony to cuddle with, and worst of all,
you're a lactard, but for some reason I still
love you like crazy. I would even resist the
temptation that is ZQ for you. Okay, well,
maybe not, but I would feel REALLY bad
about it. Love you baby -A
Happy valentine's day to myfavorite member
of the pen club! I can't really say I enjoyed
growing up with you, as you still watch Nick
Jr and technically need a booster seat, but
watching your slow descent into madness
(and never ending quest to find Nemo) has
been fun! VVV Ashley
To my silly goose. I'll never stop loving you.
-D
Ry- You watch Heroes without me, are WAY
too bony to cuddle with, and worst of all,
you're a lactard, but for some reason I still
love you like crazy. I would even resist the
temptation that is ZQ for you. Okay, well,
maybe not, but I would feel REALLY bad
about it. Love you baby -A
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 15
STRANGEST (JUDGE'S CHOICE]
Dear Gymnast,
An angel kissed a star which fell to earth. Upon it was writ-
ten what I am about to say to you now, and burned upon
my heart was your name.
Should a thousand angels tear out my heart with the
forsaken instrument of death, it would still beat for a million
times and call your name in the night. I just cannot explain
the passion inside which burns for you.
What human being would not appreciate those gorgeous
green eyes of yours, which remind me of the tiny sparkling
green M&M's inside your eyeballs? There have been many
occasions where I have felt like picking them out with a
plastic spoon and eating them, but I don't think you would
like that. Maybe it is because you plan to eat them yourself.
Who knows?
I admire the way you brush your lovely brown hair, and it is
funny when your hair collects static and stands on end. It
reminds me of a cute little hedgehog, or even one of those
little troll dolls. Sitting at home on the couch and cuddling
with you has always been something I loved.
Especially when we get into an argument about something
pointless, like the color of cheese or the price of fish, and
end up having a huge pillow fight over it. (Even though I
always win, and you end up crying because I beat you up
at a childish game!)
I can't remember if I already told you but I really do love
your eyes, it is such a turn on to look at and it's one of the
many reasons I love being with you my love. Sometimes I
wish I could do nothing but stare into your eyes all day, but
I am not sure that is such a good idea my love as people
will probably think I am some creep and might be taken
away by the men in blue.
With every breath in my body and every fiber of my soul,
I wish you drenched velvet kisses, and love-soaked
Valentine's Day.
Love, Swimmer
Saee4
t VLI ~Ir
Enjoy off
any ice cream cake
(One per custoruer. Not good with
L any other offer. Expires 2/28/10.)
E 17 Pa 0 R" I U rn*
Marketplace Plaza OPEN LATE!
4216 NW 1 6th Blvd Mon-Thurs 11 an-9pm
375-4484 Fri-Sat 11 an- Oprn
if, A- 11-4.-., Sun t 2-9pni( exc wo d ywoo ea)WCheck our daily flavors at www.gatordlites.comYour eyes meet mine, I look away.
Your eyes meet mine, I forget what to say.
Your eyes meet mine & my guard falls weak.
Your eyes meet mine & it's your lips I seek.
Your eyes, your lips, your 0. meet mine.
Drew, will you be my Valentine?Bunny Bear: I would hug you
with eight tentacles if I had
them, but I am not a cephalopod
I know. I'm disappointed too.
Love, Nicole
Sweets
When I saw you, it was the beginning of time. With the adventures over the years, we
have become lovers, soul mates. After 32 years of marriage we have become bestest
friends. You asked if I loved you. Yes. A kiss wrapped around a starburst of love to the
end of time. BabesXWXW
Whitney
Words can't begin to express the love that I feel for you. Sometimes the feeling is unbear-
able and these deep emotions are mind blowing. These past 4 years have shown me that I
can love you unconditionally. For every breath, every tear, every talk, every kiss, and every
hug, you make me whole. I want to give you all of me and confess to the world my love for
you. From the first time we kissed in high school to the time we made love, I knew you were
something special. From the time we both confessed our love in college, I knew you were
the one. You are my first love, my life, and my everything. Now I am overjoyed to know that
I am ready to spend the rest of my life with you. I am so blessed and I thank God every
day that He made you especially for me. I love you baby, yesterday, today, tomorrow, and
forever.
Always loving you,
Alyssa
SUN-WED Z14 SS
116AM-3AM
THURS, FRI & 672-6111
SAT 'O/ FREE WIFI
11AM-4AM NEXT TO SWEETBAY
wWW.JDOOBIES.COM 34TH ST. PLAZAThis paper
loves reruns.
RECYCLE
YOUR NEWSPAPER.
printed on recycled newsprint"I
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished a unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet * Utilities
* Furnished Tanning *24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St*
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2,3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
$419 all inclusive 4/4
$509 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
24hr Fitness Center * 2 Pools
Now Feline Friendly352-271-
3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-1
r/etngsitiiJ
FULLY LOADED @ $399
Individual w/free roommate matching
Cable, Internet and utilities
Pick New 42" TV or Sofa Set
LexingtonCrossingUF com 373 9009
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$290/MO
Apts or Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, University Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1
REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2 $639 * deluxe 2/2 $659
3/3 $639 *4/4 $529 ' All pices are all inclusive-
Close to UF EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST Townhouse near UF,
Shands, shopping; easy access 2BR/2.5BA;
great for student/family. Only $750/mo;
LEASE/BUY OPTION -OWNER FINANCED.
Renovated & ready' Ed 305-972-6432 2-17-
09-65-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UFI
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $375.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. 239-250-6149 2-26-10-35-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Unit $450 ea. W/D.
Property has clubhouse, fitness and busi-
ness/computer ctr. Utilities incl On bus
route Windsor Park.
305-788-5681/Windsor515@g mail com
2-26-10-28-1LUXURY 2STORY TOWNHS. 2B/2.5Ba
FULLY FURN. 2 min to UF, Great bus routes
& parking, Pool/gym, Free wifi, All utils incl.
Both rooms avail June 1st or later, Individual
Leases $540/$520 Martha 786 246-3049
3-5-29-1
4BR/4BA, large living, next to bus stop, fairly
new condo. $399/mo each room. Close to
shopping, school & library. Call 941-232-
1960 3-3-10-20-1
4/4 COUNTRYSIDE APTS. Spacious 4 bed-
room close to UF Close to major shopping
areas and located on 3 bus routes that go to
center of UF. Every room has full bathroom
& large walk-in closets. Entire place is fur-
nished. High efficiency W/D. Rent is $400/
room/month. Utilities includedl SD $255.
Available Jane or Augast. Call (355) 755-
7042 3-25-30-1
$370-4/4 University Terrace Condo available
starting summer/fall. ALL utilities included,
W/D in unit, on routes 12 and 35, ten minutes
to campus by baa' $250 deposit, indidual
lease. Call Anu at 352 262.0628. 2-26-13-1
$370-4/4 Countryside condo for rent starting
immediately/summer/fall ALL utilities includ-
ed, on bus routes 9 and 35, individual leases.
Call Anu at 352 262 0628 2-26-10-13-1
IMMEDIATE/SUMMER AVAILABILITY
2,3 and 4 bedroom suites
STARTING @ 349
All inclusive, fully furnished
LexingtonCrossingUF com 373 9009
4-21-10-30-1
Hampton Oaks Apartments
Unfurnished TH $745
Furnished ind. $538
$500 Visa gift card with ad
124 SW 62nd st -(352) 333-8643
leasing@silverwingproperties.com
2-26-10-11-1
1BR/1BA. $850/mo everything included. 1
block from campus. Covered parking. Call for
details 724-974-9591. 2-25-10-10-1
O For Rent
unfurnished
LOW COST MOVE IN
1 BR & STUDY -$395/mo.
372-6881 or 213-3901 4-21-10-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
**HUGE FLOOR PLANS"
1/1 -$569 2/1.5-$599 3/2-$750
No move-in fees w/approved app.
Wtr incl. *Pet-friendly*Bus routes to
UF,SFC, Shands and Downtown!!!
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2
LIVE THE DOWNTOWN LIFE
Steps from clubs-blocks to UF
Studios, 1/1's, 2/2's & 3/3's
The best location GUARANTEED
Reserve NOW for fall' 338-0002
4-21-09-71-2
AFFORDABLE RATES! QUIET COMMUNITY!
www.frederickgardens.com
1 BR/1 BA $469 2BR/1 BA $569
Great Move-In Fee Specials!!!
Adopted pets live free!! 2 pools!
1 mile from UF & Shands! 352-372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors With Parking By Prinvate Owner.
538-2181 Iv message 4-21-09-71-2Quality & Affordability!
1 br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit, No move-in fees"
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF' Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-8-09-168-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
mmw.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in NOW or FALL 2010.
2/2 from $1019 or 3/3 from $1099.
Free Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
Adopted pets live FREE!
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2
1, 2, 3 & 4 BR's -GREAT RATES
1/1 from $599 * 2/2 from $659
3/2 from $799 * Free Tanning * Fitness -
Pool 'W/D ' Tennis Employee Discounts
UF/Shands/VA' Fireplaces
Individual Leases' Pets Loved!
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKINGOO@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
Madison Pointe Apartments
1/1 -$699 2/2-$799 3/2-$899
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size ball court
NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
Text MADISON to 47464
4-21-71-2P'OLO S
$99 MOVES YOU IN!
Call for our Preferred Business Discount!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for
IMMEDIATE & Fall Move-In's!
Off FOUR bus routes (9,34,35,36)
connect too Shand's and UF
1/1 -$684 2/2-$799 3/3-$979
2330 SW Williston Road
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Prinvate Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly'* 376-1246
www.hiddenvilageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75 SW 75th Street Call 332-7401
71-24-21-
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool'Gym
www.aspenridgeuf .com
352.367.9910
4-21-09-71-2
Move in Today!
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
Spacious 2/2 Townhomes -& LOCATION!
Park-n-Ride Bus Route-So you can sleep in!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.MuseumWalk.com
*379-9255*
4-21-09-71-2
SORORITY ROW 2BR
2BR/2.5BA for $1199
W/D & utils included. We <3 pets!
No move-in fees! FREE Parking!
372-7111 * www.CollegeManor.org
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www lakewoodvilIas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
* SPYGLASS 40
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
ledl Washer/Dryer, FREE Hiapeed Internet
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios from $475, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
No Move-in Fees * We <3 Pets!
372-7111 www.CollegeManor org
4-21-09-71-2BRAND NEW REDUCED RATES!
1's, 2's, 3's
* Inclusive Pkgs Available
* Pet Friendly!
'Immediate or Fall Move In
352-374-3866
4-21-09-71-2
WALK TO CLASS!
1brs from $505 -150 ft from UFP
Move-in today. FREE parking!
We <3 Pets! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$419 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvilePlace com
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
REDUCED RATES!
Upscale 2/2 $639 * deluxe 2/2 $659
3/3 $639 *4/4 $529 * All pices are all inclusive-
Close to UF EnclaveUF.com*376.0696
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1 BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay S Sun Key s Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments Priced from
$400-$525 Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Dated Entry
ASK ABOUT OUR MOVE-IN SPECIAL
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3155
www. cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$600 -W/D ind
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 17
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, w/ full kitchen, and pri-
vate gated court yard $450/mo. Great loca-
tion @ 3320 SW 23rd Street. On bus routes,
close to most everything. 352 377-2150 or
paloverde3320@yahoo.com 2-19-10-75-2
1, 2, 3 BR's -WE'VE GOT IT ALL!
1/1 from $589 2/2 from $649
3/2 from $769 Washer/Dryers
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Pets Loved!
Tennis*1 mile to UF*Huge Laundry Facilities
377-7401 * www.biketouf.com
4-21-09-71-2
BLOCKS TO UF
Available August 2010. Now showing
multiple houses. 2BR/2BA, 3BR/2BA,
4BR/3BA, 5BR/3BA. www.dalyproperties.
com or call Carol 359-3341 2-26-10-43-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 Flats and 3/3 Townhomes
Private Garage-Vaulted Ceilings
Screened Patio-W/D-Microwave
All furies and fuzzies WELCOME!!!!
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for info!
4-21-60-2
I100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $540;
1BR $465. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $490;
2BR $590 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 3-31-10-58-2
$199 Move-In Special
$500-$700 2 bed/1 bath
Walking distance to UF and downtown
800-805-7379 or (352)505-9264 2-17-10-
30-2
Holiday Special/ Valentine's Day
NO MOVE-IN COSTS -Free Rent
(Don't Pay Anything til 2/14/10)
Please Hurry. Only A Few Units Avail!
(We speak Spanish) 352 240-9009
2-12-09-27-2
'Co(C a)) ~ Sm-e.-o
--
* r *~ ~*0~
0~
_ U Co=
- C.)C.)
= U -
- 0 w~
-
Sm-.--oC.) ~ C.)
- U t
-C~ 5C-,
- a--
- w-o Cm~= 0
~IP::mmm%Co40t warn-.-.
- a
PSiRocky Point Apts 3100 sw 35th pl- 376-1619
Country Garden 2001 sw 16th st- 373-4500
Regency Oaks 3230 sw Archer rd 378-5766
Southwest Villas 3643 sw 20 ave 336-9000
Archer Woods 3020 sw Archer rd- 373-8727
2-12-09-27-2
UPPER WESTSIDE &
NANTUCKET WALK
1 & 2 bdrm. Luxury Apartments
Granite counters. Parking avail.
Walk to campus & the stadium
For info. call 352-872-4644
4-21-10-73-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW,
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700
3-31-54-2
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO*
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile
floor, W/D in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate.
239-250-6149 2-26-10-35-2
One Block to UF:2/2.5 bath townhouse. W/D,
Dishwasher, Garbage Disposal, wood floors,
ceiling fans, GUARANTEED Parking call
Todd at 514-4915, VERY Nice townhouse
2-26-10-33-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1st Nice large
4BR/2BA house. Big bedrooms, big living rm.
W/D provided, game rm $1425/mo. 2100 NW
8th Court. Call for diretions. Pets ok, fenced
yard. Other houses available 352-339-2342
2-12-10-28-2
** Across From UF **
Closest Luxury Apartments to Classes
2BR / 2BA Starting @ $1080
www.LookingGlassApartments.com
111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-21-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves you In!!
Pine Rush Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $499 2/1 $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Homestead Apts Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/1 from $599 2/2 from $699
Additional $200 off next month
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Sunrise Villas Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $509 Additional $200 off the next month.
NO APP FEE. Near UF, Shands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
* 1st Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
Totally Renovated 1/1 $599
Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Villas at Ashton Square
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
2/2 $719 3/2 $849
Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Summer Place Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 $519
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Sundowne Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Studio $469 1/1 $519
Walk to Butler Plaza and Regal Cinemas
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2
One Month Free and $40 Moves You In!!
Gator Village Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1/1 $489
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
4-21-10-65-2Walk to UF. Openings in Feb, May & Aug.
0 2BR/2.5BA $850 S 2BR/1 BA $700
S1BR/1BA $585 S studios $475-$430.
1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP. Call/Text
352-870-7256 or gv1132601@gmail.com
2-26-10-32-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/i s
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
3-18-10-40-2
GOT ROACHES?
Buy Harris Famous Roach Tablets.
Guaranteed to kill. Available at: Zells
Hardware, 3727 West University 3-17-10-
35-2
4 BR's FOR FALL!
ONLY $1089 * 1525 square feet HUGE!!!
Washer/Dryer* Fireplace * Water/Sewer incl.
Free Tanning * Fitness * Pool * Tennis
Individual Leases * Pets Loved
376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-21-10-55-2
Move in Special: No Security Deposit
2/2 Condo with washer/dryer, screened-
in porch, newer condo, near UF. Shands,
located off 34th & Archer Rd. 2 units
available $750/mo. Call 317-5060 215-5996
3-1-10-27-2
***HOUSE 4BR/2BA***
Available 8/1. Lovely, remodeled. W/D. Bike
to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. $1400/
mo. 373-1558, 246-8645, or 256-8370 2-16-
10-15-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Large 4BR/2BA house,
Wash/dry provided, privacy fenced, pets ok,
full sized hot tub on back screened porch,
dishwasher, carport, $1600/mo. 3413 NW
8th Ave 352-339-2342 2-12-10-10-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. 3BR/1BA house. Nice.
Nine blocks from campus, wash/dry pro-
vided, cent H/AC fenced private backyard,
hardwood floors, detached garage. $1125/
mo. 924 NW 9th Ave. 352-339-2342 2-12-
10-10-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Clean modern 4BR/2BA
house. fenced backyard, pets ok, fireplace,
wash/dry provided, wooded private big yard.
$1425/mo, central heat/air. 2606 NW 34th
Street. 352-339-2342 2-12-10-10-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. Clean nice 4BR/2BA
house, privacy fenced backyard, pets ok,
hardwood floors, fireplace, plenty of parking,
wash/dry provided, dishwasher, cent heat/air
$1400/mo 830 NW 16th Ave 352-339-2342
2-12-10-10-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. 4BR/2BA clean nice
house 1 block from campus. Hardwood
floors, wash/dry provided, fireplace, modern
bathrooms. $1800/mo 1203 SW 1st Ave.
352-339-2342 2-12-10-10-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1. 3BR/2BA house one
block from campus, hardwood & tile floors,
wash/dryer provided, fireplace, dishwasher,
modern baths 110 SW 12th St. $1350/mo
352-339-2342 2-12-10-10-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 3-31-37-2
**A Place in the Sun**
Walk/Bike to UF
Big 3 bd/ 1 ba
New Kitchen / Huge Yard
Must See, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2**Sorority Row Area**
Historic 3 bd/ 2 ba
Completely Remodeled
W/D inc. Spiral Staircase
Walk to Class, $1,500/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**8 Blocks to UF**
Great Deal on Large Upstairs
2 bd/ 1 ba Hardwood Floors
Save Money @ $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
*Walk to Class & Stadium*
2/1, W/D, Granite Countertops
Hardwood Floors & Fireplace
Huge Bedrooms,Covered parking
$1300/mo
352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
**Large 5 Bedrm House**
1 full & 3-1/2 baths
Plant Atriums, Unique floorplan, W/D
Plenty of Parking, 8 blocks N of UF
$2,500/mo 352-375-8256
4-21-52-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 2-1 2-1 0-9-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
216 SW 12th St. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494 x10
2-12-10-9-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 2-12-10-9-2
3BR 1.5 BA Home off NW 16th
Ave. Tile Floors, Laundry Hkups,
Central H & Air. $750/Mo
319 NW 16th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 x10 2-12-10-9-2
WOODBURY ROW LUXURY HOMES
Walk to UF/Sorority Row 4bd/4.5ba
3 stories w/ 4 master suites. w/d incl.
Near corner of SW 5th Ave & SW 12th St
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
LEASING NOW FOR FALL
Many properties avail near campus.
1,2,3,4,& 5 bedrooms!!
www.rentgainesville.com
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
5 BD 4 BA Home for Rent
2521 SW Williston Road
Huge home on a large lot.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
2BD 1 BA WALK TO UF
Charming Quad near AGH
1005 SW 3rd Ave
Hardwood floors & parking
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
3 & 4 BD WALK TO UF
We have Homes near
Sorority Row & Stadium!
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.rentgainesville.com
4-21-10-36-2
NEWLY REMODELED
Chelsea Lane Apts!
Close to UF & on Bus Route
W/D incl. Call today
Union Properties 352.373.7578
www.chelsealaneapartments.com
4-21-10-36-2C'
--
Sm.C
C'
-c
C
-cC--
Sm.
C
C-0
0
0
18, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010
Fo etFor Rent UJ teunfurnished F a l Roommates Real Estate Real EstateunurJse unfurnished)M _I_
3BD/3BA Homes Near UF
Washer/Dryer incl. $1,200/mo
Newer homes/ limited avail.
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
1 BDs Near UF
Starting at $375/mo!
Reserve now for Fall
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
University Terrace West
4BD/BA Individual Leases
$350/mo w/d incl. Call
Union Properties 352.373.7578
4-21-10-36-2
*@@THE OASIS APTS@@@
Large 1 & 2BD apts, w/ huge private patio.
Park at your door in small quiet complex
in SW Gainesville on bus rt. Call 377-3149
2-26-18-2
$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1BA
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands.
W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500sec., $495/
month. 3120 SW 26th Way Unit A. 562-2782
or 514-6869 if interested. 3-16-25-2
A MUST SEE! 2/1 across the street from
Shands/VA. Walk/bike/bus to class/work.
New appliances/flooring. Low utilities. $700/
month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220.
2-26-18-2
2BR/1 BA cent heat mobile home. Shady lot.
From $300 -$450/mo ind water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th Street. 376-5887 3-2-20-2
1 BR apt. for rent off Tower Rd. $385/mo. We
accept Section 8. We will pay you $500 cash
back for 1 year lease on Section 8. 352-498-
3035 3-2-10-20-2
705 NW 10th Avenue <9Blks from UF
3BR/1 BA, 8rooms + 400 sq.ft.porch, Central
2C, W/D, $1,250 + util. Avail. Aug. 275-
1259, ATucker458@aol.com 3-5-10-22-2
SMALL CABIN 2/1, 20 ACRES
Watermelon Pond views. 27802 SW 120th
Lane, Newberry. Horse pens, dog door.
Needs work. $575/mo. $750 move-in 330-
329-8834 2-17-10-2
**MUST SEE -IN-LAW SUITE**
1BR full BA, living room, dining room, full
kitchen. w/cable & W/D. Inc all utils. Near
Haile. Quiet. $750/mo. Call 352-367-0372
3-5-1-21-2
10housescom for more info
2 & 3 bd Houses for August 1
w/d, cent h/ac, wood fls, quiet
$840 -$1400 Bike to UF
352.336.6116 nancy@10houses.com
3-S-i10-20-2
WALK ONE BLOCK TO CAMPUS!
1, 2, 3, and 4 BR units available now and
for Fall 2010. Locations between SW 1st
ave, SW 5th ave & SW 12th St. Call Kinetic
Properties at 352-337-9600 (no dogs please)
3-19-10-25-2
4Br/3Ba Large Home w/ 2 car gar, 7-10 min
from campus, large fenced yard, dogs ok.
Exquisite oak trees and landscaping, wood
& tile floors, new appliances. $1,600/month.
352-466-0358. Available summer or August.
3-5- 10-20-2
* 2BR 611 NW 34th Ave. $625/mo, cent A/C,
wood floors, W/D hook-ups, fenced back.
* 3BR/2BA 4022 NW 7th St. Huge, close to
UF/SFC bus line. $700/mo. cent AC.
Both avail now. Call 352-318-8822 2-12-
10-5-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 2-19-
10-10-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $530 mo.
M-F 1-6 Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/bridgelight
4-21-10-35-2ROOM IN 3BR/2BA HOUSE
No pets. $350/mo + utils. Available now.
Great neighborhood. Call 863-673-4002 or
email ngrigsby@ufl.edu 2-15-5-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 2-22-
10-10-2
Available now. HOUSE 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo. All
4BR/2BA $1100/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183
2-23-10-10-2
Female roommate pref for furn/unfurn
lbr/lba in a 2br/2.5ba townhouse in quiet
SW neighborhood near UF & Shands. AVAIL
NOW, M-to-M lease, $450/month & $250
refundable deposit. Call Ann 352-870-7414
2-26-10-13-2
Baxter Cottage 2 blks to UF campus, 1013
SW 4 Ave 2BR/1 BA, Bright, clean, complete-
ly remodeled, 500 sq ft, Cent AC/Ht,wood
firs, DW, W/D, NS, NPets. $550+util. Lease
runs thru 7/1/10 ATucker458@aol.com 3-5-
10-18-2
Lakefront House/5 Acres/Quiet
2BR/2BA/FI Rm w/pri ent/Lg Kit
LR w/Fire PI/Washer Dryer/2-car
Carport/Interlachen $1500./mo
813-473-3713 swellgirl@gmail.com 2-26-
10-13-2
$650, 2 bdrms, 1 block Shands, VA; Vet
school & campus -short walk. Available now;
Prefer calm, quiet, stable, mature residents.
Carpets, Some utils furnished; Parking; 352
376 0080; 352 284 3873; postj@bellsouth.net
3-5-10-17-2
HAILE PLANTATION CONDO FOR RENT
2/2 condo near the Village Center, walk to
restaurnts, shops, and coffee houses, jog-
ging trails, golf course. Call 352-258-4695
2-17-10-5-2
t -ubleases
DON'T WAIT
TO PLACE
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 21st.
PLACE YOUR AD AT
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
1BR available in 2BR/1BA
University Commons, 3rd Floor, pool view.
Share with male student. $400/mo + $30 util.
3 month lease -May, June, July. Furnished +
W/D. Call 863-381-1161 2-17-10-11-3
2B/1.5B Available for Immediate Sub-Let
2nd fl unit, Arbor Park, 309 SW 16th Ave. Spacious living/dining area, full kitchen,
balcony, central A/C & heat. 2 pools, laun-
dry and ample parking, well maintained by
friendly management. Pet friendly. Nice com-
plex w/ students & families. Close to Shands,
campus & downtown, major bus route with
grocery across the street. $700/mo (elec-
tric extra) Available NOW thru July 2010.
Contact Sean at 407.353.5721 or
smmcdaniel@gmail.com 2-15-10-5-3
Arlington Square 207 SE 2nd Place.
Downtown near the Hipp. on bus routes.
2BR/2bath townhome. Available immediate-
ly. $650.00. Lease expires 7-30-10. 863-258-
6350 2-18-10-5-3Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $299 -$260
+ $50 utils charge/mo incl elec, cable tv, in-
ternet, pool, laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave.
378-4626 4-21-09-71-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail now
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 2-16-
10-61-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
2-26-10-28-4
Female seeks roommate for 4/2.5 town-
house, cricket club, all included, no pets,
$400 954-557-4769 3-4-10-30-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
2-26-10-20-4
A must see! Share a 2/1 across the street
from ShandsVA. Walk/bike/bus to class/
work. New appliances/flooring. Low utilities.
$350/month. Call Tim to see- 352-843-0220.
2-26-18-4
3 Female Roommates needed, $375 month,
quiet location across from UF's vet school,
located next to pool and fitness center. bus
service provided. 561-719-5558 2-12-10-
6-4
1 room avail for May-August 2010 in 3BR/2BA
loft on 2 bus routes to campus, walk to UF
and downtown. W/D, private bathroom, can
be furnished, commit ASAP. $500/mo with
internet & cable included
305-322-9171 or 239-289-1475 2-12-54
1 br w/ private bath in beautiful NW home.
rent 375/mo. Washer/dryer, central AC/
heat. Pics on Craigs list. Mike 352-316-3930
2-16-10-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
University Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-
71-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, University Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
Manufactured Homes. Won't Last
3/2 -Great Community
Owner Financing
$650.00/mo
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes
3 and 2 beds avail/low down/low monthly
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes 2 & 3 bdr's
From $599.00/month
Owner Financing
Low down
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes. Move In Ready
3/2 Adorable
From $99.00/mo
Westside/owner finance
352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured homes.
OWNER FINANCING
3 & 2 bedrooms avail
Great Locations
Call 352.378.4411 today! 2-26-10-22-5
Manufactured Homes. Up to $8K tax credit
For 1st time home buyers
3 & 2 bdrs avail
WE FINANCE
Call today! 352.378.4411 2-26-10-22-5
JuMBLE
- m
U
-- U
pC., U
-o
-c
Sn.
C-
0
0
* S.U
C
C
C
C
C--c
C
C
C-cCOPEN HOUSE EVERY SATURDAY
MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITIES
GREAT HOMES, GREAT PRICES
WE FINANCE, LOW DOWN,
LOW MONTHLY 904-400-0421,SUSAN
2-26-10-20-5
Manufactured Home Communities-
Jacksonville Use your tax refund
Get a 42" TV with purchase
Limited offer, call for details
904-400-0421 Susan 2-26-10-20-5
4BR/4BA fairly new condo for sale. Ideal for
students or family. Within 2 miles of every-
thing: school, shopping, library. Quick sale.
$139,000. University Terrace on 34th St. Call
941-232-1960 3-3-10-20-5
3BR/3BA, 4171 sq ft, heating & A/C, 3-car
garage, 20'x40' screened pool, small office,
sauna hottub, 1 1/4 acres. 1410 NW 110th
Terr, $422,500. 352-332-1050 2-22-10-10-
5
Short Sale Condo!!!
Beautiful Carriage House Lane Townhome
2BR/1.5BA, fireplace. Laminated wd flrdown-
stairs/Carpet upstairs. For more info, please
call 407-709-2703 ExitRealtyProducers
2-16-10-S-S
INVERNESS HOME 125K, 6 EXCEPTIONAL
Different Lots 2 with Trailers 39+59K. New
Tractor + Ass., Trks, Trailers, Chainsaws,
Money Maker, More-More, Info (352)637-
1242. 2-12-1-5
FORECLOSED HOME AUCTION 450+
Homes I Feb 27 Open House: 2/13,20,21
View Full Listings www.Auction.com 2-12-
1-5
4C
0
C.,
-CCALL TODAY!! Real Estate
or
=11111111110w%
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 19
R ate Furnishings Furnishings Furnishings MotorcyclesMopeds
Delray Beach, FL -New Luxury Townhomes,
Only 6 Remain! 3 or 4 bedrooms, 2 car ga-
rage! Was $475,000, NOW $284,900 plus in-
centives! (561)922-7424 DeFalco RE www.
defalco.com 2-12-1-5
LAKE LOT SALE! Saturday Feb 20th 5 AC-
only $24,900 w/ FREE BOAT SLIPS! was
$59,900. SAVE $35,000 during off-season!
Beautiful mix of woods & meadows- walk to
private fishing lake. Quiet country rd front-
age, utilities, warranty deed. Low financing.
Call now (888)792-5253, x 3412 2-12-1-5
FAMILY FARM FOR SALE 355+ ACRES
2 HOMES/BARNS Owner retiring! Once-
in-a- lifetime opportunity to own incredible
acreage just 35 minutes from Jacksonville.
Tremendous potential- approved for 72 lot
subdivision or keep as a gentleman?s farm.
Must see. Call Brian (904)583-9922 2-12-
1-5
NEW LOG CABIN* & 20+ acres only
$129,900. Sale Saturday, 2/20 Only! New
1,800 sf log cabin package on 20 acres near
FL/GA border. Excellent financing. Call now
(800)898-4409, x.1513 *Log kit only 2-12-
1-5
ABANDONDED UPSTATE NY FARM-
ABSOLUTE SALE. 10 acres $28,500! Lake
region, woods, fields, sub-dividable. Solid
investment! Terms! Virtual tour: www.newy-
orklandandlakes.com 2-12-1-5
LAND OR DEVELOPMENTS WANTED. We
buy or market development lots. Mountain
or Waterfront Communities in NC, SC, AL,
GA and FL. Call (800)455-1981, Ext.1034
2-12-1-5
New Life Community
Chapel
Westside Park Rec. Center
Sundays at 10:30 AM
www.newlifecommunitychapel.org
phone: (352) 214-4462
Creekside Community
Church
Sunday Worship at 10:30am
College Large Group at 7:00pm
at the Christian Study Center
Visit www.creeksidecc.org
for more information
Islamic Center
of Gainesville
All Day Prayers
Friday Prayers @ 1:30pm
Quran and Arabic Classes
Available Phone: 352-372-1980
1010 W. University Ave
www.lCGMembers.org
For more information
contact Patrick Wilson,
Alligator Advertising,
at 376.4482.BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
Db x
Chabad Lubavitch
Jewish Student Center
-Your home away from home.
-Friday Night Live!
-Services & Shabbat Dinner.
-7:30pm ALL SPRING
-352-336-5877; 2021 NW 5th Ave.
-(5 blocks north of the stadium)
-www.JewishGator.com
Trinity Metropolitan
Community Church
Offering truly open and GLBTS?
inclusive Christian worship.
Sunday Worship, 10:15a.m.
11604 SW Archer Road
For info: mccgainesville.org
Or call: (352) 495-3378
"Tearing Down Walls; Building
Up Hope"
University City Church of
Christ
Gators for Christ campus ministry
college group meets at
University City church on Sundays
at 9:30am and Wednesdays at
7pm -practical application from
God's word, plus service projects,
large group events, free meals,
and much more. (directions and
events calendar at
www.gatorsforchrsist.org)DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Faith Presbyterian Church
10am Worship -Lunch Following
9am Sunday School
5916 NW 39th Avenue
Phone: 352-377-5482
www.fpc-gnv.org
First Presbyterian Church
www.1 stpc.org
Sunday Worship:
Early service-8:30am Chapel,
Worship-i 0:55am Sanctuary
College Ministry:
College Caf6-Following 10:55am
worship service. Free home-
cooked meal.
Trajectory-Wednesday night
8 pm. Discipleship studies,
Recreational activities,
Missions and Evangelism.
"Set the Trajectory of your life
on Christ"
Unitarian Universalist
Fellowship
Imagine a religion embracing
many different beliefs.
including yours.
Join us on Sunday at 11AM
4224 NW 34th St.
Info: 377-1 669
or www.uufg.org
and Facebook, Twitter, YouTubeBed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 4-21-09-71-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-21-10-69-7
CERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECHO
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com
2-26-10-34-7
Gator Computer Solutions, Inc. On-Site
Service. Microsoft Certified Professional.
UF IT Grad. MCSA, A+, Network+, XP,Vista,
Windows7 Certified. $35per/hr. NO Travel
Cost in G'ville! Call 352-338-0132 2-12-10-
20-7
0F For Sale
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
For sale -more than seventy rare fine an-
tiques of European origin. Plus more than
thirty Bohemian crystal vases. View in
Apopka, Florida. (407)889-0734 2-12-2-10
Interested in one of the best insulating
and roofing materials available? Checkout
SPRAYFOAM! Come to the industry confer-
ence in Orlando Feb 16-17. www.sprayfoam.
org 2-12-2-10
ALL CASH VENDING! Do you earn $800 in a
day? 25 Local Machines and Candy $9,995.
(888)629-9968 B02000033 CALL US: We
will not be undersold! 2-12-2-10
DISH. $19.99/Month. Why Pay More? FREE
Install w/DVR (Up To 6 Rooms.) FREE
Movie Channels (3 Months.) AND $400+
New Customer Bonus! (888)593-7040
2-12-2-10
07 RV Park Model Trailer 12'x35' with 8x12
Factory Built Screened Porch on Front. Built
on Same Frame. Furnished $23,500.00
(386)752-2279 or (386)755-2446. 2-12-2-
10
PRE-ENGINEERED STEEL BUILDING
SALE- Low As $3.89/SF. 30 Year Warranty.
Church Buildings, Garages, Warehouses,
Mini-Storage, Barns, Multi-Use, Marinas,
Factory Erection & Field Service Available
(800)720-6857. 2-12-2-10
Motorcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***Www.B~uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
Barely-used red sporty United Motors scooter.
Bought new in G-Ville by/for UF Alum & sell-
ing for half price! Only 1500 miles. Recently
fully serviced, new battery. Park right next to
class/ SW during the day! Have title. Will e-
mail pics. Contact Ryan- rhutch717@yahoo.
com/ ph:8135030386 2-12-4-11
Gator Mobile Scooter Repair
Stop waiting weeks before getting your
scooter back. Call Gator Mobile Scooter
Repair and ride todaySpecializing in On-site
scooter repair and diagnostics. Guaranteed
lowest prices in all of Gainesville. Free oil
change/inspection with this AD.Call Tony at
(305)989-0824or(305)563-4359. 3-1-14-11
C1F_ Autos
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
*Running or not!@
*NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
S0ver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-21-71-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
4-21-71-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
2-26-09-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $699 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
92 Chevy Camero $999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
96 Chevy Blazer $1999 cash
97 Plymouth Voyager $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Plymouth Van $699 cash
94 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12'0&?Guide
20, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010
Autos Help Wanted Help Wanted Help Wanted Hfl3 Servicej
96 Kia Sephia $999
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1999
97 Olds Delta 88 $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
98 Ford Explorer $1900
97 Mits Diamonte $1999
98 Ford Contour $1999
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
94 Nissan Altima $1999
98 Pontiac Transport $1999
99 Saturn $2900
98 Dodge Ram $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Chevy Malibu $1999
95 Chrysler LHS $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
95 Chevy Camero $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
02 Kia Rio $3900
03 Buick Century $4900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k, $8999CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k, $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k, $6999 CASH
2000 Ford Mustang, 111k, $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Ford Escape, 95k, $6999 CASH
2000 GMC Sierra, 166k, $5999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k, $5999 CASH
2007 Isuzu Trooper 290 Truck, 46k, $9999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2005 Dodge Stratus, 78k, $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 cars in stock
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans
352-338-1999 4-21-55-12
94 CHEVY CAMARO
A/C, Automatic, 196k Miles. $1850/OBO
786-247-1751 2-16-7-12
INSTANT CASH
FOR ALMOST ANY CAR OR TRUCK,
Wrecked or running. Any condition.
Highest dollar paid.
386-365-1855 2-22-10-10-12
WIWantedP
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
OSOSOPERATION CATNIPOOSO
Many needs and opportunities can be found
at www.nmhp.net. Feral cat capture, spay-
ing, volunteering, office work earn Disney
Tix, etc. Email: operationcatnip@nmhp.net
2-19-7-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts
made through advertising. We suggest that
any reader who responds to advertising use
caution and investigate the sincerity of the
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing
money.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-10-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
Summer Jobs
0 $2400
* Co-ed camp
* Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!
The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
male and female summer camp counselors
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp
located off of Highway 450 in Umatilla, FL.
The camp runs June 14 -Aug 7. Please
contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673
Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267 4-21-10-70-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 4-21-
10-63-14
PART TIME WORK
Great Pay
Customer Sales/Service
Flexible Schedule
Scholarships/Internships
No experience Needed
Conditions apply,
CALL 352-371-9675
2-16-20-14
LATE NIGHT DRIVERS
$15-$17/hr 10pm -4am.
Apply @ gatordominos.com 4-21-10-60-14Gator Tail Dancers
Entertainment
352/672/1892 2-23-10-20-14
BARTENDER OPENINGS
Earn $150-250/day. No experience required.
Will train. Call now 352-678-5246 2-26-10-
20-14
No jobs available, but we buy LPs, CDs &
DVDs. (And we sell them, too!)
Hear Again Music and Movies
201 SE 2nd Ave. (Suite 105), 32601
352-373-1800
2-26-19-14
Camp Counselors, male & female, needed
for great overnight camps in the mountains
of PA. Have a fun summer while working with
children in the outdoors. Teach/assist with
water sports, ropes course, media, archery,
gymnastics, environmental ed, & much more.
Office, Nanny, & Kitchen positions also avail-
able. Apply on-line at www.pineforestcamp.com
4-21-10-52-14
BUSY CHIROPRACTIC OFFICE
PT Front Desk Position -Fun, PC skills,
detail-oriented. Fax Resume, References,
Cover Letter drangelaleone@yahoo.com
fax 352-505-3485. No phone calls. 2-12-
10-5-14
Bartender
Meet new people work in an exciting
environment. Take home cash tips after
each shift. No experience necessary training
available. Call (877) 568-7296
2-19-10-12-14
Fun, easy part-time job. Find new products
on line and talk to manufacturer about send-
ing them for review. Commission. Contact
David@thegearguides.com. 2-12-5-14
Computer consultant positions available
in faculty lab. Applicants must be familiar
with Windows and Microsoft Office applica-
tions, Photoshop & Dreamweaver. Friendly
and helpful attitude essential. Pay starts at
$9.00 per hour. Online application:
www.citt.ufl.edu/employment.php 2-19-10-
10-14
Drivers needed for Valentine's
week for flower shop.
Must have own car. Apply at 635 NW13th St.
2-12-5-14
OSOATTENTION SMOKERS!@@@
SODo you want to quit smoking?@
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking
cessation study. You may be compensated.
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic 328-6603 or
email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com 2-22-
10-14
SERVERS
Exp in full service. Apply in person between 2
& 5 NAPOLATANO'S 606 NW 75th St. 2-1-
10-4-14
Photography Assist PT
Skills: Advanced Photoshop, professional,
organized, fun, attentive to detail. No wall-
flowers. Interest in Photography +. Must be
OK with AODA. Call Today: 352-283-8196
2-23-10-14
Bookkeeper-Office Mgr for law firm -PT -
15 hrs/wk. Flexible schedule. Must know
Quickbooks and be highly organized. 1 yr
commitment. Resume to
robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com. 2-16-10-
5-14
JEFF'S DELI
is hiring exp servers. Please apply in person
at 1124 W. University Ave. M-F between 2 &
4pm. 2-16-5-14
PT Hibachi Chef & Server Wanted Asian fast
paced full service restaurant looking for ex-
pprofessional Hibachi Chefs & strong ser-
vers. Strict business oriented environment.
Responsible, disciplined team players only!
Fax resume to 352-337-0036. 2-24-10-
10-14STUDENT EXCHANGE PROGRAM Seeks
Local Coordinators Passionate about your
community? Help us expand! Unpaid but
monetary/travel incentives. Must be 25+.
Visit effoundation.org or call (877)216-1293
2-12-1-14
Over 18? Between High School and College?
Travel and Have Fun w/Young Successful
Business Group. No Experience Necessary.
2wks Paid Training. Lodging, Transportation
Provided. (877)646-5050. 2-12-1-14
Driver-BYNUM TRANSPORT- needs quali-
fied drivers for National OTR positions. Food
grade tanker, no hazmat, no pumps, great
benefits, competitive pay & late-model equip-
ment. (866)GO-BYNUM. Need 2 years expe-
rience. 2-12-1-14
Drivers -IMMEDIATE NEED! OTR Tanker
positions available NOW! CDL-A w/Tanker
REQ'D. Outstanding pay & Benefits! TEAMS
WELCOME!!! Call a recruiter TODAY!
(877)484-3042 www.oakleytransport.com
2-12-1-14
Do You Have a CDL But No Experience?
Wil-Trans Will Teach You How To Truck and
Give You a Job! Must be 23. (800)619-6317
2-12-1-14
Gainesv!ille
Health & Fitness
Obtain valuable experience for your future!!
Gainesville Health & Fitness Center
is looking for highly motivated,
responsible, hardworking
individuals for the following positions.
Floor Instructors
Kids' Club Attendants
Receptionists
Maintenance/Housekeeping
We will be holding a Job Fair on
Wednesday, February 17th and
Thursday, February 18th
from 1Oam-1 pm both days.
At 4820 Newberry Road!
2-15-10-2-14
W lServiCes
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-21-71-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
MINI MAXI WAREHOUSES
15 different sizes starting at 6x10 rentals at
$39/mo. UHaul warehouse complex, trucks
and trailers. Also 100 sheds for sale. 352-
373-6294 or 1-800-559-2449 8-16-10-71-
15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING -Train for high
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA
approved program. Financial aid if qualified -
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of
Maintenance (888)349-5387. 2-12-1-15
Advertising that Works. Put your ad in Over
100 Papers throughout Florida for one LOW
RATE! Call (866)742-1373 or visit: www.
florida-classifieds.com 2-12-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-21-71-16
Are you Pregnant? Considering adoption?
We are married couple seeking to adopt.
Financial security. Expenses paid. Call Maria
& Ernie (ask for michelle/adam). (800)790-
5260. FL Bar# 0150789 2-12-1-16
Q Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-21-09-71-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
*RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*
Kayak Rentals, Manatee Tours
UF Students -20% off on Rentals.
352-621-4972 www.flakayak.com
4-21-10-71-21
*****RIVERSPORT KAYAKS*****
352-621-4972 WWW.FLAKAYAK.COM
SALES, RENTALS, TOURS, FISHING
Dealer for Wilderness Systems, Perception
Necky, Ocean, Hobie Peddle Kayaks
4-21-10-71-21
o il Rides
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
Gators get trounced by Tigers
* IT WAS UF'S LOWEST POINT
TOTAL IN SEC PLAY EVER.
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@alligator org
The only thing that went wrong for
LSU on Thursday night was the team's
postgame travel plans.
The No. 23 Tigers (16-7, 5-6 South-
eastern Conference) clobbered UF (13-
11,6-5 SEC) 70-30 in the O'Connell Cen-
ter. It was the lowest point total ever for
the Gators in an SEC game since LSU
on Feb. 22, 1986, in a 69-34 loss.
"I never thought this would be the
score," LSU coach Van Chancellor said.
"We were all over them tonight. That's
the best defense we've played since.
good Lord. That may be the best de-
fense we've played all year.
"The only negative is we have to
fly back into Lafayette because there's
some kind of ice in Baton Rouge."
The Tigers came in ranked seventh
in the nation in scoring defense, hold-
ing opponents to 52.7 points per game.
They lived up to the billing Thursday
and exceeded expectations.
"Clearly, we had a different game
envisioned," UF head coach Amanda
Butler said. "Everything that happened
was us reacting to them."
The Gators were plagued by ineffec-
tive shooting partly due to LSU's de-
fense, while the Tigers (16-7, 5-6 SEC)
poured in bucket after bucket.
Senior guard Allison Hightower
and sophomore forward LaSondra Bar-
rett -LSU's top-two scorers who came
in averaging 19.6 and 17 in conference
play -combined for 30 points.
"(Hightower) played a great game,"
Butler said. "They all did, offensively. It
felt like whatever shot it was that they
were trying to get, that they got."
Florida's top two scorers in the game
-senior guard Steffi Sorensen (nine)
and freshman forward Jennifer George
SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 22Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator Staff
UF coach Amanda Butler gives instructions from the sidelines in the Gators'
70-30 loss to LSU on Thursday night in the O'Connell Center.Sports
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010
UF GYMNASTICS
Florida to take on Alabama in another top-t0 showdown
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
Coach Rhonda Faehn doesn't need to
stress to her team the opportunity that will
be presented to it when it visits No. 2 Ala-
bama (4-1, 3-1 Southeastern Conference)
tonight at 8:30 in Coleman Coliseum.
The athletes already know."It's going to be our toughest challenge
to date," Faehn said. "It's going to be a great
segue to the latter half of the season."
After coming away victorious in their
last four meets, the Gators know how im-
portant this meet will be in demonstrating
they are a threat to go all the way this sea-
son. Smithson.
"Ever since the meet ended last week, there."we've been fired up and
pumped for Alabama,"
senior Maranda Smith
said. "They're a great
team, and we just want
to go out there, prove
ourselves against them
and put everything outNo. 6 Florida (4-1, 3-0 SEC) will have
to channel all of that energy if it hopes to
leave Tuscaloosa, Ala., with a win against
last season's NCAA runner-up.
Entering the meet, the Crimson Tide
rank first nationally on the vault and beam,
and second on floor.
But Alabama's lofty rankings aren't
SEE GYM, PAGE 22
FOOTBALL
* Left fielder Francesca Enea was
named a finalist for the Lowe's
Senior CLASS Award, which is given
based on a player's on-the-field and
off-the-field accomplishments.1. Kentucky
2. Vanderbilt
3. Tennessee
4. UF
5. South Carolina
6. Georgia8-1
7-2
6-3
6-4
5-4
2-7OF MIEN'S BASKETBALL
E The 2000 NCAA runner-up team
will be honored at halftime of Sat-
urday's game against Xavier with a
video tribute and a commemorative
poster.ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
UF to play rare
late-season
non-SEC game
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
a berry@alligator org
Entering one of the most important games of
the season, Florida is in a familiar position: on the
bubble.
In the middle of its Southeastern Conference
season, UF (17-7, 6-4 SEC) will play a rare noncon-
ference game Saturday night at 6 against Atlan-
tic-10 Conference opponent Xavier (16-7, 8-2 A-10)
in a matchup with potential NCAA Tournament
implications.
"I'd say right now Florida is bubble-icious. It
could go either way," ESPN college basketball ana-
lyst Doug Gottlieb said. "I'd give
them better than a 50-50 shot.
My expectations are for them to
Men's make the Tournament. They'veBasetba just got to find a way to be more
consistent."
UF has seven games remain-
ing before the conference tournament, with three
coming against the league's top teams: Tennessee
and Vanderbilt at home, as well as a road matchup
with Kentucky to close out the year.
The Gators will also play Auburn at home and
road contests against Ole Miss and Georgia.
"If they win all but the Kentucky game and
maybe the Ole Miss game, I still think they're in
pretty good shape," Gottlieb said. "The Michigan
State win helps you. The Florida State win doesn't
hurt you. Tennessee will be a Tournament team,
and Xavier will be a Tournament team."
To avoid a third-straight National Invitation
Tournament appearance, the Gators will need to
protect their home court in SEC play, and another
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 22
alligaoorSports Podcast
U Kyle Maistri and Phil Kegler join host Adam
Berry for a special Bracketology show, as they
discuss the Gators' chances of making the
Tournament and revisit their initial predictions
for the field of 65. Check it out on iTunes.
22, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010
UF finishes just 1 of 19
from three-point range
W HOOPS, from page 21
(six) -combined for 15 points.
Azania Stewart, who came off the bench against Mississippi
State, started and played seven scoreless minutes before she
was pulled because of a lingering foot injury, and Butler listed
Stewart as day-to-day after the game.
UF was held to 13 first-half points, its lowest total of the sea-
son and second lowest ever in an SEC game since Florida was
limited to 10 points against the Tigers in that Feb. 22 matchup.
Hightower made a layup to start the game and didn't slow
down from there. After a teammate made two free throws,
Hightower made the next 12 points for the Tigers to put LSU
up 16-5; a lead that was never threatened.
"We didn't get off to a good start, and they just kept build-
ing the lead and building the lead," Sorensen said.
Successful field goals were few and far between for the
Gators, who finished 11 of 56 from the field, including a 1-of-19
effort (5.3 percent) from beyond the arc.
There's no rest for the weary Gators, who leave for Knox-
ville, Tenn., for a rematch with No. 5 Tennessee on Sunday.
Road meet offers
GYM, from page 21
cause for concern for the Gators,
who are also ranked in the top 10
in each event.
"Our team always gets up for
good competition," Faehn said.
"It makes our athletes really focus
and perform."
But Faehn said the team's fo-
cus can't be on what the Crimson
Tide do.
Instead, the Gators will have
to key in on what they need to
do to put together their best meet
possible by securing their lineups
and preparing mentally for the
large crowd on the road.
Alabama has an average atten-postseason feel
dance of 13,863 at home this year,
and Faehn said it will be a great
opportunity for the team to expe-
rience the type of crowds it will
see at SEC Championships and
Regionals.
Smith and freshman Ashan6e
Dickerson both said they look
~ forward to the
large crowd
and it will only
drive them toGymnastics excel during
competition.
"We have to. take nothing for
granted," Faehn said. "We need
to use this as an opportunity to
have our athletes be in a situation
that's going to be exciting."Xavier boasts third-highest RPI of Gators' opponents
HOOPS, from page 21
impressive nonconference win
would certainly boost their resume.Xavier's RPI is currently 25th in
the nation, the third highest of any
nonconference opponent UF has
faced this season, behind only Syra-
Billy Donovan and the Gators will get a chance to boost their Tourna-
ment resume with a tough nonconference game against Xavier.cuse (2) and Michigan State (20), ac-
cording to realtimerpi-com
"They've got to beat Xavier.
They've got to beat Tennessee.
They've got to beat Vandy," Got-
tlieb said. "They have a couple of
conference road wins, and I think
the Arkansas win is going to end up
looking good."
Although the nonconference
matchup is going to help boost UF's
strength of schedule, coach Billy
Donovan said the move was intend-
ed to be a response to the down year
the SEC had last season.
Only three SEC teams, Tennessee,
Mississippi State and LSU, made the
2009 NCAA Tournament's field of
65, and one of the knocks against the
league was its poor nonconference
scheduling, and the Bulldogs only
made the Tournament by winning
the SEC Tournament and locking up
an automatic bid.
"There was definitely a kneejerk
reaction in our league in the spring
meetings because, without the win
by Mississippi State in the SEC
Tournament, we would have only
had two teams in the NCAA Tour-
nament," Donovan said.
UF capitalized on the more com-
petitive nonconference slate early in
the season, capturing big victories
against then-No. 2 Michigan State
and Florida State. But a three-game
losing skid in December -includ-
ing a loss at home to South Alabama
-and an up-and-down conference
season put the Gators back on the
bubble.
"It's important for them to fin-
ish strong because they had a strong
start, thathorrible three-game stretch
then have been up-and-down in a
league that is still a bit top-heavy,"
Gottlieb said. "You want to show
you're one of those top four or five
teams in the SEC."
GT Motorcar,
Wwel~t Mo -,c- 3ac k" " I .Sk
Specializing in Collision Repairs
on All Makses
-- Menti on this ad e
~ nd received 1student discount 371-0215
33 SE 13th Road
www.GT-motorcars.com
School Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 1 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.comLawyer Advertisement
YAZ LITIGATION
Recently the F.D.A. issued a public health advisory stating that a substatial risk of
complications are assocated with yaz, Yasmin, or Ocella resulting in blood clots,
stroke, heart attack and death. The F.D.A. also issued a warning letter citing the
manufacturer for misleading the public about the approved uses of Yaz.
If you or someone you know suffered a blood clot, stroke, heart attack, or worse,
while taking Yaz, Yasmin or Ocella, you may have a potential claim against the
manufacturer. Again, the most serious side effects of Yaz, Yasmin, and Ocella are:
Blood Clot(s) -Deep Vein Thrombosis -Pulmonary Embolism-
-Gall Bladder Removal -Heart Attack -Stroke -
If you or someone you know has taken YAZ and suffered an injury, you may be
entitled to a financial compensation. Please contact the Branch Law Firm for a free
consultation at 1-800-562-3456. Please visit our website at www.branchlawfirm.com
for more information.
* BRANCH LAW FIRMn T ;TrR NF) Q AND NF) RATtA
2025 Rio Grande Blvd., NW
Albuaueraue, NM 87104
Tebow acts as grand marshal
* HE SIGNED A SPONSORSHIP DEAL
WITH GATORADE.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
DAYTONA BEACH -Former Florida quar-
terback Tim Tebow talked to drivers, checked out
cars and turned a few laps at Daytona Interna-
tional Speedway on Thursday.
He also signed autographs, posed for pictures
and mostly avoided interviews.
Tebow, serving as grand marshal for one of
the Daytona 500 qualifying races Thursday, de-
clined to address reporters in the media center
because he wanted to avoid talk about his Super
Bowl commercial and his NFL future.
But in a brief session with the media in the
NASCAR garage, he joked that he was hoping
his "Gentlemen, Start Your Engines" line would
get less criticism than his elongated football de-
livery.
"I actually think the way I [pronounce] it, it
will probably be a little bit off, so I'm going to be
working on that," he said.
Tebow also joked that he was thinking about
saying, "Gentlemen, Giddy Up!" instead. In the
end, Tebow called an audible and went with
"Drivers, Start Your Engines."
The races were sponsored by Gatorade, and
Tebow recently signed with the sports drink gi- future."ant.
"It's just really exciting," Tebow said. "It's a
great opportunity for me to meet a lot of people.
To be here with Gatorade is a great opportunity
and to just be able to meet these people, meet
the divers, get to know a sport better and just be
around it.
"It's just a great opportunity, and for me,
just the relationships are everything, and so just
building these relationships, and getting to meet
these people you hear about.
It's a great event for me."
Tebow could have more
sponsorship deals intheworks.
He already helped the conser-
vative Christian group Focus
on the Family by participating
in a 30-second "Celebrate fam-
Tebow ily, celebrate life" ad. Tebow
also is reportedly close to sign-
ing a deal that would land him on the cover of EA
Sports' NCAA Football 2011 video game, coming
out this summer.
"I don't know if I'm becoming the face of
products, but I'm enjoying the transition," Tebow
said. "It's something that has been a lot of fun, a
little bit overwhelming, but very enjoyable.
"I'm just trying to take everything in stride
and just stay focused and keep working as hard
as I can and looking forward to everything in theTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
DAYTONA BEACH -It was
two close finishes and one close call
for Michael Waltrip.
Two stirring finishes to a pair
of Thursday qualifying races, and
Waltrip's nervous waiting game to
see if he'd get a spot in the Daytona
500.
Jimmie Johnson nipped Kevin
Harvick by .005 seconds in the first
race, then Kasey Kahne edged Tony
Stewart by .014 seconds to set the
stage for what should be an exciting
season-opening Daytona 500.
"I think we put on one heck of
a race," said Johnson, who had to
hold steady in a door-to-door battle
with Harvick across the finish line.
There was more drama off the
track, as well.
Waltrip, a two-time Daytona 500
winner, planned to make his finalstart at Daytona in Sunday's race.
Only he wrecked out of the first
race, and was at the mercy of the
finishing order of the second race to
claim a spot in the field.
He needed either Bobby Labonte
or Scott Speed to grab one of the
"transfer" spots into the race.
"I think we put on one heck
of a race."
Jimmie Johnson
NASCAR driver
Waltrip was riveted ashe cheered
on as Speed used a late-race pass
that helped him make the 500.
"The race for the win, those guys
mixing it up, that's hard," Waltrip
said. "If you don't like that, then
you need to become a fan of a dif-
ferent sport because that right there
is as good as it gets."
SAFETY BELTS
SMART FROM
THE START-'i
PREVIEW ONLINE AT
FREERIDESURFSHOP.COM
EM t
Ma's Auto Repair Shop
635 NW 1 3th Street #H
(352) 375-3334
Come In And Get Your Vehicle Checked
Out By ASE Certified Technicians
We will match or beat any written estimate for repair
Monday -Friday 7am-Spm
Saturday -8am-12pm
10%OFi dwith ad on service work
L ----0 MV 79901-ecius od M
Snacks and Beer
ban San ies Plates Pastl a more
Downtown m 8 sec,371-2000 nA ry Nelly's
Iy_
00%0#' -r riau
an 4m-pmModa -ThrsI
Ira rn Ipcasto
Smile.
0 x
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
ABiotest
From Nature for Lfe
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010 U ALLIGATOR, 23
DAYTONA 500
NASCAR starts season
STUDENT LOANS ON ANYTHING!G TV's Stereo's Jewelry 5 Musical Instruments Tools
We buy gold & cash checks
BEST JEWELRY & LOAN
523 NW 3rd Ave. (352) 371-4367
pawn brokers
Giddy Up Gators r
Saturday, February 27th
9:30-11:30am
(Registration starts at 8:30am)
Albert Ray Masley Park
(Old Westside Park on 34th St)
Only $7 to Pre-Register,
$10 includes a shirt
(Day of race registration:
$12 or $15 for a shirt)
Pre-register until Feb. 24 at:
sota.phhp.ufl.edu
Help provide equine-assisted
therapy to Veterans
24, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010
UF SOFTBALL
Gators will play five games in opening weekend
By GREG LUCA thing because you rely on people the role of staff ace, the opening Ensley Gammel and Erin Sch- "The two of them have a lot of
Alligator Writer and they get a little more comfort- weekend's action will also be a uppert were solid in limited action growing to do yet, but both of them
able." proving ground for a pair of fresh- during the fall season and have have made strides from the begin-
The No. 3 UF softball team will While the focus will be on pitch- men currently battling it out for the done nothing but improve since ning of the fall season up to now,"
open the 2010 season this afternoon er Stephanie Brombacher's rise to No. 2 spot. setting foot on campus. Walton said.
when it takes on No. 13 Georgia
Tech at the USF Wilson-DeMarini
Tournament in Clearwater.
The Gators will also be squaring
off against Long Island later today,
USF on Saturday then Canisius
and Illinois State in a doubleheader
on Sunday.
Because the team will play five
games in a span of less than 72
hours, the opening weekend will be
a test not only for the players new
to the starting lineup, but also for a
number of the team's reserves.
While facing a plethora of inju-
ries in 2009, the Gators found they
had a bunch of capable backups
ready to fill in at a moment's no-
tice. But now, the majority of those
players have worked their way
into the starting lineup, and only
two members of last year's squad
remain for depth, along with seven
freshmen.
"We're not as deep. We had tre-
mendous role players and speed on
the bench last year -people who
embraced what they were doing,"
UF coach Tim Walton said. "We're
a little thinner than I'd like to see
us be, but sometimes that's a goodHarrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF coach Tim Walton and the Gators will open their season this weekend by playing five games in three
days. Walton will be looking to evaluate freshmen Ensley Gammel and Erin Schuppert in the circle.The two talented freshmen have
contrasting pitching styles. While
Schuppert's game is based mostly
on spin and movement, Gammel is
able to pitch with more velocity and
move the ball from side to side.
"We're a little thinner than
I'd like to see us be, but
sometimes that's a good
thing because you rely on
people and they get a little
more comfortable."
Tim Walton
UF softball coach
Stylistically, it seems like Gam-
mel and Schuppert would be the
perfect duo to pitch in a combina-
tion game, but that's something
Walton will try to avoid doing too
much.
"We don't typically like to com-
bo very much, so a lot will depend
on how well they develop," Walton
said. "But with the way they pitch,
it can be good to change a hitter's
eye level up and down, so it's nice.
The two of them complement each
other very well."
PHONE
FIRST
Call ahead to reserve a
convenient appointment time.
Appointments are available the
same day or within 24 hours.
Save our number in your cell
phone for easy access.
Call 352-392-1161
UF IStudent Health Care Centerf
-
28, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2010
UF to resume ITA Championships
0 THE GATORS START THE
ROUND OF 16 TODAY.
By ANDREW OLSON
Alligator Writer
Southeastern Conference play
starts in March, and the NCAA
Tournament does not begin until
May, but both of Florida's tennis
teams are getting an early season
test against 16 of the best squads in
the country.
The ITA Team Indoor Champi-
onships begin today for the Gators
men's and women's tennis teams.
Only six matches into the spring
season, the men's squad faces Bay-
lor for a second time.
An early season road trip to No.
6 Baylor is No. 11 Florida's only
loss so far this season. This time
they will play on a neutral court in
Charlottesville, Va.
UF men's coach Andy Jackson
expressed reservations about play-
ing Baylor again this early in the
season, but the team has revenge
on its mind.
"We're ready for another shot
at Baylor," sophomore Joey Bur-
khardt said.
Jackson understands the differ-
ence in attitude.
"Coaches and players often see
things differently," Jackson said.
"The players are thinking, 'They
beat us. Let's go beat them."'
The Gators (4-1) face the Bears
today at 9 a.m. Should they win,
they'll face the winner of Louisville-
Ohio State on Saturday.
The women's team travels to
Madison, Wis., for its first match
this year away from Gainesville.
Coach Roland Thornqvist has
played two freshmen, No. 13 Allie
Will and No. 15 Lauren Embree,
at the Nos. 1 and 2 positions in
singles.
"I don't expect Lauren or Allie to
be awestruck by the tournament at-
mosphere in Madison," Thornqvist
said, noting they both have profes-
sional tournament experience.
Thornqvist said he's concernedSteven H. Keys / Alligator Staff
UF women's coach Roland Thornqvist is unsure how his team will
adjust to playing on faster indoor courts today against Michigan.
with his team's adjustment to in-
door courts. He is unsure how his
players will respond to a faster
game in which they will need to
"play to the net."
No. 7 Florida (6-0) will match up
with Michigan today at 10 a.m., and
a win against the Wolverines would
advance the Gators to face the win-
ner of Northwestern vs. Tennessee
on Saturday.
Tennessee is not the only al-ready-scheduled opponent in Mad-
ison (UF will face the Volunteers on
April 9). FSU (Feb. 23) and Georgia
(April 11) are also among the 16
teams in the tournament, but play-
ing those schools twice is not on
Thornqvist's mind.
"I'm not going to look further
down the draw," he said. "We're
focused on Michigan. I know it's a
sports cliche, but we're taking it one
opponent at a time."McQuay will face
tough competition
By RYAN BUTLER
Alligator Writer
Freshman sprinter Tony McQuay is hoping to avoid more
tears this weekend.
In their final meet of the regular season, the UF men's and
women's sprinters and jumpers will travel to Fayetteville,
Ark., for this weekend's Tyson Invitational. It's the last op-
portunity for the Gators to match up against some of the best
athletes in the nation before the Southeastern Conference In-
door Championships.
Even against some of the elite competition, McQuay is
one of several Gators expecting to win.
"When I don't win, I cry," McQuay said. "I know I can
beat people. When I lose, it breaks everything inside of
me."
In order to contend with athletes like Texas A&M's Taba-
rie Henry and Georgia's Torrin Lawrence, McQuay said he
has to take control of the race early.
"I want to set the pace," McQuay said. "I'm not trying
to just hold on. If someone passes me, he's going to give all
he's got."
McQuay will also run the first leg of the
4x400-meter relay, as the Gators look to con-
tend with Baylor and Texas A&M.
"I don't want anyone to have to chase. I
Men's want a big lead," McQuay said. "I know I
Track don't have to win it by myself because I have
just as much talent behind me."
That includes fellow freshman Jovon Top-
pin, 13-time All-American Calvin Smith and defending
NCAA triple-jump champion Christian Taylor. The unit has
already qualified for the NCAA championships in March.
Women's jumper Shara Proctor has also qualified for the
NCAA finals after her 13.88m/45-6.50 last weekend at Vir-
ginia Tech, the eighth-farthest leap in collegiate history. She
qualified for the finals in the long jump as well and is look-
ing to improve on her marks in Arkansas.
"I'm just trying to go out there and not go too hard on
myself," Proctor said. "I don't want to peak too early, and I
want to get more technical in my form."
While the sprinters and jumpers compete in Arkansas,
the distance team will match up against some of the elite
units in the nation in the Husky Classic at the University of
Washington.
The throwers, including five-time All-American Mariam
Kevkhishvili, will travel to Ames, Iowa, for the ISU Clas-
sic to take advantage of Lied Recreational Center, one of the
premier facilities for throwers in the country.
UF coach Mike Holloway said he divided the team for
the weekend so they could compete where each unit would
match up against the best competition possible.
Gators to host SunTrust Invitational on home course
Weekend tourney will be lone competition in Gainesville
By KELSIE HOECHERL
Alligator Writer
The Gators men's golf team will have
two key advantages in this weekend's
SunTrust Gator Invitational in Gainesville:
It will be the highest-ranked team partici-
pating, and it will have home-course ad-
vantage.
UF is currently ranked No. 3 by Golf-
week and is coming off a fourth-place fin-
ish last weekend at the Ping Arizona In-
tercollegiate Tournament held in Tucson,
Ariz.
"I think we need to do a better job of not
getting too concerned with expectations,"
UF coach Buddy Alexander said. "And a
little better job of staying in the present
and focusing one shot at a time."I thought in Arizona we didn't realize
in reality how easy that golf course was
playing, and I don't think we went quite
as low as we needed to."
Florida's lineup for the tournament will
consist of seniors Tim McKenney and Ty-
son Alexander, juniors Andres Echavarria
and Bank Vongvanij and lone freshman
Phillip Choi.
The only change from the Gators' open-
ing meet this spring at the Arizona Invi-
tational was substituting in Choi for Tyler
McCumber.
McCumber struggled, shooting 18-over-
par in the tournament.
"It's always tough to decide when
you've got a team with pretty good depth,
as we do," coach Alexander said.
However, the Gators will also be rep-resented by freshmen Tommy Mou and
McCumber and junior Robbie Wight, who
will be competing in the invitational as in-
dividuals.
"There is no question that we have
a pretty distinct advantage here.
We play here every day, and we
have had a lot of success in this
tournament [in the past], and our
guys feel pretty comfortable."
Buddy Alexander
UF men's golf coach
Along with high poll rankings and a
talented group of golfers, Florida will be
competing on its own turf at the MarkBostick Golf Course for the only time all
season.
"There is no question that we have a
pretty distinct advantage here," Alexan-
der said. "We play here every day and we
have had a lot of success in this tourna-
ment [in the past] and our guys feel pretty
comfortable.
"And we live in Florida so we've prob-
ably played and practiced a lot more than
the teams that will be here.
"We have a lot of advantages this week
and that is probably one of the reasons
we'll be successful in this event."
At the SunTrust Gator Invitational in
2009, the Gators came in first in the tourna-
ment for the sixth-straight year and have
had 11 players win as individuals.
The Gators have won 23 titles in
Gainesville in the golf program's 33 years
at UF.
