We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 7 THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Florida forward 
Ndidi Madu (right) 
and the Gators 
women’s basket-
ball team aren’t 
shying away from 
the challenge of 
playing No. 5 Ten-
nessee tonight at 
home. 
See Story, Page 18.By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
When the earthquake hit 
Haiti one year ago, Getro Nais-
sance didn’t feel right being in 
Gainesville.
“My body was at UF,” he said. 
“But my mind was in Haiti.” 
Two days later his body was in 
Haiti, too.
“My mom didn’t believe me 
when I told her,” he said.
He said he went because he 
needed to be in the country he grew up in. He needed to keep a mental picture of what was once and what would forever be his home as it was crumbling before his eyes.
On Wednesday night, in front of 
80 others braving the cold and their emotions, Naissance performed a song for the Gators United for Hai-ti candlelight vigil on the one-year anniversary of the earthquake that 
devastated the island nation.
One year ago, the magnitude 
7.0 earthquake struck outside the 
capital city of Port-au-Prince, kill-
ing hundreds of thousands and 
leaving millions of others hurt and homeless.
The vigil was filled with in-
spiring stories and a hopeful mes-
sage that kept repeating, “It’s not 
over.”
Students, faculty and “Haitians by blood and Haitians by asso-ciation” spoke and held candles in honor of the small country.
Altina Fenelon, an organizer 
for the vigil, said that after a year, many don’t think about Haiti as much.
“We want to generate hope,” she said. 
She has seen hope in the UF and 
Haitian communities, but doesn’t want it to be forgotten. 
She hopes the vigil and other 
planned events throughout the week encourage everyone to stay 
Garbage collection pushed back by one day due to Martin Luther King Jr. Day
Trash collection for Alachua County will 
be delayed the week of Martin Luther King 
Jr. Day.
Monday trash pickup will be delayed 
until Tuesday, pushing back trash pickup by one day.
Regular trash collection will resume Jan. 
24.
The delay includes pickup for garbage, 
recycling and yard waste.
Trash pickup is usually delayed during the week of Martin Luther King Jr. Day since county offices are closed that day, said Mil-ton Towns, waste collection manager of the Alachua Office of Waste Collection.
Other holidays affect trash collection as 
well, including Memorial Day and Indepen-dence Day.
Towns said the practice has been going 
on since Alachua County went to one-day collection in 1994.
— MEREDITH RUTLAND
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD 17
SPORTS 18Sunny
51/27page 8
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
UF freshman Anaelle Canez, who was born and raised in Haiti, lights 
a candle in remembrance of the 2010 Haiti earthquake.
Vigil honors Haiti victims
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
At the start of each semester, the faces of musicians 
and movie stars stare up at passersby on the Reitz Union 
Colonnade. 
The poster sale has become a tradition, done in partner -
ship between The College Poster Sale Company, a touring poster retailer, and the Arts and Crafts Center located in 
the Reitz Union. 
It has been held for more than 30 years, said Jill Keezer, 
assistant director of arts and leisure at the Reitz Union. 
But things haven’t been going quite as well this se-
mester, said Chris Alexander, who is a 
UF alumnus and manages the sale as an agent of the poster retailer. 
Sales are down about 10 percent, he 
estimated.
Twenty percent of the proceeds of the 
sale go toward the center, which in turn funds the Reitz Union’s art gallery on the 
second floor.
Every school day for a week, Alexan-
der and those who work with him wake up at 8 a.m. and sprawl their posters and pictures over 23 wooden tables and in eight smaller bins. 
While the 37-year-old poster retailer said his company 
is in no danger of folding, Alexander said he sees a trend that some students are being a little tighter with cash than they have been in recent years, opting to use money on things other than posters. 
Pouring rain and 30-degree weather this week also 
played a role in dissuading students from standing out-side and shuffling through posters, he said.
But nationally, the sales have remained relatively sta-Poster sales 
down at Reitz  
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer 
A UF freshman was arrested downtown on a felony 
offense for punching a man in the face early Wednesday 
morning.
Gainesville Police were already in the area of Status 
Nightclub, 17 SE First St., when the victim, whose name was not released, walked up to them bleeding from his 
face, said GPD spokeswoman Tscharna Senn.
The victim told police he and Yasha Lich-
tschein, 19, had been arguing at the bar, but that Lichtschein made things physical by punching him in the face.
Although the victim’s lip was “severely split,” accord-
ing to Senn, police saw no need for him to be taken to a hospital.
Police found Lichtschein and interviewed him about 
the confrontation, then immediately arrested him, she said.
Lichtschein spent the night in the Alachua County Jail 
but was released on his own recognizance at 1:30 p.m. Wednesday.
Lichtschein has been charged with one count of felony 
battery resulting from bodily harm.UF freshman arrested after bar fight downtownKeezer
The incident took place at Status NightclubSEE VIGIL, p AGE 4SEE pOSTERS, p AGE 4
NewsLocal“We want to generate 
hope.”
Altina Fenelon
organizer for the vigilNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 7 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Nicole Deck, 
  Safid Deen, Desiree Farnum, 
  Olivia Feldman, Greg Fink, 
  Josh Isom, Caitlin O’Conner, 
  Briana Seymour, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,   
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Business Bash 
Today, 5 p.m. 
Reitz Union Ballroom
Get involved in the Warrington College of Business at the Spring 2011 
Business Bash. 
Business Bash introduces students to all areas of the business college. In atten-dance will be 32 business 
organizations, several gradu-
ate programs and academic advisers. 
Rebuilding Haiti: Perspectives 
from the FieldToday, 4:30 p.m.Reitz Union 286 A panel of UF faculty work-
ing in Haiti (from PHHP, 
IFAS, DCP, CLAS, and ENG) will discuss their work and answer audience questions 
about the challenges of re-
building Haiti. For more information, go to www.hu-manities.ufl.edu.
College Republicans Meeting
Today, 6:30 p.m. Reitz Union Room 346The UF College Republicans 
will hold its first meeting of 
the semester. The meeting will be held in the Reitz Union and is free and open to all students and 
faculty.
Jacek Kaczmarski’s Quest for 
CosmopolishnessToday, 2 p.m.
Dauer Hall 215Come hear a talk by Grzegorz Danowski from McMaster University. Polish poet-
performer Jacek Kaczmarski 
spent the second half of his life exploring Cosmopolishness, a concept of patriotism, in 
his writings and living it on 
a daily basis. This presentation will high-light some important stages in that fascinating journey by 
connecting them to a number 
of Kaczmarski’s representa-tive guitar poems. The event is sponsored by 
the UF Center for European Registration is available on-line and at various locations 
on campus. Visit gatorsunit-edforhaiti.org for more in-formation. 
The first 10 men and 
women will get a medal. Refreshments will be pro-vided. 
Interfraternity Council Spring 
Recruitment OrientationMonday, 6:30 p.m.Rion Ballroom
Come meet the men of the 
26 diverse IFC fraternities, and find out why joining the Greek community at UF is right for you. 
Gainesville Comedy Showcase
Wednesdays and Fridays, 10 p.m.
Mother’s Pub or Jeff’s Deli
Free stand-up comedy fea-turing both professional and local comics. It is located at Mother’s Pub 
on Wednesdays and Jeff’s 
Deli on University Avenue on Fridays.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alliga-
tor.org. Please model your 
submissions after above events. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases will not ap-pear in the paper.Studies.
Museum Nights 
Today from 6-9 p.m. Harn Museum of Art
This evening highlights 
multiple art forms and the rich history of worldwide Islamic art and culture-Harn Museum curators of 
African and Asian art will 
give gallery talks and visi-tors will enjoy films, mu-sic, art activities including 
henna painting and callig-
raphy, food and presenta-tions. Admission is free. 
UF MicroFinance Foundation 
Spring Poker ShowdownToday, 9 p.m.At the Beef ‘O’ Brady’s on University Ave. and 13th 
St.
The UF MicroFinance Foundation will be host-ing its first Spring Poker Showdown!
The event is to raise money 
for struggling entrepre-neurs in Zimbabwe.Top 3 finishers receive priz-
es from the Entry Fees and 
Re-buys.
Bid for Haiti Auction and 
Talent Showcase 
Friday, 7 p.m. 
Rion Ballroom Join Gators United for Haiti and GatorNights for a night 
of fundraising.
Among the items that will be auctioned off are a Kaplan course, a football signed by Urban Meyer, a 
basketball signed by Billy 
Donovan, some Haitian art, gift cards and other prizes.
Chomp the Quake: 5K Run/
Walk Saturday,  7 a.m. Commuter Lot 
FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
70/52SUNNY
67/44SUNNY
64/38SUNNY
59/34SUNNY
51/27
THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
  By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
 Alligator Staff Writer
 
  Dan Scholes spends his days 
at UF, armed with lawn equip-
ment — usually a lawn mower 
— tending to the landscaping that students walk over every day on their way to class.
  Every day he goes to a new 
place to perform the same tasks. 
  Though the job entails repeat-
edly doing the same things, and he sometimes ﬁ  nds himself wish-
ing for a new job, he doesn’t mind 
so much when he thinks about it. 
  “It can be almost artistic,” he 
said. “You’re almost sculpting the ground.”
  By night, the 44-year-old 
groundskeeper sits at his com-puter, sculpting the ground, the sky, and everything in between as 
he creates the world for his novel, 
tentatively titled “Star Tender.”
  It is the story of a man who dis-
covers he can communicate with stars. In the world of the novel, 
stars are sentient beings respon-
sible for the creation of the uni-
verse. 
 Throughout the story, which is 
still unﬁ  nished, the main charac-
ter is able to create new building supplies and biotechnology with 
the help of the stars.  
  “Stars have created every-
thing,” Scholes said. “I ﬁ  gure, well, stars should be able to create 
anything.”
  Scholes started the project as 
part of National Novel Writing Month, or NaNoWriMo, in which 
participants challenge them-
selves to complete a 50,000-word novel in the month of November. Scholes only completed 17,000 
words of “Star Tender” over the 
course of the competition,  but said he intends to complete the book anyway.
  “I’ve been kind of a slow writ-er,” he said. 
  Scholes is also a slow reader.   He said dyslexia has plagued 
him throughout his life — he de-
scribed reading text as “physi-
cally painful” — and he has relied on his ears to do his reading with audiobooks.
  He remembered a time in 2006 
when his brother gave him a copy of Douglas Adams’ “The Hitch-hiker’s Guide to the Galaxy.” It took him two months to process 
two chapters of the book before 
he put it down in favor of the au-diobook version, which he found much more effective. 
  Despite his dyslexia, he still 
wants to write. 
  “I don’t really understand it,” 
he said. “It’s just one of those things I’ve gotta do.”
  Despite dreading the edit-
ing process that will require him to pore through at least 18,000 words, Scholes sits in silence in his 
one-room apartment, stationed at 
his desk that he nicknamed “Com-mand Central,” typing away. 
  He ﬁ  nds that he can’t write 
when the TV is on, or when music with lyrics is playing. So for him, 
it’s instrumental jazz or nothing 
but dead silence.
  When he’s got writer’s block, 
he just stares at the screen until something comes to him. 
  “It’s kind of like the idea 
blender,” he said. “I start kicking around ideas until the blender starts going. And then eventually, things just start coming out.”
  Or if it gets too frustrating, he 
goes and plays a little “World of Warcraft.”
  When things are going well, 
Scholes says he can sit there and 
write for up to six hours at a time 
before taking a break.
  So far, Scholes describes his 
work-in-progress as “18,000 words of world-building and character development,” but he’s working on the story’s conﬂ  icts. Scholes hopes to have the book ﬁ  nished by the time the next 
NaNoWriMo rolls around. How-
ever, if he doesn’t ﬁ  nish it by then, he will use it as his project for the next go-round. 
  He’s unsure of how long the 
book will end up being, and he has no set goal. He just wants his book to “not suck.”
  That, or to get published. 
  Scholes’ writing is inspired 
heavily by the science ﬁ  ction sto-
ries he gets on free podcasts.
  One of his favorites is “Meta-
mor City,” an urban fantasy pod-cast that features voice-acting, a score and sound effects much like an old radio show. 
  Productions like this gave Sc-
holes his start in writing. He start-ed with a series he called “The Chronicles of Megadan,” named after his “World of Warcraft” 
character, a Level 85 Warlock.
  He even does his own sound 
effects for the podcast. He said he once sat with a friend for two 
hours just to make one sound ef-fect for an episode.
  “Once I came across all these 
people putting out their work for free trying to get noticed, I just started consuming voraciously that content,” he said. “It’s its own little community that I’m trying to 
be a part of.”
NaNoWriMo caused him to 
put “The Chronicles of Megadan” 
on hold and write his novel. 
  Though he didn’t ﬁ  nish the 
novel during the allotted period, he was in the majority of NaNoW-riMo participants. 
  In 2009, only 19 percent of 
people were able to complete the challenge. 
  Scholes said the contest served 
as a way to get him motivated to write, especially with the support of fellow NaNoWriMo partici-pants, several of whom formed a 
writer’s group that continues to 
meet to this day at Books Inc. 
  He said he valued the camara-
derie and support he got while fu-riously trying to get to the 50,000-
word mark and the opportunity 
to commiserate with other writers who were going through the same thing.   All in all, Scholes said he found 
the process to be a rewarding ex-
perience.
  “It’s work,” he said. “It’s not 
easy, but it’s usually reward-
ing when you start with a blank page, and by the end of the night 
hopefully you’ve ﬁ  lled it up with 
words. And if I can read them and they don’t suck, then I’ve done all right.” 
 UF groundskeeper writing sci-ﬁ   novel on the side
 Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
  UF groundskeeper Dan Scholes, posing here for a picture, is also 
writing a novel and has his own podcasts. 
He started working on the book in NovemberTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast — Security forces 
loyal to the sitting president who is refusing 
to cede power have imposed a curfew and descended on an opposition neighborhood, sending in a convoy of military trucks after 
two days of clashes.
The head of the army, Philippe Mangou, 
read a declaration on state television on 
Wednesday warning that attacks by oppo-
sition supporters on their men amounted to 
“acts of war” and that this has given them 
the right to retaliate.
Mangou remains loyal to incumbent 
Laurent Gbagbo, who has not stepped down despite having lost the recent elec-tion. Mangou warned human rights groups 
and the international community that any 
upcoming operations are being done in self-defense.
The neighborhood of Abobo has been 
under siege for the past two days, starting with a police raid early Tuesday. Volleys of shots rang out at numerous intervals Wednesday, as army trucks took positions at intersections.
The residents of Abobo voted in large 
numbers for opposition leader Alassane Ouattara, whose victory in the Nov. 28 presidential election has been recognized by the United Nations, the United States, the European Union and the African Union. Despite nearly unanimous condemnation, incumbent Gbagbo has not agreed to leave, insisting that he won.
Human rights groups have recorded 
dozens of “disappearances” since Gbagbo’s defeat was announced last month, as well as attacks by “death squads.” Gbagbo has stubbornly refused to leave the presidential palace, and Ouattara has been forced to be-gin his term in a barricaded hotel under 24-
hour U.N. protection.
During the two days of fighting in 
Abobo, at least four civilians were killed. 
Mangou said that on Tuesday two police-men had also been killed by “armed ele-ments.” And on Wednesday, an employee 
of the main military hospital who could not 
be identified for security reasons said he saw the bodies of five more policemen be-ing unloaded, bringing the total of security forces killed to seven.
It is unclear how the neighborhood is 
succeeding in retaliating and journalists on 
the ground have not seen armed civilians. 
But Ouattara comes from the north of the country, home to the New Forces rebels who still control the upper half of Ivory Coast. They have openly supported him 
and he has chosen their former leader to be 
his prime minister.Civilians in Abobo are worried that the 
curfew meant the army will now have free reign to search houses and commit abuses.
In a prepared statement read on state TV, 
Mangou said his troops “reserve the right to 
retaliate from this moment on against any 
attack from wherever they may come.”
“In order to find these people attacking 
the republic inside their hiding places, the armed forces of Ivory Coast want all human 
rights organizations, as well as the national 
and international community to know that that these attacks against us are equal to acts of war ... putting us in a position of le-gitimate self-defense.”
As journalists left Abobo just before the 
curfew was imposed, they saw a column of seven army trucks filled with soldiers driv-ing in the direction of the neighborhood.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon ex-
pressed deep concern at the clashes in the Abodo neighborhood and plans by forces loyal to Gbagbo to launch another operation in the area Wednesday night, U.N. spokes-man Martin Nesirky said in New York.
“The secretary-general reiterates that any 
attacks on United Nations peacekeepers are unacceptable,” Nesirky said.
He said the U.N. troops and “police units 
are determined to remain in the area and will carry out their mandate in an impartial and professional manner,” Nesirky said.
Gbagbo lost the election by a nearly 
9-point margin according to results certified by the U.N. following a 2005 peace deal. That accord invited the U.N. to act as the final arbiter of the election, creating an in-dependent mechanism for determining the outcome.4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 2011
AP Photo
Hundreds of young men gather to block a main road in the Abobo neighborhood of 
Abidjan, Ivory Coast on Wednesday.
INTERNATIONALArmy will ‘retaliate’ against opposition in Ivory Coast THE CHARITY HAS RAISED 
$40 MILLION IN AID.
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer 
One year ago, Kevin Smith stood 
on a soccer field in Haiti surrounded 
by running children and makeshift tents. 
Smith, the director of emergency 
disaster services for the Salvation Army of Florida, flew to Haiti the day after the earthquake with about 
3,000 pounds of supplies in tow.  
“The most shocking observa-
tion I had was just the magnitude of 
need,” he said. “I’ve never seen need as bad or as great as it was in Haiti.”
A year later, the Salvation Army 
continues to provide relief efforts in Haiti. The organization has provid-ed aid there since the 1950s, running clinics for first-aid treatment and schools to educate locals.
In the past year, the Salvation 
Army has provided about 27,000 
clinic visits, 7.9 million meals, 606 
transitional shelters and 1.5 million gallons of water to the Haitian peo-ple, among other services, according to a press release.
It has also raised $10.8 million 
through worldwide affiliates as well as $29 million via domestic resourc-es. 
Of these funds, 50 percent has been used for immediate response projects, while the rest will be used 
for more long-term recovery plans.
While the Florida division of 
the Salvation Army is no longer in-
volved in the daily Haiti relief plans, it still provides support by using its Miami base to funnel supplies and by passing on local donations ear -
marked for Haiti. 
Sky Georges, president of Gators 
United for Haiti, visited the coun-try last September and was over -
whelmed by the amount of need he saw there.
“It’s too much. How does anyone 
know where to start and how to get anything done effectively that’s go-ing last through the ages?” he said. “It starts by having people who are passionate [and] who have a desire to see Haitian people prosper … for real change to start taking place.”
While immediate relief efforts 
included sending task forces like 
Smith’s to Haiti and using volun-teers to create food bags for survi-
vors, the organization is now able to focus on more long-term goals. Its clinics continue to provide medi-cal treatment for survivors, includ-ing follow-up visits for those who underwent surgery following the earthquake. 
Meanwhile, the organization has 
plans to rebuild its infrastructure within Haiti so it will be prepared for future problems, Smith said. 
“It could happen again tomor -
row. It could be a flood, it could be the cholera outbreaks,” he said. “We feel it’s the proper investment to re-establish that infrastructure that was here year-round [before the earth-
quake].”
Salvation Army continues to provide Haiti relief  
active and informed about Haiti. 
“As a year has gone by, we need to re-
member,”  she said.
Emily Nyren helped organize the 
Chomp the Quake 5K run this Saturday. 
She said it is one of a few events Gators United for Haiti put together to finish rais-
ing their goal of $50,000. 
Since last year, they have raised $41,000 
from donations with the help of over 100 
student groups on campus, Fenelon said. The University of Florida Athletic Associ-
ation matched the donations up until May 
of last year, making the total funds raised $82,000. 
The funds are expected to go toward 
building a health center in Mirebalais, 
Haiti, with help from the Red Cross and 
Partners in Health.
Naissance said even though he couldn’t 
be there, he’s glad for everything that has 
helped his nation. 
“I’ve left Haiti, but Haiti never left me,” 
he said.A 5K run is planned for Saturday
VIGIL , from page 1Sales are down an estimated 10 
percent from the fall semester
ble, Alexander said. 
Students are still stopping in to buy 
their pictures of Johnny Depp as Hunt-
er S. Thompson in “Fear and Loathing 
in Las Vegas,” and the company has been able to weather the economy much better than other businesses, he said. 
But since Alexander arrived at 
UF in 2009, sales have plateaued and dipped.
“My theory is the impact [of the 
economy] has slowly gotten into the psyche of incoming students,” he said. “Now that we’ve been sitting here in a down economy, kids are thinking more about how they spend their dis-posable income.”
Keezer said she hasn’t been forced 
to scale anything back, though she 
urged students to contin-ue to buy posters and sup-
port the gallery.
“You’re investing in 
students,” she said. “You’re helping 
the art program and students who might be showing their art for the first 
time in the gallery.”POSTERS , from page 1“We feel it’s the proper 
investment to re-establish 
that infrastructure that was 
here year-round [before the 
earthquake].”
Kevin Smith
director of emergency disaster
OnCampu sn HE SPOKE TO A CROWD OF ABOUT 1,700.
By MIGUEL CHATELOIN
Alligator Writer
Ray Kurzweil held out his cell phone on stage for the 
audience to see.
“This is a billion times more powerful than the com-
puter I used at MIT in 1965,” he said.
The same device, he said, will be the size of a blood cell 
and a billion times more powerful by 2029.
It was just one of many predictions he gave to an audi-
ence of almost 1,700 at the Phillips Center for the Perform-
ing Arts on Wednesday evening.
Famous for his books on the future, Kurzweil believes 
computers will eventually become smarter than humans and that technology will allow people to live much lon-ger.
He calls it “the point of singularity” and said such 
things are possible because information technology dou-bles every year.
Some students left saying they were significantly im-
pacted by the event. 
Fourth-year history major Alan Lipp thought Kurzweil 
was right on point.
“It strongly represented the exponential growth in tech-
nology,” Lipp said. “The idea that sooner, rather than later, you can count on seeing exponential improvement.”
Others weren’t so impressed.Political science graduate student Chris Manick called 
the event disappointing and boring. “The faith that he ex-hibits, he’s no different than a pastor,” he said, arguing that Kurzweil is overly optimistic.
After the lecture, a screening of his upcoming docu-
mentary “Singularity is Near: A True Story About the Future” was shown, followed by a Q-and-A period and a book signing.
The event was sponsored by Michael Singer, a close 
friend of Kurzweil, and presented by the Dharma Endow-ment Foundation and the College of Fine Arts.
 “I love speaking to students, especially in a university setting, because that is the one place where critical think-ing is celebrated,” Kurzweil said before the event. “I es-pecially enjoy the dialogue portion of my talks and it is at great universities such as UF where I get the most pen-etrating questions.”The lecture was meant to kick off the annual Creativity 
in the Arts and Sciences Event this weekend, where stu-
dents display “original artwork, including visual, musi-
cal, dance and theatre performances, or scientific research posters,” according to the CASE website.THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Alex Orlando / Alligator
Ray Kurzweil, author and futurist, elaborates on the idea of singularity during a lecture Wednesday night at the 
Philips Center for the Performing Arts.
Author discusses beliefs about future of technologyThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Is praise more 
satisfying than food or sex?
91 TOTAL VOTES38% YES62% NOWednesday’s question: Do you think textbooks are obsolete?Eye to the Sky
North Korean nuke issue 
deserves U.S. attention
In the fall of 1962, when the United States and the USSR 
stood inches away from the brink of an international blood-letting, word reached the Kennedy administra-
tion that the hard-line Soviet government did not desire to lead the world hand-in-hand into the furnace. In a flex of diplomatic bravado, Secretary of State Dean Rusk boasted: “We’re eyeball to eyeball, and the other fellow just blink-
ed.” 
Although the images of sirens blaring in the streets and 
four-minute warnings droning over loudspeakers seems 
like something more fit for an Orwell or Bradbury, the threat of nuclear exchange in a world with a political con-
struct heavily laced with political and religious fanaticism 
should still be on the American consciousness, especially more so since Robert Gates’ recent trip to China. 
In a diplomatic trip equipped with terse talk and im-
promptu demonstrations of aeronautical might that was largely ignored by the American public, Mr. Gates dropped a bombshell when he announced that North Korea was five years away from having a nuclear weapon capable of hit-ting the American mainland. 
While most Americans have grown weary of saber-rat-
tling in the light of two draining military conflicts, the dan-ger of the North’s  pursuit, mixed together with its location and its hazy ties, is an issue that must be addressed. We feel 
that placing economic or diplomatic handcuffs on a coun-
try, one that appears more than willing to have its eye cut out than blink, has run its course. The time may soon be at hand when America must once again draw from its sheath.
A Decade of Searching
Wikipedia is cel-
ebrating its 10th birthday Satur -
day, and, fellow students, what would we ever do without it?
Professors warn a free 
open-source encyclopedia isn’t the most accurate place to glean research informa-tion, but when we want to satisfy our curiosity in an efficient way, we head to the site. And, although we don’t directly cite it in our papers, Wikipedia’s cita-tions led us to some useful 
sources we wouldn’t have 
looked for otherwise. 
The site’s usefulness ex-
tends beyond college stu-dents, though. According to PC Magazine, Wikipedia counts 440 million unique visitors each month — that number far exceeds the number of people living in the United States. Most 
of those visitors probably 
aren’t writing theses, either. 
Like it or not, physical 
encyclopedias and other stuffy books are headed 
the way of the telegraph. 
In fact, a Nature Magazine 
study found Wikipedia’s 
margin of error on par with 
that of the Encyclopedia 
Britannica. 
The die-hard purists will 
beg to differ, but we’re  al-ready invested in the online 
research methods. We’re a decade into the new age of information gathering. 
By using volunteer edi-
tors, the site ensures not only continual updates but that the information re-mains free. It’s by the people and for the people. That fact alone means we’ll be seeing that familiar blue, gray and white layout for a while.Happiness relative for college students
In 1996, Sheryl Crow opined on the human condition: “If it makes you happy, it can’t be that bad. If it makes you happy, then why the hell are you so sad?”
According to a study in the Journal of Personality 
and Social Psychology, compliments and other forms of praise made college students happier than sexual acts or their favorite types of food did.
Granted, the study was conducted at the University 
of Michigan, and judging from the state of their football program the past few years — the winningest in college football history, mind you — compliments are something 
that students sporting the maize and blue are definitely 
in need of. 
Hail to the Victors? Pwuh. Not since the Lloyd Carr 
era. Carr’s last win, by the way? Jan. 1, 2008, over the 
mighty Gators in the Capitol One Bowl. If anyone needs 
reminding, Michigan went 3-9 the following year, the 
school’s worst season in history, and the Florida Gators 
came home from Miami with a national championship. Sucks to suck, Wolverines.
But yes, contrary to popular belief in Gainesville, there 
is more to life than football. Michigan is a perfectly good research institution, and one with much prestige. But I can’t help but be alarmed by this report.
Praise is awesome, but better than your favorite food 
— not just any food, but your absolute all-time favorite, or getting it on? Really? I can’t even imagine that.
I realize that not everyone in college is sexually active, 
contrary to popular belief. But both sex and food hold in-trinsic value. Compliments just promote narcissism and self-centeredness. It’s very rare that people share their favorite food with themselves and only themselves — food has long been a great unifier. When the perpetual first dinner date occurs in a relationship, food’s just the excuse for social interaction. Power 
lunches in high-powered firms? The 
business comes first, then the food.
And when it comes to sex, it 
takes two to tango. For this study, 
at least.
I took an informal poll of some 
of my friends gathered in my room. Granted, this is not statistically sig-
nificant — the sample size was four — but they did not agree with the survey. That raises another issue: Did they really agree but were just too prideful to say so? Did the guys in the room want to appear as alpha males who love to eat Five Guys hamburgers by day and score with the ladies by night, or were they serious about not really car -
ing about being complimented?
I’ve discovered that these three sources of enjoyment 
— praise, food and sex — are not directly comparable. They all lead to complex highs — different euphorias governed by different boundaries and rules of engage-ment. When I receive a compliment, the first question is from whom. A compliment from a professor might mean more than a compliment from my mother. Receiving a gold medal at the Olympics is likely to make you a lot happier than receiving a gold medal in a science fair. On the other hand, although with whom still applies to the sexual front — there’s a much more physical response and reaction, one that corresponds to what Maslow would characterize as a need. On the food topic, there’s variables that come into play. I love eating Chipotle, but if I overeat, the happiness I might have encountered might be overtaken with queasiness.
Do whatever makes you happy. It can’t be that bad.Sean Quinn is a first-year political science major.
Sean Quinn
letters@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
According to ABC news, “A recent study showed that 
40 percent of people surveyed can’t cope without a cell phone, 35 percent of people used cell phones to escape 
their problems and 7 percent blamed the cell phone for a lost relationship or job.”
This week, my cell phone broke. Needless to say , the coping 
process has been rather interesting.
At this point in life nearly everyone has experienced cell 
phone loss for some period of time, whether due to broken parts, dropping it in some sort of liquid or simply losing track of it.
Like most college students, and Americans in general, my 
cell phone serves as an inflatable yellow raft that keeps me afloat on the rough white water rapids of life. Not only does 
it give access to connect with people conveniently, at any time, 
but also to other useful applications.
So much of daily life has become tied to our cellular devices, 
and I found myself feeling rather lost in the choppy waters, wishing for my figurative new life raft to come in the mail ASAP .
I was feeling lost without my 
figurative life raft as the weekend ap-proached, and was curious to see how 
well I would survive it. Throughout the course of the weekend, 
I learned several interesting things.
Firstly , whenever awkward silences fall upon a group of 
people (which they inevitably always do) everyone quickly 
whips out their phone and starts to text (or at least pretends to). This is done so that the awkward silence hanging in the air doesn’t manifest into a suffocating blanket of awkward that makes it difficult to breathe at ease.
Instead of retreating into texting, I was forced to sit there 
and either slowly gasp under the blanket or come up with 
something to say . Basically , I had to be completely present 
wherever I was, without having the ability to talk to someone who wasn’t in the room.
Which is another thing — being completely present and liv-
ing in the moment is something that is easily forgotten with the phone keyboard at one’s fingertips. While people hunch over their devices, texting people elsewhere, they have become completely oblivious to events happening around them. Rath-er than enjoying where they were and meeting people around them, they were preoccupied with somewhere they probably 
shouldn’t have been.
There is nothing wrong with this, and I probably would’ve 
done something similar if I had a phone with me. However, 
seeing it from the outside-in made it seem a little different. It almost made me a little sad that people couldn’t be content wherever they were without worrying about what everyone else was up to.
While I am still looking forward to receiving my phone in 
the mail sometime this week, not having it has taught me a few 
valuable lessons. My goal for the future is to become less de-
pendent on my phone and to make it less of a figurative life raft in the rough waters of life to help keep me afloat.
By Sarah Creedican, OSU Daily Barometer, Oregon State U. via 
UWIRELessons learned by going phoneless in a world of technologyUWire
Sarah Creedican
UWireAfter watching another two-hour lec-
ture on my computer, I wondered: Why I am getting such a mediocre 
education?
I can’t help but feel that the “quality educa-
tion” I’m receiving from UF is a sham.
There is no way you can say watching a 
lecture on a 13-inch laptop screen (without the ability to ask questions live or hear what your “peers” are asking in the class) is the same as attending a live class. 
If I wanted to watch video lectures, I 
would have stayed home and watched bet-ter professors via MIT’s OpenCourseWare for 
free rather than watch someone read off pre-
prepared slides from a textbook company in a monotone voice.
It’s insulting that UF charges as much for 
this as a real class when better schools do it for free. What’s even more upsetting is that more of the business school’s classes are going to be delivered in this format. Many of the required courses for accounting already are.
UF doesn’t seem to care what students 
think about these classes, but that isn’t sur -
prising. You’re simply one of 50,691 students. 
They have to teach all those students some-
how. When they’re unable to fit any more stu-dents into an already crammed lecture hall of hundreds, they have to turn to other options. 
They’re simply using the same strategy as 
other similar state universities like the Univer -
sity of Central Florida, the University of South Florida or Florida State University . They want nonstop exponential growth. 
But how is this kind of nonstop exponential 
growth possible in a “natural market” like the education market? The answer is simple. The U.S. education market isn’t a natural market. 
It’s currently in a bubble that’s the result 
of incredibly loose liquidity for buyers, very much like the real estate market pre-2007. 
No matter who you are, what your credit 
score is, or what school you’re going to, you can receive a student loan in the U.S. It’s guar -
anteed by law and ensured by the Department of Education’s Direct Loan program. 
The plentiful grants provided by them have 
also helped whip this market into overdrive, of course. The interest rates on these loans are arbitrarily low, and all that easy credit is al-lowing anyone to enter the market.
You might wonder why I single out some-
thing that sounds ideal — a loan program that allows anyone, from any background, to receive a loan for a college education with a low interest rate. Out of all the government 
programs one could hate, why would I pick 
such an altruistic one?
These same warm feelings about granting 
anyone a loan for college is what led to leg-islation allowing sub-prime mortgages to run wild from the 1990s through 2007.
The government wanted everyone, no 
matter their financial credibility , to be able to achieve the American Dream and own a home. After adding a few laws (and removing some others) the federal government basically made it possible for anyone with a pulse to sign a loan for real estate.
The unusually easy access to credit in that 
market drove prices up at historical rates.
It’s very easy to look back at the market 
in a bubble and spot the signs of impending trouble, but it’s uncommon for people to no-tice such signs in the height of the frenzy . Few people have noticed or cared about the loom-ing real estate market crash until 2007, despite the telltale signs.
The education market has the same gov-
ernment-ensured easy access to liquidity , and as a result, the demand for a college education has grown in much the same way . 
In what reality is 50,000 people considered 
a decent size for a university?
This isn’t the normal reaction to this easy 
credit problem. Outside of the State Univer -
sity System of Florida, this easy credit creates a third party payer problem, where univer -
sities raise tuition as much as they want — sometimes over $40,000 — because demand is higher than ever. Students, meanwhile, re-
ceive grants and cheap loans underwritten by 
the government to cover it.
At state universities like UF and UCF, ad-
ministrators aren’t allowed to raise tuition as they want; the Florida Board of Governors controls tuition rates. Since they can’t raise tuition to take advantage of the increased de-mand, they opt to increase enrollment. If they aren’t allowed to take an inordinate amount from each student via those loans, they simply try to get as many students as possible.
These giant schools we see today are the 
warped results of easy credit and are analo-
gous to giant suburban developments in cities 
like Tampa, Orlando or Phoenix. 
These alien schools wouldn’t exist other -
wise. When the house of cards falls, they will see a similar fate to those huge swaths of failed subdivisions. I can’t say when that will hap-pen obviously , but growth like this doesn’t go on forever.
Since colleges have become so overpopu-
lated, degrees have become less valuable.
Many graduates have had difficulty find-
ing jobs due to the lower value of their degrees. When this unemployed/underemployed mass of people in the U.S. is large enough, there will eventually be a serious problem with graduates defaulting on their loans.
In no normal situation is a garage-faced 
generic suburban home worth $300,000 or 
more.
Likewise, a podcast of a lecture isn’t worth 
$700, but a year at a private college obviously isn’t worth $40,000 either.
It’s a shame that students have to choose 
from an overpriced education from a normal-
sized college or a cheaper mass-produced education like what is provided at UF. 
Students wouldn’t face this dilemma if 
credit weren’t so easily accessible.
Daniel O’Sullivan is a UF student.
Higher education may be the next bubble that burstsGuest column
Daniel O’Sullivan
Speaking OuttheAvenue         thursday, january 13, 2011
by first lastListThe
READ:  J.D. Salinger: A Life
If you like  Catcher in the Rye,the late 
author’s biography is for you. In it, author 
Kenneth Slawenski dwells less on the per -
sonality quirks that have surfaced since Salinger’s death and more on the influ -
ence his life had on his work. This is sure to satisfy even the most avid “Catcher” fan.
SEE:  Blue Valentine
 This  film is anything but a common 
drama. Living through a romance tainted by time, this couple must decide if the fight to rekindle their love is worth the pain. A story of a heart-wrenching romance filled with good days and bad, it’ll probably make us cry — and  fall even more in love with Ryan Gosling — than did The Note -
book. Great.
WATCH:  2011 Golden Globe Awards
Rumored presenters for the 68th 
annual show are the ever-lovable J. Lo, Rpattz and... Leighton Meester. For a best-motion-picture throwdown (including In-ception and the Social Network), tune into the shenanigans on Sunday at 8 p.m. on NBC.
LISTEN:   Britney Spears, “Hold It 
Against Me”
This circus freak might have been on 
top in the ‘90s,  but she’s still got it. With lyrics by Max Martin (“DJ Got Us Fallin’ in Love”) and Dr. Luke (“California Gurls”), the track is sure to be a bass-pumping hit we’ll all  hear blaring from speakers at XS and GrogHouse. Curious? So are we.PG 9: Meet some of the faces responsible for creating UF’s soundtrack: the bells of Century TowerPG 10: How-to guide for guys craving a style upgradePG 11: How the video game landscape may be becoming gender-friendlyPG 12: Get amped with UF 
gymnast Maranda Smith in the first part of the Avenue’s multi-part series “Amped with 
UF Athletes.”IN THIS ISSUE:
ONLINE:
To get the latest on the retrog-
aming scene in Gainesville and  more Avenue scoop, check out http://www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Britt Perkins / Alligator 
INTO THE WILD
Getting intimate with University Avenue favorite
By BRITT PERKINS
avenue contributing writer
Exploration is a vital and vigorous part of the 
college experience. You’re not under your par -
ents’ roof. It’s time to see what’s out there. Wild 
Iris Books is a place to start finding out. Located 
between Midtown and downtown at 802 W Uni-versity Ave., Wild Iris is one of the last remaining feminist bookstores in Florida. Opened in 1992, Wild Iris has established itself as not only a store but also as a community resource for artists and organizations looking for a supportive space. The store, in association with its sister nonprofit Friends of Wild Iris, has hosted open mic nights, 
workshops, discussion groups and art exhibits.
“We are always open to partnering with any 
groups,” said Erica Merrell, co-owner of Wild Iris 
Books. 
Reading selections range from the less-cor -
porate LGBTQ nonfiction, feminist thought and pagan options to health, cooking and general fiction. “We have everything a normal bookstore would have and then some,” Merrell said. “And if 
we don’t have it, we will order it for you with no 
shipping charges.”
Creating a haven where people can ask ques-
tions they may not be able to elsewhere is an essential aspect of the Wild Iris mission. It is important to the owners to suspend judgment and offer help. Customers are welcome to ask questions about anything, from gift ideas and decorating tips to organic hygiene products and 
earth-based spirituality. 
“You’re not going to shock us,” Merrell said. “Nothing here is taboo.”
And while there are resources for gay stu -
dents through LGBT Affairs at UF, Wild Iris offers 
additional resources. 
In stock are books that can help gay students 
come out. There are also books that students can give to their families to foster understand-ing. 
In light of recent tragedies involving bullying 
and suicide, books like “Hello Cruel World: 101 
Alternatives to Suicide for Teens, Freaks and Oth-
er Outlaws” can be an important resource. 
Other products take a lighter tone on the road 
to acceptance such as the bumper sticker that reads, “I don’t mind if you are straight, as long as 
you are gay in public.”
In the broader range of 
merchandise you’ll find items from candles and incense to 
art and sculpture to old-fash-
ioned soda and herbal tea. And guys, this place isn’t just for women.
“We are not man-haters here,” said Cheryl 
Krauth, another co-owner of Wild Iris Books. “We love all of the men in our lives.”
And the men seem to appreciate Wild Iris as 
well. Merrell’s husband was the one who intro-
duced her to the store when she relocated to 
Gainesville. Krauth’s son, who will turn 21 this month, spent most of his teenage years working at the bookstore. 
“We want to help men see the feminine side 
that both men and women have,” Krauth said. “How else are we going to come together as a society and celebrate all of who we are?”
There is still is plenty to do to balance the 
gender issue, Krauth said. For example, women working full time earned on average 80 percent of what men were paid in 2008, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
Krauth, a Gator since 1983 and currently an 
information technology professor at Santa Fe College, took over ownership of Wild Iris in 2004 after hearing a rumor at a party that the book -
store was closing. Unable to stop thinking about the possibility of the store being shut down, she was determined to help keep its doors open. 
“It had such a unique character and was 
something we didn’t want to lose in the commu-nity,” Krauth said. 
Merrell’s background is in corporate book 
sales, but she knew she wanted to spend her time at a place that she loved. After spending 
several years volunteering with Friends of Wild 
Iris, Merrell made the organization her full-time focus in 2009. 
“When the opportunity for ownership came, 
it was perfect,” Merrell said. “I could remove the corporate and be a part of a place that made me feel good.”
An extension of the community feel can be 
found in the Wild Iris Cafe. With people to talk 
to and a selection of coffee, wine and beer, it’s 
a change of scenery from the typical library of-ferings. 
“We all have this little voice that has ques-
tions,” Merrell said. “You can honor that. The only thing we don’t want here is disrespect. “For 
the Guys” Titles from the parenting section shown in Wild Iris Books on Thursday. The New Age feminist bookstore also 
sells greeting cards, crystals, art, organic feminine products and jewelry. By LAUREN GOLD
avenue writer
If UF’s campus had a soundtrack, 
it would surely be the ringing bells of 
Century Tower. The distant sounds echo throughout campus from every corner, providing comforting music 
as students hustle and bustle to 
class.
Century Tower, built in 1953, 
stands as a landmark at 157 feet tall. It’s one of only four carillons, or fixed bell towers, in Florida, and it’s one of the largest in North America. It was originally built in 1956 to com -
memorate the 100-year anniversary 
of UF and to honor students and fac-
ulty who fought in World War I and World War II. 
In 1979, the tower underwent a 
major renovation to install the 61 bells that ring today.
And while it’s no mystery that 
Century Tower is UF’s most well-known landmark, not many  know 
how it works.
Currently, the carillon is played 
live twice a day at 12:35 p.m. and 
at 4:55 p.m. for a 15-minute recital. It chimes every 15 minutes of every day automatically.
“As long as you have a musical 
background, the carillon is an instru -
ment that can be taught,” said Dr. 
Laura Ellis, associate professor of 
music and carillon class instructor. 
A little-known fact: Any UF stu -
dent can audition to be in the caril-lon class, where budding musicians can learn to play the carillon.
“[Students] have to have a strong 
interest, and you need to be coordi-nated,” Ellis said.
Tucked inside University Audito -rium, 10 students sit around a long 
table divvying up weekly time slots. 
They meet with Ellis for private les -
sons and practice times in addition to the once-a-week class.
“We’ve made some big strides,” 
Ellis said.
There wasn’t always a late after -
noon performance, and the carillon studio performs one 50-minute pro -
gram one Sunday a month.“The neatest thing about teach -
ing is to watch the growth of the mu -
sicality,” Ellis said. “You get to see the students from the first time they put their hand on the baton to what you hear today.”
Melissa Garcia, 21, has been in 
the carillon class for the past five se -
mesters. A senior finance major, she practices  as much as she can and 
enjoys spending time in the studio with classmates.
“We get along really well with 
each other. We’re like one big, happy 
family,” Garcia said.
Twice a day, Garcia and the other 
students climb the 11-and-a-half flights of stairs it takes to get to the top of the tower.
The inside of Century Tower isn’t 
as majestic as the outside. The con -
crete stairs and aluminum railings are cold and seemingly never-end -
ing. When you finally make it to the top, a small room houses the large carillon, a long bench, a fan and a few extra chairs.
The instrument is made of long 
wooden rods that extend past view. Each rod is attached to a corre -
sponding bell directly above the in-strument. Garcia props open a small 
square hatch to help hear the bells 
as she plays.
Next, she sets up her sheet mu -
sic, securing it with fishing line so the wind doesn’t blow it away midperfor -
mance. She adjusts the bells and tunes them so that they’re just right, even though the whole campus can hear any sound the bells make.
“Most people don’t even notice 
the noise,” she said.
When the clock strikes 4:55 p.m., 
Garcia starts to play, using her hands and feet on the keyboard made of 61 large wooden keys, called batons, and 25 foot pedals. The orientation of the carillon is very similar to the black and white keys of a piano.
After a 15-minute performance 
of four songs, Garcia feels worn-out. She said she’s rusty after not play -
ing over winter break, but to the non-musical ear, the music is as soothing as ever.
“My favorite part is getting a song 
completed,” Garcia said of practicing and learning new pieces. “It makes 
me feel accomplished.”
The walk down the tower steps is 
much easier than the walk up, and at 
the bottom, Ellis is waiting with feed -
back and notes for her student.
“I like [playing the carillon]. It 
keeps me sane.”thursday, january 13, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 9
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Finance major Melissa Garcia, 21, tunes the carillon bells at the top of Century Tower before her 4:55 perfor -
mance on Monday.
11-and-a-half flights up, university’s melody is made
10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, january 13, 2011
5th
aveGuys: Get style-savv y
  By DANA BURKE
 avenue writer
 
  The word “fashion” does not sit well with most guys. I get 
it — you’re a total bro—but that doesn’t mean you can’t dress 
like a pro. There’s no logic in the daily task of getting dressed, so here at the Avenue we’ve come up with some simple style tips (a less frightening word for “fashion”) that we think every 
Gainesville guy should try.  
  On the Bottom
  Jeans are a staple in the average male wardrobe.  
  Although they come in many cuts and colors, you can’t go 
wrong with a pair of straight-leg, dark denim pants. Dark wash-es work for almost every dressing situation — almost. Jeans worn in a professional environment or to a black tie affair are some of those exceptions.
  Steer clear of bell bottoms or pants tapered at the ankle. 
Either ﬁ  t makes your legs look larger in all the wrong places, and are certiﬁ  ably archaic. And we’re sympathetic: To the male brain, understanding the different names for cuts can be dif-ﬁ  cult. If you need help with ﬁ  t, don’t hesitate to ask a sales associate.  
  On Top
  Instead of wearing a T-shirt every day, switch it up by throw-
ing on a short- or long-sleeved button-up. Plaids and ﬂ  annels make for a great day look, while solids or stripes work well as dressier alternatives.
  Throw on a crew-neck sweater over your dress shirt for a 
touch of class. For a more casual style, leave the button-up open and pair it with a graphic tee underneath. 
Everything Else
  Think males can’t accessorize? Think again. That doesn’t 
mean it’s necessary to go out and buy a murse (man purse). A simple belt or fashionable watch can be subtle yet effective additions to any guy’s wardrobe.  
  The pants-so-low-you-can-see-my-boxers look is so 1993. 
There’s this invention called a belt, and it’s going to solve all baggy-pants problems. Invest in one. 
  A guy in a watch means business. And it’s easy -- any male 
can pull off wearing one. These can be personal: If you’re a gym rat, a plastic-banded sports watch is probably a good op-
tion. For a more clean-cut look, pick a brown leather strapped 
watch. It’ll pair perfectly with a pair of boat shoes. 
  Speaking of color, it seems like most guys are afraid of it. 
We’re not asking you to blind passersby with a neon shirt or with a pair of ﬂ  uorescent Nikes. Rather, sticking to neutral-col-
ored bottoms such as denim, black, khaki or navy is just subtle 
enough to throw on some color on top. 
  Want a color challenge? Try a splash of pink. Some guys 
think it’s too feminine, but in reality, pink complements most skin tones (unless you’ve got a rosy complexion) and exudes conﬁ  dence. 
  Try complementary colors, such as orange and blue (go 
Gators!) or analogous tones (colors that appear near each other on the color wheel, for example: navy & light blue). But 
always keep in mind that when playing with color, avoid mix-
ing too many at once, or else you’ll look like a walking Crayola box. 
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Simon Persico, 20, Steven Dikowitz, 20, and Jesse Scanlon, 22 
wear personalized button-down shirts and dark-wash denim.
Lens
   Flairby Dana Burke
Anne-Laure Caralp, 
21, wears neutrals 
with a bright red 
scarf. This French 
international 
business major 
knows how to add 
a feminine touch to 
masculine pieces 
(like her oversized 
military jacket) by 
pairing them with 
heels and a ﬂ  oral 
print.
Advertising and 
English major Daniel 
Ennis, 20, opts for 
an eye-popping 
blue jacket with a 
classic T-shirt and 
jeans. The blue and 
brown color scheme 
is both simple and 
functional. He 
even matches his 
umbrella, prepared 
for the rainy day 
ahead.For the latest frills, ﬂ  air and every-
thing fashion, check out what our 
lens caught this week. 
Tickets at the Hipp Bo x Office
352.375.4477 / thehipp.org
25 SE 2nd Place, Downtown Gainesville
Find us on Facebook and T witter!
NOWHERE BO Y
Nowhere Boy captures and conveys the crucial formative teenage 
years of John Lennon. F inal showing tonight at 6:30 & 8:30pm.
 HIPP
cinema
Photo by Michael A. Eaddy
TONIGHT A T 8PM
FRI AT 8PM
SAT AT 5 & 8:30
SUN A T 2 & 7:30
Students only $12!
HIPPODROME THEATRE
Dana Burke/ Alligator Staff
Dana Burke / Alligator Staffthursday, january 13, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 11
Female gaming icon gets long-overdue makeover
By ANDREW WYZAN
avenue writer
The depiction of women in video games has always been a mark 
of shame in the industry. Undoubtedly, the majority of video games 
developers are male — as is the industry’s target demographic. Thus, it’s not surprising that many virtual females are designed to look like idealized perfections of the gender at best and pubescent 
fantasy at worst. Take these favored femmes: Bayonetta has 4-foot 
long legs, Taki from “Soul Calibur” has triple-E sized breasts, and the entire female cast of “Dead or Alive” can be summed up with the phrase “jiggle physics.”
Lara Croft could be the poster child for this trend. At first a role 
model for young female gamers, she quickly became a running gag. When “Tomb Raider” emerged, her status as a female gaming icon would have been great — if adolescent boys could only have gotten over her pixelated D-cups. Because of this, her icon status 
quickly turned infamous, especially after the “Tomb Raider” series 
got progressively worse till finally unplayable. If you ever wondered why gamers are stereotyped as awkward virgins who never talk to 
girls, look no further than Croft.
Luckily, it seems the industry has finally no -
ticed its treatment toward women, as Croft is getting a makeover that would make the wom-en of “Bridalplasty” jealous. Change is on the horizon, and it may give a much-needed reboot 
to the entire franchise. 
Most noticeably, Lara’s enormous dimen-
sions have been scaled down to the point that she could exist in 
reality without breaking her spine and toppling over. Her wardrobe, which beforehand was nothing but tight shirts and hot pants, has also turned tasteful. The game scene so far isn’t as promising.A recent story in Game Informer details the plot, which involves 
a young Lara getting her ass kicked and trying to survive on an unknown island. Previous games developed her as a feminist’s dream: an independent woman who finds priceless treasures and murders men who stand in her way.
It sounds like developers are going in the wrong direction. 
Breaking the woman is a distasteful trope that the medium should have outgrown years ago, and it only shows that developers still have no idea what to do with its few female icons. 
If video games are ever going to be taken as seriously as 
other artistic mediums, makers and players should recognize these immature tendencies and grow up. Croft’s remake is a good start. Nevertheless, it’s ultimately pointless if she’s not re -
made into a legitimately good character — one that girl gamers, a number that’s increasing every year, could actually appreciate.  
     Two steps forward, one step back.
By ALLISON BANKO
avenue writer
When describing UF gymnast Maranda Smith,  
“bubbly” would be an understatement. Although 
she gleams with a gleeful smile and eyelids full of 
sparkles, Smith is full of spice — as is her iPod. 
This California girl describes herself as a “chill 
song person” and doesn’t rely on her tunes to 
pump her up before meets or even to keep her company when she’s walking around on campus. 
Instead, this 5-foot-2-inch ball of energy cranks 
on the tunes when she’s doing her hair and make -
up before competition and shares her love of R&B soul music with another love, boyfriend and UF 
football star, Carl Moore. 
“I like Musiq Soulchild,” she said. “It’s kind of 
me and my boyfriend’s favorite artist. Like if we 
were to make a playlist, more than likely Musiq Soulchild would be on it the most.” 
To catch a glimpse of what’s really going on in 
Smith’s speakers, the Avenue sat down with her while she shared the scoop on her most prized tracks. w“Good Luck Charm” by Jagged Edge 
“This is my favorite song of all time. I guess it’s my favorite love song.” w“Man In the Mirror” by Michael Jackson 
“I like the message that he’s saying in it.”w“Tell Me When to Go” by E-40
“It reminds me of my high school days. I listen to it here in Florida because it’s a different style and type of rap than it is here. It reminds me of back home in California.” 
w“Fighter” by Christina Aguilera 
“It’s just a great song. I love her voice and the mes-
sage she’s saying.”w“I Am Not My Hair” by India.Arie
“Again, I really like the message. Most of the songs I like because of the message.” w“Waka Waka (This Time for Africa)” by Shakira 
“I’m really into this song right now.” w“Midnight Train to Georgia” by Gladys Knight 
“It reminds me of my childhood, because [my par -
ents] would always play the oldies.”w“Rise Up” by Yves Larock
“I heard it while I was in Mexico over the summer. So it reminds me of vacation.”12, ALLIGATOR u thursday, january 13, 2011
Photo illustration by Matt Tripp and Cynthia Despres
UF gymnast Maranda Smith poses for a photo before practice on Tuesday.  Smith, who does 
vault and floor exercise, said she pops in her earbuds to help ease routine plane trips. 
AMPED with UF Athletes:
UF gymnast Maranda SmithLos Angeles duo ready to rock original sunny state 
By BENJAMIN EVANS
avenue writer
Indie punk duo No Age cultivated 
their sound at The Smell, a now leg-
endary all-ages venue in downtown 
Los Angeles. Since its opening in the late ‘90s, The Smell, formerly a Mex-
ican grocery store, has produced 
some of the most creative, outside-
of-the box bands of the last decade, 
including the highly acclaimed, sometimes bizarre but always enter -
taining noise rock band Health.
Subsequent to the band’s start 
about five years ago, No Age’s vocal-ist and drummer Dean Spunt and 
guitarist Randy Randall have been regulars on music blogs and have 
garnered all types of celebrity fans from Deerhunter frontman Brad-ford Cox to Radiohead bassist Co-lin Greenwood, who wore a No Age 
shirt in an online broadcast. Most 
recently, on the Late Show with Da-vid Letterman, the duo played “Fe -
ver Dreaming,” a track off their new 
album “Everything in Between” on 
Monday.
Despite their new visibility and 
heaping critical attention, (like Pitch-
fork.com  naming “Everything” the 
13th best album of 2010), No Age 
seem to be as laid-back and ground-
ed as ever. Like at their start, they’re playing unconventional venues like the L.A. Central Public Library and are still highly involved in the admin-istrative workings of their career.
For example, when I set up an 
interview for this story, I received an e-mail from Spunt 
with the subject “Yo,” a cell phone 
number and the 
words “This is 
dean from No Age. 
Call me for an interview whenever.” 
For a band on Sub Pop Records 
with plenty of publicists, managers and assistants running around, it was strange — and above all, rare — to see  an accomplished artist so involved in such a mundane thing as appointment-making. 
This hands-on attitude is without 
a doubt an extension of No Age’s teenage years, when the two skated their suburban L.A. high schools and 
listened to do-it-yourself ‘80s hard -
core bands.
“Skateboarding had a huge im-
pact on me,” said Spunt, whose 
sound and approach to music today 
still mirrors his adolescent days.
With the expanded sound of their 
new album, No Age have brought 
along a third man to handle sam-ples while touring. Still, despite the addition, the band’s dynamic hasn’t changed much, Spunt said.
“He just plays that stuff and we 
jam over there,” he said.
No Age will play Common Grounds 
Sunday with Rene Hell, an artist they brought on tour after discovering an 
ad in the classifieds section of a Sci-entology newspaper.
Hell, No Age and Diet Cokeheads 
should make for a killer show, espe-
cially because Spunt said he’s excit-
ed to get to Florida, a place he calls 
the Cali of the East Coast.
Spunt said, “Every day I wake up 
in Florida I know it’s a good day.”
playlist Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$380 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Gainesville Place
Now leasing for 2011-2012!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
 (352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $399***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
Student Friendly 4/4's 
$424 for EVERYTHING
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
Call for current specials!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move in ANY time, Highly negotiable
terms, Friendly roommates, 
$379/m OR best offer, call/text 
813-205-1549 or email ibukreyev@ufl.edu    
1-14-10-8-1
Huge Rm,4/2 N.W.Home
.3 mi to SFC, 8mi UF. 2 lv rms, laundry rm, 
garage, lg kitchen, porch. Clean + Neat. 325 
+ 1/4 util. 1st, last, sec dep (negotiable)!
352-283-9905, sarad7821@yahoo.com    
1-18-8-1
Free rent, utils., etc. near
campus for female in exchange
for overnight staying with
elderly female. For details,
call Sarah 373-7965 10am-6pm m-f    1-19-11-5-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Studios $599 Downtown location
Arlington 352-338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
*NEWLY UPGRADED APT HOMES*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-20-10-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-21 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe-NW 23rd Blvd
1s-$699 2s-$789 3s $859.
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400  madisonpointe.org4-20-70-2
●ONE MONTH FREE●
Available for Immediate Move-Ins
1,2, and 3 Bedrooms
(352)335-7656
www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
1/1 $599 *2/2.5 townhouse $779*
4/2.5 townhouse $1099*Washer/Dryers*
352-332-7401 www.thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
● Amazing Rent on 1 and 2BR apts.
Ranging from $390 to $545.Sorry no pets or Section 8.Madison on 20th. 335-7066      4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $540.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625
·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779
·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
Renting Now!!
We have REAL 1/1s
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE-1 MO FREE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
3Blks to UF- GATOR NEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS 1 MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
1-31-10-68-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's f rom $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
2/2 & 3/3 Roommate Matching
Walk In ClosetsPrivate Bathrooms
Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Full size W/D
Pet friendly
352-374-3866                  4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
NAPIER GRANT
"HUGE" 2 BR/1BA
Starting at $525.
W/D hookups. Pets OK
Walk to Vet School
352-377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/napiergrant
Text: napiergrant@65374
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-19-10-103-2
CALL TODAY!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
2 Months Free!
Sundowne Villas
Studio *$430 and 1/1 *$457
Located behind Butler Plaza
Pet friendly No weight limits!
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$447
2/1 *$548
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free
Sunrise Villas
One Bedroom Villa *$428
Near UF and Shand's
Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Ph. 372-4835  www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
First Month Free
Campus Walk Apartments
All Inclusive Individual Leases
4 Bedroom Townhomes and flats
Located on UF campus
$350 per bedroom All Inclusive
Semester Leases available!
(352) 376-0828
(Rental office at Homestead Apts.)
www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/
shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-
closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year 
lease, $700/mo
●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr lease
●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida 
rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and 
tennis courts. $1000●Downtown 2 BR at the Lofts at W. University.  This modern designed unit in-
cludes cable, internet, washer/dryer, and 2 
onsite parking spaces. Minutes from UF and 
Shands, $1050/mo●Mallorca Square,Large 2br,2.5 ba town-house convenient to Oaks Mall and UF/hos-
pitals, many extras,$895/mo
●Treehouse Village- 2/2  New Carpet,D/W, 
W/D incl.,on covered bus line close to down -
town, UF/Shands. $595●BIG 3/3 in SW, Ceramic/Carpet, D/W, W/D 
includes clubhouse, pool, comp lab, volley -
ball, tennis, basketball, MUST SEE $900
★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
4-20-10-70-2
Immaculate small efficiency,quiet.Wash/
dry on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No pets. 
1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus routes.Avail 
Dec 27.$399/m 352-262-2871 Owner agent. 
1-24-11-14-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7129 SW 45th Place. $550/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114    1-20-11-10-2LOW COST MOVE IN!
Small 2BR $375/mo.
Call 352-372-6881 or 352-213-3901   1-20-11-10-2
4br 3ba Split plan home in NW Gnvll. Fenced 
back yard, patio and Fire place. Close to UF 
and Santa Fe. Great for Students or a fam-
ily. Zoned for Glen Springs, Westwood and 
GHS. $1050.00 Call KIM 352-222-4030   
1-14-11-7-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE
Sunroom, garage, updated. 3103 NW 4th 
Terrace. $825/mo. Call Andrea Martin, Keller-Williams Realty 352-281-3131   1-21-11-10-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    1-21-11-10-2
 ●●●●●●●   NEAR  UF   ●●●●●●●
4 Apts  2/1 in College  Park area
(5/3 House) (4/3 House) (3/2 House)
available for August  Manny  352-317-4408
info & pic  gainesvillestudentrentals.com
1-31-11-16-2
Studio for rent. Bedroom, kitchen, full bath-
room, total privacy. 3 miles from Butler pla-
za near Tower Square. $475.00 per month 
includes Utilities, Cable TV, & Internet Call 
352-378-4626 or 352-262-4290    1-28-11-15-22BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shady lot. 
From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No 
pets. Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 
13th St. 376-5887    1-24-11-10-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2s with vaulted ceilings $999
3/3 Townhomes w/Private Baths $1089
Garage included, Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
www.madisonpointe.org          4-20-66-2
Available Aug 1st. 3BR/1BA very nice house, 
short bike, cent H/AC, dishwasher, disposal, 
W/D provided. Very private backyard with 
small garage. 924 NW 9th Ave. $1100/mo. 
Call 352-339-2342 Other houses available   
1-18-11-5-2
PT NANNY needed 18hrs/wk $11/hr
M4-8; WTHF 9-2; exp w/ ages2-4
clean bkkg check, refs, etc.
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com
1-14-10-4-14
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA very nice house. 
Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game 
room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets 
ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-
339-2342 Other houses available   1-18-11-
4-2
2BR/1BA cabin, 20 acres. Fixer-upper. 
Horses/dogs welcome. 27802 SW 120th 
Lane, Newberry. $555/mo. Comes with 
horse. Long driveway. In Gothe State Forest. 
Call 330-329-8834    1-26-10-214, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 2011
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th St       352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
●**ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month, 2BR 1BA Apts, 3  BLKS 
TO UF! 840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms,  Plenty 
of Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. 
Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  
●**CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt  3 BLKS TO UF, New Carpet 
$450/Mo  $600 Deposit Window A/C, Nat 
Gas Ht. 216 SW 12th Street.
●**EFFICIENCY -2 Rooms(not bedrooms)
Shared Bathroom, Window A/C, Carpet, 
Across from UF Stadium, 1830 NW 1st Ave  
$295/Mo, $300 Deposit
●** ROCKWOOD VILLAS:
5542 SW 8th Place $750/Mo, $800 Deposit. 
Pets Ok, 2BR 2BA, Newly painted, New 
Carpet, Tile Floors in LR, Inclds Washer/
Dryer, Pool, Tennis Courts, Bus Line to 
Shands & UF.     1-13-11-1-2
*5 BEDROOM HOUSE*
Walk to class. Right Across from The 
Swamp stadium. Available Aug 1st.
Wood Floors. Lots of parking. Please call 
John @ (561) 866-8234 for further info
1-21-6-2
Sublease a 1/1 @ The Laurels on 34th St. 
$809 per month + utilities, unfurnished; Pet 
fee not included. Quite area, On bus route. 
Begins 1/1/2011 to 7/30/2011. Please call 
813-310-7636 or 813-317-6842.   1-13-10-
10-3Looking for female sublease for 1/1 in a 4/4 at the Woodlands of Gainesville. $565/mo includes utilities, fully furnished, pet friendly! Please call 727-804-6893 for more details.   1-19-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, 
W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & 
pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $425/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79291-31-10-42-4
1st month free. Grad student looking for fe-
male roommate in fully furnished 4/4 condo 
at Countryside. $425/month. Short term 
lease available. Cable/internet, utils, W/D, 2 
bus routes. Contact Megan 727-542-8155.   
1-21-11-11-4
Large Room in NW Home.
$450/mo incl utils & DSL, large closets. No pets. Mature, non-smoker, grad student/professional. Scott 352-335-8209   1-20-11-10-4Roommate wanted- Share nice clean NW 
area 3 Br, 2 bath single family home with two 
senior UF students- fenced back yard- wash-
er/ dryer-fireplace- $320 mo. & 1/3 utilities. 
Call Jon-321-537-5640 or 352-665-9547    
1-21-11-10-4
Female looking for same to share a furnished 
3BR/2BA condo. 10 mins by bus to UF cam-
pus. $400/mo including utils. Great Location! 
Call 850-974-0686   1-21-11-10-4
ROCKWOOD VILLAS 3BR/3BA  Male stu-
dent / part time worker. $500/mo incl utils, 
cable internet. $300 deposit. Call Jared 352-
870-5943    1-13-3-4
Roommate wanted to share furnished home 
in nice NW neighborhood 2 mi from UF. 
4br/2.5 ba, w/d & large fenced back yard. $450 inclds util, cable, hs internet. No pets, n/s. 352-284-0771.    1-14-11-4-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  GraniteCounters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-52BR/1.5BA newly renovated townhouse. 
6134 SW 8th Lane. You have to see it to 
appreciate it! Come see it and make an of-
fer. Call 352-281-7411 or 786-537-2963 and 
make an appointment   1-31-11-17-5
Rent to Buy. 2BR/2BA Capstone Quarters 
Condo Near Shands. Private porch, back-
yard, new carpet, paint and appliances. 
Community Pool, $650/mo. $54,900 Call 
352-378-4626   1-28-11-15-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    
4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
PARKING 60 SECONDS TO UF
Next to McDonalds NW 13th St. Reserve 
now. Call for semester rates: 352-538-2454 gainesvilleparking.com.    1-14-11-7-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
★★★GatorMoto★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275 GatorMoto.com  4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-20-10-70-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 15
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
1-31-10-78-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $199998 Ford Expolorer $199997 Lincoln Town car $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $499999 Ford F150 $599998 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit checkMove  vehicles $500 & up!352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay hereCars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans30 day warranty352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-1205 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
I'm blind, Catholic, & attend Mass at Queen 
of Peace. If you're interested in sharing transportation with me, you can be my bless-ing. Please call 352-219-6948. I often take part in church service, as a lector or greeter.  1-14-10-70-13
BE A BLESSING TO ME, AND COME HELP 
ME LEARN TO RAKE KNIT, 2 Wednesday evenings a month. The things we will make WILL BE SENT TO HAITI AND OTHER PLACES. Call 352-219-6948.     1-14-10-70-13
Volunteers Needed: HOPE - Horses Helping 
People, Inc. is seeking volunteers for our equine-assisted therapy sessions.  Please contact Kristen at KCShimeall@gmail.com to become a part of our team!www.horseshelpingpeople.org   1-14-5-13
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classiﬁ  eds!This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
What's black and white & read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14Clinical Research Coordinator
wanted for med research site.
FT w/ benefits. Phlebotomy
& prior exp a plus. Fax resume
& salary req to 331-5761.   1-13-11-5-14
GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND 
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS 
FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY 
PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT 
JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-6300
2-4-11-20-14
CAREER POSITIONS
Stay in Gainesville. Great benefits and op-
portunities. Flexible hours.
● ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT
● SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
Please apply online at http://www.gleim.com
1-21-11-10-14
Administrative/Sales: Well organized individ-
ual with good attention to detail and strong 
customer service skills to perform front office 
and sales duties for a local food testing labo-
ratory. Must be able to work with international 
distributors and generate sales and promo-
tional materials with guidance. Some travel 
required (<5%). Great attitude and positive 
phone demeanor are essential. Background 
in a scientific field is a plus. Submit resume 
to info@elisa-tek.com.    1-18-11-7-14
University Athletic Association - Accounting
Currently seeking flexible individual for part-
time (OPS) filing clerk. Varied duties includ-
ing data entry and filing. Experienced in 
Microsoft Excel & good organizational skills 
required. Minimum wage position averag-
ing 20 hour per week. Please fax resume to 
(352) 375-5182.     1-19-11-7-14
MOBILE WAITERS NEEDED - Immediate in-
terviews. FT or PT, average $50-$60 per 3-5 
hour shift, make your own schedule, flexible 
hours. Must have your own car, cell phone, 
and be 21+ yrs. To apply, call 888-334-9675 ext. 1 or go to www.d-d-i.com    1-14-11-5-14FT NANNY needed M-F start by JAN;
min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs;  travel w/ mom;
3yr old / 9 mon; $12/hr; exp; good refs;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    1-13-
11-21-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-
noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF 
Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers 
welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   
1-25-10-20-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Flex hours. Excellent 
Word, Excel, typing, internet skills. $7.25/hr. 
Indicate current semester & if available sum-
mer schedules, major, graduating semester. 
siva1950@yahoo.com   1-21-11-18-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
SPRING 2011
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
1-14-10-11-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617   2-28-10-39-14
Smokers are needed to participate in a study 
assessing the effects of various activities on 
cravings, withdrawal, mood, and smoking. 
Compensation will be provided. If interested, 
call 336-406-3706 or email
uflsmokelab@gmail.com    1-13-7-14
PRIVATE TUTOR needed for 7th grade boy 
in Oak Hall. General subjects (hist. sci. eng) and organization. 2-3 days/w. Fee based on qualifications. 352 466 3255.    1-14-10-7-14
A awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-dren’s summer camp, has positions available in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront (sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.   2-11-10-26-14
Smokers are needed to participate in a study 
assessing the effects of various activities on 
cravings, withdrawal, mood, and smoking. 
Compensation will be provided. If interested, 
call 336-406-3706 or emailuflsmokelab@gmail.com    1-28-14-1416, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 2011
Personal Business Manager in Ocala, FL:
Position will support the CEO of a company; 
will be responsible for day-to-day needs in 
business and personal activities. Attend to 
schedules, attend meetings, manage house -
holds. A "Chief of Staff" for family/business 
and liaison for clients. Some travel required, 
domestically and internationally. 
Requirements include extremely profession -
al and personal attitude, great organizational 
and communication skills, analytical and 
problem-solving abilities, computer literacy, 
experience in supporting executives and 
managing projects, flexibility of schedule, ability to learn quickly; must be self-sufficient and able to work independently. 
College education is preferred, but experi -
ence supporting executives is acceptable. 
Salary is negotiable. Call 352-615-5051    1-18-11-6-14
EARN UP TO $300/DAY! Bartending!!! No 
experience necessary. We train you!
888-575-TIPS (8477)     1-14-11-5-14
Local high school is seeking an Assistant 
JV Coach for its girls lacrosse team. Playing 
experience is required. Paid position from 
1/31 - 4/9. Contact Lynn at 352-378-5476 for 
more information.   1-21-11-8-14
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Experienced Part time. 
Some weekends and holidays.
Apply in person at Jonesville Animal 
Hospital 14145 W Newberry Rd. Newberry
1-21-11-7-14Looking for the LEAD Campus Tweeter.  
Tweet for $$, for start-up ShoutOmatic.com.  
Contact mlevy@shoutomatic.com.    1-14-
11-3-14
Free rent, utils., etc. near
campus for female in exchange
for overnight staying with
elderly female. For details,
call Sarah 373-7965 10am-6pm m-f    1-19-
11-5-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp 
runs June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys 
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
Computer tech, Skills to repair comps. Must 
have car. Be honest, available, dependable. 
Part time, make own hours. hr@blue4.com    
1-26-11-10-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
2-9-20-14Female UF student caregiver needed for 
28-year-old disabled girl. Must have personal 
low-profile vehicle (no SUVs). Duties incl toi-
leting & companion services. Sun 9am-8pm. 
Luxurious work conditions. $10/hr. 377-1306   
1-19-11-5-14
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available 
Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.25/hr, experience 
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 
for more info and interview.    2-2-15-14
Nutritional Supplement Store is seeking part
time help. MUST HAVE vitamin sales expe-
rience or strong nutritional education.
Apply in person at Sunflower Health Foods,
87 SW 34th St, Gainesville
1-19-11-5-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
NPD Online Research $9.50/hr+
P/T Product Researchers and Testers
Keep the products you test, and write a short 
review. Good English skills required. Apply at 
www.PaidOnlineResearch.info   11-20-5-14
Lot person, Polaris of Gainesville. Clean 
machines,load, and unload for customers, 
clean building, very minor mechanical, hours
1p-6p M-F apply in person[students prefered]
12556 NW US HWY 441 Alachua Fl 32615   
11-20-11-5-14
CNAs who believe in compassionate care & 
uncompromising services are encouraged to 
apply on-line at http://ck546.ersp.biz/employ -
ment. Strict background checks/drug screen. 12hr shifts, days, nights & wkends avail.
1-24-11-7-14
CONSTRUCTION SUPERINTENDENT
ASSISTANT
Full or part time student. Responsibilities - 
AutoCAD, SketchUp. Assist with planning hanger, putting green, guest house, swim-ming pool, fountain construction and main-
tenance of multiple business and residence 
properties. Back up Shipping, yard main-
tenance. Apply at http://www.gleim.com.    1-27-11-10-14MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm 
& 3:30-9:30pm, M-F & wkends. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax resume & availability to 373-2230    1-20-11-5-14
NANNY for 12+ hrs / afternoons;
exp w/ 3 yr/old; 2:45pm T, W, + 1 more; must be patient, structured, music exp;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix &schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com   1-19-11-4-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
INSURANCE WE REPRESENT
OVER 100 COMPANIESHOME, AUTO AND LIABILITYWHY PAY MORE? 371 9696www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-27-15
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 17
Sports
THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
OPEN HOUSE I DID NOT KNOW THAT TEEING OFF WITH TYLER JETTSaj Guevara / Alligator
 Florida forward Ndidi Madu said the Gators aren’t getting caught up 
in the hype surrounding their home matchup with No. 5 Tennessee.
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
There’s a different atmosphere in Gainesville 
this week — it’s almost palpable — and for good 
reason. Tennessee is coming to town. 
A bevy of media personnel surrounded coach 
Amanda Butler before Wednesday’s practice, 
signaling the arrival of the biggest annual con-
test for Florida’s women’s basketball team.
Tonight at 7 in the O’Connell Center, peren-
nial national title contender Tennessee  will try 
to defeat a Florida (12-5, 2-1 Southeastern Con-
ference) team that hasn’t lost at home all sea-son.
The V olunteers’ credentials are well known. 
Eight-time NCAA champions and 15-time regu-lar-season SEC champions, No. 5 Tennessee (15-2, 3-0 SEC) has long been a standard of excel-lence and a measuring stick for other teams. 
“There’s not any question they’re the most 
talented team in our league,” Butler said. “They’re the benchmark for what success looks like in our league and nationally.”
So, then, what importance does tonight’s 
matchup hold? Is it just another game, or some-thing bigger? 
“I’m trying to not get too caught up in all the 
hype,” forward Ndidi Madu said. “I’m trying to 
make it just a game.”
UF captain Jordan Jones alluded to some 
of the younger players having nerves entering 
the game, but freshman Jaterra Bonds echoed Madu’s sentiment and tried to downplay the importance.
“It’s just another game,” Bonds said. “I came 
here to play basketball against the best teams in the country , the best players in the country . Gators not intimidated by Vols
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
All throughout Billy Donovan’s career at 
Florida, his teams have followed a similar of-
fensive formula. 
Rather than having a go-to guy, UF’s squads 
of the past 15 years have relied on balance and 
an even shot distribution to achieve success. 
That style was on display 
Tuesday against Tennessee, as five Gators scored 11 or more points and UF notched an 81-75 overtime victory in 
Thompson-Boling Arena. 
“I thought our balance of 
inside and out was very, very 
good,” Donovan said. “We were able to go in-side sometimes, we were able to get penetra-
tion and kick it out for three. … We had a good balance in the game amongst our guys.”
That spread has been a trend throughout 
most of the season, as top scorer Erving Walker 
and No. 5 scorer Alex Tyus are separated by 
just five points per game. 
The Gators have also had five different play-
ers lead the team in scoring, with Walker con-
tributing six leading performances, sophomore 
guard Kenny Boynton adding five and senior Balanced 
scoring key 
to success
Bookmaking 101: Deck is stacked against you, so stop betting
After our show at Jeff’s Deli on Fri-
day night, we comics decided a few 
squirts might induce slumber. We 
bolted to Mother’s Pub.
Several patrons came up to me and said, 
“Hey man, I read your Alligator column. 
You’re the bookie.” 
Two of the seven tried to place a bet with 
me. The other five asked whom I liked in the 
playoffs. 
They just didn’t get it.Stop betting. Even Pete Rose couldn’t 
win betting baseball. The deck is stacked 
against you.
Today’s piece will explain how book-
making actually works. Readers who mud-
dle through my minimal mathematics will be rewarded with an infallible system. 
Most gamblers know about vigorish. The 
“vig” is the 10 percent bookies skim off the 
top of a losing bet to ensure the occupation stays profitable. Gamblers bet $110 to win a 
$100, or $1,100 to win a $1,000. 
The “all-knowing” Wikipedia defines 
vig: 
“Bookmakers use this concept to make 
money on their wagers regardless of the 
outcome. Because of the vigorish concept, 
bookmakers should not have an interest 
in either side winning in a given sporting event. They are interested, instead, in get-
ting equal action on each side of the event. 
In this way, the bookmaker minimizes his 
risk and always collects a small commission from the vigorish. The 
bookmaker will nor -
mally adjust the odds, 
or line, to attract equal 
action on each side of an event.”
To summarize, “Joe 
bets $100 on the Gi-
ants; Frank bets $100 
on Dallas. The book-
maker lays them off 
against each other and 
snares $10 for his trouble. 
This is complete bullshit.  In today’s computerized world, most 
bookies operate over the Internet via off-shore casinos, so they don’t have individual control to adjust a line and balance their books. Offshore services charge standard fees to take action for bookies throughout 
the world. The bookmaker checks his week-
ly printout and then pays off or collects.
Here’s how the system works.
The first week of the NFL season, 13 
games were played. Of the 13, the bookie cares about five or six. 
For a Miami bookie, the Buffalo-Miami 
game; for a New York bookie, the Giants-
Dallas game; and whatever game CBS sees 
as the match up of the week. All these games 
would be loaded with action. 
Sunday night’s game is always significant 
for every bookie because it is a gamblers last 
n NFL Draft experts say Cam Newton needs to stay at Auburn 
for another year. There could be worse things than being the 
most popular man on a campus crawling with 18-22-year-old girls. Plus, who wants to take a pay cut? … LSU officials, on Les Miles’ new seven-year contract: “We said the same things he does in every huddle. Damn, this grass is good.”n We’re looking to hire four alligatorSports writ-
ers, so if you want to cover a Florida athletic beat, 
come out to the Alligator office Friday between 12 p.m. and 3 p.m. to apply. We will also have limited space to hire sports copy editors.n Florida volleyball coach Mary Wise posted on 
Twitter earlier this week that former Gator Callie Rivers is playing professionally in Puerto Rico, while classmate Lauren Bledsoe has taken her talents to Finland.“I’m trying to not get too caught up 
in all the hype.” 
Ndidi Madu
UF forward
SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 20
SEE BILL, PAGE 19SEE HOOPS, PAGE 19Men's
Bask etball
Bill O’Connor
Confessions of a 
New York Bookie
sports@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
2011 GYMNASTICS
FLORIDA GATORS   FLORIDA GATORS  FLORIDA GATORS
FLORIDA GATORS   FLORIDA GATORS  FLORIDA GATORS
#1 Florida vs. #16 Kentucky
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
 UF sophomore guard Kenny Boynton has led the team in scoring five times this season. Even when Boynton 
shot 0 for 9 from the field against American, the Gators’ balanced scoring pushed them to a 19-point win.
Point distribution similar to 
‘06, ‘07 national title teams
forward Chandler Parsons tal-
lying three. 
The Gators have also had 
four of their five starters score at least 20 in a game this year, 
with Parsons coming up just 
short when he notched a season-
high 18 against Rhode Island. 
“Anyone is capable of putting 
up 20,” Tyus said. “Any one of 
the five starters is very capable of scoring, and we know that. 
Every game is different.”
This point distribution al-
lows the team to make up for 
any individual’s subpar perfor -
mance on a given night, which is key on a team filled with streaky shooters. 
In the team’s Dec. 5 contest 
against American, Boynton 
missed all nine of his field goal 
attempts, but the Gators other four starters each scored in double figures to help UF get 
the 67-48 win. “Even if I don’t play well or 
someone else doesn’t play well, we can still get wins,” Tyus 
said.
The ability to put five differ -
ent scoring threats on the floor has been critical to Donovan’s 
success in the past. 
Both the 2005-06 and 2006-07 
national championship teams 
had all five starters average in 
double-digit points, and neither 
team featured a single player scoring more than 14.2 per game. 
Although this year’s start-
ers don’t have the talent of the ‘04s, they proved last season they have the ability to repli-cate those scoring results. Each 
starter finished the year aver -
aging in double figures, with 
Boynton leading the way at 14 per game. 
“It’s all about what’s in the 
system,” Walker said. “This is just Billy Donovan’s style of play, and it’s showed that it’s worked in the past.”HOOPS , from page 18
chance to “bail out” or break even.
The other seven or eight games 
would have minimal money 
spread across the board. 
So, for argument’s sake, let’s 
say five games are top heavy with money. Because of the “juice,” the 
“vig,” the 10 percent, all the bookie 
has to do is win two out of those 
five games, and he breaks even. In 
any occupation besides bookmak-ing, when you’re right only 40 per -
cent of the time, you’re broke. 
The bookie also provides “spe-cialty bets” such as parlays, teas-
ers, reverse bets and other nov-
elties. These “sucker bets” help bookies balance their sheet and usually involve “double juice,” or 
20 percent vig.
If the bookie wins three of those 
crucial five games, he wins big. If he wins four of those five games, 
he crushes. To beat the bookie, bet-
ters must win four out of those five 
top-heavy games. On average, that 
might happen twice a season. The 
bookie cleans the players’ clocks 
the rest of the schedule. 
My first year in the business, I 
had two partners: Blinky and Red. We had 100 customers. I asked them how many winners they 
thought we’d have by season’s end.
Blinky squinted, reflected and 
said, “Twelve.” 
Red didn’t stutter; he shot back, 
“Eight.”  
When the season ended, we 
had no winners. The following 
year: 200 customers, no winners. 
The following year: 350 custom-
ers — no winners. We didn’t count 
money. We measured stacks by 
inches. 
Mathematics is a pure science. 
If you bet 10 games over a week, a year or a lifetime, you need six winners to break even. “Juice” dic-
tates that you hit seven out of 10 games to win a little cash. To win real money, you must win eight 
out of 10 games. It can’t be done 
against the Vegas spread.  
If bookmakers ran the Treasury, 
there’d be a budget surplus every year. Their lines are laser accurate. 
Here’s the tip I promised about 
how to come out ahead betting 
sports: Take your money out of 
your left-hand pocket. Count it. 
Study the football lines. Now, pick 
a team you like. Count it again, 
then fold your money and place it back in the same pocket.
Later, spend it on something 
productive — like a hooker and an 
eight ball?  
If you’re still compelled to wa-
ger, make a “mind bet.”  If it loses, all you’ll have lost is your mind.
Bill O’Connor is a Vietnam vet, 
former Bronx firefighter and pub and 
restaurant owner. He is currently a journalism major at UF and a stand-up comic. The highly irreverent and acerbic O’Connor performs free stand-up comedy in various locations around Gainesville.
BILL , from page 1820, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 2011
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. — Denard Robinson’s high school 
coach heard from so many coaches trying to recruit the dual-
threat quarterback by Wednesday afternoon that he was on 
his third cell-phone battery.
“Every school wants Denard — trust me,” Art Taylor, 
who coached Robinson at Deerfield Beach High, said in a 
telephone interview. “I’ve heard from at least 10 to 15 schools 
already.
“Denard loves Michigan, but he has to do what’s best for 
him because this is a big decision.”
Robinson chose to play for college football’s winningest 
program because it was led by spread guru Rich Rodriguez.
The first player in NCAA history to throw and run for 
1,500 yards hasn’t commented since Rodriguez was fired last 
week and replaced by Brady Hoke.
“I talked to Denard this morning and told him, ‘You have 
to ask the new coach questions about the offense and what 
your role will be,’” Taylor recalled Wednesday afternoon 
shortly after Hoke met with the team and media. “I’ve told 
him what a great education he’ll get if he stays at Michigan, but if they want to turn him into a drop-back quarterback 
and waste his 4.3 speed (in the 40-yard dash), that might not be the best place for him.”
Hoke hopes to persuade Robinson to return for his junior 
season.
“We have got a special guy in Denard,” Hoke said. “He is 
a guy that can do an awful lot for your football program, and I know he loves the University of Michigan. I got to spend 
about 15 minutes with him, and we are going to spend a little more time together.
“When you have talented players, it’s your job as a coach 
to mold that into what’s best for your football team. Most the time when you do that, it’s what is best for that player.”
Michigan has lost one quarterback, Tate Forcier, accord-
ing to athletic director Dave Brandon.
Forcier was academically ineligible to play for the Wol-
verines in the Gator Bowl
“Tate is not with the program,” Brandon said when asked 
about Forcier’s status. “I hate acting like I’m dodging ques-tions, but there are certain limitations as to what I can talk about relative to any student’s academic status with the uni-
versity. ... I’d rather leave that to someone else.”
Messages seeking comment were left with Forcier and his 
father.
He backed up Robinson last season after starting ahead of 
him when they were both freshmen during the 2009 season. 
Forcier threw for 2,647 yards with 17 touchdowns and 14 in-terceptions in 20 games.
MSU ADDS COLLINS AS CO-DC: Mississippi State has hired 
Geoff Collins as its co-defensive coordinator and lineback-
ers coach.
The 16-year coaching veteran comes to MSU after one 
season as defensive coordinator at Florida International. He 
helped the Panthers to their first bowl win in school history, 
beating Toledo in the Little Caesars Pizza Bowl one year after 
a 3-9 finish in 2009.
FIU’s defense led the Sun Belt in total defense, scoring de-
fense, pass efficiency defense and turnover margin.
Before going to FIU, Collins spent two seasons as line-
backers coach and recruiting coordinator at Central Florida.
He will share coordinator responsibilities with Chris Wil-
son, who was promoted after Manny Diaz left to become de-
fensive coordinator at Texas.New Michigan coach Hoke hopes to keep QB Robinson
Florida looks to utilize homecourt advantage against Tennessee
There’s nothing different that I’m going to do 
just because we’re playing Tennessee.”
Butler said she has kept preparation large-
ly the same but disagreed with some of her players about the potential impact of a game 
against a powerhouse like Tennessee.
“Anybody that says it’s just another game 
or it’s no big deal, they’re just saying that for 
(the media) and the camera, because it is a big deal,” Butler said. “We’re not interested in competing with the best or trying to be one of the best. We want to be the best. There’s no 
way around it. You’ve got to go through it to 
make it happen.”
Despite a 40-3 Tennessee advantage in 
the overall series, Florida routinely plays the V olunteers tough. The Gators are 8-0 on their home court this year and are playing impres-sive defense against SEC opponents (63.0 points per game).  Junior center Azania Stewart has experi-
ence against Tennessee and said she expects Florida to win.
“We haven’t lost at home. 
This is our place,” Stewart 
said. “[Tennessee coach Pat 
Summitt] hates playing Flor -
ida because we’re ready to 
do anything.”
Florida let a similar opportunity narrowly slip through its fingers last season when the Volunteers shut the door on a potential upset.
Angie Bjorklund hit a reverse layup with 
less than five seconds remaining to give Tennessee the 66-64 victory , and the Gators haven’t forgotten.
“Losing the way we did last year, we feel 
like we have something to prove,” Jones said. “[Tonight’s game] is a great opportunity to shock the world and make a statement about who we are and how good we can be.”
W-HOOPS , from page 18NCAA FOOTBALL
Women's
Bask etball“Every school wants Denard — trust me."
Art Taylor
Deerfield Beach High coach