VOLUME 106 ISSUE 59 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Gamers keep playing despite power outage
National Gaming Day @ Library West was held Saturday, pg 3.  
Turkey wasn’t invited to vegan Thanksgiving on Saturday
Schmanksgiving dinner held at Civic Media Center, pg 8. Cellphones carry bacteria from feces
Study shows that 16 percent of all cellphones  
are covered in feces, which carry the E. coli bacteria, pg. 5. 
City Commission 
candidate Nathan 
Skop said he wants 
to improve ﬁ  scal 
responsibiliy and 
parking dowtown. 
See story, page 4.
82/61
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 9CROSSWORD  11
SPORTS 16SOUTH CAROLINA 17 FLORIDA 12
 GATORS LIMPING TO FINISH
  MATT WATTS
 Alligator Staff Writer
 COLUMBIA, S.C. —   For the ﬁ  fth time in six games, 
the Gators lost on Saturday . For the third time in four 
games, they have mistakes in pivotal situations to thank for the loss.
  And Will Muschamp is tired of it.
  “We’ve had three ballgames where we’ve had our 
opportunities,” he said. “It comes back to turnovers 
(and) critical errors when you’ve got to make plays.”
  In Saturday’s 17-12 loss, Florida turned the ball over 
on the second play of the game and again in the second quarter. The second giveaway , a Jeff Demps fumble, led to the Gamecocks’ second touchdown of the game, extending their lead to 14-3.
  Then, with the Gators down by just two in the fourth 
quarter, South Carolina quarterback Connor Shaw hit Ace Sanders on a 46-yard pass over cornerback Jaylen Watkins, setting up a ﬁ  eld goal.
  “You’ve got to make a play on the ball down the 
ﬁ  eld when you’re in a situation where it’s a ﬁ  eld-goal game,” Muschamp said. 
“We’ve got to execute in those situations, and that 
comes back on me. We’ve got to do a better job coach-ing, a better job in those critical downs and those criti-cal situations.”
  With the loss to South Carolina (8-2, 6-2 Southeast-
ern Conference), Florida (5-5, 3-5 SEC) ﬁ  nished its ﬁ  rst 
season under Muschamp with a losing record in the 
SEC for the ﬁ  rst time since divisions were created. It’s the ﬁ  rst time the Gators have ﬁ  nished under .500 in the conference since 1986.
    Florida had an opportunity near the end to win the 
game, but the offense got the ball with just 42 seconds left to play at its own 11-yard line. South Carolina, Loss assures UF 
worst conference 
ﬁ  nish in 25 years
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 15
� TWENTY-THREE PEOPLE 
WERE ARRESTED SATURDAY FOR TRESPASSING. 
  MORGAN WATKINS 
and MEREDITH RUTLAND
 Alligator Staff Writers
 Police arrested 23 Occupy 
Gainesville protesters early Sat-urday morning for trespassing 
at Bo Diddley Community Plaza after the park had closed, send-
ing three of them to the Alachua 
County Jail and giving the others notices to appear in court. 
  Lt. Jorge Campos of the 
Gainesville Police Department, senior ofﬁ  cer on the scene, said a group of Occupy protesters gath-ered on the plaza, which closed at 11:30 p.m. 
O f f i c e r s 
warned them 
they were vio-
lating a city ordinance be-tween midnight and 12:30 a.m. and began ar-resting them af-
ter 1 a.m., he said.   Tommy Baker, a 25-year-old 
UF aerospace engineering alum-nus, was among those taken to 
the Alachua County Jail. He said 
the protest was calm and without violence.
  Baker said he and the other 
protesters huddled in the cen-ter of the plaza, sang “God Bless America” and waited to be ar-rested. He said he decided to be arrested to make a point about his constitutional rights.
  “We wanted to bring aware-
ness to that fact that we can’t protest in the plaza after 11:30, that our First Amendment rights end at a particular time,” he said. “There is no time limit on that freedom.”
  Police issued 20 notices to ap-
More Occupy Gainesville protesters arrested this weekend    COLUMBIA, S.C.  As has been hashed and rehashed across these pages during the past six weeks, Florida is bad. 
  It’s really, really simple. Anybody who has 
watched even one of the Gators’ last six games rec-
ognizes it. 
  But that obvious fact 
doesn’t mean UF shouldn’t 
be expected to ﬁ  nd ways to win. 
  For all their struggles, the 
Gators could easily be 8-2. 
  Florida’s losses to Au-
burn, Georgia and South Carolina were all one-score games in the fourth quarter.
  But UF could never ﬁ  nish, an extremely common 
symptom among bad teams. 
  Against Auburn, Florida gave up 10 points, 
couldn’t convert a fourth down and muffed a punt 
in the fourth quarter.
  In the fourth against Georgia, Florida had 17 
yards and let the Bulldogs run the ﬁ  nal 5:32 off the 
clock on a single possession. 
  And most recently, against South Carolina, Flor-
ida couldn’t close out an unexpectedly winnable game, failing to come up with a difference-making play as hopes of a .500 ﬁ  nish in the Southeastern Conference vanished. 
  “We had three opportunities to win games, and 
we didn’t get it done,” coach Will Muschamp said. “That comes back on my shoulders.”
  Maybe it does.   Muschamp could be taking the blame just for the 
sake of doing so, but to some extent it’s on him to keep Florida’s intensity level high throughout the  Florida lacking 
killer instinct in dead season
SEE GREG, PAGE 15
Greg Luca
twitter: @gregluca
 Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
  Florida coach Will Muschamp was frustrated by the turnovers and mis-
takes in crucial moments during Saturday’s loss to South Carolina. 
Baker
SEE OCCUPY, PAGE 5News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 59 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tyler Jett, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,   
  Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Kathryn Milstein, Adrianna Paidas,  
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Linzy Monahan   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening
Rise Up: Stories from Jamaica’s 
Music Underground (Film)
Today, 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.Smathers Library 4th floor, Latin American CollectionThis film documents the 
world of music in Jamaica 
and explores a variety of so-ciocultural issues relating to poverty, violence and post-
colonial corruption.
HEAL’s Tie-Dye Extravaganza
Today, 5 p.m. to 9 p.m.Reitz Union Colonnade  
HEAL will be hosting its Tie-
Dye Fundraiser to support Gators March for Babies.
The Florida I Knew
Today, 6 p.m.Pugh Hall
Reubin Askew became the 
first Florida governor to serve two consecutive four-year terms. He emerged as a pro-
gressive lawmaker, opposing 
racial segregation and sup-porting fair legislative repre-sentation for urban counties. Gov. Askew will be discuss-ing some of the high points of his governorship and the importance of being civicly 
engaged.
Graduate Christian Fellowship
Today, 7 p.m.
Reitz Union, Room 288Come to the November large-
group meeting. The group 
will be starting a new series called New Rules on Love, Sex and Dating. All grad stu-dents welcome.
Asian American Student 
Union’s General Body 
Meeting: “A Design Apart”
Today,  6:30 p.m. to 8 p.m.Computer Science and Engineering Bldg., Room E220The group will be discussing 
education disparities as it per -
tains to minorities. Cupcakes 
will be served.
La Cosecha (The Harvest)
Today, 7 p.m.Civic Media Center, 433 S. Main St.
“The Harvest” is a docu-
mentary film about agricul-tural child labor in America. The film depicts children as 
young as 12 years old who 
work as many as 12 hours a day, six months a year, sub-ject to hazardous conditions: heat exposure, pesticides, and 
dangerous work. The event is 
co-sponsored by Gainesville Industrial Workers of the World. $3-5 suggested dona-
tion. 
Alternative Spring Break Info 
Session
Today, 8 p.m.
UF Hillelpresent: medical, dental, 
pharmacy, nursing, physical therapy and physician assis-tant. The health panel is open 
to everyone. Refreshments 
will be served afterward.
What’s HAPNAN? Arts & 
Sciences in the Digital Age
Thursday, 7:30 p.m. 
UF Digital Worlds Institute REVE LiveVibe TV kicks off Season 3 with “WHAT’S HAPNAN? 
Arts & Sciences in the Digital 
Age.” A UF nanotechnology engineer uses video games to help recruit students for 
high-tech careers, the head of 
the Art school plays the Blues and P .K. Yonge Elementary School students demon-strate how music and audio 
engineering have changed 
their lives. Seats in the stu-dio audience are limited and must be requested at RSVP@
DigitalWorlds.ufl.edu. For 
more information, please vis-it www.LiveVibeTV.com. 
A Celebration of Catalan and 
other Iberian LanguagesFriday, 10 a.m. to noonLibrary West, Room 211
Welcome and opening com-
ments by Judith Russell, dean of university libraries. The Wealth and Importance of UF’s Iberian Collection 
by Matt Loving, Romance 
Studies Assistant Librarian, and Elisabet Liminyana, UF Catalan Instructor, who 
will focus on Catalan stud-
ies and the recent gifts to the Catalan/Basque collections. Catalan students will read excerpts from selected gift 
acquisitions.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-
per, please submit the event 
before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.UF Hillel is hosting an Alternative Spring Break Trip information session. Three trips during Spring 
Break 2012 to El Salvador, 
Jamaica and Israel will be discussed.
Arabic Culture: Enrichment 
through International
     Education
Tuesday, 9:45 a.m. to 1 p.m.Smathers Library, Room 1AThe day’s schedule is at 
www.uflib.ufl.edu/pio/
IEW2011schedule.pdf
GIS Day @ UF
Wednesday, 9:30 a.m. to 4:55 p.m.Smathers Library, Room 1A
An all-day event to show-
case the use of geographic information systems to the academic community and the public. Schedule at 
uflib.ufl.edu/gisday. Co-
sponsored by Innovation through Institutional Integration.
“Mulan” film showing
Thursday, 12:45 p.m.Library West, Room 212The 2009 live-action version 
of the famous Chinese leg-
end with an introduction by  Sean Macdonald, assistant professor of Chinese.
Collaborating with Strangers 
WorkshopThursday, 4 p.m. to 5:30 
p.m.
Find quick ways to make long-term connections. Visit uflib.ufl.edu/pio/CoLAB/home.html for de-
tails and registration.
The Transgender Day of
     Remembrance Vigil 
Thursday, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Reitz Union Amphitheater
A celebration and candle-light vigil remembering the lives of transgender people 
who were the victims of 
violence. Speakers from the community will also be present at the event.
HEAL’s Fall Health Panel
Thursday, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.Pugh HallGet  pre-health questions 
answered from students 
who have gone through the process and from those cur -
rently in the professional schools. Students from the 
following schools will be 
PARTLY
CLOUDY
82/61PARTLY
CLOUDY
83/65PARTLY
CLOUDY
84/64RAIN
72/52PARTLY
CLOUDY
72/56FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
Nov. 20, 1973: Sales of Gatorade give UF $115,296 
in royalties in the first year of a royalty agreement. Dr. James Robert Cade and his team developed 
the sports drink at UF in September 1965.
Nov. 17, 1988: Sigma Nu Fraternity President 
Chuck Castellon and pledge trainer Dan Lintz will be forced to testify under oath about an alleged cat-
napping that occurred in October. Twenty members of the fraternity are accused of stealing a former little sister’s cat, but the fraternity refuses to tell Gainesville police the names of those involved.
Nov. 18, 1994: Anthony Edmonds, an employee 
at the Taco Bell in the Hub, is given a trespassing warning by UPD for walking over to the Reitz 
Union for a cup of coffee. Edmonds works at Taco 
Bell through a work-release program at Santa Fe Community Correctional Center and is not allowed to leave the restaurant during his shifts. He was jailed in 1989 for robbery with a deadly weapon.
Nov. 18, 1997: U.S. Supreme Court refuses to 
hear Gainesville serial killer Danny Rolling’s fed-eral appeal. Rolling pleaded guilty to killing five 
Gainesville college students in August 1990.
Nov. 16, 2006: More than 900 copies of the “F 
Book” are sold. The tradition book, which is sold 
for $8.95 at the UF Bookstore, is published for the 
first time since 1960, when the Office of Student Af-
fairs stopped publishing it.
– MINA RADMANon campus
MARIA GALINDO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Not even a power outage could stop 
gamers from participating in National 
Gaming Day @ Library West on Satur -
day. 
They were still using wingless birds 
to seek vengeance against pigs in the popular puzzle video game “Angry Birds” at around 2:30 p.m., shortly af-ter power went out in a few areas on campus. 
“We’ll be playing until my laptop 
battery runs out,” said Keivan Zolf-aghari, 20, a UF Google student ambas-sador, as he demonstrated how to play 
“Angry Birds” in Google Chrome. 
However, Zolfaghari and all Library West patrons were cleared from the 
building shortly before 3 p.m. per the library’s emergency and disaster pro-cedures. 
The “Angry Birds” flash mob was 
part of the first-ever UF celebration of National Gaming Day, an initiative of the American Library Association.
“This is an effort for the libraries to 
reach out to their constituents,” said David Schwieder, event supervisor and 
political science librarian. “We’re trying 
to reach people with an event people would enjoy.”
The event featured game demon-
strations by Zolfaghari and local video game developing company Puppy Punch Productions.
About 20 visitors played video 
games such as Punch Productions’ 
Chicken Coup Remix HD. Board game 
classics such as Apples to Apples and Monopoly were also available for use. 
 Aron Lewis, Puppy Punch Produc-
tions public relations representative, said these events are beneficial because they help promote gaming, which can be used as an educational tool. 
“Gaming is a different way to expe-
rience the world,” Lewis said. “It’s a lot more interactive and requires player feedback.”Gamers keep playing despite power outageRYAN PALERMO
Alligator Contributing Writer  
Disability Awareness Week, hosted by Student Gov-
ernment, began Friday. But  Meredith Raymond, director 
of the Disability Affairs cabinet, said she hopes the entire week will foster an awareness of people apart from their 
disabilities.
The week, which Raymond said is the first of its kind 
at UF, will consist of five events aimed to shed light on a 
wide spectrum of disabilities.
On Tuesday at 8 p.m., SG and Reitz Union Board Enter -
tainment will present “Temple Grandin,” a biopic about 
an autistic woman who advocated for humane livestock handling, which will be shown at the Reitz Union Audito-rium. Free ice cream will be served at the event.On Wednesday from 11 a.m to 1 p.m., the Disability 
Awareness Fair will host several organizations affiliated with the disability community at the Reitz Union Colon-nade.
Dinner with Disabilities, catered by Kay Bros. BBQ, 
will aim to simulate what it’s like for physically disabled individuals to eat meals. Dinner with Disabilities will take place Thursday at 7 p.m. in Ustler Hall.
To close the week of festivities, Not Just Ramps, a theat-
rical performance group that promotes awareness of dis-abilities, will perform Friday in Reitz Union Room 282 at 8 p.m.
“The purpose of Disability Awareness Week is to in-
spire students to look beyond the title of ‘disability,’” she said. “People aren’t defined by their disability,” Raymond said.SG hosts Disability Awareness Week
“We’ll be playing until my 
laptop battery runs out.”
Keivan Zolfaghari
UF Google student ambassador4, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011
Alex Catalano / Alligator
Nathan Skop is primarily concerned with fiscal responsibility, open -
ness in government and a focus on public safety.
MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writer
Nathan Skop knows how hard 
it is to park in Gainesville — espe-
cially downtown.
“We give [shoppers] every ex-
cuse not to come downtown,” he 
said.
To help the city fix this and 
other issues, he’s running for the 
At-Large 1 seat of the Gainesville City Commission. He signed up as a candidate Oct. 31.
He’s one of six candidates. He 
is the seventh to join the At-Large 1 race, but candidate Harold Saive 
withdrew Nov. 2.
Skop, a 44-year-old lawyer, 
said he’s heard from resident af-
ter resident who have told him they’re unhappy with the current commission. He said he wants to bring an alternative mindset to City Hall.
His main concerns if elected 
will be fiscal responsibility, open-ness in government and a focus on public safety, he said.
He said he wants to extend pub-
lic comment at commission meet-ings and said he doesn’t believe all of the current commissioners listen to their constituents.
“I find it reprehensible to limit 
public comment,” he said. “It seems to represent a form of cen-sorship.”
Skop said he disagrees with 
the city’s contract with a biomass plant, which was approved by the city in 2009, calling it a fiscally ir -
responsible deal for city residents. He’s had experience with several facets of alternative energy, in-cluding wind, solar and nuclear power, but he said this project doesn’t make financial sense.
“When you ignore the econom-
ics in the zeal to be green, bad things happen,” he said.
And he said he’d be in favor 
of removing parking meters from University Avenue and down-town in order to create more free parking spaces. 
He said it could give residents 
an incentive to go to downtown businesses to spend money and grow the local economy.
Born in Charlotte, N.C., he 
moved to Sanford when he was about six months old.
He moved to Gainesville to 
earn his B.S. in aerospace engi-neering from UF and graduated in 1991. He earned an MBA from 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute 
in 1996.
He moved to Groton, Conn., to 
help build nuclear submarines for the U.S. Navy.
He then moved to Seattle and 
Palm Beach Gardens before com-ing back to Gainesville in 2003.Skop graduated from the UF 
Levin College of Law in 2006 and works for a private law practice.
He was appointed by  former 
Gov. Charlie Christ to serve on the Florida Public Service Com-mission for four years. His term ended Jan. 1.
During that time, he said, he 
fought against two large increases in utility companies’ rates, which would have raised customers’ 
utility bills, that he believed were 
unjustified.
He said he believes that’s the 
reason he isn’t there today.
“I think we know what hap-
pens in Tallahassee when you have a chance to stand up to a very powerful company,” he said.
He said he’ll draw on his expe-
rience and education in engineer -
ing, business and law to make in-formed decisions.
He said he’d be in favor of 
streamlining the process to set up a business in the city. The paper -
work for land development is es-pecially daunting.
“Some of the members of the 
community have described that document as being thicker than the King James Bible,” he said.
But most of all, he said, he 
wants to help the city make de-cisions that make good business sense.
“If we were more diligent in 
managing our limited resources,” 
he said, “we would be able to de-
liver on our promises.” Candidate wants to improve public safety, fiscal responsibility
� ABOUT 200 ATTENDED AND 
MADE DONATIONS.
KATHERINE GREENE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Before she left her home, Parinee Mitch-
ell lugged all of her furniture to the second 
story of her house and wrapped her car in a plastic tarp, being careful to seal each open edge. Then she said her final goodbyes to her possessions, hoping it wasn’t the last time she would see them.
Mitchell, 33, left Bangkok last week 
when the area she lived in was evacu-ated and came to stay with her sister in Gainesville.
She was one of about 200 who attended 
the UF4Thai Flood Relief dinner that the UF Thai Student Association hosted Saturday evening. The fundraiser was held at First Lutheran Church, 1801 NW Fifth Ave., to 
raise money for the Red Cross in Thailand 
to benefit victims of  the worst flooding the country has seen in five decades.
Apisadaporn Thambundit, 28, a fourth-
year medical student and member of the Thai Student Association, created the fund-raiser with help from other members of the organization.
“A lot of the Thai students here in 
Gainesville have been directly affected by the flood in Thailand, whether it is their own homes being flooded almost to the roof or knowing relatives who have had to evacuate, or friends,” Thambundit said.
Featuring traditional Thai food, per -
formances, games and entertainment, the event was organized completely through volunteer work.
With a $9 donation ahead of time or a 
$10 donation at the door, guests received coupons that could be used toward food and drinks or games and entertain-ment. Thambundit said she wasn’t sure how much the group raised at the event.  
 There were Thai dancers, Muay Thai kick-boxers and games like “Smash an M&M,” which allowed players three chances to use a rubber spatula to smash the chocolate-
coated candy as it flew off a cardboard 
ramp.
While the mood at the event was play-
ful and light, the conversation that rippled through the tables of guests eating was a reminder of the cause behind the entertain-ment and ethnic food.
Ben Vongvanij, 24, an architecture ju-
nior and member of the Thai Student Asso-
ciation, said the damage of this year’s flood 
is devastating. 
“They compare this to the tsunami in 
Japan, but the damage is more,” Vongvanij said. “Because people have more time to evacuate there will be less deaths, but there will still be more damage. It’s give or take. We have time to prepare, but it is difficult to recover from.”
The club will continue to raise funds. 
Although no other events are planned at this time, Thambundit said donations are always welcome.Thai students host dinner to 
raise money for flood victimsPHILANTHROPY
DAVID WILLIAMS
Alligator Contributing Writer
More than 250 people got up early 
Saturday morning and went for a run in 
an effort to be more healthy.
The Tom Walker Memorial Half 
Marathon at the Gainesville-Hawthorne 
State Trail, organized by the Florida 
Track Club, was a way for the organiza-tion to help people develop an interest in running and promote a healthy life-style, said Mark Ou, the race coordina-tor for the Florida Track Club.
“Seeing people finish the race with 
excitement is more rewarding than any race I’ve ever finished,” Ou said. “See-
ing them enjoying running that much 
just blows me away.”
The trail caters to runners of all 
strengths, offering a route that allows for the ease of a road race with all the benefits of a trail race, he said. 
The event itself is organized to be ac-
cessible for even the newest of runners.
Ou said the Florida Track Club strives 
for a professional experience, sometimes forfeiting funds.
“It’s never been our intention to prof-
it off of races,” he said. 
This year, the club made a point of 
providing its runners with a more com-plete race by partnering with Milestone Race Authority, a company which, ac-cording to its website, offers the newest 
technology in timing to “enhance the 
race-day experience.”
Milestone Race Authority uses a 
timing system developed by Innova-tive Timing Systems called Jaguar. The  system can measure times to one-thou-sandth of a second at speeds up to 180 mph.
“The bane of most races is that you 
finish early, and then you have to wait around for an hour or two for the results and rewards,” said Jim Shields, a Mile-stone Race Authority supervisor at the Tom Walker Memorial Half Marathon. “In the end now, we’re going to get fast times with extremely fast results.”
Ou said the new time keeping system 
increased the operational costs of the race, but it was worth the cost to better the runners’ experience.
Vivek Iyer, a biological chemistry 
senior, said the race-day environment helped him feel more comfortable with running his first half marathon.
While some runners prefer cold tem-
peratures like those on Saturday, he said the weather added to the difficulty of the race, because training took place in warm-weather conditions.
“Around mile 10, my legs started to 
shake, and all I could think about was taking one more step,” Iyer said. “The encouragement of my friends and those around definitely kept me going.”
The winner was Samuel Palmer, 23, 
from Oviedo, who finished the race in about an hour and 16 minutes.Runners race to finish line to 
promote healthy lifestyles“We give [shoppers] 
every excuse not to come      
downtown.”
Nathan Skop 
City Commission candidate
“It’s never been our intention to 
profit off of races.”
Mark Ou
race coordinator for the Florida Track Clubpear in court to protesters who complied 
with the condition that they were to stop trespassing after receiving the notices.
Campos said three were arrested 
and taken to the Alachua County Jail: 
Thomas “Tommy” John Baker, who told 
officers he intended to “join his fellow protesters” and trespass again if he was issued a notice; Ahren B. Tsacrios, who was charged with resisting arrest with-out violence after he made his body limp and officers carried him out of the plaza; and Annette Gilley, who had already re-ceived two notices to appear in the past 
for violating the ordinance. 
Baker said his statement didn’t nec-
essarily mean he was going to go back on the plaza immediately, but he said he 
didn’t fight the officer’s decision to take him to jail because he was planning to go back on the plaza at some point.
“I was eventually going to go back 
into the plaza with the rest of the group, 
so I let that be,” Baker said. 
The protesters were part of an orga-
nized group that planned not to comply 
with the ordinance, Campos said. 
“[The protesters] corralled them-
selves inside. They pushed signs up around them. Every time that we would go in to arrest one, they would chant and yell and scream,” he said. “It was a 
staged, planned event.”
Campos said other Occupy protesters 
were on the sidewalks surrounding the 
plaza, abiding by the law.OCCUPY , from page 1Group planned to violate 
city ordinance, get arrested JAVIER PEÑA
Alligator Contributing Writer
History junior Liz McNeill uses her Mac-
Book and BlackBerry to check emails and to 
send about 30 text messages every day.
She also wipes her laptop’s keyboard every 
two weeks with baby wipes.
“I’m actually, like, a clean freak,” she said.Keeping It Kleen, a public awareness cam-
paign that educates the public on food safety and hygiene, posted an online infographic Wednesday stating that 16 percent of all cell-phones contain feces, which harbors the E.coli bacteria.
“That is disgusting,” said McNeill, 20.The information was based on a study con-
ducted by researchers in England that focused on 390 samples of volunteers’ cellphones, ac-cording to an Oct. 14 USA Today article.
Jorge A. Girón, associate professor in the 
department of molecular genetics and micro-biology at UF, said it’s not surprising to find out that E. coli exists on cellphones. Girón said the bacteria can be found on door knobs, handrails and even elevator buttons.
“Everything we touch has feces,” he said.Girón blames this on the lack of good hy-
giene practices among the general public.“It tells us that people aren’t washing their 
hands,” he said.
Despite these statistics, Girón said the 
strands of E. coli that exist on phones and oth-er surfaces are harmless. Other strands of E. coli, on the other hand, can mutate and cause disease when ingested with tainted food.
According to the Keeping It Kleen website, 
people can clean their phones by using Clorox 
wipes, rubbing alcohol with soft tissue and using house-
hold sanitizing wipes.
Girón said the most ba-
sic solution is for people to practice good hygiene by washing their hands after going to the bathroom.
Classical studies sopho-
more Theos Rizos, 19, said 
he is aware of the bacteria around him but ad-mitted he wouldn’t change his daily routine.
“I’m not too concerned,” he said. “I have a 
pretty good immune system.”
Referring to her BlackBerry, McNeill said 
she doesn’t plan on changing how much she uses it.
“I would probably sanitize it more,” she 
said. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
A study conducted by researchers in England found that 16 percent of cellphones 
have feces on their surfaces, which harbor the E.coli bacteria.
Study shows that cellphones carry bacteria found in feces
StUdent Life
MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
Alexandra Kramer ordered a skinny va-
nilla latte, a slice of lemon loaf and a cup 
of water at the Starbucks in Library West 
on Monday.
To her surprise, she was charged 45 
cents for the cup of water. 
She hadn’t been charged for water be-
fore.
A Starbucks employee told the 20-year-
old public relations junior the charge was 
recently implemented because the cups used were not recyclable, Kramer said.
The Starbucks at the Hub also charged 
for water last week.
Jill Rodriguez, the marketing program 
manager for Gator Dining Services, wrote 
in an email, “A mistake was made at the Hub when charging the customer for wa-
ter, and we have since corrected this.”
Rodriguez declined to say who made 
the mistake or for how long customers had been charged for water. 
She did not say if any other campus lo-
cations aside from Library West and the 
Hub had charged for water.
Kramer, however, said she was glad 
Starbucks on campus eliminated the 
charge.
“Starbucks is already pricey,” Kramer 
said. “I’m sure they were receiving a lot of complaints from students.”Campus Starbucks mistakenly 
charge visitors for cups of waterGiron
“I’m sure they were receiving a 
lot of complaints from students.”
Alexandra Kramer 
public relations juniorReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialMONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR93 TOTAL VOTES38% YES
62% NOThursday’s question: Have you ever 
been a victim of sexual harassment?Today’s question: Did you get charged for a cup of 
water at the Starbucks on campus last week?Child’s Play
Zero tolerance goes 
too far
In Palm Bay, Nick Martinez recently found out by being sus-
pended that his school, Southwest Middle, does not toler -
ate public displays of affection.
His crime? The 14-year-old was caught hugging his female 
friend. 
He wasn’t touching her inappropriately, and he wasn’t forc-
ing himself upon her. Even the principal who spotted the “inci-
dent” told reporters the hug was innocent.  
But according to school district spokeswoman Christine Da-
vis, the middle school “must be protective of the students.”
From what exactly is this school district protecting its stu-
dents? Normal human affection?
Zero-tolerance policies, especially those related to sexual 
harassment and public displays of affection, have crossed a 
line in recent years. 
In 2006, a 5-year-old boy was cited for sexually harassing a 
female student after he pinched her buttocks in the hallway of 
his Hagerstown, Md., elementary school. 
From 2005 to 2006, 28 kindergarten students in Maryland 
were suspended for sexual harassment and other related of-
fenses. 
Children at this age are afraid of the opposite sex because of 
“cooties,” so most of these “citations” cannot truly be warrant-ed. Do these schools really believe that each of these children intended to perform a sexual act on another student? 
Or is it simply that 5-year-olds don’t know anything about 
sex or sexual harassment and do things adults would never do 
to each other? Children pick each others’ noses, for instance.
Punishing students for these incidents might be trying, in 
some weird way, to teach kids lessons about sexual harassment, 
but can we really expect children this age to know what they’re 
doing wrong? Chances are the students become more confused 
about sexual behavior after these incidents, forcing parents to 
have extremely difficult and awkward conversations. 
These incidents also appear on the school records of stu-
dents, which could have consequences for getting into ad-vanced classes or programs. 
Ted Feinberg, assistant director of the National Associa-
tion of School Psychologists, told ABC News in response to a 
2008 incident that these cases constitute “a gross mislabeling of the [children’s] behavior and an overreaction” on the part 
of school officials. 
Children should be treated like children, not like teenagers 
or adults. Sexual harassment is a problem, but not for kids who 
haven’t hit puberty yet. 
Little boys will always pick on little girls and little girls will 
pick on little boys. When they accidentally touch a “no-no” 
part, they don’t know any better. 
Schools should focus on teaching kids reading, writing and 
arithmetic, not preventing them from giving friendly hugs.Planning for retirement should start now
After talking to people in my classes, I find that few 
know very much about something called a 401(k). How we use it will determine who among us are 
millionaires at retirement and who will live in poverty. Our grandparents got pensions and worked for the same employer for 30 years. We will be given the option to use one of the most powerful financial tools ever created for re-tirement, but some will succeed wildly and some will fail miserably. When you go out and get a job after graduation, funding a 401(k) should be near the top of your priority list. 
A traditional 401(k) is a special account for retirement. 
Almost anyone who has a job will have one, especially  peo-ple with the kinds of jobs that college grads go into. Money you put into this account is tax free, and grows tax free un-til you retire when withdrawals are taxed. Most employers will also offer a match for each dollar you put in the ac-count. A typical number is  a 4-percent match. This means that if you enroll in your company’s 401(k), you will receive $1 for every $1 you put into the account for up to 4 percent of your pay. 
This is free money! It’s unbelievable that anyone chooses 
not to do this. By signing up for your 401(k), you are saving 8 percent of your pay while only chipping in 4 percent. This is all tax-free, so it actually costs even less after taxes. 
To illustrate my point, let’s assume that we have two 
Gator engineering graduates, Jorge and Joe, who both get a job with Boeing upon receiving their degrees. Let’s assume that both make $100,000 per year for 40 years (just to make the calculation simple). Jorge is smart with his money and contributes $4,000 per year from his paycheck to his 401(k). Boeing matches it with another $4,000, so his total savings is $8,000 per year. Let’s also assume that he puts 60 percent in a Total Stock Market Index Fund and 40 percent into a Total Bond Market Index Fund and gets a rate of return of 8 percent a year. 
Because he’s investing in his 401(k), this return is tax-free. Joe is very intelligent, but unfortunately, those book smarts don’t extend to personal finance. He doesn’t have time to think about retirement so he opts out of Boeing’s 401(k). To build savings, he decides to put away $4,000 in his bank account in a 3-percent CD, but after taxes, he finds out that he is only able to save about 
$3,000 per year, and that since interest is taxed he only gets a 2-percent yield. After 40 years, Jorge has a balance of $2.25 million, and Joe has a balance of $187,000. That’s a huge dif-ference. 
Most people our age forget about retirement until they’re 
in their 40s and then realize they have to save half their in-come to not work into their seventies. If Joe decides to start contributing to that 401(k) getting 8 percent per year with 20 years until retirement, he would have to save a total of $45,000 per year just to end up with the same balance as Jorge. What do you think will be easier over time: contrib-uting $8,000 per year to your retirement over your career or $45,000 per year when your family needs money for col-lege, housing and automobiles? 
So the moral of the story is to start saving for retirement 
early through your employer’s 401(k). Every dollar you in-vest for your retirement now is worth at least four times what a dollar invested in your 40s will be. During your ori-entation, have an energy drink and force yourself to go to the human resources department and make sure you are signed up for your 401(k). You want to ask them to deduct enough from your paycheck so that you can get 100 percent of the employer match. You won’t miss the money, and it will make the difference between retiring at 60 and retiring six feet under.   
Travis Hornsby is a statistics and economics senior at UF. 
His column appears on Mondays.  
Travis Hornsby
letters@alligator.org MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 7
Gadhafi column misguided 
  I would like to thank the Alliga-
tor as well as the authors of “Obama 
is No Better Than Che Guevara” for providing one of the best “fake news” articles this side of the On-
ion.  Their send-up of the intellec-
tual inconsistency and naïveté of the extreme left was nothing short of sidesplitting.  I mean, how could anyone read an article defending mass-murdering tyrant Muammar Gadhaﬁ   as a leftist hero and not in-dulge in a hearty chuckle?
  One of the highlights of the ar-
ticle was calling the Libyan reb-els ﬁ  ghting a bloodthirsty , fascist regime “bloodthirsty fascists.” I laughed even harder when they implied that President Obama bore direct responsibility for everything the rebels had ever done.  
  I was nearly in tears when they 
blamed Obama for civilian casual-
ties in Sirte, Libya, sight of one of 
the war’s grisliest battles. Haha! Of course Obama can control every facet of life in a war zone in which there are no American ground troops and the U.S. role was mostly refueling British and French planes.  
  But perhaps the coup de grâce 
was their solemn disappointment 
in the lack of due process or proper 
burial for that hero of democracy , Col. Gadhaﬁ  , a man who oppressed, tortured and murdered his own people for more than forty years.  
  So thank you again, Alligator, 
and please keep articles like these coming, because no one could actu-ally have a worldview so insanely 
detached from reality and so lack-
ing in nuance or even basic common sense to actually think this way.
  I hope the Lockerbie bombing 
victims, wherever they are, are able to watch Col. Gadhaﬁ   roast in hell.
 Geoff Puryear
Political science graduate studentLetters to the Editor
   This past Tuesday, I wit-nessed a couple on a Route 36 bus “ﬁ  rst-basing it” 
while a guy sitting across from them stared intently, jostling his 
naughty bits.
  Now, I’d expect this sort of 
behavior on the 35 (passing by 
ShandsCair does things to peo-ple), but it seems our town’s more prurient residents have taken a turn for the nasty, and it is mak-ing me feel uncomfortable. But fear not: There is a solution!
  We need to redeﬁ  ne awkward-
ness as a competition. This means if someone does something awk-ward around us, we should do something equally awkward back at him or her.
  If you see a couple all up on each other out in public, shout stuff like, “Someone’s getting laid tonight,” or, if said couple is hot, “I’m so jealous of you guys!” 
  If the couple is ugly, just vomit 
next to them. People should not bump uglies in public — espe-cially not the ugly. If a couple gets “handsy” on a bus, do what the man I mentioned earlier did. That’s my go-to strategy for com-bating excessive PDA. At least au-dibly note their public philander-ing — that’s not as rude as their 
use of public transit for foreplay.
  Doing this sort of thing may 
make you feel awkward. Ignore 
that feeling. Get offended! A ris-que public is a risky public. No one should make us feel awkward without our consent. Remain-ing silent does just that. 
  Do not 
misapply this reasoning to rape. 
It is not the same thing. Making 
people feel awkward is almost always the expected result from silence. Sex should not be.
  The goal is to hold a mirror up 
to the people being awkward and make them feel the way the rest of us feel. If your reactions to their behavior make them uncomfort-
able, they shouldn’t be doing it in 
public.
  Studies about American civil 
rights movements always dem-onstrate one universal truth about maintaining norms: Intol-erance works. Homosexual and interracial couples were harassed for kissing in public in the ‘60s — and, awfulness aside, it worked: Homosexuals and interracial cou-ples didn’t kiss in public.
  Though intolerant tactics 
have been used for oppressive and hateful purposes, the tactics themselves are not inherently evil. By being intolerant of rac-ism — the ﬁ  ring of Don Imus, for example — society has shoved it underground. 
  If we aren’t locking up those 
who don’t love lock-down in public, we should at least show them just how awkward they make us feel. 
  C.R. Skambis is an English and 
telecommunication junior at UF. 
 People should combat public displays of affection  Guest column
C.R. Skambis
Speaking Out
   When did Vinny and Pauly D replace 
Webster and Roget? Popular words and phrases change from decade 
to decade and generation to generation. In recent years, however, our generation has 
contributed to the degradation of the English 
language. There is a growing push for more Americans to become bilingual, but how can we be expected to do that when we can barely master spoken English?
  Instead of expanding our vocabularies and 
aiming for eloquence, our verbal skills are focused on being hip. We may no longer use “sit on it,” “necking” or “daddy-o,” but  terms 
that have arisen in the past few years make the 
script of “Clueless” sound like  Thoreau.
  Bro, broski or brah: If we cross paths out on 
the town and I do not know you, this is not an acceptable form of introduction; this rule also applies to dude or chief. When I go to Hy-V ee [a local grocery store] and ask for help, I ex-pect to ﬁ  nd a helpful smile in every aisle, not somebody directing me where to go followed 
by the word “dawg.”  Face palm, fail, 
epic fail: Perhaps the 
slang for which I have the most personal 
contempt, this collection of terms has become 
so ubiquitous among young adults, outsiders 
would think all we do is fail. 
  TXT speak: It is acceptable on Facebook, 
Twitter and in a text message, not during a conversation. A prime example of our current level of laziness, speaking in text abbreviations is an insult to the expanse that is the English language. Is it that much harder to use the full words instead of LOL, IDK or TTYL?
  Like, um, like: The epitome of squalid 
verbal talent. Not “like” in the sense of a Fa-cebook status, but like in the sense of every other word of an unprepared class presenta-tion where like, every , like, other word, like, comes out minced between likes. Everybody hears it, everybody hates it, yet no one makes an effort to stop it.
  Words evolve and grow so that we may 
better ourselves, not so we can relegate them.  Unfortunately, our vernacular is a repre-
sentation of the time. In 2011, Merriam-Web-ster added “bromance” and ”tweet” to their ofﬁ  cial collection, along with the pop-culture deﬁ  nition of a “cougar.”
  While many remember dictionaries as a 
reference for expanding vocabularies, diction-aries’ basis for inclusion is usage. Thus, the eroding quality and simplicity of commonly used words have forced the utmost authori-ties in language to select these putrid terms.
  The president of Webster’s even called “ﬁ  st 
bump” the “champion of the group.” This coming from the company that previously 
honored respectable terms such as admonish 
and insipid among its words of the year. 
  Slang terms come and go. Some terms are 
inescapable, and it is difﬁ  cult to not let a few slip. However, though they may be popu-lar, that does not mean they are fashionable. Take pride in eloquence and use originality in speech.
  Darrin Cline is a columnist for the Iowa State 
Daily at Iowa State University. 
 Slang words cheapen value of English language UWire
Darrin Cline
UWire8, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011
Jessica Oliver / Alligator
Ready, Aim ...
A group of women participating in the NRA Women on Target Instructional Shooting 
Clinic aim toward a moving clay disk at the Gator Skeet and Trap Club. 
CARTER LYLES
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students placed first and second 
among more than 200 U.S. teams and 
13th and 14th in the world in a recent in-ternational programming competition.
Nine teams of UF students competed 
in the international IEEEXtreme 5.0 24-hour programming competition this year, which was held Oct. 21 and Oct. 22. Results were announced Nov. 7.
Hosted by the Institute of Electrical 
and Electronics Engineers, the fifth-an-nual competition challenged teams to correctly code 13 programming prob-lems released throughout a 24-hour pe-
riod. 
To moderate the competition, the 
IEEE employed proctors such as Jeff 
Caldwell, a 22-year-old electrical engi-neering master’s student, and the IEEE UF student chapter president.
The competition featured 1,515 inter -national teams with 227 teams from the U.S. Five of the nine teams of UF students 
placed in the top 100 teams overall.
CutieMarkCrusaders, composed of  
Jason Fisher, Joe Thuemler and Cheran 
Wu, all of the UF programming team, took first place in the U.S. and 13th in the world.  
MILatUF, composed of Matt Thompson, Forrest Voight and Will Rolke, all mem-bers of Gator Robotics, placed second in the U.S. and 14th in the world.
“I took some breaks, but I didn’t 
sleep the whole time,” said Thompson, a 19-year-old computer science engineer -
ing sophomore and MILatUF team lead-
er. “It’s a great way to put all the normal 
school stuff aside and just tackle interest-ing problems.”Students take top spots in 
programming competition
ASHLEY HEMMY
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 30 students, activists 
and community members crowd-
ed around a table Saturday night to give thanks for a Thanksgiving meal. The turkey wasn’t invited.It was Schmanksgiving, a veg-
an and vegetarian potluck event that presented an alternative to Thanksgiving which was held at the Civic Media Center and co-sponsored by the Student Animal Alliance.“Thanksgiving doesn’t always 
have to be about turkey,” said Em-ily Spar, 28, the ‘zine intern at the Civic Media Center and the cre-ator of Schmanksgiving.
Even though she isn’t a veg-
etarian, Spar said she believes in a diet that isn’t entirely focused on meat. 
“The point is to bring the veg-
etarian and vegan community to-gether,” she said.
For a $5 donation, guests could 
indulge in dishes including a three-bean salad, sesame eggplant and chocolate tofu pies.Zia Terhune heard about the 
event through Florida Vegans for Peace, a social networking web-site. 
“This is wonderful,” said  Ter -
hune, 68, who  has been a vegan for 12 years. “There aren’t many vege-tarian restaurants in Gainesville.”
No bird on the table at vegetarian Thanksgiving potluck event“I took some breaks, but I 
didn’t sleep the whole time.”
Matt Thompson
UF sophomoreBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS Classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Starting at ONLY $369
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld
352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive 3 & 4 bds Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $349
UPGRADES AVAILABLE $399
Only $9.99 to sign & $100 Credit
352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
CARNIVAL FOR A CURE
Nov 18th from 12-4pm
3 & 4 bds starting @ $349
$0 to sign!
CARNIVAL Food, Games & Prizes!
Sign 4 Spring  352.379.9300
11-18-11-6-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        
12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1s Under $500
2/1s Under $600
$99 Move In Special!
352-372-7555
FrederickGardens.com
12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 TH
FREE Cable with HBO
All the amenities & FREE tanning
Gated, PET FRIENDLY
TheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
12-7-11-74-2
A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.
Great pools • Fitness • Tennis
Call for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’s
BivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1 for $689 * 3/2 for $809
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!
●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!
●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels apts. Call now: 
4352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, 
green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.
postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.
12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!
ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   12-7-11-74-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
4/2.5 2000sqft home built in 2000, 2 blks to 
Stadium 3 min walk to Campus. Free $1300 security deposit! $1550/mo! W/D Garage. Avail Dec/Spring. Rmmate matching. Call 870-7304. jeremybolton0@gmail.com   11-23-11-30-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House Historic 
spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1750/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    11-15-11-20-2
● Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 3 blocks to UF  
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - Bike to UF
● 4BR/2BA House directly across from
Law School. W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
● 3BD/1BA House - 2046 NW 31 PL
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
11-16-11-20-2SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420    12-7-11-32-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   12-
7-11-32-2
Close to UF, $570/month 2BR with 
2.5Bathroom townhouse. New floor/paint. 
Fenced backyard with W/D hookup. 1310 
SW 61st, GNV, 32607. Call 352/332-4088 or 
352/514-7098    11-18-11-15-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling 
fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we 
have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, 
last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550
12-7-11-19-2
LIVE CLOSE. PAY LESS.
PARKING GALORE. One mile to UF.
Roomy 1, 2 & 3 bedrooms. W/D avail.
H2O&gas incld. Cheap GRU bills.
Country Village 373.2700    11-17-7-2
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings 
for Vets who qualify under Section 8 
Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun -
dry 372-3783    12-7-11-18-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Cabana Beach Sublease 2/2
Available now to Aug 2012,
$509/mo each, Furnished W/Dcall  352-552-1757    11-23-11-14-3
$400.00 sublease avail. in a 3/3. All inclu -
sive and furnished.Bathroom is private. 
Females only. Available spring 2012. Contact 
386.546.6315    11-16-11-5-3DISTRICT ON 62ND
1BR/1BA available now in 3BR/3BA through 
June 2012. $412/mo, furnished, W/D incl. Call 352-514-2942    11-16-11-5-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-7-74-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus 
route. $350/mo + utils per room. Available 
December. Call 727-729-1561   11-30-26-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $650/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    11-23-11-18-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
Office Space and Penthouse Available
Call David Holbrook - (352) 213-8161
11-16-11-10-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 11
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
COMPUTER PROBLEMS? CONFUSED?
13 yrs in the IT profession. I can resolve ANYissue ● Desktop ● Laptop ● Networking● A/V ● Cell Phone ● Gator IT Solutions 
1 call does it all! 352-792-2214 Free Quote11-22-11-20-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator 
Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
12-7-11-74-11
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr 
Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-
6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups 
available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
11-30-11-61-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS
CASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $999
94 FORD TAURUS $999
96 HONDA ACCORD $1499
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $1999
98 FORD F250 $2500
02 CHEVY BLAZER $4999
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $1999
01 DODGE NEON $1999
00 OLDS ALERO $2500
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLES
NO CREDIT CHECK
MOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!
352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!
PRICES SLASHED!!!!
NO CREDIT CHECK!
352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $8999
03 MITS ECLIPSE $7999
05 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999
352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $12999
04 HONDA ODYSSEY $9999
05 SUZUKI XLT $9999
352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
11-17-11-77-13 
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
12, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
 ●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   11-17-20-14
Legal Secretary/Receptionist. $9/hour. F/T. 
Needs to be responsible, diligent, and de-pendable. Call 352-371-4000.   11-16-11-15-14
Gainesville Regional Utilities
is looking for a
Temporary Part-Time Energy Analyst 
Have a passion for conservation;
great one-on-one customer service skills; 
major course work in science, math,
engineering or building construction?
Apply today at www.cityofgainesville.org
AA/EOE/DFWP Employer.
11-14-11-5-14
Marketing Ass't/Telemarketer
PT position with flexible hoursFriendly, professional officeEmail resume, cover letter to:marc@sextonandschnoll.com    11-15-11-5-14
Sleep Center Superstores is seeking to hire 
motivated, friendly, dependable, intelligent people for SALES/DELIVERY position(s). Candidates must APPLY IN PERSON. No phone calls please. 4994 N.W. 39th Avenue, 32606. In Magnolia Parke.    11-15-11-5-14SERVERS
Experienced & friendly. Weekends & eve-
nings. Be off for the holidays. Apply in person 2 - 5pm NAPOLATANO'S 606 NW 75th St.    11-16-11-5-14
PROOFREADER
ACT/SAT ADMINISTRATOR
LINUX ADMINISTRATOR
GRAPHICS DESIGNER
X-PLANE DEVELOPER
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
TECH SUPPORT
Please apply online at
www.gleim.com/employment.      12-7-11-
16-14
Inactive adults (age 50+) needed to participate 
in a study conducted by the UF GetUpAndGo 
initiative assessing the accuracy of an ad-
vanced pedometer. Compensation provided. 
Call 336-406-3706 or email FitBit10000@
gmail.com   11-18-51-18
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
ADOPTION. Choose a loving & secure family 
waiting to adopt. Living & medical expenses 
paid. Updates on your child.
Call 24hr/7day. 1-800-280-6155. 
Amy Eichman(Bar#830011)    11-14-11-30-
16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) and 
Basic Life Support(BLS) classes. Meets 
Shands and SFC requirements. All certs is-
sued are American Heart Assoc. We do indi -
vidual and group classes. Call Cardiac One 
at (352)494-4217.   11-23-11-20-16
Ride Horses for a Great Workout and Even 
Greater Fun! There's a ladies only exer-
cise class now forming. We'll ride twice a 
week through a state forest for two hours. 
Interested? There are limited openings, con-
tact kathy at 352-443-0273 or email
horseclassbykathy@gmail.com.   11-15-11-
4-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Best religion? NO religion!
Get to know your Creator.See why the Bible is uniqueTry You Tube: ChuckMissler What is Truth?     11-18-11-8-18MCINTOSHWORLD.COM a boutique in 
a barn!Used books,old thoughts and new 
things. The existing order of surfdom can-
not remain unchanged. It is better to abol -
ish surfdom from above than to wait until 
the surfs begin to liberate themselves from 
below. Alexander 11. Hwy.441S. 15 min. to 
change what you thought a store could be.    
11-22-30-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 
373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF 
Teaching Center.  M-R, November 14 – 17  
from 5:00- 7:00 p.m.  Verbal sessions on M & 
W, Math on T & R.  Call 392-2010 to register 
and learn the room location.    11-14-4-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
12-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
JOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
For the second straight tourna-
ment, Tahnai Annis made sure 
the Gators advanced past the first round.
The senior midfielder scored two 
goals and assisted on another as No. 2 seed Florida (17-7) defeated Florida Gulf Coast (14-5-2), 3-0, on Saturday night at Pressly Stadium to win  in the first round of the NCAA tournament. 
The win set up a second-round 
matchup this Friday in Gainesville between Florida and UCF, which 
defeated Florida International, 2-0, 
on Friday night in Orlando. 
It was Annis’ third multi-goal 
game of the season and eighth of her career. In the first round of the Southeastern Conference Tourna-ment against Georgia last week, An-nis scored both goals in a 2-0 win.
“It is definitely my last go around, 
so I want to go all out,” Annis said. “I want to help as much as I can.” 
In the 16th minute, the Gators 
grabbed an early lead for just the second time in their last eight games when Annis sent a diving header past Eagles keeper Stephanie Pow-ers from 5 yards out for her eighth goal of the season.
“I was just trying to get in the best 
possible position to get a touch on it at all,” Annis said. “I was already in the box, so I was just trying to sepa-rate myself from a defender so Erika (Tymrak) could find me.”
Annis struck again in the 68th 
minute to make it 2-0 when fresh-
man midfielder Annie Speese sent 
a free kick from deep in Florida’s attacking third to the middle of the box. With several Eagles and Gators going for the first ball, Annis was able to get her head on it and put it past Powers from 10 yards out. 
Coach Becky Burleigh said the 
Gators accomplished their main goal of advancing, but, just as important, they put together the type of well-rounded performance necessary to advance deep in the tournament. 
The three-goal effort was the 
team’s first since Oct. 9 against Ala-bama. The Gators held the Eagles to just three shots, only one of which was on frame.
“One of our assistant coaches 
talked at halftime about bringing a physical presence both defensively and offensively ,” Burleigh said. 
“That’s not always easy to do. We 
had to have a little courage and bravery to do that, and our team took that to heart.” MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 13
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida midfielder Tahnai Annis scored two goals on Saturday to lead the team to a 3-0 victory against 
Florida Gulf Coast in the first round of the NCAA tournament. The Gators play UCF at home on Friday.
JONATHAN CZUPRYN
Alligator Writer
 
Gone are the hopes of Florida’s women 
accompanying the men to the national 
championship meet. Gone are the wom-en’s chances to appear in six straight championships. Gone is their season.
On Sunday evening, coach Todd Mor -
gan and his women runners were reject-ed from receiving an at-large bid for the NCAA Championship in Terre Haute, Ind., on Nov. 21. 
The Gators finished third in Saturday’s 
South Regional behind Florida State and Vanderbilt. 
“ W e 
came in t r y i n g to swing 
for a home run,” Morgan said. “We knew Vandy and FSU are two really good teams.” 
Because only the top-two spots receive 
an automatic bid to the NCAA meet, Flor -
ida had to endure the day-long wait only 
to find out its season is finished.
A third-place result didn’t discourage 
the runners, as they believed a solid race 
and season would speak for itself when the NCAA considered their options. In-stead, the NCAA decided otherwise. 
Although the women’s team fell short 
of an invite to the national championship, several individuals got the nod due to their 
excellence during the season. Senior Gen-
evieve LaCaze, junior Florence N’Getich and sophomore Cory McGee will compete at the meet. Only four runners in the South Region 
were chosen to represent their teams in the championship as individuals, with Tennessee senior Brittany Sheffey the lone non-Gator to make the trip.
Despite the individual accomplish-
ments by some of Florida’s runners, Mor -
gan and the team would much rather have 
had both the men’s and women’s team 
travel together to the NCAA Champion-ship.
The last time both the men and women 
qualified for the national championship in the same season was 2006. Since then, the men haven’t made the cut while the women made it every year.
The hopes of a possible sixth consecu-
tive appearance in the national champion-
ship ended Sunday to the obvious dismay 
of the entire team. 
However, no one is more disheartened 
by the rejection than LaCaze. In her senior 
year, LaCaze has enjoyed four top-10 indi-vidual finishes, including a victory at the Mountain Dew Invitational, the Gators’ annual home meet. Although her season 
will continue individually on Nov. 21, she 
hoped to bring along the entire team with 
her.
It was the unusually high level of com-
petition that kept Florida out of the cham-
pionship. Morgan’s team had to compete head-to-head against two of the nation’s strongest teams in Florida State (No. 1) and Vanderbilt (No. 4) in the regional meet. In addition, the Gators had stiff competition in the at-large pool with teams like Stan-
ford (No. 8) and West Virginia (No. 13) 
getting the nod over them.Men qualify for NCAA race, 
women fall short of inviteWOMEN’S BASKETBALL
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
 
Jaterra Bonds’ desperation heave 
found nothing but net, cutting the Gators’ 
deficit in half at the buzzer.
It was one of few shots that actually 
found the bottom of the basket Friday.
A frustrating and sloppy shooting ef-
fort doomed Florida (0-1) in its 69-66 sea-
son-opening loss to Michigan (1-0).
Consistency was hard to come by for 
the Gators as they made just 23 of 69 shot 
attempts against the Wolverines.
UF was ultimately undone by a 10-of-
27 effort from beyond the arc.
“We shot way too many threes and 
a lot of them didn’t make sense,” coach Amanda Butler said. “Twenty-seven 
threes is way too much unless you’re 
shooting about 45 percent, and clearly we were not.”
Especially painful were the efforts 
of Bonds, who managed to score eight 
points despite missing 13 of her 15 shot 
attempts.
Had it not been for her buzzer-beater, 
she would have finished the day 0 of 5 
from 3-point range.
“Jaterra did had a tough game, and 
she knows that,” Butler said. “She also 
knows that we need her to play well.”
While outside shooting cost Florida 
Friday, Butler’s squad did not have much of a choice due to its lack of a significant post presence on offense.
Jennifer George, Azania Stewart and Ndidi Madu carried the brunt of paint duties for the Gators on Friday and largely disappointed.
The trio combined for just eight shot 
attempts, 10 points and seven offensive rebounds.
Butler attributed Michigan’s success 
defending Florida down low to merely 
“standing in the paint.”
“Defensively, they really just wanted 
to challenge and dare us to shoot,” Butler 
said. 
“We took the challenge even though it 
wasn’t the wisest decision.”
Making matters worse was Stewart’s 
foul trouble, which limited her to just 21 minutes. She recorded her third foul with 
18:40 left in the second half and her fourth nearly 10 minutes later at 8:42.
“It is definitely frus-
trating because I need to 
be out there,” Stewart said. “Me being on the bench doesn’t help us 
at all, and I really need to be smarter.”
Florida’s post play will need to be 
smarter when tonight’s contest with Stetson (1-0) tips off at 7 in the O’Connell 
Center.
“Luckily, [Michigan] was our first 
game and not our last one,” Butler said. 
If the Gators’ offensive showing  Fri-
day is a sign of things to come, that last game could be coming a lot sooner than 
Butler anticipates.Poor shooting to blame for 
UF’s season-opening loss
Butler
UF Cross Countr y“It is definitely my last go 
around, so I want to go all 
out.” 
Tahnai Annis 
UF midfielderAnnis leads Florida to first-round victory in NCAA tournamentInjuries: Offensive lineman 
Chaz Green (ankle) and line-
backer Lerentee McCray (shoul-
der) were held out of Saturday’s 
game. Both warmed up with the team before the game, but nei-ther saw the field.
While those two were inac-
tive, running back Chris Rainey returned from an ankle injury he suffered against Georgia. 
Although Jeff Demps got 
the start in the backfield, it was Rainey who shouldered the 
load against South Carolina. He 
carried the ball a team-high 17 times for a game- and season-high 132 yards, and his 47-yard run early in the fourth quarter set up the Gators’ only touch-
down of the afternoon.
“Can’t run 100 percent, but I 
did the best I can,” Rainey said 
after the game, adding that his ankle was still sore. 
The redshirt senior was 
walking with a noticeable limp after the game. 
Linebacker Jelani Jenkins 
also returned from injury, re-claiming his starting job after suffering a concussion against Georgia and sitting out last week’s win against Vanderbilt. 
Jenkins recorded four tackles 
and broke up a pass against South Carolina.
Freshman first: Safety 
De’Ante Saunders notched his first career interception early in the first quarter against the Gamecocks.
On South Carolina’s second 
drive of the game, cornerback and fellow freshman Marcus Roberson pressured quarter -
back Connor Shaw on a delayed blitz, Saunders anticipated the pass, jumped the route and made an athletic diving grab to 
give Florida the ball near mid-
field.
The Gators’ ensuing drive 
resulted in a Caleb Sturgis field goal, the game’s first points.
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@
alligator.org.and that’s really where they gained 
most of their yards.”
South Carolina entered the game 
ranked third in the Southeastern Con-
ference with 188.4 rushing yards per 
game. 
On paper, the Gators’ run defense 
should have matched up. Florida was 
allowing 123.3 yards on the ground per game, but that number was aided by 
strong performances against bottom 
dwellers like FAU and UAB.
During Florida’s four-game losing 
streak in October, the defense allowed 
an average of 201 rushing yards.  
“It’s frustrating,” linebacker Jelani 
Jenkins said. “One of the main things 
we want to do is stop the run. When we don’t, they’re able to be effective, take 
shots, just keep the clock running.”
Jenkins said Florida did not recog-
nize some of South Carolina’s pack-
ages, like when the Gamecocks ran the 
ball with no one lined up at running 
back. Coaches drew South Carolina’s formations on a blackboard at halftime, showing the players how to attack.
Easley returned in the second half, 
rejuvenated, as did UF’s run defense, which held South Carolina to just 55 yards in the third and fourth quarters. 
Still, the Gators’ defense could not 
get off the field at a critical time. Down by five with 5:34 left, Florida stopped Wilds twice. 
But on third and 2, Easley fell for -
ward. Offsides. 
After the flag, he rolled over, his 
hands gripping his facemask, his head tilted up, looking to the sky . 
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org.14, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011
South Carolina  17, Florida 12
John Brantley and Chris Rainey’s fourth-quarter 
miscommunication.  With Florida down five late and 
trying to take the lead, Brantley called an audible. 
On first and 10, he switched from a run to the left 
to a run to the right. After the snap, Brantley turned 
to hand it off to Rainey, but the running back wasn’t 
there. Florida lost 6 yards and had to punt away its 
best chance three plays later.
Matt 
ElamRainey made his return 
from an ankle sprain that hobbled him against Georgia and sidelined him against Vanderbilt last week. While the running back had a noticeable 
limp and said his ankle 
was sore after the game, it 
didn’t appear to bother him. 
He rushed 17 times for a 
game-high 132 yards, and 
his 47-yard run in the fourth 
quarter set up the Gators’ 
lone touchdown.Saunders makes his Swamp Studs debut after corralling his first career interception against the Gamecocks. While he only recorded one tackle, the interception was impres -
sive. He jumped the route 
on a Connor Shaw pass 
intended for Alshon Jeffery 
and made a diving grab to 
set up Florida near mid -
field, leading to the team’s first points.SWAMP STUDS
De’Ante
Saunders52
South Carolina ran 65 plays from scrimmage Saturday, and 
52 of those were rushing plays. On the legs of quarterback 
Connor Shaw (88 yards and two touchdowns) and running 
back Brandon Wilds (120 yards), the Gamecocks ran for 215 
total yards while wearing down the Gators’ defense.KEY STAT
Chris
RaineyTURNING POINT
S
(2 points)
THREE KEY PLAYS
 Chris Rainey    13
Jeff Demps    11
Matt Elam     8
Andre Debose    5
Mike Gillislee     5
Jon Bostic     5
Jaye Howard     4
John Brantley     2
Lerentee McCray    2
Sharrif Floyd     2
De’Ante Saunders    1
Dominique Easley    1
Kyle Christy     1STANDINGS
Elam continued to 
show why he is the most consistent player on Florida’s defense. Against the Gamecocks, Elam registered eight tackles, seven of which 
were solo takedowns. 
He also had one for a 
loss — a fourth-quarter 
sack of wide receiver 
Bruce Ellington when 
South Carolina ran its 
Wildcat package.
Dominique Easley jumping offsides. With Florida 
trailing 17-12 late, the defense tried to stop South Carolina 
so the offense would have one more shot to win the game. Facing a third-and-2 situation, Easley jumped early and was flagged, giving the Gamecocks a first down and allowing them to continue draining time off the clock. 
1 2 3 4Final
Florida
South Carolina12 3
0 170143063
SCORE BY QUARTERS
RB
(3 points )Jeff Demps’ second-quarter fumble. Following South 
Carolina’s first touchdown, Florida tried to answer with a 
drive of its own. The Gators marched near midfield before Demps was stuffed for a 1-yard loss and coughed up the ball, setting the Gamecocks up in Florida territory and leading to South Carolina’s second score.Jacoby Brissett’s failed two-point conversion. After 
Brissett scrambled for a 2-yard score early in the fourth 
quarter to cut the Gamecock’s lead to two, the Gators 
decided to forgo the extra point and attempt to tie the game. Brissett bought time as he rolled out and jumped to release a pass to the end zone, but it was intercepted.
DT
(1 point)
Alligator StaffEasley’s mistake allows Gamecocks to run clock
DEFENSE , from page 16
Rosario, Boynton lead 
team with 19 apiece
Even though Beal took only 
10 shots, Donovan said the 
freshman’s high shooting per -
centage should allow him to get to 20 points in a hurry dur -
ing most games. Donovan also praised the quality of Beal’s at-
tempts.
“The thing with him that I 
think makes him such a good 
player is he’s not a high-vol-ume shooter,” Donovan said. 
“He scores very quietly, and 
he’s very efficient when he scores.”
Beal credited the chemis-
try between the guards for keeping him involved, despite his low numbers from three. Florida’s main rotation of five guards had a 14-to-3 assist-to-
turnover ratio against Jackson 
State and was able to keep scoring high in the backcourt.
Shooting guards Mike Ro-
sario and Kenny Boynton led all scorers with 19 points each. The duo stayed hot from out-side, combining to go 9 for 15 
from behind the arc. 
Senior point guard Erving 
Walker added 10 points on just 
six shots. 
“The ball movement is per -
fect,” Beal said. “Everybody’s knocking down shots. When we see that, you know that’s Florida basketball. It’s the way 
coach Donovan wants us to 
play and it’s just beautiful.” 
Overall, the Gators shot 51.3 
percent from the field and 43.3 
percent from three. 
Although Donovan was 
pleased with his freshman 
starter’s performance against the Tigers, he suspected Beal 
would be itching to raise the 
team’s percentage from deep next time out.
“In his realm and the way 
he thinks, 1 for 6 from the 3-point line, that’s unaccept-able,” Donovan said. “(He’s thinking) ‘I need to shoot the ball better.’”
Contact John Boothe at 
jboothe@alligator.org.HOOPS , from page 16Rainey goes 
for 132 
in return 
from ankle injury
David Carr / Alligator Staff
Florida freshman guard Brad Beal scored 14 points in the team’s 
season-opening win against Jackson State at home on Friday.
NOTEBOOK,
from page 16
“Can’t run 100 percent, 
but I did the best I can.”
Chris Rainey
UF running backcontest. 
In their last six fourth quarters, 
the Gators have moved the ball 
only 271 yards compared to 644 for their opponents. UF has been 
outscored 62-12 during the same 
span.
Decreasing production as the 
game goes on could be a sign other coaches are doing a better job of adapting and making adjustments than Muschamp is. 
Or it could fall on the players. The fourth quarter is where 
stars are supposed to be born and legends are supposed to shine. 
In any of Florida’s three close 
losses, the Gators only needed one play to change the outcome. 
But, without any true playmak-
ers, they found themselves on the 
losing end.
“This team has to learn how 
to finish,” junior defensive tackle Omar Hunter said. “When I was 
on that ’08 team, you had some 
guys like (Brandon) Spikes and 
(Tim) Tebow, and they were able to finish out in close games.”
Florida doesn’t have those type 
of players this year, plain and sim-ple. 
There isn’t a vocal leader or a 
guy who can be expected to make a difference when the game is on 
the line. 
And it’s not just the starters. 
Depth is limited across the board, perhaps another factor in UF’s 
end-of-game futility. 
A gassed defense hasn’t been 
able to get off the field, killing any shot at a comeback.
Gators opponents have held the 
ball for a combined 55:03 in the last six fourth quarters, compared to just 34:57 for UF. 
Whether it’s youth, depth, inex-
perience, bad coaching or a lack of 
talent, the Gators flat out haven’t 
gotten it done in critical situations. 
Opponents have converted nine of their last 10 fourth-down tries. 
Florida has scored touchdowns 
on just 45.2 percent of its trips to the red zone, No. 116 nationally. 
By every definition, the Gators 
have crumbled under pressure and have not closed in crunch time, leading to losses in three games senior running back Chris Rainey said the Gators should have won. 
“It’s killing me,” Rainey said. 
“Just got to finish.”
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@
alligator.org. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Running back Brandon Wilds (right) and quarterback Connor Shaw combined for nine car -
ries and 37 yards as South Carolina ran down the clock in the fourth quarter Saturday.
GREG , from page 1Both lines dominated in loss
which started the previous drive with 5:34 
remaining, was able to bleed the clock out in much the same way it controlled the en-tire game: rushing the ball down the Gators’ throats.
But when questioned about the team suf-
fering a lapse in the fourth quarter, Muschamp got defensive.
“There wasn’t no lapse. What was the 
lapse in the end?” he said. “I don’t know what you’re talking about. We made a stop at the end. I don’t know what you’re talking about. What lapse at the end? We made a stop and got the ball back. Had a chance.”
On the last drive for South Carolina, Shaw 
and running back Brandon Wilds carried the ball a combined nine times for 37 yards. Flor -
ida had a chance to force a three-and-out, but defensive tackle Dominique Easley jumped offside to extend the drive — exactly the type of critical mistake that has plagued the Gators throughout their worst season in 25 years.
“I’m sure he’s disappointed, but it’s not 
his fault at all,” defensive tackle Omar Hunter said. “That game is not his fault. You can pick on anybody for the game, for that loss. I’ll take the blame. (John) Brantley , he’ll take some of the blame. It goes on everyone.”
Although the score was close at the end, 
there was plenty of blame to spread around.
The haggard offensive line, which was the 
site of another experimentation with person-
nel, was again terrible, allowing Brantley to be 
knocked around all afternoon. 
Twice the Gators went backward inside 
the red zone, settling for field goals. 
After putting the ball on the ground twice, 
they have 24 fumbles on the season and a mi-nus-10 turnover margin, which is tied with FAU for 113th nationally . 
“Just got to play different guys,” Mus-
champ said of UF’s problems coughing it up.
Also, the defensive line could not stop the 
Gamecocks, as they rushed for 215 yards while running on fumes, starting an inexperienced quarterback and a backup running back. 
In four straight losses in October, the 
Gators were abused at the line of the scrim-mage, as opponents rushed an average of 46 times, compared to only 22.3 pass attempts.
That trend continued Saturday, as South 
Carolina rushed 52 times and passed just 13.
Asked to assess his team’s play in the 
trenches, a clearly agitated Muschamp was succinct.
“Not very good,” he said. “Real simple.” Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@alligator.org.FOOTBALL , from page 1MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Ohio State Trip Looming For Basketball Team
Can Florida reverse last year’s results — a 93-75 loss to Ohio State — 
on Tuesday when the No. 8 Gators and No. 3 Buckeyes meet again? Vote online at alligatorSports.org.TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
 
COLUMBIA, S.C. — As Dominique 
Easley teetered off the field, his left leg 
was limp, his shoulders hunched, his 
head down.
It was late in the second quarter Sat-
urday, and Easley had just been driven 
into the ground. As he hobbled toward 
the locker room, trainers supporting 
the 282-pound defensive tackle, Easley did not watch South Carolina finish its drive. He didn’t need to.
With Easley on the field, the Game-
cocks drove the ball into the heart of the Gators’ defense. With him out, they punctured the vital organ, capping an 11-play , 46-yard drive with a goal-line 
sneak into the end zone by quarterback 
Connor Shaw.
Shaw’s carry gave South Carolina a 
14-3 edge. It was the 10th straight run by 
the Gamecocks, and on their previous 
drive they pounded the ball on nine of 11 plays, capped by another Shaw rush-ing score.
In all, the Gamecocks gained 215 
yards on 52 runs. Brandon Wilds led the attack, carrying the ball 29 times for 120 yards. Shaw scrambled for 88 yards on 16 carries. He threw the ball just 12 
times. 
“We got tired,” coach Will Muschamp 
admitted, even if his players wouldn’t 
after Saturday’s 17-12 loss. “The second quarter wore on there in the run game, 
Gators middle blocker Chloe 
Mann (left) had 19 kills and five blocks in a five-set victory against Arkansas on Sunday. See story at alligatorSports.org
Poll Results
After beating Vanderbilt, does Florida 
have what it takes to finish the regular season with three more wins?30% YES
70% NO
152 total votesAlex Orlando / Alligator Staff
Defensive tackle Dominique Easley leaves the field after he was flagged for offsides on a pivotal third-and-2 late on Saturday.
Defense gashed by run game again
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
COLUMBIA, S.C. — After 
tweaking the offensive line in the 
second half against Vanderbilt, 
Florida came out with a make-
over on the front against South Carolina.
Sixth-year senior transfer Dan 
Wenger got the start at center while Jonotthan Harrison, who started the first nine games at center, shifted to left guard.
“It was just a decision by the 
coaches,” Wenger said. “I was told I would be moving there, 
and it was just — I can’t argue 
or do anything. Whatever the coaches say goes. I’m on board with them, and I know they have our best interests and the best in-terests in the team for us.”
Coach Will Muschamp said the move was due to “consis-
tency in snaps,” 
which Harrison has struggled with at times 
this season.
In the second 
half against Van-
derbilt, Harrison was benched in 
favor of Sam Robey following 
an errant snap that resulted in a 21-yard loss. Robey finished the 
game and was said to be working 
with the first-team offense at cen-
ter early last week.
While Harrison flipped posi-
tions with Wenger, the change didn’t last long. Harrison was replaced early on by Kyle Koeh-ne, and Muschamp said after the game that Harrison “got banged up.”
Despite the lineup change, there were familiar results for the Gators’ offensive line. The unit allowed three sacks on the after -
noon, upping its season total to 
21, tied for 67th in the nation.
The group also struggled in 
the red zone, as Florida had three 
drives move inside the South Car -
olina 5-yard line and came away with a touchdown just once. The other two drives stalled after rushes for negative yardage and a false start on left tackle Xavier 
Nixon, respectively.
Gators shuffle offensive line personnel against Gamecocks� HE FINISHED WITH 14 POINTS ON 5-OF-10 SHOOT -
ING, BUT MISSED FIVE FROM LONG RANGE.
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
When Brad Beal struggled to knock down 3-pointers in his 
career opener, he quickly found comfort scoring in a variety of 
ways.
After notching 12 points from deep in a Nov. 3 exhibition, 
Beal cooled down during a decidedly off night of 1-of-6 shoot-ing from three Friday against Jackson State.
For many players, it would have been an inauspicious foot-
note to a freshman debut. But for Beal, it was just the beginning of a 50 percent shooting performance.
“He’s got great pace to his game; 
he never gets rattled,” coach Billy Donovan said. “He had 10 points in 
the first half and you don’t even rec-
ognize it. It’s an offensive rebound 
putback, it’s a floater on a runner, it’s one three; he just plays the game.” 
Beal finished the No. 8 Gators’ 99-59 win with 14 points on 
5-of-10 shooting. The five misses came on 3-pointers.
Donovan has described Beal as the most mature freshman 
he has coached at UF (1-0). Instead of worrying about his stroke or forcing more threes, Beal found other scoring avenues.
Using his ability to separate vertically from defenders, the 
6-foot-3 Beal had six of his points in the paint and made a team-high three free throws. 
“My shots weren’t falling, but I’m really not focused on that 
as long as we win,” Beal said. “I try to impact other things in the game like getting defensive rebounds and just playing re-ally hard on defense.”Beal quiet behind 
arc, efficient in UF’s season-opening win
UF Bask etball
Harrison, Wenger switch positions; Koehne plays
Harrison
SEE NOTEBOOK, p AgE 14SEE DEFENSE, p AgE 14SEE HOOpS, p AgE 14“We got tired. The second 
quarter wore on there in the 
run game, and that’s really 
where they gained most of their 
yards.”
Will Muschamp
UF coach