News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 54 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classiﬁ  eds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jﬂ  echas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
Metro Editor Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tyler Jett, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,   
  Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Kathryn Milstein, Adrianna Paidas,  
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Victoria Livingston,   vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Linzy Monahan   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org Classiﬁ  ed Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke,   Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING
MCDA Spring 2012 Staff 
Applications Due
Today by 4 p.m.Multicultural & Diversity Affairs is hiring temporary staff for the spring and sum-mer semesters. Deadline to submit applications is today at 4 p.m. Applications can be found online at www.multi-cultural.ufl.edu/employment.php. Temporary staff will have the opportunity to gain perma-nent positions within MCDA after the spring.
Interpreti Veneziani
Sunday, 7:30 p.m. Phillips Center for the Performing ArtsThe Italian string ensemble Interpreti Veneziani makes its sixth appearance at the Phillips Center. Student tickets are $12. Visit performingarts.ufl.edu 
for more information.
UF School of Forest Resources 
and Conservation John Gray Distinguished Lecturer Franklin Boteler
Tuesday, 8:30 a.m.Grand Ballroom, Paramount Plaza Hotel, 2900 SW 13th St.Franklin E. Boteler, assis-tant director of the  Institute of Bioenergy, Climate and Environment, will speak on “Forest Resources: Constant Values in a Sea of Change.” For more information,visit http://sfrc.ufl.edu/d o w n l o a d / J G 2 0 1 1 . p d f or call 352-846-0850. The event is free to the public. 
Audra McDonald Performance 
Tuesday, 7:30 p.m.Phillips Center for the Performing ArtsMultiple Grammy and Tony Award winner Audra McDonald will perform popu-lar show tunes, cinema classics and original pieces. McDonald starred in ABC’s hit TV series “Private Practice,” and will play the lead role in this win-ter’s Broadway run of The Gershwins’ “Porgy and Bess.” Student tickets are $15. Visit performingarts.ufl.edu for more information. 
International Development 
Career Networking DayWednesday, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Reitz Union Career Resource Center LibraryThe Career Resource Center and the UF International Center are bringing develop-ment organizations to UF to sale as well. Proceeds to benefit the Elks Mobile Therapy Units charity account. For more in-formation, contact Linda Califf at 352-222-0337.
Walk 4 Water, a Fundraising 
event for Water Wells in 
Haiti
Nov. 12,  2 p.m.Westside ParkThis is a fundraising event for providing clean water wells to Haiti. UF and SFC students, high school students and members of the community will walk to help raise money. Several Haitian graduate stu-dents will walk and explain to the walkers the need for clean water.
The Florida I Knew
Nov. 14, 6 p.m.Pugh HallReubin Askew became the first Florida governor to serve two consecutive four-year terms. He emerged as a progressive lawmaker, opposing racial seg-regation and supporting fair legislative representation for urban counties. Tax reform, ra-cial justice and honesty in gov-ernment were the hallmarks of his governorship. Gov. Askew will be discussing some of the high points of his governor-ship and the importance of be-ing civilly engaged.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your sub-missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.network with you. If you 
are interested in this field, be sure to attend. International development organizations seek to improve human well-being through health, agri-culture, education and envi-ronmental initiatives. Stop by to learn more about orga-nizations that work within this arena. If you have any questions, stop by the CRC or contact Nadene Reynolds at 352-273-2307 or nadenere-ynolds@crc.ufl.edu.
A Legislative Preview
Wednesday, 6 p.m.Pugh HallMary Ellen Klas, Tallahassee bureau chief of the Miami Herald, will provide a jour-nalistic preview of the up-coming legislative session and the impact of the redis-tricting process. 
Project MASCOT’s Taco Fiesta
Wednesday, 6 to 8 p.m. UF Baptist Collegiate MinistriesHelp Project MASCOT take its mentees to SeaWorld while enjoying an all-you-can-eat meal of hard or soft tacos (vegetarian option available), drinks and des-serts. Pre-sale tickets are $5 at Peabody 301 and $7 at the door.
Gainesville Elks Lodge Poker 
Run, Barbecue & Road Rally 
Scavenger Hunt
Nov. 12, 8:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.2424 NW 23rd Blvd.All modes of transporta-tion are welcome. This event is open to the public. Registration will start at 8:30 a.m. Entry fees for the poker hand will be $15 per person and will include one poker hand form, one lunch meal ticket for a barbecue chicken meal and one door prize tick-et. Additional poker hands can be purchased for $5 each (after the registration fee is paid). The entry fee for the scavenger hunt is $5 per ve-hicle (with a minimum of two participants per vehicle for safety purposes). Additional meal tickets are available for 
CLOUDY
69/49SUNNY
70/55PARTLY
CLOUDY
78/58PARTLY
CLOUDY
78/58PARTLY
CLOUDY
79/56TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
4, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
Matt Riva / Alligator Staff
Preparing for Parade Day
Biology student Aimee Dolan, left, and zoology student Mikaela Lewitt decorate the Lakeside Area 
Residence Council Homecoming float Thursday afternoon. See more photos at alligator.org.
� PROCEEDS WILL BENEFIT 
MIGRANT FARM WORKERS.
MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
Instead of selling back their 
textbooks, students now have an-
other option when emptying their book bags this semester.
The Harvest of Hope Foun-
dation, a national nonprofit that provides financial aid to migrant farm workers, is partnering with Orange and Blue Textbooks to collect used books to sell on Ama-zon.
Half of the proceeds from the 
sales will go to the foundation, which provides educational and emergency assistance to migrant workers and their families, and the other half will go to the text-book store.
Students can drop textbooks 
that are in good condition into any of the 20 marked white bins that will be dispersed at loca-tions around town, including Gainesville Place apartments, Canopy apartments, the OBT store on Northwest 13th Street and the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cul-tures on University Avenue. 
OBT has set up an Amazon ac-
count under the Harvest of Hope name to sell and ship the text-books. 
There is no planned end date 
for the book drive. Bookstore collecting 
textbooks for charityMORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
As UF Homecoming festivities swamp the streets on and 
around campus this weekend, Gainesville Police are planning 
to increase patrols in the city . 
Friday and Saturday, GPD will increase the size of its party 
patrol, which handles issues like noise complaints, in addition to maintaining its normal roster of patrol officers.
More GPD officers will patrol downtown Gainesville.GPD will also have a security detail of officers at Hemp Fest, 
which will run from noon to 11 p.m. Saturday on Bo Diddley Community Plaza.
The festival will include musical performances, as well as 
several speeches, including one by Jodi James of the Florida Cannabis Action Network. 
The University Police Department won’t change its game-
day security routine, said Maj. Brad Barber, public information officer for UPD.
As usual, UPD will team with GPD, the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office and the Florida Highway Patrol to handle secu-rity and safety issues on Saturday, he said. The agencies typi-cally employ between 275 and 300 officers for gamedays.
“Typically , Homecoming games are fairly routine, and we 
don’t usually experience a high volume of incidents,” he said.  
For last year’s Homecoming football game against Mississippi State University , the majority of arrests were alcohol-related, according to GPD’s Police 2 Citizen Web page.
On last year’s Homecoming gameday , there were also 53 
open container violations, according to the Web page.City to up security throughout Homecoming festivities
“Typically, Homecoming games are fairly     
routine.”
Maj. Brad Barber
public information officer for UPD� HEAT AND DROUGHT 
CAUSED THE SHORTAGE.
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Contributing Writer
Peanut butter is a staple protein 
in biology sophomore Andy Mills’ 
diet. 
Mills, 20, loves it with apples, 
toasted bread or bagels, and, of course, as a main ingredient in his peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwich. 
He eats it three times a week, he 
said.
However, due to hot, dry sum-
mers in the South, fewer peanuts are being harvested this year, causing the price of peanut butter to rise.
J.M. Smucker Co., which produc-
es Jif peanut butter, announced a 30 percent wholesale price increase this month, according to a recent Associ-ated Press article. 
Planter peanut butter, pro-
duced by Kraft Foods Co., raised its prices 40 percent on Oct. 31, ac-cording to the Associated Press.  
Although the price varies between brands, an average 8-ounce jar of peanut butter costs about $2.59 at Publix in Butler Plaza West.
A 30 percent price increase on a 
$2.59 jar of peanut butter would be $3.37. 
Publix will adjust its prices de-
pending on the cost increases, said Dwaine Stevens, Publix spokesman at the Jacksonville Division, which includes Gainesville stores.
Publix has seen cost increases for peanut butter since July , and they will continue through the rest of the year, Stevens wrote in an email. 
Business sophomore Alexandra 
Danovitch, 19, already pays a little more for her all-natural peanut but-ter. 
“It’s slightly annoying especially 
because I only eat the natural kind, so it’s like an added dollar on top of that,” she said. “But there isn’t much I can do about it.”
Mills said he would be willing to 
pay a little more for his peanut but-ter. “It depends by how much it in-
creases,” he said. “A couple of cents is no big deal, but if it’s a $3 jump, I’ll probably have to find something else to replace it.” 
No matter the increase, biochem-
istry sophomore Yash Shah, 19, will still pay for smooth peanut butter. Shah, a vegetarian, gets his weekly protein by eating peanut butter with crackers and sometimes jelly . 
“Even if the prices increase, I’ll 
still buy peanut butter,” he said. 
Peanut butter, which by law must 
be composed of at least 90 percent peanuts, is the leading use of pea-nuts produced in the U.S., according to the American Peanut Council, a trade association.
U.S. farmers are projected to pro-
duce 1.8 million tons of peanuts this year, the smallest harvest since 2006 and down about 13 percent from last year, according to a recently released survey by the U.S. Depart-ment of Agriculture.
Peanuts grow in sandy soils from 
April to October. Florida grows about 6 percent of the peanuts in the United States. 
The 2010 peanut crop was ex-
posed to intense heat and insuffi-cient rainfall. The heat resulted in the crops having high levels of afla-toxin, a substance produced by fun-gus found in various crops, Stevens said. 
“The 2010 peanut crop is charac-
terized as the worst aflatoxin crop in at least 30 years,” he said. “An esti-mated one-third of the crop is antici-pated to be inedible.”  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Jif peanut butter wholesale prices will increase 30 percent beginning this month, according to a recent 
Associated Press article.
Peanut shortage causes increase in peanut butter pricesReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR34 TOTAL VOTES41% YES
59% NOThursday’s question: Are you sad Gator 
Dawgs is closing this weekend?Today’s question: Do you like listening to music by 
Nickelback?Arab women’s rights movement needs support
A longing for political liberty has fueled many of the 
recent uprisings in Arab and North African coun-tries. First the efforts of protesters in Tunisia to oust 
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali caused a massive chain reaction. Neighboring countries gazed at the willful power of their peers across the border and quickly developed their own anti-government demonstrations. Not long after, gov-ernment opposition from other countries, including non-Ar -
ab countries, began to show their faces through similar pro-tests. In particular, a resonating voice screamed across the world: If Tunisia can do it, so can we. Social media echoed this spirit via audio and video clips and live on our comput-ers, televisions and cellphones.
These anti-government demonstrations were, and still 
are, the major force behind groups of fervent citizens eager for political change — change from the usual authoritarian leadership,  change from the viciousness of genocide and torture and change from the absence of freedom and au-tonomy . 
However, hidden behind these groups of men who fight 
for political change in their Islamic countries are Muslim women who wait for the day when their voices can be heard. In some ways, the issue of gender inequality transcends the political conflicts in these regions. For so long they have been disrespected and stripped of basic human rights. 
Following in the footsteps of Tunisia, anti-government 
protests proceeded ardently in Yemen. The cries for change stemmed from President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s oppressive government regime. Known to be especially devious, Saleh welcomes violence as a means to achieve his goals and con-demns the very volatile flames that he himself ignites. 
Yemeni women have been the silent sufferers of Saleh’s 
harsh government regime for three decades. For so long they have been subjugated to the authority of a cold-hearted man who relies heavily on spineless actions to flex his muscles. 
Recently , the women of Yemen reached a limit. After 
Saleh’s regime ravaged the homes of innocent families and killed them in the process, Yeme-ni women shuddered in fear for their own lives. And when Saleh’s forces attacked 60 women while killing their children, the Yemeni women could not stay quiet any longer. They collected their veils and burned them in protest of Saleh’s heinous actions. Standing 
together with power in their eyes, Yemeni women inciner -
ated the piece of cloth that held them back for so long. 
The Arab Spring has underscored the struggle for gender 
equality by inspiring women to take action into their own hands.
The most commendable strength of the Arabic women’s 
movement is that they remain undeterred by past history where social reform was a promise never kept. I recently heard a Saudi Arabian woman on the radio champion a strong belief: “We are not looking for a revolution. We want evolution.” 
The uprisings in Arab and North African countries have 
been met with some success, but the struggle for gender equality is continually marginalized. Islamic women are not looking for revolutionary action to be taken. They just want a voice. However, when acting alone, they face fatal reper -
cussions.
This is a historic opportunity for the Western world to 
provide our support toward the women’s rights movement. We have the power to assure that their movement suc-ceeds.
In the future, historians will judge us by the side of the 
fence we stood behind in the face of blatant gender discrimi-nation. We must make the moral choice. It is time that we offer our democratic values in the social context of the Arab world. 
Akansha Mishra is a pre-law junior at UF. Her column ap-
pears on Fridays.
In case you live under a rock, it’s Homecoming week-
end here in Gainesville. Due to this important, historical 
event that happens once a year, classes, for the most part, have been canceled. 
If you’re reading this while waiting for your Friday 
class, proceed to roll up the paper and hit yourself on the head. Feel better? 
But we’re not going to cancel our Friday tradition be-
cause there’s gonna be a parade, a concert by a 90s band, a comedian who’s famous for hosting “The Soup” and, oh yeah, a football game or something. It’s time for our three-day-weekend-of-insanity edition of...
Darts & Laurels 
As usual, we start off by throwing a maybe-if-you-spent-
less-time-developing-catch-phrases-you-could-read-up-on-some-history DART to presidential candidate Herman 
Cain for claiming that China was “trying to develop nucle-ar capability.” Apparently Cain thinks it’s still the 1960s. 
Next, we reluctantly, but necessarily have to throw a 
hope-you-signed-a-prenup LAUREL to Kris Humphries  
for getting the heck away from those crazy Kardashian women while he still has some shred of dignity. If you haven’t noticed, Bruce Jenner (their stepfather) looks like he’s slowly turning into a woman. 
For our second highlight of shame, we throw a what-
goes-around-comes-around DART to Texas judge William 
Adams. His daughter, Hillary Adams, recently posted a video from 2004 allegedly showing the judge lashing her with a belt, threatening to “beat her into submission.” 
He should definitely not be deciding punishments for 
people who come into his courtroom. 
As something that should make everyone feel a little 
more relieved, we give a crazy-how-quickly-the-market-responded LAUREL to banks for deciding to cancel con-
troversial debit card fees after customers threatened to move their accounts elsewhere. 
The 1 percent aren’t all that bad, are they? The recipient of our final “shake of the head” showed 
absolute stupidity and poor judgment. 
That’s why we toss a show-me-your-papers DART to 
the NYPD for locking a college student in jail for two days because she didn’t have her ID on her. Samantha Zucker decided to take a stroll into Riverside Park after it had closed, unbeknownst to her. The officer could have just given her a warning for trespassing but because she failed to have her ID on her, he decided that jail time was an ap-propriate consequence. 
Finally, we give a good-taste-in-music LAUREL to De-
troit Lions fans for petitioning to get rid of Nickelback from their Thanksgiving game’s halftime show. 
As one fan so aptly put it: “Does anyone even like Nick-
elback?” 
Have a fun and safe Homecoming weekend, and be sure 
to check back next week. 
Akansha Mishra
letters@alligator.orgLetters to the Editor FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Educational inequity a major issue
Travis Hornsby’s column Monday 
highlights perhaps the most pressing issue 
facing America today — the gross dispari-ties in academic achievement between stu-dents of low and high socioeconomic back-grounds at all levels of education.
Currently, the U.S. is experiencing an 
educational crisis, and implications are seen and heard everywhere. The econo-mies of our state and country are desper -
ate to compete in this innovative, technol-ogy-driven market, yet our knowledge of math and science consistently rank at the bottom of the list of developed nations.  
SAT scores, which can be used to predict 
future economic success, have been steadi-ly declining through the years. And when it comes to courses that are not subject to standardized testing, like social sciences, studies find that students’ knowledge is deteriorating or nearly nonexistent. 
As college students and the most re-
cent products of the K-12 system, we all have our stories. Often, however, no story is more compelling than that of a student from a low-income and/or disadvantaged background. 
The larger picture that all these stories 
paint is disheartening and, quite frankly, unacceptable. 
Consider that the average math and 
reading skills of a black or Hispanic 12th-grader are equivalent to the average of a white eighth-grader. Or that only 8 per -
cent of kids from a low-income communi-ty will graduate from college. That in some neighborhoods, one is more likely to know someone who went to jail than someone who attended a four-year university.  
In a nation that prides itself as a place 
for equal opportunity, it is troubling and ironic to see that not everyone has access to a quality education. Educational ineq-uity is perhaps the greatest social issue of our generation, yet so little attention is paid to it by our peers. 
If we are to solve this national injustice, 
we must first come together as students in order to identify tangible solutions to these problems on both local and state levels.  Starting with our community, how do we ensure that students of color and low-income backgrounds have the right tools and preparation to become a part of the Gator Nation? Is UF doing everything it can to enhance the experience of this group? 
Vicky Riquelme & Andrew Hecht
Gators’ College Access Network 
n n n 
Abortion affects more than one body
In Rosemary Daniels’ guest column, she 
stated her opinion that a woman’s right to have an abortion is unalienable. 
A woman having full rights of her own 
body sounds good if it is only her body she is affecting. 
When she has an abortion performed, 
she has just ended the life of another. 
The Declaration of Independence states 
that life is an unalienable right; It hardly mentions the taking of another human’s life for convenience. 
Rachel Crow 
UF Student 
n n n 
Politicians altering Occupy dialogue
I was enraged by the article titled “Oc-
cupy Gainesville, Occupy UF pair up for demonstration.” 
Police brutality trumps reckless oil in-
dustry practices in the Occupy dialogue.
When Scott Olsen was fired upon by 
police when peacefully protesting in Oak-land, Calif., many feared it would change the Occupy dialogue. The article entitled “Occupy Gainesville, Occupy UF pair up for demonstration” is proof enough that the politicians have changed the dialogue by ordering militarized agencies to attack peaceful, unarmed protesters. The article that ran last week focused on the federal banking system, the economy and police brutality; Instead, the article should have focused on banking, the economy and the environment. For example, Bank of America is a powerful company that con-trols much of the economy and is heavily invested in environmentally unsustainable and devastating coal mining operations.The environment is the key issue that was overlooked by the article.
BP is continuing to destroy wetlands. 
Shell is expanding drilling in the Ever -
glades and planning on destroying the Arc-tic. And the Keystone Tar Sands pipeline is going to drive animals to extinction. Mean-while, public hearings are not being held, public comments are disappearing from official records and concerns from wetland ecologists locally and conservation biolo-gists globally are not being heard.
Conflicts of interest are seen through-
out all legal and political actions revolv-ing these oil expansion projects. These oil companies are using regulatory capture to control our government. This should be the dialogue. 
Instead, the article last week focused 
on hiring thugs to brutalize protesters, which is a step away from hiring thugs to kill ecologists, like what is happening with the rainforest activists in Brazil. It was in bad taste that the article focused on police brutality but failed to mention the award-ed war veteran Scott Olsen, whose ability to speak was literally taken away by the brain damage he received from being shot in the face when exercising his freedom of speech. This should enter into the dia-logue, but police brutality ought not take center stage instead of the regulatory cap-ture that has occurred in our government. 
In fact, police brutality is inevitable as 
we struggle to liberate ourselves from the 1 percent that would see the long-term sustainability of the human population jeopardized for its short-term, personal economic gains.
Andrew Smith
PhD Student
UF Genetics Institute
Wildlife Ecology and Conservation
8, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
around gainesville
EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
College kids are making the city look bad.
According to statistics released this week by the 
U.S. Census Bureau, Gainesville’s income gap was the fifth-largest in the nation from 2005 to 2009.
Atlanta tops the list, followed by New Orleans; 
Washington, D.C.; and Miami. The city with the low-est income gap is West Jordan, Utah. 
Eve Irwin, the research program services coor -
dinator at UF’s Bureau of Economic and Business Research, said this ranking makes Gainesville’s situ-ation sound worse than it actually is.
Gainesville’s large student population and the 
city’s rural surroundings present a stark contrast to the high-paying jobs drawn in by the university and local hospitals, she said.
Historically low-income east Gainesville also 
plays a role in the disparity.
The students, however, play the largest role in 
skewing the data, Irwin said.
For 2005-2009, Gainesville’s total population was 
about 115,000 and about 45,000 of those people were students, often with little to no reported income, ac-cording to Census data. 
What little income most college students may 
have, Irwin said, typically comes from service indus-try jobs like waiting tables or bartending — jobs that would otherwise go to Gainesville residents at the bottom of the income scale.
City spokesman Bob Woods said east Gaines-
ville’s problems are not new to the City Commis-sion. As Gainesville continues to expand west, the east side residents are often left behind.
Projects to revitalize the area with improved tech-
nology and transportation, like the Gainesville Tech-nology Enterprise Center and Plan East Gainesville, have continued to garner support from commission-ers, he said.
Woods said commissioners are also fighting 
to keep the Alachua County Fairgrounds in east Gainesville.
“Local governments are policy makers, facilita-
tors,” he said. “True development is a partnership between residents and businesses. All we can do is set the table, in a sense.”Students add to local income gap
� GAINESVILLE POLICE AND 
THE SHERIFF’S OFFICE WILL PAIR UP TO INVESTIGATE.
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
When three men tied up a 
woman in her home on North-
west 38th Street and ransacked it Wednesday, suspicions that previous home-invasion robber -
ies might be connected were so-lidified for law enforcement of-ficials.
Gainesville Police and the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office announced Thursday that they are teaming up to investigate Wednesday’s home invasion and two others to determine if they are related and find the culprits, according to a news release from ASO and GPD.
The victims from all three rob-
beries similarly described the sus-pects as three men who carried handguns and wore gloves and ski masks, said Sgt. Todd Kelly, ASO public information officer.  
ASO has been investigating 
a Sept. 6 home-invasion robbery where an elderly couple was tied up in their home on Northwest 49th Lane and had their car and other items stolen, he said. 
The third robbery that law en-
forcement officials believe may be connected to the other two oc-curred June 27 at Northwest 45th Avenue. 
Again, people were tied up in 
their home. Again, their car was stolen — a red Nissan 350Z, ac-cording to the news release.Three local robberies 
could be connected
u.s. Cities with Highest income gaps
1. Atlanta
2. New Orleans3. Washington, D.C.4. Miami5. Gainesville6. Athens, Ga.7. New York8. Fort Lauderdale9. Dallas10. Baton Rouge, La.MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
The shooter pauses for a brief second, 
points his shotgun and pulls the trigger.
The clay disk, flying in the air at 40 mph, 
explodes into dust.
“It’s like making your own fireworks,” 
said Phillip Rowley, a 21-year-old mechani-
cal engineering junior.
Rowley and two other UF students, 18-
year-old aerospace and mechanical engi-neering freshman Alex Rennert and 23-year-old agronomy graduate student Leif Willey, created the university’s first clay-target shooting team this semester.
At their first competition in Jacksonville 
on Saturday, the team, composed of Rennert, Rowley, Willey and a fourth member, 23-year-old geomatics senior Justin Thomas, won four awards. Ten collegiate teams, in-cluding UF, competed.
“If we had three more people, we would 
have been a really tough team to beat and could have won overall team,” Rennert said.
A full team has five to seven members, 
depending on the competition.
“We’re growing so rapidly by word of 
mouth, we’re bound to get somebody who’s going to want to compete,” he said. “If you have an ounce of competitiveness in you, you’re going to want to keep coming out.”
Clay-target shooting is one of the fastest 
growing sporting competitions, according to the Association of College Unions Inter -
national, which will host the Intercollegiate Clay Target Championships in San Antonio.
Clay-target shooting is comprised of three 
games: trap, skeet and sporting clays. There are American and international versions of trap and skeet. A single swinging machine is used in American trap shooting to shoot the disks in the air, and shooters move through five positions to hit the disks. Fifteen swing-ing machines are used in international trap.
In American skeet shooting, shooters 
stand in eight positions along a semicircle and aim at disks shot from two machines at different heights.In international skeet, disks fly faster than 
American skeet, at about 62 mph, Rowley said.
Sporting clays is a combination of all the 
different forms.
The team competed in American skeet 
and trap shooting in Jacksonville. 
Six weeks ago, Rowley, Willey and 
Rennert created the co-ed club, officially called the Florida Gators Trap, Skeet and Sporting Club. There are 106 email ad-dresses on the club’s mailing list and 15 to 17 regular members, including one or two women, who attend meetings and practice at the Gator Skeet and Trap Club, 5202 NE 46th Ave.
Willey, Rowley and Rennert were expe-
rienced shooters before they attended UF. Rowley was a member of Jacksonville Uni-versity’s shooting club, Willey was a mem-ber of Purdue University’s shooting club as an undergraduate, and Rennert won about 20 U.S. shooting championships prior to col-lege.
After learning there wasn’t a shooting 
club at UF, Willey started an interest sign-up sheet in 2010 at the Gator Skeet and Trap Club range.
Rowley and Rennert contacted him at the 
beginning of this semester, and they began filing paperwork to formally create the club.
Each member pays $50 dues per semester 
to fund the group. Dues provide member -
ship to Bradford Sportsmen’s Farm and al-low members to practice and receive coach-ing at Gator Skeet and Trap Club, open Wednesday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday from noon to 6 p.m. 
The club practices on Friday from 3 p.m. 
to 6 p.m. and Saturday from noon to 3 p.m.  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 9
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Florida Gators Trap, Skeet and Sporting team member Justin Thomas, 23, competes 
in a shooting competition in Jacksonville on Saturday.
student life
Three students start UF clay-target shooting club MIGUEL CHATELOIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
To sum up the challenges in 
getting a college education, Joe 
Johnson took the stage of the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom on Thursday night and busted into rhyme.
“First generation. Low in-
come. At risk,” said  Johnson, UF’s assistant director of the Of-fice of Academic Support.
“The reality of this is some 
people get pissed at the fact you’re here, and your brilliance gets dismissed.”
In spoken 
word style, Johnson encour -
aged about 80 people at the Educational Ac-cess Summit to brainstorm solutions and 
ideas to fix Florida’s education system.
Students did more than just 
take notes.
They broke into groups and 
came up with recommendations to fix the education system on the spot.Groups presented their ideas 
on stage, suggesting teachers try to relate better to low-income students, create more high school mentor programs and improve college advising.The event was hosted by 
Gators’ College Access Net-work and sponsored by vari-ous student organizations and departments, including Student Government, Gators for Educa-tional Equity and the Office of Academic Support.
Andrew Hecht, president of 
Gators’ College Access Network, said the best recommendations  made Thursday will be sent to various UF academic depart-ments. 
“Will we solve all of our prob-
lems here?” Hecht said. “Proba-bly not, but the conversation has to start somewhere.”
Some people suggested lobby-
ing against the FCAT and fixing problems with school funding. 
Some thought the event was a 
step in the right direction.
“I feel like these are the prob-
lems that we need to start going against,” said Dino Medic, 18, a  biology freshman who came from a low-income family. 
“Everyone here is passionate 
about changing things.”
As the first in his family to at-
tend college, Medic said the sum-mit was worthwhile for him.
“Being aware and knowledge-
able is what being here was all about,” Medic said.10, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
Amanda Cohen / Alligator
Students discuss how the university can use its resources to reach out to first-generation or low-income 
students at the Educational Access Summit in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom on Thursday.
Students discuss improving Florida education at summit
Johnson
on CAmpus FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 11
EMILY MORROW  
and MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writers
Ron Dupont stood before a lec-
ture hall of journalism students last 
week and told them local newspa-pers are stronger than ever.
In the back of his mind, he knew 
his community newspaper was struggling, but he’d make it work. Week after week, he’d scrimp and cut.
But Dupont, owner, publisher 
and editor of The North Florida Her -
ald, did the math and knew there was nothing left.
The numbers said 59 years of his-
tory were about to end. The numbers said his newspaper was bankrupt.
After several lean years, local 
businesses had cut back the fre-quency and size of their ads as they lost business due to the sluggish economy.
Dupont said he needed $120,000 
to keep the paper running through December 2012.
The day he realized there wasn’t 
enough money to survive, he sat in his Kia minivan with his 6-year-old son, Tripp, and knew what was about to happen: He’d let his interns go. He’d sell his computers. He’d lose his house.
He drove home to his wife and 
told her, “The week is finally here.”
Dupont announced the paper’s 
closing Sunday in an email to pro-spective interns. On Monday , he wrote the paper’s obituary.
“It really feels like a friend has 
died,” he said.
Founded by a husband and wife 
in 1952, the paper was formerly known as The High Springs Her -
ald and is considered a staple of Florida’s “crescent communities”: Alachua, Newberry , High Springs, Fort White, Gilchrist County and Jonesville.The High Springs Herald was 
sold to another family in the late ‘50s. That family ran the paper until Campus Communications, also the owner of the Alligator, purchased it in 1990. 
Dupont bought it in 2009 and re-
named it The North Florida Herald.
It had a print circulation of 33,000 
and about 2,000 visitors to its web-site daily.
The paper was ranked the Best 
Community Newspaper six years in a row by the Florida Press Asso-ciation up to 2010. This year, it took third, tied with The Coastal Star and behind The Islander and Navarre Press.
The paper was known to cover 
birthday parties and anniversaries with as much gusto as shootings and plane crashes.
“There’s nobody here now to 
chronicle that,” Dupont said.
Dupont started his journalism ca-
reer in middle school. After earning a staff job at The Palm Beach Post, he interned at The New York Times and said he was offered a job, but he decided he wanted to go to college and get a degree.
After two years at UF, he was of-
fered a job as the editor of The High Springs Herald. He took it.
In 1995, he left for a job at the 
Charlotte Sun Herald in Charlotte County, where he worked to pio-neer the online newspaper industry by creating one of the nation’s first newspaper websites. He was then hired by the St. Petersburg Times in 1998 to develop the paper’s website, but by 2003 he was ready to go back to his roots.
Four months later, he returned as editor of the Herald. In 2009, he bought the paper, putting his house up as collateral.
For Dupont, his time at The Her -
ald has been more than a job. It’s been a community service.
Longtime reader Randy High-
smith, who has started a Save The North Florida Herald page on Face-book, said the newspaper has been a staple of the area.
“It pulled the community togeth-
er and allowed us to have a larger voice,” he said. “It just felt like it was always going to be there.”
The end of The Herald is not only 
a loss for the communities it cov-ered, said journalism professor Mike Foley, but also for UF students.
Since the ’90s, it has been a haven 
for journalism interns to learn the ins and outs of the industry and to fine-tune their writing.
Dominick Tao, a 2008 UF gradu-
ate and a former intern with The North Florida Herald, credits Du-pont for giving him the foundation to go on to internships at the St. Pe-tersburg Times, The Miami Herald and The New York Times.
“I can honestly say it was the first 
newspaper that was willing to give a young reporter a chance to spread his wings,” he said.
Rick Hirsch, managing editor 
of The Miami Herald and another former intern at the High Springs newspaper, said the paper’s end is a product of a changing, uncertain time in the journalism industry.
“The news business is in a time 
of transition,” he said. “In many places, the smaller daily or weekly papers are doing better.”
Despite everything that’s hap-
pened, Dupont said community journalism is still thriving.
“The future of journalism and of 
hyperlocal journalism is bright,” he said. “We are the exception to the rule.”12, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
Courtesy to the Alligator
The first and last issues of The North Florida Herald represent 59 years of community coverage in 
Florida’s “crescent communities,” including High Springs, Fort White and Newberry.
loCAlCommunity newspaper put to rest after 59 years of service FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 13
� THEY HAVE TO WRITE 
50,000 WORDS BY NOV. 31.
JULIA GLUM
Alligator Contributing Writer
Whenever he has a second of 
spare time, sophomore Stephen 
Hanson leaves UF for Terrance County . 
All he has to do is open his lap-
top, and suddenly he’s in the halls of its community high school, walk-ing next to Jason, who is struggling with the backlash of being pub-licly homosexual in a conservative town.
Plot twist: Terrance County is not 
real. Then again, neither is Jason.
Hanson is just one of more than 
200,000 people participating in Na-tional Novel Writing Month, also known as NaNoWriMo. Partici-pants attempt to write 50,000 words — about the length of a novel —  within 30 days. The annual month of marathon writing started Tues-day and will last until Nov . 30. 
Gainesville had 181 active NaNo-WriMo writers last year, many of whom were college students, said Christy Shorey, UF library assistant and co-municipal liaison for NaNo-WriMo. During November, student writers voluntarily add writing a novel to their packed schedules.
“It can be tricky with time man-
agement, but it’s always a good break from the heavy academic stuff to be able to escape into the story that you’re writing,” said Shorey , who has reached the 50,000-word mark eight times.
Hanson, a 19-year-old music 
composition sophomore, needs all the time he can get. He has replaced free time with writing time, he said.
“Whenever I have a second or a 
couple minutes between class — or even during class if the subject isn’t particularly engaging — I’ll whip out my laptop and just start typ-ing,” Hanson said.
In order to make the 50,000-word 
quota, he must average 1,667 words per day . 
NaNoWriMo runs on the honor 
system. The sponsor organization, The Office of Letters and Light, does not verify anything but the fi-nal word count. Entries are deleted from the server after being count-ed, according to a press release on nanowrimo.org.
Then what’s the point?“Focusing on an actual, statis-
tical number — like 1,700 — will yield results,” Hanson said. “It sets a pace, makes it manageable and it’s a little competitive.”
Confident he will succeed, Han-
son is determined to make sacrifices in order to meet the deadline — like writing off sleep, he said. 
Last year, the organization 
launched NaNoUniversity as a way to support collegiate authors. Local colleges with writers include the University of North Florida, the University of Central Florida and Stetson University.
The website offers a guide with 
an entire section titled “Time Man-agement, Preservation of Sanity, and Not Failing Out.” It includes advice like, “Once November is over, ev-erything else will seem easy.”
“If somebody likes writing, I 
don’t think that being a student should deter them,” Shorey said.
Municipal liaisons like Shorey 
host events throughout the month to keep morale and word counts up. Gainesville events this year in-clude an unplugged V eterans Day write-in where authors can discon-nect from Internet distractions and a “Thank God It’s Over” party in early December.
Two events will be held on cam-
pus because the location makes stu-dents more likely to attend, Shorey said.
She will partner with Library 
West assistant librarian Stacey Ew-ing to put on the fifth-annual Big Event, a night designed to moti-vate writers during the mid-month slump. The event will be Nov . 15 from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. on the third floor of Library West. 
Attendees will listen to a pep 
talk from local writer Lee Roland and chat online with guest authors Eleanor Brown and Gail Carriger. There also will be three word-war contests where participants com-pete to see who can write the most words in a 15-minute period.
About 90 percent of Gainesville 
participants write novels in the sci-ence fiction, fantasy , paranormal and urban fantasy genres, Ewing said. 
She expects about 30 writers to 
attend the event.
Library West will host The Fi-
nal Push on Nov. 30 from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. It will be participants’ last chance to crank out words toward their goal. 
“My favorite part is being there 
when somebody reaches 50,000 words,” Shorey said. “Everybody just kind of stops and just applauds because you know [he or she has] reached the point that everyone’s striving for.”
Amateur authors weave words for National Novel Writing Month
“Whenever I have a 
second or a couple minutes 
between class — or even 
during class if the subject 
isn’t particularly engaging — 
I’ll whip out my laptop and 
just start typing.”
Stephen Hanson
UF sophomore14, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Staff Writer
On a field still damp from morning rain, with the wind 
bringing the temperature into the 50s, a family of about 330 
stood at attention.
“You move at 32 at the beginning of ‘Sweet Caroline,’” said 
Jay Watkins, director of the Fightin’ Gator Marching Band, speaking through a microphone plugged into a PA system. “The goal is to get the entire stadium to sing ‘Sweet Caroline.’”
This family is comprised of future engineers, teachers, doc-
tors and more. Some of them had never marched before joining the band at UF.
Many of them are freshmen and sophomores still adapting 
to life in college.
Now, all of them have been invited to play at the 2012 Sum-
mer Olympics in London.
But on this day , no one talked about London. It was all about 
Homecoming’s halftime show.
  
Despite a 4-4 season for the football team, Dori Pasik doesn’t 
get fazed in the stands.
The 21-year-old chemical engineering senior is a section 
leader for the piccolos and a fourth-year band veteran. She’s been to the National Championship, the Sugar Bowl and the Outback Bowl.
“I’m here to do a job,” she said. “I’m a member of the Gator 
band, and my job is to play music and help uplift the team.”
One of 22 grandchildren who all play instruments, she said 
even after three full seasons, the thrill of the pregame perfor -
mance still gives her chills.
“You’re running out onto the field, and all of a sudden, 
you’re greeted by an eruption of people,” she said.
The marching band’s pregame routine always stirs up the 
crowd, but the halftime show is the band’s main showcase.
Every game has a different batch of tunes tied together by 
a theme.
Saturday’s karaoke show has come together over the past 
few weeks as students got half the music two weeks ago and the second half Monday . 
The band had two outdoor rehearsals this week to lock in 
movements.
“That’s like four hours of practice,” said Emily Bumsted, 21, 
an event management senior and a trumpet section leader.
With a shorter window of time to practice, the parts need to 
come together quicker.
“We have to learn it, get in on the field, make it sound good, 
and then make it look good, too,” she said. “There’s a lot that goes into it.”
  Many of the students at the outdoor rehearsal wore shirts 
they had made for their section — trumpets had white tank tops, trombones wore blue ones and saxophones had black T-shirts with the words “Hot and Dangerous” on the back.
The band huddled at one end of the long side of the field. 
The drum majors blew their whistles, lifted their arms and started slicing the air with their hands, setting the tempo.
Students held their horns up and marched.Showtime.For the entire story, please visit alligator.org.  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
The UF Fightin’ Gator Marching Band performs in the stands at the football game against Georgia in Jacksonville 
on Saturday.
The Fightin’ Gator Marching Band prepares for Homecoming
“The goal is to get the entire stadium to sing 
‘Sweet Caroline.’”
Jay Watkins
Gator Marching Band directorEMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
At Bluefield Estate Winery, it’s all right if 
you don’t know tannins from tea leaves or a 
Riesling from a pinot gris. It doesn’t matter if you throw your wine back or prefer the see, swirl, sniff, sip and savor method. 
“We like the casual wine drinkers; that’s 
our type of customer,” said Jennifer Fergu-son, co-owner of the winery.
Tucked away off County Road 234 near 
Newnans Lake, the 16-acre horse farm and vineyard is home to blueberry bushes, mus-cadine grape vines and pear trees.
Gainesville residents and UF graduates 
Bradley and Jennifer Ferguson opened the winery in May after deciding to expand their blueberry-winemaking hobby into a full-fledged business.
The couple started making wine at home 
in 2006 using the soft, unsellable blueberries from Bradley’s grandfather’s farms.
Soon after their first “mediocre” five-
gallon batch, they had a whole room in their house filled with fermenting wine, Bradley said.
Once the berries are picked, they are put in 
the freezer. This allows the water inside them to expand, making them juicier once thawed.
When the Fergusons are ready to make a 
new batch of wine, they crush the berries, mix them with water, sugar and yeast and allow the mixture to ferment in large, blue drums for a week to 10 days.
It takes about two pounds of blueberries 
to make a single bottle of the deep red wine.
The couple then strains the mixture mul-
tiple times to remove any seeds or skin, trans-fers the wine to a larger, stainless-steel drum and lets the wine sit and age for three to four months — the hardest part, Jennifer said.
To make the semi-sweet blueberry wine, 
the Fergusons’ original blend, they add more sugar just prior to bottling to counteract the blueberries’ natural acidity. For the sweet wine, honey and vanilla extract is added.
The Fergusons recruit friends to help 
bottle, cork, label and store the bottles. Right now, the winery houses about 100 cases of wine, including the three varieties of blueber -
ry wine, a white and a red muscadine grape wine, and eight new fruit fusion wines that joined the wine list last week.
The sweet wines are made with natural 
fruit flavors from concentrate and have an 8 percent alcohol content compared to other wines’ 10 to 12 percent.
“I call them our Jolly Rancher wines,” 
Bradley said. “But they can be dangerous.”
During the week, Bradley manages his 
grandfather’s three blueberry farms and Jen-nifer works as a claims adjuster, so the win-ery is only open Saturday and Sunday from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m.
Visitors can taste the flavors and purchase 
a bottle for about $12. 
Navigating government regulations and 
permitting, especially those dealing with ad-vertising and signage, were big hurdles for the Fergusons. 
Businesses are not allowed to post signs on 
private property, and Bradley said he thinks the winery’s inability to post directional signs has hindered business.
But after about 500 people bought the win-
ery’s Groupon deal that offered a wine tast-ing for two for $6, he said he hopes to see an increase in traffic soon.
In addition to blueberries and grapes, the 
Fergusons are looking into making pear and citrus wine. They’ve planted a half acre of pineapple pear trees, but Jennifer said it will take a while before this wine is ready for sale — about 100 pounds of pears are needed to make five gallons of wine.
“We started out pretty small — just a hob-
by,” Bradley said, “but there’s a lot of poten-tial for us to grow.”16, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Bradley and Jennifer Ferguson pose in their vineyard, Bluefield Estate Winery, on 
Wednesday.
LocALCouple turns winemaking hobby into new business
If you go:
Address: 22 NE County Road 234, 
GainesvilleHours: Saturday and Sunday, 1 p.m. to 6 p.m.Wines: $11.99 per bottle Flavors: Dry Blueberry, Semi-Sweet Blueberry Wine, Sweet Blueberry ($12.99), Windsor White, Blackberry Bliss, Green Apple Affair, Mandarin Orange Madness, Peachy Perfec-tion, Pomegranate Passion, Raspberry Ro-mance, Sweet Strawberry Sensation, Water -
melon Wonder FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 17
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
In the 1960s, women at UF had to wear 
dresses and skirts in public. They also had to 
be back in their dorms by 10 p.m. and could not be seen kissing men in public. 
If they failed to do any one of these things, 
they were issued an offense slip. 
Three offense slips and she was locked 
in her dorm for the weekend while men did what they wanted.
In 1967, fed up with what she called 
“male supremacy,” Judith Brown, a 27-year-old UF graduate, sat in her Gainesville home on Northwest 15th Street and began writing a pamphlet that helped nationally spark the second-wave feminist fight for women’s lib-eration.
The 32-page pamphlet called “Toward a 
Female Liberation Movement,” published in 1968, empowered women to speak up for themselves, their bodies and their role in so-ciety beyond domesticity and the control of men. 
The pamphlet was co-authored with Bev-
erly Jones, another feminist-activist pioneer. 
“It was one of the single most important 
pamphlets of the newly resurgent women’s liberation movement,” fellow feminist ac-tivist Kathie Sarachild said in an April 2010 Gainesville panel discussion on local wom-en’s activism.
On Saturday, members of National 
Women’s Liberation, a national activist or -
ganization, are holding a commemorative luncheon for the civil rights activist and pioneering radical feminist. The event is co-sponsored by the Samuel Proctor Oral His-tory Program at UF.
Brown, a Gainesville native, died in 1991 
after a three-year battle with breast cancer. Every year since, activists from Gainesville and all over the United States come back to pay her tribute. 
“Women were oppressed back then, and 
Judy made me see that,” said Carol Giardi-na, the event’s featured speaker and a fellow women’s activist. “She made me see that a traditional housewife life just wasn’t fulfill-ing.” 
A professor of U.S. history and women’s 
studies at Queens College in New York and a published author, Giardina, now in her mid-60s, will talk about Brown, her legacy and ways to strengthen the women’s libera-tion movement.
Brown and Giardina were good friends who founded Gainesville Women’s Libera-tion, the first women’s liberation group in the South, when the pamphlet was published. Giardina said the organization served as an outlet for women to help one another real-ize their potential. They could achieve more than their roles as housewives. 
Today, it has two chapters: one in 
Gainesville and one in New York City, to-gether known as National Women’s Libera-tion. 
In the mid-’70s, Brown, also a UF law 
school graduate and civil rights attorney, successfully sued the Alligator for sexual discrimination and won equal pay for wom-en journalists at the newspaper. 
She was a UF Ford Fellowship scholar, 
but after picketing to integrate a racially segregated movie theater in Gainesville, UF revoked the fellowship. She was later rein-stated. “Judith was calling for a women’s move-
ment from all the other movements going on at the time — mainly the civil rights move-ment and the black power movement,” said Jessica Lancia, a third-year Ph.D. candidate in women’s studies at UF. “These women inspire me. We can go to college and be in-dependent because of them.”
Brown was arrested about 20 times dur-
ing her activist days in the 60s and 70s, Gi-ardina said. Giardina was fired from  her job for participating in feminist protests in the late 60s. 
“They wanted to change the way society 
viewed and treated women, and that is still our main purpose today,” said 31-year-old Natalie Maxwell, chairwoman of Gainesville Women’s Liberation. “We are standing on the shoulders of women, like Judith and Carol, who came before us; we have to con-tinue their work.”
“Judith Brown: Freedom Fighter” will be 
held from 12 p.m. to 2 p.m. at the Pride Com-munity Center on Northwest 13th Street and costs $20 at the door. Lunch is included. “She was the bravest and smartest person I have ever known,” Giardina said. “I value her influence on my life more than any-thing.”
Luncheon to be held in honor of local women’s liberation icon
“They wanted to change the way 
society viewed and treated women, 
and that is still our main purpose 
today.” 
Natalie Maxwell
chairwoman, Gainesville Women’s Liberation18, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
KATHERINE GREENE
Alligator Contributing Writer
It’s the last chapter. The climax 
has come and gone. The characters 
have filled their roles, and the book is nearly finished.
Books Inc. and Book Lover’s 
Cafe, a longtime local business, will officially close its doors in January , when going-out-of-business sales will be held. After the collection dwindles to a manageable amount, the store will officially close, and any remaining books will be sold online or donated to charity.
Owners Anne and Phil Haisley 
have decided to close the bookstore and retire after more than 20 years of business in Gainesville. 
When the couple moved from 
Marion, Ind., in 1989, they brought their independent bookstore, now named Books Inc., with them and added the vegetarian Book Lover’s Cafe shortly after.
After owning the bookstore for 
about three decades in two separate states, Anne Haisley , 71, said she and her husband are ready to retire.
“We got tired,” Haisley said. 
“We’re old. By January , Phil will be 78, and I will be 72, and it is a long time to work every day.”
She said they have already been 
preparing for the close by calling customers with store credit. The bookstore, which sells both new and used books, accepts customers’ used books in return for credit they can apply to future purchases.
She said they have several hun-
dred customers with store credit, and they want to make sure people get to use it before they close.
Regular customers, like Peggy 
Henderson, 62, who has been eating at the cafe religiously for six years, are shocked and saddened by the store’s closing.
“I wish I had the money to buy 
it and take it over,” Henderson said. “It is really sad. I can understand why they are retiring though.”
She said while she has only lived 
in Gainesville for six years, she knows the store has been around “forever.”
Haisley said people feel like 
they are losing an important part of their life and an important part of Gainesville, especially people who have been customers at Books Inc. for a long period of time.
“Some people have been coming 
in here even before they were born,” she said. “There are quite a few children whose mothers came here while they were pregnant and ate at the cafe every day and then came back after the kids were born. They grew up here, toddling around.”
Haisley said this kind of relation-ship with customers is common and makes the decision difficult.
But even employees, who de-
pend on the bookstore and cafe stay-ing open, agree the couple deserves to relax.
Sarah Bryant, 25, a UF graduate 
with a degree in religious studies, has worked in the cafe for about a year and a half. During that time, she said she had suspicions they would be closing, but now it’s really happening.
“It’s unfortunate,” Bryant said. “I 
think the food is good here, and it’s a cool concept, but I am glad they are going to retire. They need to go take a vacation. They deserve it.”
She said she has seen several cus-
tomers upset by the news, and she is waiting to see how some of her regular customers react.
“A guy and his mom came in the 
other day ,” Bryant said. “He seemed really shocked. He said he didn’t know where he was going to get a chimichurri sandwich anymore.”
Haisley said while they have 
had two strong candidates looking to buy the property , neither could secure a mortgage, and, as of right now, the future of the land is uncer -
tain. 
She said she and her husband are 
hoping to sell the property before they close. And if that doesn’t hap-pen, they will continue to pay taxes on the property until the right buyer comes along.
“I always joke and say I will 
not sell to Hooters,” Haisley said. “If they wanted to move here, they would be out of luck.”
Book Lover’s Cafe owners to bid farewell after 20 years  
Maggie Powers / Alligator
Book Lover’s Cafe owners Anne Haisley, 71, and Phil Haisley, 77, pose for a photo Thursday. They have 
owned the Gainesville cafe, which will be closing its doors in January, since 1989.
Around g Ainesville FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 19
� HE HAS BEEN A TATTOO 
ARTIST FOR 10 YEARS.
ERIN JESTER
Alligator Writer
As a kid growing up in Virginia, 
Mike Salay always thought if you 
wanted to be a good skateboarder, you had to have lots of tattoos. 
He was often in trouble with his 
parents for drawing skulls on his arms and the backs of his hands with marker, which was hard to scrub off before church on Sun-day.  
Salay, 36, the new co-owner 
of Anthem Tattoo Parlor with his wife, Samantha, didn’t grow up to be a famous skater, but he is cov-ered in tattoos.
Designs of all kinds start at his 
wrists and nearly obscure his skin up to the elbows. Both arms, his chest and one leg serve as a canvas for tattoos he put on himself and those he let other people put on him in his lust for permanent body art. 
In his 10 years as a tattoo artist, 
he’s seen it all.
A tough guy will be sitting in 
a chair while getting an arm or a back piece, head propped on his free arm, when suddenly his head droops and he’s slumped in the chair, unconscious, Salay said.  
Four or five years ago, while he 
was working at Bodytech, one of Salay’s clients fainted and soiled himself while having a cross tat-tooed in the middle of his back. 
Nothing shocks him anymore.“People come in here, they’re like, ‘Hey, I want to get my wie-ner tattooed.’ And I’m like, ‘OK, a hundred bucks,’” he said.  
But Salay said he has also made 
is fair share of mistakes when it comes to tattoos.
Shortly after high school, Salay 
went to the first inexpensive tat-too artist he found and offered up his wrist as the permanent resting place for a black butterfly the size of a quarter, “which I paid way too much for — $75.” 
Some time after that, he heard 
that a tattoo artist he was acquaint-ed with was looking for an appren-tice, so he jumped on it. 
The job consisted of setting up 
the tattoo machine. 
Another friend helped him get 
some tattooing materials from a pawn shop. As soon as he got home, he tattooed a small star on the inside of his left ankle. He tat-tooed the top of his right thigh after work the same day. They were the first tattoos he’d put on anyone.
For the next three years, he tat-
tooed in his living room.
Salay didn’t get any formal tat-
tooing training at the apprentice-ship, so he said he didn’t know what needles to use or how to stretch the skin properly while do-ing a tattoo. 
“I made a lot of people really 
ugly in the beginning,” he said.
For those questionable works of 
art, Salay said he mainly operated on the barter system.
Now, he charges $100 an hour 
for large, multiple-appointment tattoos, although he still does plen-ty of little ones for Anthem’s shop minimum of $50. “I try not to do the same tattoo 
twice,” he said.
On a recent Wednesday, Salay 
could be found in the shop, taking a fresh disposable razor to the in-side of a client’s left bicep. 
“This is my favorite part of tat-
tooing: shaving other dudes,” he said.
With Rob DeCespedes, the cli-
ent, watching in a full-length mir-ror, Salay meticulously positioned and re-positioned the tattoo design — symbols from video games Gal-aga and Super Mario Brothers — on the man’s arm, ensuring perfect placement. 
That design was completed 
in an hour, but some of the most labor-intensive pieces Salay’s done have taken up to 20 hours to fin-ish.  
One such piece was a full-sleeve 
tattoo of a blue koi on Salay’s friend Sean Garrity.
Salay did it in several sittings, 
each three or four hours long. At a minimum, he guessed the whole tattoo took 15 hours to complete.
He does great work, but he’s 
humble about it, Garrity said. 
“He’s in a continual stage of 
progression,” he said. 
“He’s one of the best in 
Gainesville, as far as I’m con-cerned.”20, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Mike Salay and his wife, Samantha, took over ownership of Anthem Tattoo Parlor on Sept. 2.
Tattoo artist always evolving, never does same design twice FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 21
22, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
Photos courtesy of UF’s University Archives 
The parade was added to the lineup of festivities in the 1940s.
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
Gators fans decked out in orange and blue stream 
through the streets, giving “the chomp” to each other 
as they throw fists and “Go Gators!” into the air.
Barbecue and beer clutter the surfaces of every 
known form of collapsible furniture unless a way-ward-tossed beanbag has knocked everything over.
Tailgating might be a Homecoming staple to the UF 
community now, but through the years in Gainesville, Gators fans have had entirely different experiences.
Homecoming officially began in 1925. It was pre-
viously called Dad’s Day, an event for dads to visit their sons at school. Women weren’t accepted into the university until 24 years later. The event was free until the 1970s, and spectators participated in an an-nual bonfire until it was deemed a safety hazard in the 1990s.
The first big-name band at Gator Growl, Lynyrd 
Skynyrd, performed at UF in 2007. 
This year, Student Government Senate transferred 
$90,000 of reserve funds to Student Government Pro-ductions. Of that money, SGP put $71,000 toward bringing the Goo Goo Dolls to headline at Gator Growl.
As of press time, Aaron Heger, producer of Gator 
Growl, said 20,000 tickets had been sold, and he ex-pected Thursday and today to generate the most tick-et sales. He said yearly ticket sales average more than 15,000.
Students could vote for their music act choice on 
Gator Growl’s Facebook page. About 3,600 students answered the question, “Who would you like to see perform at Gator Growl 2011?” 
In the poll, 1,055 people voted for Maroon 5, 1,294 
voted for Zac Brown Band, 485 voted for Kings of Leon, 402 voted for Bruno Mars and 369 voted for the Goo Goo Dolls. 
Gators fans might notice other changes in Gator 
Growl this year. 
The main stage has moved from its traditional 
place at one of the end zones to the front of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium’s student section. The pep rally audi-ence will sit on the alumni side to face the stage. 
Fireworks, which were removed from the lineup UF Homecoming: A tradition evolving through the years
Photos courtesy of UF’s University Archives
UF’s Homecoming celebration originated as Dad’s Day in 1923 as an event where fathers could visit their 
sons at the all-male university.
 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 23
›1900
›
››
2011190019001900190019001923: UF President Albert Murphree institutes 
“Dad’s Day” for fathers to visit their sons at     
the all-men’s university.
1925:  Students 
rename Dad’s Day  
      as Homecoming.The parade and Gator Growl, which were added by the early 
1940s, as well as Homecoming, are postponed because so many 
students are ﬁ  ghting in World War II.
1946:  Homecoming returns   
      to UF, and ﬁ  reworks are added to         the festivities.1947-1948:  Women are admitted to     
      UF, and sorority chapters are established           at the university. New acts are added to        the weekend, including a “Swimcapades”        performance by the synchronized            swimming team.
1960: Gator Growl is called the “Big-  
      gest All-Student Show in the World” and        attracts 45,000 people to the Florida                           Field. It airs for the ﬁ  rst time on UF’s         educational radio station.
1970s: The ﬁ  rst Gator Gallop is  
        held.1973:  Gator Growl tickets cost money 
for the ﬁ  rst time. Audience members pay $1.50 per ticket.
 1979:  Bob Hope performs at Gator 
Growl. He is one of many big-name entertain-ers to come in the 1970s.
1985:  Gator Growl attracts a  
      record crowd of 70,000 people.
1990s:  UF’s Homecoming parade grows from        
      one to three hours and includes about            150 ﬂ  oats. The traditional Homecoming bonﬁ  re 
is phased out because it presented safety hazards.1999:  The Homecoming Parade is   
                    broadcast live on the Internet.
2000: Soulfest is introduced to show-
case the university’s cultural diversity. Coaches’ Day is also introduced to allow stu-dents, faculty and alumni to mingle with the UF coaches.2007: The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 
Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF because Verizon Wireless is secured as the title sponsor.1943:UF Homecoming Through the Years
›
›
›
›
›
›
›
›
›
›
›
›
›
›
›
1960: 
      gest All-Student Show in the World” and  
      attracts 45,000 people to the Florida                     
      Field. It airs for the ﬁ  rst time on UF’s   
      educational radio station.
The ﬁ  rst Gator Gallop is  
The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 
Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 
Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 
2011
2011
2011
 2011
2011
 2011
2011
2011
2011
2011
2011
201120112011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 2011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 
Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 2011Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 2011201120112011201120112011201120112011201120112011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 2011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 
Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 2011Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 201120112011201120112011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 2011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 
Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 2011Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 2011201120112011201120112011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 2011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 
Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 2011Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 2011201120112011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 2011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 
Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 2011Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 201120112011
2011
2011
2011
 2011
2011
 20112011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 2011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 
Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 2011Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 2011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 2011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 
Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 2011Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 2011Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 2011Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 
2011
2011
2011
2011
 2011
2011
 201120112011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 2011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 
Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 2011Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 201120112011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 2011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 
Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 2011Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 20112011201120112011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 2011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 
Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 2011Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 201120112011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 2011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 2011201120112011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 2011The ﬁ  rst live band performs at 
Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 2011Gator Growl. Lynyrd Skynyrd is brought to UF 
Shawn Janetzke/ Alligator StaffThere were several new events, features added to this year’s show
in 2009, were also brought back 
for tonight’s show. Gator Growl staff also resurrected live skits for this year.
Gator Growl and the football 
game might be the most popular events, but Homecoming began Oct. 20 with the Education Cel-ebration, which honors contribu-tors to UF academics. 
Soulfest showcased cultur -
ally diverse student performances and foods on Oct. 21. Homecom-ing Director of Public Relations Amanda Griffin said this year’s Soulfest turnout was especially high.
“It was standing room only by the time it started,” she said. “It was packed.”
Homecoming staff added an-
other student performance event to the Homecoming celebration. On Oct. 27, Swamp Symphony showcased student performances from the College of Fine Arts. 
Griffin said the students played UF songs to get the audience in the Gators spirit.
“I think it was a great start to 
hopefully a really good tradition for the Gator Nation for the fu-ture,” she said.
The two-mile Gator Gallop run 
will usher in the Homecoming pa-rade this morning. According to a news release, Homecoming staff expects about 100,000 spectators at the parade.
Before the Gators take on the 
Commodores at Florida Field on Saturday, Gators fans can at-tend the Homecoming Game Day Alumni Barbecue at the O’Connell Center.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Starting at ONLY $369
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive 3 & 4 bds Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $329
UPGRADES AVAILABLE $399
Only $9.99 to sign & $100 Credit
352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-21/1 East at $469, 1/2 off 2nd month*
$99 Move In SpecialFrederick GardensCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.Great pools • Fitness • TennisCall for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’sBivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1 for $689 * 3/2 for $809
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 25
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 THFREE Cable with HBOAll the amenities & FREE tanningGated, PET FRIENDLYTheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.445512-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!
ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   12-7-11-74-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2GIGANTIC 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority/Norman area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Reduced to $1595. Avail now or Jan 352-665-8166 lv msg.   11-23-11-50-2
●●● One Mile to UF ●●●
 Home 2br 1 bath. New A/C Hardwood Floors, 
Tile in kitchen & bath & Florida room $900.00 mo.  Call Andree Realty 352-375-290011-4-10-2
4/2.5 2000sqft home built in 2000, 2 blks to 
Stadium 3 min walk to Campus. Free $1300 security deposit! $1550/mo! W/D Garage. Avail Dec/Spring. Rmmate matching. Call 870-7304. jeremybolton0@gmail.com   11-23-11-30-2
●●●● MUST SEE! ●●●●
1BR, quiet, custom-built, in-law suite. 
Spacious, living room, full bath, dining, W/D. Cable, utils incl. Close to all -- has it all! $700/mo. Call 278-8381     11-10-11-10-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House Historic 
spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1750/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    11-15-11-20-2
● Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 3 blocks to UF  
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - Bike to UF
● 4BR/2BA House directly across from
Law School. W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
● 3BD/1BA House - 2046 NW 31 PL
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
11-16-11-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420    12-7-11-32-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   12-7-11-32-2Close to UF, $595/month 2BR with 
2.5Bathroom townhouse. New floor/paint. Fenced backyard with W/D hookup. 1310 SW 61st, GNV, 32607. Call 352/332-4088 or 352/514-7098    11-10-11-10-2
2, 3, or 4 Bedroom House available
January 1st. Walk to Class! Lots of Parking. 
Pool. 2 Living Rooms. $500 per room. Please
call John @ 561-866-8234 for further info
11-4-4-2
3 or 4BR/1.5BA CONDO
2116 SW 70th Terr. Available anytime. $700/
mo. (First & Last)  Call 352-514-9698    11-9-11-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Cabana Beach Sublease 2/2
Available now to Aug 2012,$509/mo each, Furnished W/Dcall  352-552-1757    11-23-11-14-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
MASTER Bdrm. PRIVATE BATH, WALK 
IN CLOSET 708 NW 10th Ave. 5 min to UF. Nice Cabana around Lg Swimming Pool, $570 incl utils, & W/D. Huge space in quiet area. Flexible lease w low sec dp. Call Kristoff 352-332-5030 or 514-6180 ready Nov. 1st.    11-4-11-15-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Available December. Call 727-729-1561   11-30-26-4SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler Plaza. Asking $650/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    11-9-11-9-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
Office Space and Penthouse Available
Call David Holbrook - (352) 213-8161
11-16-11-10-5
MAJOR LAND AUCTION - 5228 +/- Acres 
sold in 35 tracts. Tracts located in Benton, Henry, Carroll, Perry Counties in Tennessee and Calloway County, Kentucky. SALE A held Thursday, November 17, at 2PM at Paris Convention Center in Paris, TN. SALE B held Friday November 18, at 1PM at Perry County Community Building in Linden, TN. Inspection meetings held November 4 and 11 from 2-6PM at Perry County Community Building in Linden, and on November 5 and 12 from 2-6PM at the Hampton Inn in Paris. Woltz & Associates, Inc.; Real Estate Brokers & Auctioneers, Roanoke, VA. KY#72173, TL#2752. Go to www.woltz.com/755/ or call (800)551-3588 for more information.   11-4-1-5
Pre-Grand Opening Sale! 6.34 acres w/ di-
rect lake frontage only $29,900! Brand new, never before offered! Gorgeous wooded set-ting with deep water frontage on spectacular lake. Paved rds, power, phone, much more. Unheard of prices - excellent financing. Hurry out for 1st pick! Call now (866)952-5302. x 67    11-4-1-5
Beautiful Home on 66± Acres Auction 
Thursday, November 17th, 10AM Roopville, Carroll County, GA 10% BP, GAL #316 JL Todd Auction Co (800)241-7591 www.jltodd.com    11-4-1-5
New log house in Fancy Gap, Virgnia. 
Recession prices, 139k. 5 acres 42K. Magnificent views, creeks, waterfalls, Paved, Mountain Top. Call (336)210-2999 or visit mountainlandvirginia.com    11-4-1-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
26, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
SAWMILLS from only $3997- MAKE MONEY 
& SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship. FREE Info & DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com (800)578-1363 Ext.300N    11-4-1-10
THINK CHRISTMAS, START NOW! OWN 
A RED HOT! DOLLAR, DOLLAR PLUS, MAILBOX OR DISCOUNT PARTY STORE FROM $51,900 WORLDWIDE! 100% TURNKEY (800)518-3064 WWW.DRSS20.COM    11-4-1-10★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
11-30-11-61-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 27
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
CASH FOR CARS! Any Make, Model, or 
Year. We Pay MORE! Running or Not. Sell Your Car or Truck TODAY. Free Towing! Instant Offer: (888)420-3807    11-4-1-12
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      11-10-11-77-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14WANTED
Energetic, hard-working, individuals eager to 
assist customers with high-quality sporting goods and shoes. Full and part time opportu-nities. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St. No phone calls please.    11-4-5-14
Designer/Sales-part/full time. No exp.nec.
Assist cust. choosing styles, colors etc. Must work Sat. $8/hr min. Can earn $50k+/yr. Apply at Furniture Kingdom Plus...3310 NW 23rd Ave    11-4-11-5-14
Marketing Assistant, P/T.
Assists with marketing and PR
for O'Connell Center. If
interested send e-mail 
to musson@ufl.edu
11-4-5-14
Medical assistant needed for busy dermatol-
ogy office. Part-time position available, 10-20 hrs wk. This is an ideal position for pre-med, nursing or allied health student. Will train en-ergetic, enthusiastic individual. Medical asst certificate not required. Email resume toofmgrbeers@aol.com.    11-7-5-14
Busy Dermatology office seeking medical
billing / front office assistant. Ideal forbusiness or similar major. Part-timeposition leading to possible full-time with management potential. email resume toofmgrbeers@aol.com.    11-7-5-14
Bench Scientist: Self-motivated individual 
with good attention to detail to work in an-tibody purification and kit development. Knowledge of ELISA methodology and basic immunology is desirable. Basic laboratory skills and ability to manage multiple projects required. B.S. in scientific field preferred; laboratory experience may be substituted. Send resume to info@elisa-tek.com.   11-8-11-5-14
Looking for a fitness model for website. 
Please, send pic & info to ergofit101@gmail.com or ergofit101.com. Photography should take less than 1 hour at a popular G'ville gym. You will receive name credit & $25 visa card.    11-7-3-14
Cleaning/Organizing person for busy family. 
Hours flexible, $12/hr. Email qualifications to; ladygatoruke@aol.com                 11-10-5-14
Part time yard, home and office work, self 
motivated students only. Start $10/hr. Call Sebastian 352-591-3000               11-9-4-14
Apply Now, 12 Drivers Needed Top 5% Pay 
2 Mos. CDL Class A Driving Exp (877)258-8782 www.meltontruck.com    11-4-1-14
Drivers: Run GA, AL, MS, TN & FL HOME 
WEEKENDS, Earn Up to 39¢/mi, 1 yr OTR Flatbed exp. Call: SUNBELT TRANSPORT, LLC (800)572-5489 ext. 227    11-4-1-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
 ●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   11-17-20-14
Magician Needed
for company party on December 9th from 
6:00 - 7:00 pm. Please call 352-514-3436.  11-7-11-10-14
Legal Secretary/Receptionist. $9/hour. F/T. 
Needs to be responsible, diligent, and de-pendable. Call 352-371-4000.   11-16-11-15-14
Law clerks needed for research
& drafting on criminal appeals. 
flex hrs., $12/hr to start, send 
resume to Alex Paralegal, 7758 
SE83 Ct. Newberry, FL 32669
11-4-11-8-14
Web Programmers (.NET) jobs and intern-
ships available at Gainesville's 352 Media Group. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   11-8-11-10-14
Search Engine Optimization (SEO) spe-
cialist wanted at Gainesville's 352 Media Group. Email resume and SEO samples to hr@352media.com    11-8-11-10-14
ATTTENTION STUDENTS
Part time help needed at Westgate Home Sales. Please contact Matt for details 352-378-2453 x 19   11-9-11-10-14
28, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696   11-9-11-30-15
COMPUTER PROBLEMS? CONFUSED?
13 yrs in the IT profession. I can resolve ANYissue ● Desktop ● Laptop ● Networking● A/V ● Cell Phone ● Gator IT Solutions 
1 call does it all! 352-792-2214 Free Quote11-22-11-20-15
Tutoring all subjects and all levels. $20/
hour. Available immediately in subjects from Algebra to Differential Equations to Physics, Statistics, or Chemistry. Call 863-430-5472.11-10-5-15
ALLIED HEALTH career training-Attend col-
lege 100% online. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. SCHEV certified. Call (800)481-9409 www.CenturaOnline.com    11-4-1-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.com    11-4-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA approved program. Financial aid if qualified - Housing available CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (866)314-3769    11-4-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting, *Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. Call (888)203-3179 www.CenturaOnline.com    11-4-1-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
ADOPTION. Choose a loving & secure family 
waiting to adopt. Living & medical expenses paid. Updates on your child.Call 24hr/7day. 1-800-280-6155. Amy Eichman(Bar#830011)    11-14-11-30-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) and 
Basic Life Support(BLS) classes. Meets Shands and SFC requirements. All certs is-sued are American Heart Assoc. We do indi-vidual and group classes. Call Cardiac One at (352)494-4217.   11-23-11-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
VIBRAM 5-FINGERS
Awesome selection of the super hot Vibram 
5-fingers shoes. Styles for causal wear, working out and running. Come check 'em out. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St. One mile north of UF on 13th St.   11-4-5-18
FLIP FLOP SALE
All flip flop sandals on sale now. Reef, Teva, Sanuk, Roxy and Quiksilver. 15-30% off. Great selection. Lloyd Clarke Sorts 1504 NW 13th St. 372-7836    11-4-5-18
To The Girl With The Beautiful Blue Eyes:
 Wasn't it just the other day that you were in your second year at UF, and we were cel-ebrating one year together at Homecoming?  Now Little Blue Eyes is in her second year at UF!  It just doesn't seem possible.  Each year that we return, I realize how for-tunate I am to have you in my life for 31 years. You are my strength and inspiration. You set a great example for our daughter. We are so proud of her and all that she has accomplished.
I am truly one lucky Gator!ILY,Liarface
11-4-1-19To Liar Face and the Girl with the Beautiful 
Blue Eyes,
Another year has passed and your little blue 
eyes is still growing up. A second year UF student with the support of the most loving parents I know behind me every step of the way. I’m so happy we all now have memo-ries to share here. Homecoming number 18 together this year and the numbers will con-tinue to grow. I love you both so much. You have no idea what you mean to me.
Love, 
Little Blue Eyes11-4-1-19
To Mary Janokaitis:
Happy Homecoming 2011!To the Love of my Life!Here’s to a fun weekendat Copper Monkey & elsewhere!Love, John (Class of ’79!)             11-4-1-19
Gainesville "Doobie Toss" The Video! 
Features "The Toss" 1992-'93! Now on DVD! Includes interview with the late and lovable, "Guru of Ganga," Jack Herer, and the USDA's 1942 film "Hemp for Victory!" Help fund the Hempfest! SAT. NOV. 5 Gainesville's Downtown BO Diddley Plaza! Donnations Greatfully accepted! Jodi- FL C.A.N. 321-253-3673Doobietosservideo@gmail.com    11-4-11-7-20
The Doobie Tosser says that you should 
Google this video! "UFOTV Presents: The Hemp War Conspiracy!" This is the film that the US Gov. does not want you to see!    11-4-11-7-20
Advertising that Works. Put your ad in Over 
100 Papers throughout Florida for one LOW RATE! Call (866)742-1373 or visit: www.florida-classifieds.com    11-4-1-20WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM a boutique in 
a barn!Used books,old thoughts and new things. The existing order of surfdom can-not remain unchanged. It is better to abol-ish surfdom from above than to wait until the surfs begin to liberate themselves from below. Alexander 11. Hwy.441S. 15 min. to change what you thought a store could be.    11-22-30-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.One random winner will receive a $25 visa card. Just like www.GoBud.org Travel/Leisure on FB. Winner will be announced on Dec 1, 2011.   11-8-4-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: KEYS
On Newell Drive on Monday, 10/31 - late af-ternoon. Call to identify 954-801-3817   11-7-3-25
yourself standing, that’s 
pretty good, never mind be-ing in a game,” Donovan said.
The biggest spark for UF’s 
long-range explosion might have come from two play-ers new to wearing a Gators uniform. 
In his freshman debut, 
Bradley Beal lived up to his five-star billing with 20 points on 72 percent shooting from the field. The 6-foot-3 Beal would have had a chance for more, but he fouled out with 7:10 remaining in the game.
Beal was also the lone 
starting guard to not have a turnover.
“Coach Donovan tells us 
every time in practice, ‘Take it. If you’re open, take it,’” Beal said. 
“He doesn’t have a prob-
lem with us shooting threes or the amount of threes that we took … as long as we re-alize it’s not always going to be that way.”
Coming off the bench 
for the first time in his ca-reer, redshirt junior transfer Mike Rosario continued the 3-point onslaught by match-ing Beal’s 4-of-7 shooting be-hind the arc. 
“I’m so proud of him 
because I feel like he’s an amazing freshman,” Rosario said. “He’s been thrown into the fire right now and for him to be so mature about everything and be on top of everything that Coach Billy asks him to do, that shows a lot of character.”
Contact John Boothe at 
jboothe@alligator.orgHoops , from page 30 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 29
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator s taff
In his first action for Florida, freshman guard Brad Beal scored 20 points on 72 
percent shooting before fouling out of UF’s 114-57 win against Catholic. 
Beal scores 20, fouls out in Gators debut
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
 
In their first action of the season, the Gators showed 
flashes of the type of fast, pressure defense they’ll need to 
be successful with a guard-heavy roster. 
Florida notched 16 steals and forced 23 turnovers, press-
ing Catholic University for the majority of the night. 
“We’re getting better at it,” senior guard Erving Walker 
said. “We’ve been putting a lot of time and effort into it. … That’s going to be one of our main calling cards, being that we’re not a big, grind-it-out team. We want to get transi-tion points and get out and run.”
Florida’s defense led to easy baskets in transition, al-
lowing UF to score 50 points off turnovers and 20 on fast-break opportunities. 
The press started off shaky, as the Gators allowed the 
Cardinals to advance the ball and create good shot oppor -
tunities in the early going. 
But it didn’t take long to tighten things up; Florida gave 
up just four points and had four steals in a nearly six-minute stretch that started 
with 9:02 remaining in the first half. 
“We’re still getting better,” UF coach 
Billy Donovan said. 
“I don’t know if we totally under -
stood the reads and what we’re doing. … They’ve got to make reads. When to rotate up, when to rotate back, when to trap, when to fake trap.”
And the Gators know the tests only get tougher from 
here. 
Forcing turnovers against a Catholic team Donovan ac-
knowledged was greatly outmatched from a physical and athletic standpoint is one thing. Doing the same against the likes of Ohio State, which UF faces in just 11 days, is another. 
“We felt great about the press,” junior guard Kenny 
Boynton said. “But, then again, we can’t be too happy , this being an exhibition game.”
The Buckeyes dominated the Gators’ press last season, 
turning the ball over only eight times en route to a 93-75 win. 
Continue reading this story at alligatorSports.org.UF press defense
productive in win
Donovan
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Live Blog Saturday During Homecoming Game 
Visit alligatorSports.org/live Saturday at 12:15 to join 
our football beat writers in a live blog during Florida’s game against Vanderbilt. Gators Moving On At USTA/ITA
Lauren Embree and Joanna Mather both advanced Thursday at 
the USTA/ITA National Indoor Tennis Championships. They will play again today. Check alligatorSports.org for coverage.Tahnai Annis and UF’s soccer team face off against Alabama today in the semifinals of the SEC Tournament.See Story, Page 35.
The alligatorSports Brand Picks 
Column is nothing if not a me-dium for social movements.
We love occupying places; it really 
blurs the line between us homeless col-lege students and you social activists. If you want to protest bad stuff, we’ll play ball.
Corporate greed, social inequality, 
a lack of bank regulations. Boo! Po-litical corruption, police brutality , an ever-increasing reach in foreign policy . Occupy it! Student loan debt, tuition in-creases, Governor Rick Scott’s plans for higher education — we have signs for those things, too.
But we shouldn’t stop with politi-
cians and bank executives. Let’s declare war on everything stupid. Shoulder-to-shoulder body traffic at Grog House, Kim Kardashian, weather that starts at 50 degrees in the morning and creeps up to 80 degrees by noon, girls who wear black spandex leggings to class and then get mad at people who stare: You have all been warned.
For now, though, let’s focus our 
power on The Swamp. Seriously , we’re not going to just let them charge us to watch such a disappointing product. Florida-Vanderbilt? Really? It’s time to Occupy Gators Football.
While we wait for Saturday, though, 
the alligatorSports Brand Picks Column let a couple of reform-minded writ-ers debate the Oklahoma State-Kansas State game. 
The Cowboys (-21) could win a 
draw with the 1 percent because…
You’ve heard coaches refer to their 
recruits as “the top 1 percent of the 1 percent?” Well, Oklahoma State’s best players were the bottom 99 percent of the 99 percent. 
Receiver Justin Blackmon didn’t get 
an offer from the elite Sooners. Instead, he has caught 30 touchdowns in the last two seasons in Stillwater, Okla. Quar -
terback Brandon Weeden couldn’t cut it playing minor league baseball. Now, he is a Heisman dark horse averaging 338.75 passing yards per game. 
And if you got a problem with the 
Cowboys, you need to take it up with coach Mike Gundy . He acts like a man Picks
Column
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF:  12:21 p.m., Saturday 
TV/RADIO:  SEC Network / 850 AM
see PICKs, P age 31
Brett Le Blanc / alligator s taff
The Gators’ hopes on offense rest on the health of senior quarterback John Brantley and running back 
Chris Rainey. During the four-game losing streak, UF has scored just 11 points and rushed for less than 100 total yards during the second half.   
� FLORIDA OFFENSE 
HAS DISAPPEARED AFTER HALFTIME.
MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
 
The Gators’ season is 
standing on one leg, and 
so, too, are their hopes of winning on Saturday.
Quarterback John 
Brantley and running back Chris Rainey are the strength of the offense, but without them fully healthy, the Gators have struggled to move the ball and score points, especial-ly in the second half.
In the final 30 minutes 
of four straight losses since Brantley went down with a sprained ankle against Alabama, Florida has scored 11 points. In those same four games, the offense has rushed for just 88 total yards and has just four drives of six plays or longer in the sec-ond half, which have re-sulted in zero points.
Brantley’s return was 
supposed to open up run-ning lanes, but his still-hurting ankle prevented him from taking snaps from under center, which is key to establishing the run. 
Florida racked up just 
one first down in the sec-ond half of the 24-20 loss to Georgia. The Gators UF must move ball in second half against Vandy
see FootBaLL, P age 33
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
On the 25th anniversary of the 3-point 
shot’s introduction into college basketball, 
the Gators rang in a new season by firing away from long range.
Though the switch to a 3-point arc in 
the 1986-87 season once turned coach Billy Donovan into a lethal shooter as a player at Providence, he was initially concerned Thursday night in the O’Connell Center about his team’s number of attempts be-yond the arc against Catholic.
“I didn’t like the balance there,” Dono-
van said. “But I can honestly say, I don’t know if we took one bad 3-point shot in the first half. I can’t remember a game, since I’ve been here, the last game that we took 40 3-point shots.”
On the strength of their deep rotation 
at guard, the No. 8 Gators converted 50 percent of those shots from deep and over -
whelmed the Cardinals 114-57. 
Florida was led behind the arc by junior guard Kenny Boynton, who tallied a game-high 21 points and 10 assists on 6-of-11 shooting from three. Fellow starter senior Erving Walker also cashed in on half of his attempts from deep and finished the exhibi-tion with 15 points.
“The way that we shared the ball and 
the open shots that we got, if we have open shots like that, we’ve got to continue to take them,” Walker said.
The Gators fueled a 36-10 run in the fi-
nal seven minutes of the first half by con-necting on eight straight 3-pointers, which pushed their lead to 41 at halftime.
“When you’re making 20 for 40 by      Florida uses barrage of threes to down Catholic
see HooPs, P age 29“But I can honestly say, I don’t 
know if we took one bad 3-point shot 
in the first half.”
Billy Donovan
UF coach99 percent of the time, every time.
— TYLER JETT
 The Wildcats (+21) will bridge the gap between the 1 per -
cent and those in descent because… 
Nothing says middle class like an overachieving Big 12 
quarterback clad in purple. 
And if anybody can end the madness and bring two dispa-
rate groups together, it’s dual-threat Kansas State signal-caller 
Collin Klein. He’s a man of the people — diverse enough to fit in with the running backs, and poised enough as a passer to be a leader of men. 
He is tied for fourth in the NCAA with 16 rushing touch-
downs, often giving up his body for a score. Those punks on Wall Street could learn a thing or two from his selflessness.
Okie State sure will.
— MATT WATTS
Now, on to the picks!
In first place with a 44-27 record is The Associated Press’ 
Mark “I kept my hands where they could see them” Long, 
whose 2008 Orange Bowl escapades were revealed this week. He wouldn’t give many details, and he swears he was only an observer, but apparently the night involved alcohol, a bath-room, a couple of women and the Gainesville Sun — a sexy laundry list if you ask us.
In second with a 41-39 record is alligatorSprots writer Greg “It should have been me” Luca, who skipped work Thursday to watch with jealous eyes as Billy Donovan’s son took the court at the O’Dome. Greg learned so much interviewing life coach Billy last year. Imagine spending a whole lifetime with the guy — Greg could have been an adult with dignity and self-respect.
Alone in third with a 38-33 record is FightinGators.com’s 
Cody “Men don’t actually drink this, do they?” Jones, who has tried and failed to drink a whole bottle of beer many times this season. Don’t feel peer pressured by that bitter beverage, Cody. Those Capri Sun pouches will always welcome you with open arms.
Leading a three-way charge for fourth with a 37-34 record 
is the Florida Times-Union’s Michael “You kids will never know true beauty” DiRocco, who was appalled when a couple younger writers didn’t know who actress Jami Gertz was. We also don’t recognize New Wave music, acid-washed jeans or 8-bit video games. Sorry we’re not sorry.
Tied with Mike is alligatorSports writer Tyler “I didn’t know 
this was a black-tie breakfast” Jett, who ate a lox bagel for the first time and learned those little green peas are actually called capers. Don’t worry, they’ll never put such fancy-sounding spices in your Cap’n Crunch or GoGurt.
Rounding out the group in fourth is alligatorSports assistant 
editor Matt “I’ve been where blind men see” Watts, who once requested “The Scott Stapp” at a Hair Cuttery in Jacksonville. In Watts’ defense, a shoulder-length mane is a good look if you want to attract heavy medal hotties with arms wide open.Still in seventh with a 36-35 record is InsideTheGators.
com’s Kyle “Wrinkles are cute” Maistri, who became excited upon learning that you only need to be able to walk and live life without a diaper to be considered a sex symbol at a nursing home. You’re only 60 years away, Kyle, but why wait? Eighty-five is the new 25.
And in dead-ass last place with a piss-poor 34-37 record is 
alligatorSports editor Tom “My shag wagon!” Green, whose chances of scoring on Halloween went out the window when someone sideswiped his Lincoln Town & Country. Yup, that was the problem. It had nothing to do with your Charlie Weis costume, which is this year’s version of the Steve Addazio dis-guise.
PICKS , from page 30 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 31
SWIMMING
ALEX PECKHAM
Alligator Writer
 
The contrast between the fall 
schedules of the Florida men’s and 
women’s swimming teams is strik-ing. 
The men usually have a meet 
followed by a week or more of training while the women seem-ingly have three meets a week. 
With all of the work the team 
has done already this season, one has to wonder whether fatigue is going to be an issue going for -
ward, especially going into this weekend’s competition against Stanford and Michigan. 
After last week’s loss to Geor -
gia, senior leader Sarah Bateman attributed the disappointing result to fatigue, saying “we’re at differ -
ent points in our seasons right now. I know our team is really tired.”
All of the work the Gators are 
going through now, though, is just another part of the plan to keep their focus on the Southeastern Conference and NCAA champion-ships in March. 
“At the end of the year we’re 
going to go to a four-day competi-tion at the conference meet,” coach Gregg Troy said. “It’s high stress every day, twice a day, so you’re looking at eight tough sessions.”
In his press 
conference on Monday, Troy also gave a dif-ferent way of looking at how fatigue will play a role in his team’s perfor -
mances. He said that this week’s schedule equates to a regular week of training, with the meets them-selves taking the place of what he calls the “quality work” portion of the practice.
The test for this Gators team 
will come today and Saturday, when they head north to Ann Ar -
bor, Mich. There, they will have another chance to prove them-selves against tough competition, particularly a Stanford squad that placed fourth at the NCAA Cham-pionships last spring.
As has been the case for most of 
the season, the Gators’ results will be decided largely by the perfor -
mances of their experienced core of seniors Teresa Crippen and Sarah Bateman, junior Jamie Bohunicky and sophomore Elizabeth Beisel. 
Crippen was named SEC Fe-
male Swimmer of the Week on Tuesday in recognition of her per -
formance against Georgia, when she earned victories in the 200 fly, 200 back and 400 individual med-ley.
Regardless of how the team 
deals with the strain of another exhausting week, the Gators can look toward championship season in March, when their early-season trials will pay off.
UF battling fatigue as meet with Stanford, Michigan looms
Troy
  ML  GL  CJ  MD
Vandy (+14) at Florida  UF  UF  UF  UF
LSU (+4.5) at Alabama  LSU  BAMA  BAMA  BAMA
South Carolina (+5) at Arkansas ARK  SCAR  ARK  ARK
Kansas State (+21) at Oklahoma St. OKST  OKST  KST  OKST
Texas A&M (+14) at Oklahoma OU  OU  TAMU  OU
Texas  Tech (+14.5) at Texas TECH  TEX  TECH  TECH
Michigan at Iowa (+4)  IOWA  MICH  MICH  MICH
South Florida at Rutgers (+3) RUT  RUT  USF  RUT
  
  TJ  MW  KM  TG
Vandy (+14) at Florida  VAN  VAN  VAN  VAN
LSU (+4.5) at Alabama  BAMA  LSU  BAMA             BAMA
South Carolina (+5) at Arkansas ARK  SCAR  ARK  SCAR
Kansas State (+21) at Oklahoma St. OKST  KST  OKST  OKST
Texas A&M (+14) at Oklahoma OU  OU  OU  OU
Texas  Tech (+14.5) at Texas TECH  TECH  TECH  TECH
Michigan at Iowa (+4)  MICH  MICH  MICH  MICH
South Florida at Rutgers (+3) USF  RUT  USF  USF32, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
had 194 yards of total offense at 
the half, with negative-32 yards rushing. They rushed for 13 after the break. 
  “Offensively, we moved the 
ball well in the ﬁ  rst half,” coach Will Muschamp said. 
“But our inability to run the 
football, it became a one-dimen-sional game.”
  It has been the same one-di-
mensional story each week of the streak. 
  Florida has not been able to 
run the ball; therefore, its offense can’t stay on the ﬁ  eld. Its op-ponents have taken advantage, pounding with the run an aver-age of 26.25 times after halftime. 
  While the Gators’ offense has 
been sitting on the sidelines, the 
defense has been 
getting gashed and gassed by power backs like Trent Rich-ardson, Spencer Ware, Michael Dyer and Isaiah Crowell.
“It deﬁ  nitely wears down the 
defense,” linebacker Jon Bostic said. “[A power back is] some-body that can control the clock game in and game out. When you can sit back and rely on that running game, it just helps the of-fense out so much. Especially, it helps the defense out. It keeps the defense off the ﬁ  eld.”
  During the losing streak, Flor-
ida has held the ball for an aver-age of 10 minutes in the second half. Against LSU, the offense’s time of possession after halftime was just 5:59. 
  For Florida (4-4, 2-4 South-
eastern Conference) to beat Van-derbilt (4-4, 1-4 SEC) in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium at 12:21 p.m. on Saturday, that has to change. 
  The Commodores have run-ning back Zac Stacy, who is ﬁ  rst in the SEC among starting run-ning backs in yards per carry (7.3) and is fourth in yards per game (88.4), as well as a mobile quarterback in Jordan Rodgers, who can make plays with his legs in space.
  Brantley and Rainey are both 
probable, and while Muschamp admitted after losing to Georgia that Florida doesn’t have the per-sonnel to control a game on the ground, the Gators’ offense can be effective if both key pieces are healthy. 
  But if Brantley or Rainey can’t 
play or are limited, and UF can’t move the ball after halftime, Van-derbilt has the ability to run out the clock. 
  This fact is not lost on Mus-
champ.
  “I’ve said it before and they 
get tired of hearing me say it,” he said, “we’ve got to ﬁ  nd ways to run the football.”
  Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@
alligator.org.  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 33
CB Jeremy Brown (knee) 
LB Lerentee McCray (arm/shoulder)
RT Chaz Green (ankle)LB Jelani Jenkins (undisclosed)
RB Mike Gillislee (undisclosed)
K Caleb Sturgis (leg)RB Chris Rainey (ankle)QB John Brantley (ankle)
RB Warren Norman  (knee)DT T.J. Greenstone (ankle)
LB Chase Garnham (undisclosed)
DT Vince Taylor (ankle)OUT
DOUBTFUL
PROBABLEQUESTIONABLE
PROBABLEUF offense vs. Vanderbilt defense
TE WR
CBRT
DERG
DTC LG LT
DE
LB
LBWR
CBQBRB
SSJohn BrantleyChris Rainey
Sean RichardsonJavon MarshallAndre 
DeboseJordan 
ReedDeonte 
Thompson
Casey 
Hayward Tim FuggerRob Lohr
Archibald 
BarnesChase 
GarnhamWalker May Trey 
WilsonMatt 
Patchan Jon 
HalapioJonotthan 
Harrison Dan 
WengerXavier 
NixonFB
Trey Burton
MLB
Chris 
MarveDT
Colt 
NichterUF defense vs. Vanderbilt offense
Jordan 
MatthewsMarcus RobersonJaylen WatkinsJelani 
JenkinsMatt ElamDe’Ante 
Saunders
Jon  
Bostic
Dominique 
EasleyRonald 
PowellSharrif 
Floyd
Chris Boyd Brandon 
Barden
Jordan 
RodgersZac 
StacyWesley 
JohnsonRyan 
SeymourLogan 
StewartMylon 
BrownKyle 
FischerTE WR
CB
RT RGDE
C LGDE
LTDELB LB
WR
CB
QB RBS S
Jaye 
HowardDTOpponents averaging more than 25 rushes in second half
FOOTBALL , from page 30
Cody Riggs
CB
Jonathan 
KrauseWR
Muschamp
34, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Sophomore middle blocker Chloe Mann had 10 kilss, 4.5 blocks 
and seven digs in a loss to No. 19 Kentucky on Sunday. 
BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
When No. 17 Florida’s volley-
ball team was swept last weekend 
by Southeastern Conference op-ponents for the first time in coach Mary Wise‘s tenure, bright spots were not easy to come by.
Transition defense was poor, 
the offense was hindered heavily by poor touches and the Gators were largely eliminated from the race for an SEC title. 
But it was Chloe Mann, a 
sophomore middle blocker from Gainesville, who managed to bring a bit of light to an overwhelmingly dark weekend.
“I just saw everything she’s 
brought every day in practice for the last three years,” junior middle blocker Betsy Smith said. “She’s one of the best competitors I’ve played with.”
Now Mann, who attended 
Eastside High School and played club volleyball for the Gainesville Juniors, looks to be in line for in-creased playing time as Florida (17-5, 10-3 SEC) opens a weekend homestand against Alabama (11-14, 4-10 SEC) today at 4 p.m. in the O’Connell Center.“No question,” Wise said. “It 
was a matter of the timing. … She took full advantage of it.”
On Friday against No. 16 Ten-
nessee, Mann came off the bench just as she has done 13 previous times this season. 
In the four-set loss, she im-
pressed coaches in very limited action with two kills and a block assist. Combined with the play of senior middle blocker Cassandra Anderson — who had her lowest blocking numbers in two weeks — Mann was called upon for her third start of the season Sunday against Kentucky. 
“We thought because of her 
size and her physical play that she might be able to match up better with Kentucky’s middles, and she definitely did,” Wise said.
What ensued was a career per -
formance. 
Mann had 10 kills, 4.5 blocks 
and seven digs against the No. 19 Wildcats. She hit a team-high .455 on 22 swings. 
“I definitely feel like the experi-
ence has caught up with me,” said Mann, who redshirted as a fresh-man. “It’s nice being able to play with that.”
Last season, Mann had just sev-
en kills and two blocks on the year while playing in a four-person middle blocker rotation that in-cluded the since-departed Lauren Bledsoe. But with just three middle blockers in the rotation in 2011, chances have increased noticeably for Mann.
“It’s kind of been anyone’s 
game as to who will play,” Mann said. “We continue to just keep fighting in practice and see what happens.”
Mann smiled and declined to 
give too much of a comment when asked if she knew who would start against Alabama. 
“It’s a ‘get there and see,’” she 
said.
Meanwhile, it appears it will 
continue to be a practice battle be-tween the three middle blockers for two starting spots.
“(Mann’s) been very good in 
practice,” Wise said, “but Betsy and Cass have been, too.”
Mann looking for more playing time
after quality match at Kentucky
“I definitely feel like the 
experience has caught up 
with me.  It’s nice being able 
to play with that.”
Chloe Mann
UF middle blocker FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 35
� THEY PLAY TONIGHT IN SEC 
TOURNEY SEMIFINALS.
JOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
The Gators are hoping for more 
of the same tonight, and that is 
something they would not have said two days ago.
No. 23 Florida (15-6, 7-4 South-
eastern Conference) will look to build on its opening-round win against Georgia as it takes on Ala-bama (10-7-3, 4-5-2 SEC) at the Or-ange Beach SportsPlex in Orange Beach, Ala., tonight in its 16th SEC Tournament semifinals appear -
ance.
Prior to the tournament, the 
Gators were mired in one of their worst stretches of conference play ever. Losses to LSU and South Carolina to end the regular season were the first back-to-back home SEC defeats in the program’s his-tory.
The most glaring issue for Flor-
ida down the stretch in the regu-lar season was a tendency to fall behind after giving up early goals. The Gators trailed 1-0 in seven of 11 regular-season SEC games and gave up goals in the first five min-utes in three of their last four.
Florida fell behind 1-0 against 
Alabama on Oct. 9, a game which the Gators went on to win 4-1.  But coach Becky Burleigh said there won’t be the same margin for error tonight against the Crimson Tide.
“Ideally, we would like to not 
give up any goals, play from the sides going forward and get ahead early,” Burleigh said. “That’s the key for us. Not giving up an early goal was a big psychological lift for us, and so that would be the same strategy we would try to employ on Friday.”
Florida finished with eight shots 
on goal Wednesday after having just six total on frame in the prior two games. Burleigh attributed the improved offensive efficiency to an increased focus on pushing the ball up the field from the back line.
The results showed on the go-
ahead goal against Georgia when keeper Taylor Burke played a long ball that midfielder Holly King headed to senior forward Tahnai Annis. Annis shot it past the right of the Bulldogs’ keeper for the first of her two goals on the night.
“It takes a lot less out of you, emotionally,” Annis said of play-ing with the lead.
She believes the Gators’ success 
lies in their ability to continue to get out to the quick starts and limit the opposition’s scoring chances.
“We just need to keep doing 
what we did [against Georgia],” Annis said. “We can’t back off. If we back off its when we let teams back into the game, so I think if we keep rolling with this momentum we’ll be fine.”UF preparing for match with ‘Bama
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida forward Tahnai Annis said the Gators are at an advantage when scoring first, as they did against Georgia on Wednesday. 
JONATHAN CZUPRYN
Alligator Writer 
 
Losing a race to your little brother sucks, and Florida is the 
Southeastern Conference’s little brother.
With 12 underclassmen out of 16 men, the Gators have shown 
they do not shy away from youth. While many other schools em-
brace experience and seniority, Florida instead relies on its fresh-men and sophomores to challenge the region’s older runners.
Leading the youth movement are three of UF’s brightest stars 
in the making: sophomores Mark Parrish and Matt Mizereck and freshman Jimmy Clark. 
These men, finishing third, fourth and seventh overall, respec-
tively, at the SEC Championships, not only boosted the Gators to a second-place finish but sparked a ray of hope in the team as well.
Following the race, coach Todd Morgan immediately recog-
nized the success of the trio.
“Mark Parrish and Matt Mizereck really came through for us 
on the guys’ side, and we knew Jimmy Clark was a big-time guy and he proved that,” Morgan said.
Parrish, Mizereck and Clark were the only underclassmen to 
finish in the top 10. This effort put forth by Florida’s youngsters demands attention, says Mizereck.
“We really showed up at Tennessee and, hopefully by doing 
what we did out there, (other schools) will start to respect us,” he said. “So what if we’re young? You better watch out for what we 
are going to do in the next couple of years.”
Although the future appears bright for the ripening Gators, 
Clark doesn’t want his team to forget about this season. 
When asked if the team expects to make the NCAA National 
Championship meet for the first time since 2006, Clark responded with bravado.
“Every season you go in with a winning attitude,” Clark said. 
“So to expect anything less is a disappointment.” 
To meet the Gators’ goal of appearing in the national champi-
onship, Florida will have to first perform well in the NCAA South Regional Championship. This will be the largest meet for UF since the Wisconsin adidas Invitational, where the Gators were embar -
rassed by the nation’s best. Clark believes this time the youthful squad of underclassmen is more prepared and confident.
While Florida possesses raw, inexperienced talent, Mizereck 
suggests fighting that inexperience with belief in its abilities.
“It’s best to be cocky and confident because you don’t want 
to go into a race being timid and scared,” Mizereck said. “For your best performance, there always has to be a little cockiness in there.” 
The SEC’s little brother now has the swagger, but it wants 
some trophies to match.Youth has Gators 
excited for future
UF Cross Country
THE TOM GREEN SHOW
This isn’t the Vandy you’re accustomed to seeing.
When the Commodores take the field Saturday 
shortly after noon for the Gators’ homecoming 
game, it won’t be the same Vanderbilt that has lost 20 
straight to Florida.
This is a new-look, new-approach Vandy that will be 
coming to Gainesville.
“It seems like they want it more this year,” Florida de-
fensive tackle Sharrif Floyd said Wednesday.
And if history is any indication, Florida will be in trou-
ble Saturday.
The last two close games between these two schools 
were in 2002 and 2005. Not shockingly, those seasons were the Gators’ first under new head coaches — Ron Zook in 2002 and Urban Meyer in 2005.
In Zook’s inaugural year, Florida narrowly defeated 
Vandy, 21-17, in Nashville, Tenn. The Gators needed a fourth-down stop with less than two minutes remaining to clinch the game.
But they shouldn’t have. Despite UF’s five-loss record 
that season, it was a considerably better team than Van-derbilt. 
Florida had the No. 25 total offense and total defense that season, a marked advantage against Vandy’s 110th-ranked of-fense and 92nd-ranked defense.
The Gators had their share of 
talent — a former Heisman finalist at quarterback in Rex Grossman, a standout receiver in Taylor Jacobs (who was the school’s last 1,000-yard receiver) and tight end Ben 
Troupe, just to name a few.
Despite the discrepancies between the two teams, Van-
derbilt gave Florida a scare.
The same thing happened in Meyer’s debut season. 
The then-No. 13 Gators needed two overtimes to escape with a 49-42 win.
That UF team had a mediocre offense (61st in the na-
tion) and an elite defense (ninth in the nation), but it still had a decided advantage against a Vandy squad that boasted an average, Jay Cutler-led offense and a consider -
ably worse defense, with the No. 72 unit.
With seven returners each on offense and defense, in-
cluding a quarterback in Chris Leak who had two years of experience under his belt as a starter, even that Florida team had personnel that should have handled Vander -
bilt.
But still, Vandy pushed Florida to the limit.So what should you expect this year, when the Gators 
once again square off against the Commodores with a new coach at the helm?
This Florida team hasn’t shown anything to make us 
think it will bounce back in this scenario. The Gators have struggled on the field and have been ravaged by injuries. And when players talk to the media, they seem detached when discussing their own team.
Meanwhile, on paper, Vandy matches up with Florida 
more respectably than it did in 2002 and 2005.
Florida touts the No. 94 offense in America, while 
Vandy’s also ranks in the bottom fourth of the nation, at No. 106. The Gators have a respectable, 14th-ranked total defense, and the Commodores have the No. 27 total de-fense.
“It’s not the same old Vanderbilt, that’s for sure,” Com-
modores offensive tackle Wesley Johnson said this week. 
And that should worry Gator Nation, because this isn’t 
the same old Florida you’re accustomed to, either.
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org.Facing an even matchup, Florida may have hands full 
Tom Green
twitter: @tomas_verde36, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
Alligator File Photo
Florida senior guard Jordan Jones led the team in scoring last sea-
son with 10.2 points per game. 
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
 
Coach Amanda Butler had a 
vision for the Gators, and Jordan 
Jones wanted in.
Jones wanted to beat Tennes-
see, play in the NCAA Tourna-ment and put the Florida women’s basketball program on the map.
Three years later, Florida is still 
chasing its first-ever Southeastern Conference title.
Jones has been encouraged by a 
change in attitude within the pro-gram since her arrival but noted there is a sense of urgency among the senior class.
“When I was recruited, we 
talked about SEC champion-ships,” Jones said. “We haven’t really come close yet.”
The Gators have compiled a 35-
32 record and a 14-18 SEC mark since Jones joined the squad two seasons ago.
Both campaigns ended in dis-
appointing fashion, as Florida ex-ited the Women’s National Invi-tation Tournament in the second round in 2009-10 and third round in 2010-11.
“We can’t waste any games, we 
can’t waste any practices,” Jones said. “This is the last chance.”
The Gators return 10 players 
from last season’s team, including five seniors.
And of those five seniors, Jones 
boasts the most experience, aver -
aging a team-high 30 minutes per game during the last two seasons.
“I’ve been through highs and 
lows — not just me, but the oth-er people who have been here as well,” Jones said. “You need to learn through tough times in or -
der to experience the best times.”
  
Jones has always prided her -
self on scoring.Playing alongside 2011 WNBA 
Rookie of the Year Maya Moore at Suwanee (Ga.) Collins Hill High, Jones broke the school’s single-season 3-point record two years in a row.
Moving on to collegiate play 
did not faze Jones, who continued to fare well from beyond the arc.
During her first season in Co-
lumbia, S.C., she led the Game-cocks with 13.1 points per game and set a school record with 97 3-point field goals.
Most impressive was her 3.03 
per game average from 3-point range, which ranked third nation-ally.
However, Jones’ offensive role 
has been different since she ar -
rived in Gainesville.
Butler champions a balanced 
attack for the Gators offensively, 
and while Jones did lead the 
team in scoring last season, she did so with just 10.2 points per game.
“That’s the 
best way to go,” she said. “No 
one has all the pressure on their shoulders. We play relaxed.”
While Jones’ offensive num-
bers may be down, freshman point guard Carlie Needles said that opposing defenses still key in on Jones.
“People are going to have to 
worry about Jordan outside be-cause if you have your hands down, she’s going to shoot it no matter where she is,” Needles said. “She could be at the Gator head and still shoot it.”
Butler has noticed that some of 
Jones’ confidence in her shot has translated to her play on the other side of the ball.
Butler called Jones one of Flor -ida’s “steadiest defenders” and referred to her as a “stopper.”
“We took great strides last year 
when she finally decided she was going to ‘woman up’ and take some charges,” Butler said.
  
Assuming a leadership role has 
been a gradual process for Jones.
According to Butler, Jones has 
responded by working on differ -
ent facets of her game, both physi-cally and mentally.
Senior center Azania Stewart 
said Jones has been getting more involved in the paint and is im-proving her rebounding.
“She’s a great shooter, but 
she’s perfected her floater shot and driving in strong, so that’s a different dimension to her game,” Stewart said.
Needles has been appreciative 
of Jones’ friendliness and open-ness, calling her a “really good mentor.”
“If she can tell by my body 
language that I don’t understand something, she’s always the first one to come over and explain something to me,” Needles said.
With Florida’s season opener 
against Michigan scheduled for Thursday, Jones said that she fi-nally realizes that her career is coming to an end.
With that type of finality on the 
horizon, Jones says she is motivat-ed to help achieve what Butler has set out to accomplish at Florida.
“She’s made me grow up a 
lot,” Jones said. “You never ex-pect a coach to get in your face and yell at you or tell you you’re being selfish and you’re not doing things her way.
“For you to have to learn to ac-
cept that, you have to grow up a lot and I think she’s really helped me.”
Jones still looking for SEC title as career at Florida winds down
Needles
