VOLUME 106 ISSUE 53 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF sees increase in undergraduate applicants this year
About 430 more people applied than last year, pg 3.  
Gator Dawgs to serve last hot dogs Sunday
Owner says the restaurant is closing for good, pg 5. 
MEREDITH RUTLAND
  AND CLARE LENNON
 Alligator Staff Writers
  UF emailed an emergency alert shortly after 10 a.m. Wednes-
day warning of an armed suspect in the Shands at UF atrium. 
After searching the Shands and UF Health Science Center area, University Police had not found the suspect, according to a follow-up email sent at about noon.  Guns are not allowed on campus or in Shands at UF facili-
ties, according to the email.
  The ﬁ  rst email said a man was seen dropping a handgun. He then picked it up and put it in his pants pocket. 
  UPD advised those on campus to maintain normal opera-
tions. 
  Students were asked to call UPD if they saw a black man 
about 5 feet 8 inches tall wearing jeans and an orange shirt with white short sleeves.
  There were no indications that the suspect intended harm, 
said Maj. Brad Barber, UPD public information ofﬁ  cer. 
  UF spokesman Steve Orlando said students were notiﬁ  ed 
by email because text message warnings would be used for more serious situations.
  “The report that [UPD] had was that a person had seen an-� UNLIMITED MEALS CAN 
NOW BE SERVED WITHIN A THREE-HOUR WINDOW.
  MEREDITH RUTLAND
 Alligator Staff Writer
 
  Kent Vann came into work 
Wednesday knowing he wouldn’t have to turn away the 131st person in the lunch line.
    The city lifted the 130-meal 
limit restriction on local soup kitchens and replaced it with a three-hour time limit after a series of meetings. 
On Wednesday, city soup 
kitchens ofﬁ  cially started oper-ating under the new rule.
City soup kitchens have had to follow a city restriction since 2004 that stated they could serve no more than 130 meals a day. Before that, soup kitchens had to follow a 75-meal limit that started in the 1990s.
  “It’s deﬁ  nitely about time,” 
said Vann, executive director of the St. Francis House.
  The St. Francis House’s cho-
sen lunch hours — 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. — brought 101 people, Vann said. But the crowd is usually small at the beginning of the month because that’s when paychecks come in, so the need for free food isn’t as urgent.
  He said he expects more 
people to show up for lunch closer to the end of the month 
80/58Barbie has 
changed her look 
plenty over the 
years. Check out the 
doll’s latest style 
and how she’s af-
fected girls’ ideals  in 
today’s Avenue. See 
story, Page 10. 
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 8CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD  15SPORTS 20 Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
  Final Farewell
Otis Britt, owner of Gator Dawgs on West University Avenue, turns off the open sign at the front of the 
restaurant. Gator Dawgs will ofﬁ  cially close Sunday. 
  City soup kitchen 
meal limit lifted
  MORGAN WATKINS
 Alligator Staff Writer
  Gainesville Police are still searching for 
a man who kidnapped a UF student and 
held him hostage in his home for hours, according to police ofﬁ  cials.
  Police are looking for a suspect named 
Ronald Newman, a 44-year-old white man, said Cpl. Angelina Valuri, GPD public in-formation ofﬁ  cer.
  He was recently released from a Geor-gia prison, where he had been serving time since 1994. 
Valuri said she did not know why he 
was imprisoned. 
  The search began at 11:30 p.m. Tuesday 
when a GPD ofﬁ  cer patrolling a neighbor-hood in Gainesville along the 900 block of Northwest 15th Avenue saw a suspicious man loitering in the dark, Valuri said.
  When the ofﬁ  cer approached him, the 
man began to run.
  Police surrounded the area and searched for the man but didn’t ﬁ  nd him. 
  At 6:30 a.m. Wednes-
day, GPD received a 911 call from a UF student who had pulled into the parking lot of a local Florida Highway Patrol station. 
  He said a man had 
held him at home by gun-
point all night. 
  His description matched the police de-scription of the man who had run from an ofﬁ  cer Tuesday night, and his home was near the same area, Valuri said.
  The student told police he had heard a 
sound outside and went into his yard to investigate at about 11:30 p.m. Tuesday. 
  He said the man forced him inside, 
holding a gun.
  The man said he was being chased by 
police and needed the student’s help. 
He also said he was wanted on several  Student kidnapped, held at gunpoint for hours in own houseCRIMESEE MEALS, PAGE 4
SEE SHANDS, PAGE 4“The report that they [UPD] had was that 
a person had seen another person with what      
appeared to be a weapon.”
Steve Orlando
UF spokesmanNewman
 Police issue alert, do not ﬁ  nd armed man in Shands atrium
Campus maintained normal operationsSEE KIDNAP, PAGE 4
Soccer advances to SEC semis:
With a 2-0 victory against Georgia on Wednesday, 
Florida advances to the semiﬁ  nals and will play  Alabama on Friday, pg. 20. News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 53 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tyler Jett, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,   
  Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Kathryn Milstein, Adrianna Paidas,  
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Linzy Monahan   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus
 C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. what’s happening 
Educational Access Summit
Today, 6:30 to 9 p.m.
Reitz Union Rion BallroomCome out to the Educational Access Summit, hosted by the Gators’ College Access Network. First-generation college, low-income and di-verse background UF stu-dents are invited to discuss ways UF can best reach out to improve their college experience. The event fea-tures keynote speakers Zina Evans, vice president for en-rollment management and associate provost for UF, and Joe Johnson, assistant director of the UF Office of Academic Support. The event is sponsored by Student Government, OAP, OAS and MCDA. Free admission. For more information, visit the Educational Access Facebook event page.
AKM Fashion Show: MODE
Today,  7 to 9 p.m.Reitz Union Grand BallroomAsian-American designers will be sharing their collec-tions and insight into the fashion industry with UF and the Gainesville commu-nity. The event will also fea-ture performances from local entertainers live on the run-way. Visit www.ufakmonth.com for more information.
MCDA Spring 2012 Staff 
Applications DueFriday by 4 p.m.Multicultural and Diversity Affairs is hiring temporary staff for the spring and sum-mer semesters. Deadline to submit applications is Friday at 4 p.m. Applications can be found online at www.multicultural.ufl.edu/em-ployment.php. Temporary staff will have the opportu-nity to gain permanent posi-tions within MCDA after the spring.
Interpreti Veneziani
Sunday, 7:30 p.m. Phillips Center for the Performing ArtsItalian string ensemble Interpreti Veneziani makes its sixth appearance at the Phillips Center at 7:30 p.m. Sunday. Student tickets are $12. Visit performingarts.ufl.edu for more information.
UF SFRC John Gray 
Distinguished Lecturer, 
Franklin Boteler
Tuesday, 8:30 a.m.Reitz Union Grand Ballroom, Paramount Plaza Hotel, 2900 SW 13th St.Franklin E. Boteler, assis-tant director of the  Institute of Bioenergy, Climate and Environment, will speak on “Forest Resources: Constant meal ticket for a barbecue chicken dinner and one door prize ticket. Additional pok-er hands can be purchased for $5 each (after the regis-tration fee is paid). The entry fee for the scavenger hunt is $5 per vehicle (with a mini-mum of two participants per vehicle for safety purposes). Additional meal tickets are available for sale as well. Proceeds to benefit the Elks Mobile Therapy Units char -
ity account. For more infor -
mation, contact Linda Califf at 352-222-0337.
The Florida I Knew
Nov. 14, 6 p.m.Pugh HallReubin Askew became the first Florida governor to serve two consecutive four-year terms. He emerged as a progressive lawmaker, opposing racial segregation and supporting fair legisla-tive representation for ur -
ban counties. Tax reform, racial justice and honesty in government were the hall-marks of his governorship. Gov. Askew will be discuss-ing some of the high points of his governorship and the importance of being civilly engaged.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your sub-missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORReCtiOn
In Wednesday’s edition of the Alligator, an article incor -
rectly stated that the Gators football team lost four away games in October. There were three away games that were lost, against Auburn, Georgia and LSU. The fourth loss, against Alabama on Oct. 1, was a home game.Values in a Sea of Change.” For more information, visit http://sfrc.ufl.edu/down-load/JG2011.pdf or call 352-846-0850. The event is free to the public. 
International Development 
Career Networking DayWednesday, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Reitz Union Career Resource Center LibraryThe Career Resource Center and the UF International Center are bringing devel-opment organizations to UF to network with you. If you are interested in this field, be sure to attend. International development organizations seek to im-prove human well-being through health, agricul-ture, education and envi-ronmental initiatives. Stop by to learn more about organizations that work within this arena. If you have any questions stop by the CRC or contact Nadene Reynolds at 352-273-2307 or nadenereynolds@crc.ufl.edu.
A Legislative Preview
Wednesday, 6 p.m.Pugh HallMary Ellen Klas, Tallahassee bureau chief of the Miami Herald, will pro-vide a journalistic preview of the upcoming legislative session and the impact of the redistricting process. 
Project MASCOT’s Taco 
FiestaWednesday, 6 to 8 p.m. UF Baptist Collegiate MinistriesHelp Project MASCOT take its mentees to SeaWorld while enjoying an all-you-can-eat meal of hard or soft tacos (vegetarian option available), drinks and des-serts. Pre-sale tickets are $5 at Peabody 301 and $7 at the door.
Gainesville Elks Lodge Poker 
Run, BBQ & Road Rally 
Scavenger Hunt
Nov. 12, 8:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.2424 NW 23rd Blvd.All modes of transporta-tion are welcome. This event is open to the public. Registration will start at 8:30 a.m. Entry fees for the poker hand will be $15 per person and will include one poker hand form, one lunch FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
81/58PARTLY
CLOUDY
72/56PARTLY
CLOUDY
77/59PARTLY
CLOUDY
73/51PARTLY
CLOUDY
80/58 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 3
  BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  Occupy Gainesville and Occupy UF let 
the opinion of the 99 percent be known to-gether Wednesday.
  Gainesville’s occupation movements 
came together for speak-outs on and off campus, marching and a general assembly.
  The groups had a speak-out on the Plaza 
of the Americas with signs and chants such as “We are the 99 percent” and “They got bailed out. We got sold out.”  
  All protesters were a part of a “human 
microphone.”   The human microphone start-ed in New York with the Occupy Wall Street demonstration. For ampliﬁ  cation, all pro-testers repeat what the person in the middle is saying for all to hear.
  “I occupy because … this is a group of 
people who believe what I believe,” said Joe Walters, 22, a ﬁ  fth-year management major and a member of Occupy UF. 
    Walters said he was dissatisﬁ  ed with how the heads of corporations were allowed to act, especially with ﬁ  ring procedures and unions.
  “How are you going to enjoy a $200 lunch 
when there is no one to pick the vegetables?” he said.
  Walters said the amount of student debt  
among college students is ridiculous, and even though so many students have debt, they aren’t doing anything about it.
  Some looked to Tallahassee for answers.  “Rick Scott, you are not a public ser-
vant; you are a CEO,” said Diana Moreno, a 24-year-old member of Occupy Gainesville, through the human microphone.
  “We all know your true intentions are to 
corporatize our education.”
  She said an institution like UF was only a 
dream, and she will not see it slip away be-cause of corporate greed.
  “Governor, you are but a criminal and 
this university will remain public, for the people … for people trying to better them-selves.”  Occupy Gainesville, Occupy UF 
speak out against Gov. Scott
  ERIN JESTER
 Alligator Writer
 
  Despite a lackluster football season and 
winning the title of 10th douchiest school in the U.S., UF received more applications this year than last year.
  As of the Nov. 1 deadline, 26,602 under-
graduate applications were received, which is 432 more than last year, UF spokesman Steve Orlando said.
  “It’s been going up pretty regularly ev-
ery year,” he said.
  UF continues to accept late applications 
until March. After admission decisions are released for all the applicants who met the Nov . 1 deadline, the admissions ofﬁ  ce will review late applications and admit more students if there’s room.
  During the past couple of years, Orlan-
do said, UF has received about 3,000 late applications.
  Last year was a new record for total 
applications, with 29,269 submitted by March.
  UF has a 39 percent acceptance rate, Or-lando said. About 11,400 applicants were admitted in 2010.
  Florida State University received about 
35,000 applications this fall, said Brown-ing Brooks, director of the FSU News and Public Affairs. Of those applicants, about 
12,000 were admitted. 
  Vanessa Perez-Ber-
mudez, a 17-year-old se-nior at Pine Ridge High School in Deltona, said she sent in her applica-tion to UF last Saturday.
  She said she also ap-
plied to the University of Central Florida and 
Florida International University . 
  Perez-Bermudez said she found the 
essay easy to write but stressed about the application process because UF is her top choice.
  She will wait until February to learn if 
she has been accepted. 
  “It’s very nerve-wracking because I 
want to know when my dreams start com-ing true.”  UF sees rise in number of 
undergraduate applicants
Orlando
ACADEMICSwarrants from Georgia, Valuri 
said.
When the student’s room-
mate came home later that night, the man hid in the stu-dent’s room. 
The student told the room-
mate to act like everything was fine, Valuri said. 
The student told police the 
man decided at 5 a.m. Wednes-day that he needed help get-ting his vehicle back. 
He said it had been towed, but he didn’t know where, Valuri said.
The student suggested Uni-
versity Towing, located at 2456 NW 74th Place, and drove him there.
“As soon as the guy got 
out of the car, he hit the gas and drove immediately to the highway patrol station,” Valuri said.
Police searched the towing 
compound and the surround-ing area but didn’t find the man. 
The search is ongoing. “We’ve had detectives working on the case all day,” Valuri said.
Police found a vehicle that 
may have been the one the man wanted to find.  
A green van with Georgia 
plates had been towed to Su-perior Towing, on the oppo-site side of town from Univer -
sity Towing, she said. 
Valuri said the van, a Hon-
da Odyssey, was stolen in Georgia. 
The man is wanted by GPD 
on charges of kidnapping, ag-gravated assault and armed burglary.
when their paychecks run out.
Michael Noffsinger, 32, munched on his 
jambalaya, bread and vegetables Wednesday 
and said he’s glad the meal limit is gone.
“I didn’t agree with it in the first place,” he 
said.
Noffsinger, who is homeless, said the meal 
limit felt like it was meant to drive homeless people away from downtown.
“People take the bad, and they make it a ste-
reotype of the whole population,” Noffsinger said.
While the meal limit officially applied to all 
city soup kitchens, St. Francis House was the only soup kitchen affected. St. Francis House is one of two soup kitchens in the city. The other, The Salvation Army, was officially established before the meal limit was in place, so it didn’t have to follow the limit.
Opponents of the meal limit were con-cerned that changing the meal limit to a time limit would draw more homeless people to the St. Francis House.
To address the problem, the organization 
requires people to get police clearance from the Gainesville Police before they can receive any services.
The clearance was required for anyone who 
stayed at St. Francis House overnight, but as of Wednesday, the clearance is required for any service, including lunch.
Other changes include making sure trash 
outside St. Francis House is picked up and warning people not to loiter in neighbors’ yards or they could lose their ability to get ser -
vices from the soup kitchen, said Lee Smith, director of operations.
Vann said the change means the soup kitch-
en will get less unwanted attention.
“Finally, we can just focus on the mission 
at hand,” he said. “It’s going to be nice not to have to turn people away.”4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011
Meredith Rutland / Alligator
The St. Francis House soup kitchen was able to serve meals during a three-hour 
time frame as of Wednesday, rather than the previous limit of 130 meals a day.
St. Francis House was the only 
soup kitchen affected by change
MeAls , from page 1Alex Catalano / Alligator
A UF emergency alert email sent around 10 a.m. Wednesday warned 
students and staff of an “armed subject” in the Shands atrium.
Man was seen dropping a 
handgun around 10 a.m.
kidnAp , from page 1Police are still searching for suspect 
recently released from Georgia prison� FURTHER TESTS ARE PLANNED FOR 
MEASURING ITS CAPABILITIES WITH PHOSPHATE LEVELS FOUND IN MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER.
CARTER LYLES
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF professors have invented a filter that could 
help municipalities treat waste water and benefit 
the environment.
“We feel it’s got broad capabilities, certainly 
in water treatment, waste water, aquariums, even swimming pools,” said Jeffrey Keaffaber, who teamed with Daniel Talham to invent the filter. 
Keaffaber is a chemistry senior lecturer, and 
Talham is a UF chemistry professor.
Through UF’s Office of Technology Licensing, 
Keaffaber and Talham are looking for companies to commercialize the technology.
“This is a very exciting technology which has 
generated significant interest in the market,” Len-ny Terry, the office’s assistant director, wrote in an email. 
Prior tests show the filter removes 100 percent 
of detectable phosphates from a water source with concentrations between 0.5 to 10 milligrams per liter. 
Further tests are planned to measure the filter’s 
capabilities with 5 to 20 milligrams of phosphate per liter, the average amount found in municipal wastewater.
“We feel like [this filter] might be able to get 
phosphate down to lower levels than the iron-based systems that municipalities currently use,” Keaf-faber said. “It’s always been a goal of ours to extend this to a municipal waste water treatment facility.”  UF researchers invent water filter that 
removes 100 percent of phosphates
“This is a very exciting technology which 
has generated significant interest in the 
market.” 
Lenny Terry
assistant director for Office of Technology Licensing
other person with what appeared to 
be a weapon,” he said.
If the suspect had indicated he 
meant harm or had actually started firing, he said, the university would have sent a text message instead of an email.
Orlando said the university did 
not receive confirmation from a sec-ond source that a man had a gun.Barber said the nearby Baby 
Gator building was put on lock-down, but nobody else was instruct-ed to interrupt usual business.
UPD Capt. Bart Knowles said 
during the search that people at Shands at UF were staying calm.
He said UPD had received sev-
eral calls about sightings of the sus-pect, but he was never located.
Police maintained an increased 
presence in the area throughout the day, according to a follow-up email.sHAnds , from page 1 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Alex Catalano / Alligator
Dust Bunnies
Raymond Rawls cleans at the Florida Museum of Natural History to pre-
pare for an upcoming interactive energy consumption model exhibit.
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
Otis Britt doesn’t like sad 
endings. 
That’s why he doesn’t like 
“Gladiator.” It was great until 
Russell Crowe died at the end. He feels the same way about Mel Gibson’s “Braveheart.” The “Rocky” movies, though — those are good.
Britt, 42, has posters from 
these movies — and dozens more — hanging on the walls of Gator Dawgs. He opened the restaurant at 1023 W Univer -
sity Ave. in the mid-2000s, just before the recession hit. Busi-ness was good, and the hot-dog restaurant was as packed as the walls.
But business has slowed, and 
Britt said the restaurant he owns is pulling in less than half the money of what it needs. He’ll serve his last “dawg” on Sun-day.
He estimated he’d need to 
end each day with about $500 more than he’s getting right now. When the economy and Gators football team were hot, the weekend tailgaters poured in every weekend. Even with-out the games, people came to taste the burgers, sausages and hot dogs with so many toppings that some filled multiple lines of the menu. 
Former UF Student Govern-ment President Ashton Charles came in so often for the vegan hot-dog dish she created that it was added to the menu and named after her: “The Ashton Dog.”
“Every year was better,” Britt 
said.
He said the Fest has always 
brought lines of “the nicest peo-ple” that extended out the door between sets at the three-day music festival.
“The Fest is like two football 
seasons in a weekend,” he said. 
He said Gator Stompin’ 
could bring a crowd, too, but it was a little more drunk and just not the same.
Gator Dawgs would have 
closed earlier, Britt said, but he and his wife, Candy, agreed they would stay open for Fest 10 this year. 
The restaurant almost closed 
in January because of the lack of business, but business picked up for a few weeks, and Gator Dawgs stayed open. Britt held a “Ghost Chili Challenge” in Sep-tember.
This time, though, he said 
there’s no hope for the restau-rant.“I don’t really want a lot of 
business,” he said. He’s the only one working, and he said the restaurant will close either way.  
Brendan McKay, 23, a sec-
ond-year law student, ate lunch at Gator Dawgs for the first time Wednesday. He and his friends had heard the restaurant was closing. They had never eaten there, even when McKay attend-ed UF as an undergraduate. 
He had a burger and a hot 
dog, both smothered in pep-pers.
“I think the appeal of it is 
what you can get on it, not nec-essarily the quality of the food,” he said.
Devoted fans posted about 
their favorite items and gave condolences on the Facebook page. One woman said she trav-els “literally thousands of miles” for the mac and cheese hot dog. 
For Britt, though, the end 
of Gator Dawgs also means a steady paycheck, weekends off and less stress. He plans to stay in the food-management indus-try, working for someone else for a change.
That’s not to say that closing 
the restaurant isn’t a little hard for him. He wondered aloud why he hung his posters so high on the walls as he struggled to take down a poster he sold to a Gator Dawgs devotee for $5. 
“I guess I thought I’d never 
be taking them down.”
Gator Dawgs to close for good
“The Fest is like two 
football seasons in a 
weekend.”
Otis Britt 
Gator Dawgs ownerReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORToday’s question: Are you sad Gator Dawgs is closing 
Sunday?
Tuesday’s question: Have you ever met 
Squirrel while out at midtown?
123 TOTAL VOTES80% YES
20% NOFocus should be on culture of education
There’s been a lot of talk about education lately, both in the Alligator and on campus. 
I’ve been pretty overwhelmingly inundated by 
questions about the value of higher education and con-cerns about what’s going on in our public school system. 
If you’re reading this, you’re likely either pursuing an 
enriching education at UF or intimately involved with pro-viding that education to thousands of students. Education is a hugely important part of our lives. It’s only natural that it would also present a popular topic for discussion.
We all know there are problems.Those of us working to pay our way through school 
have to struggle with a tuition that doesn’t come any-where close to being covered by the Florida Bright Futures Scholarship Program. Others with younger brothers or sis-ters attending public schools in dilapidated Florida school districts are all too familiar with the insufficient education our youth is subjected to.
So the question, for once, isn’t why we’re talking about 
it or even whether it’s worth talking about. Those have easy answers.
What’s not so easy is figuring out how we fix this 
mess.
The issue doesn’t appear to be poor funding, consider-
ing the number of dollars we spend per child in this na-tion. At the same time, a quick look at the budget of your average classroom (whose teacher can’t afford things that will actually supplement the learning process) suggests more money is desperately needed.
Maybe Bright Futures is too open, and maybe student 
loans are too accessible. Most of us believe education is a right that should be afforded to all, but we disagree about how much work you should have to put in to get it. What’s important is that those differing opinions still don’t explain why the brightest students from the most disadvantaged backgrounds are just not going to have ac-cess to our best schools.While it’s not explicitly clear 
what is preventing our educa-tion system from living up to the standards of those abroad, there’s a common consensus that the U.S. is falling behind in a very critical area. 
Meanwhile, nobody seems 
to have a decent idea for how to hold teachers accountable. Sure, 
we know the teacher’s union causes problems, and we know standardized testing does more harm than good. I’d personally suggest a system in which teachers answer to each other, perhaps one that involves yearly evaluations of the previous year’s progress. But I also recognize the problems with that notion, and I don’t think we’re that much closer to figuring out a solution.
So what are we left with? How do we repair an educa-
tional system that’s so important to so many of us?
We have to change the American culture. The problem 
isn’t money or teachers or even bureaucracy. The single biggest source of our problem is that we’re clearly not cur-rently motivated enough to fix our education system.
The importance of school must be emphasized. Educa-
tion needs to be seen as a right, one so absolutely essential that it’s worth fighting for day in and day out. Nostalgia for the way things “used to be” needs to be cast aside so we can seriously consider proposals like shorter summer breaks. The effort to provide the best possible education to as many children as possible needs to be more of a focus than any other domestic issue.
In short, we need editorials, protests outside Turling-
ton, those impassioned pleas and those great ideas. And I commend each and every one of you working to provide that.
Alex Guilmartin is a psychology and pre-law senior at UF. 
His column appears on Thursdays.Peanut Gallery
GOP lacking star 
candidates
Mitt Romney is every Republican’s favorite number-
two pick for president. If no one else works, the GOP will settle for Romney’s lackluster, establish-
ment candidacy. 
But in the meantime, we get to have all the fun with the 
other 40 people running for the GOP presidential nomina-tion. 
We’ve got a Texas governor who’s determined to figure 
out the best way to confuse an already confused Republi-can base. At least they aren’t confused about how crazy Rick Perry is. 
There’s a mathematician who has an affinity for pizza and 
the number nine. Or is it 45? Who knows? Herman Cain can’t seem to make up his mind about anything lately. And, as the current frontrunner, he’s facing sexual harassment accusa-tions. It’s about time for some scandal to plague this race. 
Who can forget the loveable Minnesotan with the creepy 
eyes and the expression forever stuck in a fake smile? If you haven’t heard, Michele Bachmann has raised somewhere be-tween 23 and 300 children, but who’s counting? 
Standing toe to toe with the mean GOP queen is the for -
mer Speaker of the House from Georgia who is as articulate as he is boring. Let’s just say Newt Gingrich is very articu-late. 
You also have the libertarian-leaning congressman from 
Texas who just wants to legalize heroin and hates that darn Federal Reserve System. Ron Paul might be the most consis-tent candidate of the bunch, but he scares some in the GOP who can’t imagine the U.S. not bombing someone some-where. 
Who in the hell is Jon Huntsman? Finally, there’s the former Pennsylvania senator who’s a 
bucket of laughs, especially when it comes to marriage and family. Too bad the only people laughing at Rick Santorum are the ones who put his name in Google. 
Meanwhile, GOP insiders and pundits are hoping that the 
likes of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, Congressman Paul Ryan or, hell, even Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal will throw their hat into the race. 
With all this in-fighting, how can the GOP ever expect to 
come together to take on the Barack Obama powerhouse? He’s already been campaigning and organizing for the gen-eral election while the Republicans are ripping each other apart. 
With a host of kooky candidates, how can the Republican 
base decide who to throw their support behind? 
Well, whatever happens, at least they can be comforted 
by the fact that Mitt Romney won’t be elected president in 2012.
Alex Guilmartin
letters@alligator.org THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Halfway through my high school 
career, something became quite apparent.
And no, I’m not talking about my lack 
of aptitude for math.
We became intelligent enough to notice 
the patterns in our history textbooks: His-tory is written by the victors. And who are the victors, usually?
Rich men.And if we’re getting technical: rich, 
white men.
Pretty much ever since the “civiliza-
tion” of the “New World,” rich and white men have effectively ruled North Amer -
ica.
I don’t mean to sound like a cynic, or 
god forbid like a feminist, but that’s hon-estly the way it’s been. And yes, I under -
stand that our president is not white, but that is not the point. 
Wealth begets wealth; power begets 
power.
You can’t get elected in this country 
unless you have the money to do so. Cam-paigning takes quite a bit of time, effort and money. 
I get it; I do. A lot goes into campaign 
management, which is then transformed into an administrative strategy once the politician is in office.
But don’t you see?Only the wealthy have the political 
power. The rest of us are left hoping that our representatives make the best choices for us, the people.
And it’s not like the secretaries are in 
charge of big businesses; those who make the most money are the CEOs or presi-dents of companies. The head honchos make the decisions and then write them-selves the biggest checks.
There’s something inherently wrong 
with that, right? Something too “you scratch my back, I’ll also scratch my back” about the whole thing.
So while I 
may not be down in the proverbial trenches with the protesters of Oc-cupy Wall Street, I definitely see 
their side of things. The way the “1 per -
cent” runs things is unfair to the rest of us.
We are being governed unsustainably. 
The way America, and capitalism, works is that the person with the most is the winner. 
Well, I’m sorry, but you can’t have all 
of the oil and food and money. Life does not work that way, and none of those are renewable resources as it is.
I’m not claiming to be an economist 
or an expert on anything. But isn’t there a time when House seats don’t just go to the highest bidder? 
Most lobbyists, and the corporations 
they represent, should start to think about maintaining what business they have in-stead of gobbling up every resource in sight; we, fellow constituents, are a re-source to them, as we hold the voting power.
I’m tired of rich people (usually also 
white and male) calling all of the shots because they usually get it wrong. The wealth and resource gap in this country is astounding.
I can pretty much say with confidence 
that if you’re reading this, you are a part of Occupy Wall Street’s 99 percent wheth-er you like it or not. 
Unless you are miraculously a CEO 
of a very large business; in which case, please hire me. 
I can run your Twitter account.Sami Main is a journalism junior at UF.The wealthy abuse their powerColumnist debate 
Should the1 percent control more than 40 percent of the wealth?
The 1 percent controlling a large share 
of the nation’s wealth would not be inherently wrong, but, as of today, 
the cards are stacked against the rest of us. 
In the current economic and political cli-
mate, the financial sector lives parasitically off the  success and labor of others.
Good businessmen and innovators 
should not be lambasted for the rigged op-erations of the bankers, stockbrokers, regu-lators and politicians.
Since the end of World War II, America’s 
economy has been a mixed economy, mean-ing some industries are heavily regulated, like the financial sector, while others, like the technology sector, remain unregulated for the most part.
In the streets of American cities around 
the country, protesters chant angrily about banks and insurance companies. They claim more government and redistribution of the wealth will solve unemployment problems and debt crises. 
How can they claim more government 
is the solution to fight corporate interests when the government created the problem? Is socialism really the answer? 
Yet ironically, videos and images can be 
seen of them using MacBooks and wearing T-shirts produced by a market which they denounce as evil.
The passing of Steve Jobs garnered a mo-
ment of silence in the permanent park resi-dents – a man who built a company manu-facturing products that made people’s lives more enjoyable.  
The real problem is not the 1 percent 
controlling the wealth; it is corporatism.
It is defined by Merriam-Webster as, 
“The organization of a society into indus-trial and professional corporations serving as organs of political representation and ex-ercising control over persons and activities within their jurisdiction.”
The lines between politicians and corpo-
rations are blurred. If it were a 
Venn diagram, it would be one cir-cle. All they do is swap jobs. 
Last year, Gen-
eral Electric Co. paid no income taxes. In fact, the 
government gave it money. CEO of GE, Jef-frey R. Immelt, serves on the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Coin-cidentally, the Reserve gave GE a good ole bailout because the largest conglomerate in the world “really” needed it. 
Immelt also serves on Obama’s job coun-
cil. 
Henry Paulson, who served as CEO of 
Goldman Sachs, was President Bush’s Sec-retary of the Treasury during the bailouts in 2008.
The list goes on and on. For all of the government road blocks to 
gain control, some industries have thrived in spite of their efforts. 
Bill Gates, Henry Ford, Matt Stone, Trey 
Parker, Walt Disney and Larry Page are all great examples of business ventures who created innovative, imaginative industries, all of which made our lives exponentially better. 
Think of a life without the magic of 
Google. 
Capitalism is all about fulfilling the de-
sires of others by following one’s own self-interest. 
Is it morally wrong for someone to give 
you a cookie for a dollar? Are you steal-ing? Are you forcing anyone to take your cookie? 
Entrepreneurs bring wealth to com-
munities by supplying commodities that people desire to satisfy his or her simple pleasures. 
Nicholas Butler is a journalism sophomore 
at UF.We should blame corporatism
Sami Main
letters@alligator.org
Drinking age should not be lowered-
I recently read the column, “Drinking age should be low-
ered” that described UF’s proposal to treat underage stu-
dents who have alcohol-related illnesses without stigmatiz-ing them. 
I consider this an acceptable and suitable policy to estab-
lish. It’s very evident that college students younger than 21 will drink alcohol, but the fact that this occurs should not al-ter the legal drinking age. 
There are many pros and cons to this debate; however, 
the cons outweigh the pros. 
The age limit hasn’t stopped minors from drinking. If the 
legal limit was lowered to 18, more problems would arise. It would contribute to more alcohol-related vehicle crashes and death. 
Changing the age would allow more individuals, those 
between the ages of 18 and 20, to buy and drink alcohol. 
Many 18-year-old students are still in high school. If teen-
agers are given the right to legally purchase and drink al-cohol, it will open the floodgates, introducing more alcohol consumption to those in high school. 
Another serious factor to consider is that this issue would 
make teens more vulnerable to drug and substance abuse as well as unprotected and/or unplanned sex. We could also see increases in violence and academic failure. 
The drinking age should not be lowered. 
Courtney Pavlok
West Palm BeachLetters to the Editor
Nicholas Butler
letters@alligator.orgtheAvenue    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_A VENUE
Check out the advice 
band members of Sister Hazel gave a rising local songstress. See story, Page 12.  Twit Pick 
@joelmchale: “Lindsay Lohan is going to pose nude in Playboy. Turns out she met Hef during her community service at the L.A. County Morgue. #AARPburn!”Bloggin’ Out 
Want to see how this cool weather can actually affect your mood? A review of Justin Timberlake’s flick, “In Time”? See if he soared or made one blogger “Cry a River” on Alligator Blogs at alligator.org/blogs.ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Avenue Writer
Chicken breast, Gouda cheese, spinach, 
tomatoes, broiled eggs and sour cream are 
tucked neatly into a freshly-made crepe, straight out of the pan. Steam rolls off as you peel the tin foil away from the thoughtfully-prepared creation. The simple ingredients combine perfectly to create a simply delicious crepe.
Andi Melengu, 24, co-owner and manager 
of City Crepes, said, “French crepes are more elegant but not as filing. Our crepes are more of a meal.” 
City Crepes, one of the more recent addi-
tions to downtown Gainesville, has only been open for seven months, but in that time it has earned its spot among the familiar landmarks of the area. City Crepes is located at 609 W. University Ave., across from Central Florida Office Plus. 
Melengu, a 2009 UF economics graduate, 
opened City Crepes after spending a year in Albania and Greece. 
“In Europe last year, I was eating crepes every day. I really liked the crepes there, and I was looking for some kind of job in finance,” Melengu explained.
So far, the business plan has been to keep 
things simple. The menu is divided into sweet and savory crepes and features 12 items, all ranging from $2.99 to $5.95. There is also the option to customize your own crepe. 
Keidi Melengu, 20, co-owner and UF build-
ing construction junior, is City Crepes’ only other employee. Both the Melengus were born in Albania and moved to the U.S. 10 years ago.
Convenience is also a key element of City 
Crepes’ business model. One can order crepes for delivery through 2dollardelivery.com, and Downtown’s City Crepes serves 
sweet, savory delights that fill
“Some people have never had 
crepes before they come here. We 
offer a new flavor, which brings more 
culture and variety to Gainesville.”
Andi Melengu
co-owner and manager of City Crepes
 He Says…  She Says… He Said, She Said: Do you tattle on your friend’s cheating beau? 
I’ve never been one to cause a 
scene. If I ever saw a friend’s boyfriend or girlfriend on 
a date with someone else, I wouldn’t lash out at him or her then. 
Most of the time, confronta-
tions like that just make matters worse.
What could appear as a date 
could actually be something completely harmless, causing you to look like a huge jackass.
A better solution would be to 
talk to the perpetrator afterward when he or she is alone. 
This gives you time to cool 
your head, prepare your ques-tions and handle the conversa-tion with rationality. 
Give him or her the chance to 
explain the situation. Was it just an innocent get-together? Does your friend know the two met? 
However, I wouldn’t bring it 
up to your friend — no matter if the beau was guilty or innocent. 
Most people love to bash their 
friends’ partners because it gives them the feeling that they are looking out for their friends. 
Although it may seem like 
you are doing them good, you aren’t. 
Arguments become worse 
when more people become in-volved. 
If that guy or girl was really 
going on a date with somebody else, there are issues in that rela-tionship that THEY need to work out. It’s not your job to fix the problems of others. 
— JACOB ROMOSERThe other night at the Holiday Inn on 13th 
Street and University Avenue, I stood in another long line.  It appeared that a 
number of kiddies from Gainesville got wise and took a cue to volunteer for this year’s Fest 10 in order to snag a free weekend wristband for the sold-out event. 
All in attendance for a mandatory ori-
entation meeting, the volunteers formed a 
staggering train that meandered along the edge of the hotel’s conference room, the seasick green fluorescent lights casting un-favorable shadows across our silhouettes as we shuffled through the sign-in process.   
Having shown up to this meeting alone, 
and also having not recognized anyone in the 
vicinity, I began to make small talk with the woman standing behind me who seemed to be in a similar predicament.  Her name was Michelle Blanck, a 20 year-old Latin American studies junior who grew up in South Florida and had spent weeks traveling throughout Brazil.  Not only did she share my love for brash bands, but Blanck was also intelligent, cultured and completely adorable.  She was a perfect person with whom to discuss this week’s topic.
I gave her the scenario: You are out grab-
bing food when you notice a close bud’s boy-friend across the room, visibly macking on another girl.  What do you do?
Blanck admitted that, thankfully, she had 
never been in this type of situation. A clear and obvious public hookup?  
“I would definitely confront him right then, 
and I wouldn’t be nice about it,” she stated.  
Raising a good point, Blanck continued 
with a breakdown of the asinine situation.  
“We live in an age where everyone not only 
has a cellphone, but the phones have cameras as well.  In a place like Gainesville, where you see a lot of familiar faces, and the circles peo-ple run in are small, it’s incredibly stupid to think that one could get away with sneaking around and not get caught.  Plus, it’s unmis-takably wrong.”
Agreed.  A word to the wise, Gainesvillians: 
Big Brother and Sister are, in fact, watching. 
— KAY BEA    Down to Growl 
Gear up for Gator Growl’s superstar lineup this year with comedian Joel 
McHale and bands Sister Hazel and the Goo Goo Dolls. See story, Page 12.
see CRePe, P age 11 food THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 9
RAKSHEEN AYAZ 
Avenue Writer 
No two social networks are the same, 
though people tend to see them as replicas of 
each other. 
In September, Google launched its new so-
cial networking platform, Google+, to all users.  Though Google+ doesn’t intend to compete with Facebook, a comparison is inevitable.  
 Miguel Asse, a 22-year-old finance senior 
who interned for Google during the summer, said, “People tend to compare Google+ to Fa-cebook right off the bat, but they are two dif-ferent networks.” 
 The target demographic for Google+ us-
ers is 25 to 34 years old.  Thirteen percent of U.S. adults have already joined Google+, and 22 percent are projected to join by the end of the year.  Its growth has outpaced the initial growth of Facebook and Twitter.  
Assistant professor of digital arts and sci-
ences Ben DeVane, Ph.D., said both social net-working platforms have their pros and cons.  
“For students who just want to meet new 
friends, I think Facebook is probably better because everyone has an account,” DeVane said. “For students who are concerned about privacy or professional networking, Google+ is definitely a better option.” 
 DeVane said he thinks Google+ will con-
tinue to grow among young professionals with its collaboration tools and privacy controls. 
“But I don’t think Google+ will take over 
Facebook’s position in the future,” he added.  
Google+ revolves entirely around privacy 
settings and customization. With the “Circles” feature on Google+, users organize people into different categories, which restricts some peo-ple from seeing certain information.  
Sarah Talty, an 18-year-old computer sci-
ence freshman, is an active user of Google+ and no longer uses her Facebook account.  She says that Circles better reflects how relation-ships work in real life. 
“On Facebook, everyone is seen as a friend, 
but in reality you have friends, family and co-workers. You want to keep them separate,” she said.  
Google+ clearly asks its users in which 
Circles they want to share their photos. While Facebook also allows users to organize friends in lists, it’s not used as frequently. 
“You don’t want to accidentally show 
pictures of yourself clubbing to your mother, brothers and boss,” Talty said. Another feature both social platforms share 
is video chatting. However, Google+ offers “Hangouts,” allowing users to video chat with nine other people, while Facebook only allows video chat with one other person.
“Hangouts with extras” allows users to 
enhance their experience. Some features of-fered are the Sketchpad, which is a drawing tool all participants can use at the same time, and Google Docs, which allows users to read documents, screen share, group video chat and group chat.
A major difference in the look of Google+ 
from Facebook is the inclusion of advertise-ments. Google+ does not have any adver -
tisements while the layout of Facebook, with several company pages, groups and side ads, makes it appear more like a business plat-form.  
Asse, who primarily uses Google+ to keep 
in touch with past Google interns, said, “Face-book is almost more spamming.”
Talty said, “It’s like watching TV . You 
don’t want to see the commercials, you want to watch the show. Facebook started simple but keeps changing, and people have trouble keeping up. Google+ has laid everything out from the beginning.”  Google+ also includes a sharing tool, simi-
lar to one that Facebook has, called “Sparks.” With Sparks, Google+ users get news, posts and information about their interests. It keeps users like Talty up-to-date on their interests and allows them to share articles to the Circles they choose.
 The easiness and integration of Google+ 
gives users an advantage. Users open a sepa-rate tab or window for Facebook. Google+ provides everything in one place by its inte-gration of all the products of Google such as Gmail, YouTube, Picasa, Earth, Finance and, of course, the Google search engine.
Asse predicts that Google+ users will con-
tinue to grow because so many people are al-ready utilizing Google products. The strong, existing user base of Facebook means that the transition from Facebook to Google+ will be slow.  
“The thing is that everyone who’s interested 
in social media seems to be active on Facebook already ,” said Ji Hoon Lee, a lecturer in the UF department of journalism.  “But overall, it’s all about customization, personal preference and how you make use of it. Comparing Facebook with Google+ is comparing an apple with an orange.” 
Google+ revolves around privacy, controlled networking
tech   KATE FELDMAN
 Avenue Writer 
  There once was a girl who had 
everything. Her name was Bar-
bie.
  Now, Barbie has tattoos and 
pink hair, too.
  The tokidoki Barbie, 
released as a collec-tor’s item O c t . 1 3 , comes in a pink miniskirt, pat-terned tights and a black shirt with a heart and skull bones. 
Between the top and a cotton-
candy-pink bob, the doll has ﬂ  owers and birds tattooed onto her chest and arm.
  Then there’s her pet, Bas-
tardino, a dog in a cactus 
costume. Tokidoki is a Mi-
lan-based fashion house that stems inspiration from 
Japanese anime and art. 
  Designed by Italian art-
ist Simone Legno, this new 
doll is described by Mattel 
as “funky fashionista,” but her 
neck tattoos are confusing those 
who grew up with Flight At-
tendant Barbie and Pet Doc-
tor Barbie. Though Mattel 
claims the tattooed Bar-
bie is marketed more 
toward adults, parents 
and Barbie lovers are 
still up in arms. 
  “I always liked 
Barbie when I was 
younger because 
she did it all and 
looked good doing 
it,” said Meredith Cot-
ton, 20, food and resource 
economics junior. “She had 
her perfect home, excelled 
at every job 
and then 
d r o v e around 
in a 
c o o l 
car.”
  Cotton, 
who grew up 
playing with her mother’s dolls, 
said the appeal of Barbie was 
that she was the iconic Jackie 
Kennedy type of girl.
  “That’s how the era was im-
mortalized to me,” she said. “I’m sure no one our age wants 
to be immortalized by crazy 
hair and tattoos.”
  Journalism sophomore Sarah 
Loftus, 19, still has her Barbie as Cinderella Collector Edition sit-ting in her closet from her fourth birthday.
  “This Barbie is sending a mes-
sage to young girls that that’s 
how they’re supposed to look,” she said. “ L i t t l e g i r l s w i l l f e e l l i k e t h e y w o n ’ t be com-p l e t e until they have pink h a i r a n d 
tat-
toos.”
  In the No-
vember issue of O, Oprah’s mag-azine, an article titled “Better than Beautiful?” fea-tured model Katie Halchishick naked with a plastic sur-geon’s suggestions inked onto her body. In her hand is a naked Barbie.
  “There are a lot 
of movements now that are encouraging people to embrace a healthy ideal,” said Shannon Delaney, the health promo-tion specialist at Ga-torWell. “Trying to achieve an ideal that can’t be achieved is only going to make you unhap-py.”
  According to the 2010 
Healthy Gators Student Survey, one-ﬁ  fth of stu-dents reported that feeling fat frequently interferes with their everyday life.
  “We talk about 
it as a social mir-ror,” Delaney said. “The vision we have of ourselves is shaped by the opinion, perspec-
tive and paradigm of 
people around us.”
  Barbie, she said, 
gives girls an 
u n re a l i s t i c 
expecta-
tion.
  “Lots 
of criticism 
of Barbie is that 
is portrays an im-
age that is unach-
ievable,” she 
said. “It isn’t 
s o m e t h i n g you would 
want a 
y o u n g 
girl to 
a s p i r e 
to.”
  The doll, which 
is currently sold out and on back order, can be purchased for $50 on barbiecollec-tor.com. 
  “We look at three 
main sources of body image issues,” Dela-ney said. “The mes-
sages we tell our-
selves, the things 
we hear from 
people around us and larger societal 
issues. Most nega-
tive comments are to our-selves in the mirror.”                 10, ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011
  New tattooed Barbie raises questions about images to girls 
A life in Barbie
1990:  Born, Naval Petty Officer Barbie
1995:  Start elementary school, Lifeguard Barbie2000:  Start middle school, Presidential Candidate Barbie
2006:  Driver’s license, Zoologist Barbie2008:  High school graduation, Space 
Camp Instructor Barbie
2011:  Turn 21, Architect Barbie
Maegan Dennis / Alligator Staff
A look at the many faces of the doll  
Sketches by Carly Coleman / Alligator Staff THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 11
DIANA LOPEZ
Avenue Writer
Robert Ritter wants people to go to his art show and 
walk away with one thing: awareness.
“Picture Perfect Poetry or Quixote’s Phantasms de 
Amor” is Ritter’s art exhibition based on the ideals of the 
late Miguel de Cervantes, a 16th century writer.
Ritter’s art show will be open to the public at Books Inc., 
505 NW 13th St., on Thursday from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.
After a trip to San Jose, Costa Rica, in 2010, he took a pic-
ture standing next to an antique red door with vignettes im-planted in the wall, depicting the tales of Cervantes’ “Don Quixote.” 
Ritter, 49, said he was on his way to the airport when he 
noticed the red door, pulled over and took a quick picture.
Upon looking at the picture, he was filled with Cer -
vantes’ philosophies about life and gave birth to new ideals, he said.
Ritter said the house has been in the family for 80 years.“It was an anomaly or example of Old World continu-
ity,” he said. “It’s not considered a famous landmark, but it should be.”
In the three months that followed, he wrote a book, pro-
duced a video and hung a complete collection. His show was displayed in February for one night.
This year, the show will be displayed for a month. How-
ever, the video installation that serves as an introduction will only be played for the opening night.
He said he modeled the show after a mock tribunal.“Once you step foot in here, your beliefs are put to the 
test,” he said.
Ritter said upon entering, guests are presented with key 
pieces of evidence that challenge personal values.
During the course of the art show, there are four main 
exhibits, he said. Each exhibit is centered on a photo taken during Ritter’s travels and has complementary text to ex-plain the ideals he wants to portray. 
One exhibit is called “Quixotic Flights of the Imagina-
tion” and features a picture of a volcano in Costa Rica. He said it symbolizes the continual cycle of creation and de-struction. 
“It’s a largely text-driven show,” he said. “So the more 
effort a viewer puts in, the more they’ll get out of it.” 
There are also poems from his book 
hanging as subtext. Ritter said each ex-hibit and hanging incorporate “found art,” or art created from things you could find around the house.  He said late artist Marcel Duchamp inspired it. 
Nuts, bolts, locks, bamboo sticks and pool cues are all 
part of Ritter’s collection.
To top off the exhibit, he has created a framed book, 
what he calls “an anomaly.” He said he thinks no other art-ist has produced it before. The book of poems can hang as a normal picture or be “unlocked” and read normally.
“It’s not about politics, religion or death,” Ritter said 
about his collection. “It’s more about questioning beliefs and how well we live up to those beliefs.”Local artist to host philosophy-based 
exhibition, puts beliefs to the test   
UF students are eligible 
for a dollar-off coupon found in Gator Bucks. 
Open from 11:30 a.m. to 
9:30 p.m. Monday through Saturday, the crepe shop serves lunch, dinner and, of course, dessert. 
“It’s like layers of 
heaven,” 17-year-old jour -
nalism freshman Andrea Carroz said about her Nu-tella crepe. 
Dusted with powdered 
sugar, her crepe oozed with dark, warm Nutella. 
Though the Nutella 
and fruit crepes are a fa-vorite, Andi Melengu said the prosciutto and chicken crepes are bestsellers. 
“Some people have never had crepes before they come here. We of-fer a new flavor, which brings more culture and variety to Gainesville,” Andi said. 
The quaint eatery fea-
tures a few tables; freshly brewed coffee and other beverage options; music; and a lounge area com-plete with a couch and reading material. 
Both the brothers play 
DJ as well as chef while at work. 
Though not straight off 
the streets of Paris, City Crepes sure does serve up a good crepe — Melengu style. 
Check out City Crepes’ 
Facebook page for its menu and specials. Nutella, fruit 
crepes are favorites 
CREPE , from page 8ALYSSA HOLCOMB
AVENUE WRITER 
Inspiration is the name of the 
game when it comes to Camryn 
Wessner’s music.
The 19-year-old local recording 
artist is preparing the release of her new EP , “Temporary,” this Decem-ber. 
The Dothan, Ala., native said 
she draws influences from the mu-sic of her childhood, naming per-formers like John Cougar Mellen-camp and Alison Krauss as some of her guides. As far as her own music is concerned, Wessner said she hopes she uplifts and inspires listeners of all types.
“When you have something that 
you’re so passionate about that you can live for every day, it makes life a lot more purposeful and mean-ingful to you and the way you live it,” she said. “I would hope that I wouldn’t just inspire musicians or artists, but that my music can help people be inspired to do what they really wanna do with their lives.”
 
Learning to Fly Solo
Vocalist for the band Victory 
Blvd while in high school, Wessner said her time in the group helped her “learn to perform.”
“I think I just decided that it was 
nice to be responsible for myself as a musician. It helps me kinda grow when I can think and write on my own kind of terms,” Wessner said. “But being in a band was definitely a really good experience. It helped me have a growing stage perfor-mance so I’m not just sitting up there singing.”Influences and Icons
Wessner has had help from 
some notable musical forces, from respected producers Stan Lynch, a founding member of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, and Billy Chapin, who has worked with the Backstreet Boys and O-Town, to Gainesville’s own Sister Ha-zel. Wessner even opened for Ken Block and Drew Copeland of Sister Hazel on Oct. 22 at Florida Gate-way College in Lake City. 
At the concert, she received some advice from one of her many musical inspirations.
“Ken, before he left, he pulled 
me aside and he was like, ‘Writ-ers don’t talk about writing, they write. Singers don’t talk about singing, they practice what they do. Keep doing what you’re do-ing. Just don’t forget to not stop,’” Wessner said.
She also said Lynch and Chapin 
were the reason for the comfort-able recording environment that captured what Wessner calls her easy-listening style of music. Lynch even co-wrote the title track, complementing Wessner’s words and melody with music.
“Since they’ve been in the in-
dustry and have been experienced for so long, I think it’s just easy for them to make people feel comfort-able so that they can perform the best,” she said. “I think that’s why they’re so good at it. They bring out the best in me. They make me feel really comfortable with my abilities and collaborating.” 
Whatever Comes Her Way
As she prepares for the album’s 
release, Wessner said she plans on continuing to play shows and even-tually embarking on a tour, taking on whatever comes her way.
“As far as being signed to a re-
cord label nowadays, you really kinda have to have it all together beforehand,” she said.  “So we’re trying to get a CD and a music vid-eo done, so that come 2012, that’s gonna hopefully be the year that I really start to promote myself.”
Recorded during the summer 
out of St. Augustine, the “Tempo-rary” EP features six tracks, the title track, debut single “Polaroid” and a bonus track. All of the songs are streaming on Facebook, but hard copies will hit shelves Dec. 13.
As for her favorite track, Wess-
ner said the EP’s namesake is the one that brought to surface a par-ticular message not only for listen-ers but for the singer-songwriter herself.
“If you can’t accept that most 
everything you come across is tem-porary, then you’re gonna have a hard time dealing with things,” she said. “That’s what this album really brought to surface for me. A lot of my life I didn’t want to change and let go, but it’s good to be able to adapt to your surround-ings because everything’s pretty temporary.”
For more information on Wess-
ner, the “Temporary” EP and upcoming gigs, including one at Double Down Live at 210 SW Sec-ond Ave. on Nov. 13, check out her official website camrynwessner.com or her Facebook page.12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011
Karl Auffenberg / Alligator  
Rising recording artist Camryn Wessner, 19, has received musical advice from Sister Hazel. She re-
leases her EP, “Temporary,” in December. 
KATE FELDMAN 
and ALYSSA HOLCOMB 
Avenue Writers
JOEL McHALE 
Gator Growl is going to be “The Soup” 
du jour in Gainesville when comedian Joel McHale performs.
McHale is known around the Gainesville 
“Community” for many things – his hit NBC comedy, his E! talk show and various roles in movies, including the recent Anna Faris raunchy rom-com “What’s Your Number?”
What fans might not know about the fun-
nyman is that he was born in Rome, played on the University of Washington’s champi-onship football team and majored in history. However, between his wacky sitcom about community college life and “The Soup”’s melting pot of pop culture parodies, McHale is better known as a current comedic heavy-weight.
Aaron Heger, the producer of Gator 
Growl, said, “I think he’s an up-and-coming, very big name right now that both a lot of students and alumni responded well to. Just a popular comedian that everyone wants to see. “From the start, we were just looking for 
acts that would appeal to both students and alumni. I think [McHale, the Goo Goo Dolls, and Sister Hazel] are acts that Gators of all ages have responded to well and will enjoy.”
SISTER HAZEL
Hometown celebrities Ken Block and 
Drew Copeland are back in Gainesville to cel-ebrate Gator Growl, and it’s “All For You.”
“Come Around” to Ben Hill Griffin Sta-
dium on Friday at 7 p.m. to see Block, the lead singer of Sister Hazel, and Copeland, the band’s rhythm guitarist and vocalist, host the event.
“Hell yeah, I’m excited to see them,” said 
public relations junior Alicia Slate, 25. “I like their sound. It’s unique and old-school, and it’s nice that they’re bringing a band from the past to the modern days. Sister Hazel’s a band for all ages.”
Block and Copeland will also be perform-
ing the national anthem, so bring “Every-body” you know to enjoy the show.
Heger said he was “Happy” to bring 
Block and Copeland to the event because of their popularity within the Gainesville com-munity.
“They’ll be introducing everyone from 
the marching band to the football team,” he said. “They’re there to keep the show flow-ing with interaction with the audience be-tween acts.”
Missing this performance will surely be 
“Your Mistake,” so arrive early enough to get comfortable before the show starts.
It’ll be a “Beautiful Thing.”
GOO GOO DOLLS
Originally called the Sex Maggots (pro-
moters refused to book them until they changed their name), the Goo Goo Dolls are here to help you “Slide” into the Homecom-ing game to the sound of some of their most popular songs.
“Let Love In” as you watch John Rzeznik, 
Robby Takac and Mike Malinin perform as the first musical act for Gator Growl since 2009.
“I’m really excited that they decided to 
have a band come play,” said occupational therapy sophomore Anna Fuhrer, 19. “I wasn’t very impressed by Growl last year.”
The musicians might not know your 
“Name,” but that doesn’t mean they’re not here specifically for you. The band was se-lected after beating Maroon 5, Kings of Leon and Bruno Mars in a top-five student survey and a top-three alumni survey.
“I’m basically listening to Goo Goo Dolls 
like crazy,” Fuhrer said. “I bought my ticket the second I found out they would be per -
forming.”
Heger wants to “Give a Little Bit” back to 
the students who voted to bring the band to UF.
“Every year, we do a survey to see what 
people thought of Gator Growl and what they’d like to see next year,” he said. “Ninety percent of people on the survey said they wanted a musical act this year, so it was a no-brainer.”
Seating is first-come, first-serve, so make 
sure you’re at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium “Be-fore It’s Too Late” to get a good spot.
The Gators may have seen “Better Days,” 
but we’re ready to feel “Sympathy” for the Vanderbilt football team.
Don’t miss this opportunity to be close 
enough to see the “Iris” in the Goo Goo Dolls’ eyes.Laughs and Lyrics: Gearing up for Gator Growl’s headliners  
Local rising songstress prepares debut EP, has opened for Sister HazelmusicTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Now Leasing for January 2012
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive 3 & 4 bds Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $329
UPGRADES AVAILABLE $399
Only $9.99 to sign & $100 Credit
352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-21/1 East at $469, 1/2 off 2nd month*
$99 Move In SpecialFrederick GardensCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.Great pools • Fitness • TennisCall for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’sBivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 THFREE Cable with HBOAll the amenities & FREE tanningGated, PET FRIENDLYTheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.445512-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!
ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   12-7-11-74-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
GIGANTIC 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority/Norman area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Reduced to $1595. Avail now or Jan 352-665-8166 lv msg.   11-23-11-50-2
●●● One Mile to UF ●●●
 Home 2br 1 bath. New A/C Hardwood Floors, 
Tile in kitchen & bath & Florida room $900.00 mo.  Call Andree Realty 352-375-290011-4-10-2
4/2.5 2000sqft home built in 2000, 2 blks to 
Stadium 3 min walk to Campus. Free $1300 security deposit! $1550/mo! W/D Garage. Avail Dec/Spring. Rmmate matching. Call 870-7304. jeremybolton0@gmail.com   11-23-11-30-2
●●●● MUST SEE! ●●●●
1BR, quiet, custom-built, in-law suite. 
Spacious, living room, full bath, dining, W/D. Cable, utils incl. Close to all -- has it all! $700/mo. Call 278-8381     11-10-11-10-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House Historic 
spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1750/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    11-15-11-20-2● Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 3 blocks to UF  
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - Bike to UF
● 4BR/2BA House directly across from
Law School. W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
● 3BD/1BA House - 2046 NW 31 PL
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
11-16-11-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420    12-7-11-32-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   12-7-11-32-2
Close to UF, $595/month 2BR with 
2.5Bathroom townhouse. New floor/paint. Fenced backyard with W/D hookup. 1310 SW 61st, GNV, 32607. Call 352/332-4088 or 352/514-7098    11-10-11-10-2
2, 3, or 4 Bedroom House available
January 1st. Walk to Class! Lots of Parking. 
Pool. 2 Living Rooms. $500 per room. Please
call John @ 561-866-8234 for further info
11-4-4-2
3 or 4BR/1.5BA CONDO
2116 SW 70th Terr. Available anytime. $700/
mo. (First & Last)  Call 352-514-9698    11-9-11-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Cabana Beach Sublease 2/2
Available now to Aug 2012,$509/mo each, Furnished W/Dcall  352-552-1757    11-23-11-14-3I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
MASTER Bdrm. PRIVATE BATH, WALK 
IN CLOSET 708 NW 10th Ave. 5 min to UF. Nice Cabana around Lg Swimming Pool, $570 incl utils, & W/D. Huge space in quiet area. Flexible lease w low sec dp. Call Kristoff 352-332-5030 or 514-6180 ready Nov. 1st.    11-4-11-15-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Available December. Call 727-729-1561   11-30-26-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler Plaza. Asking $650/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    11-9-11-9-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
Office Space and Penthouse Available
Call David Holbrook - (352) 213-8161
11-16-11-10-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 15
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
11-30-11-61-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-1203 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      11-3-11-74-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
 ●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   11-17-20-14
Magician Needed
for company party on December 9th from 
6:00 - 7:00 pm. Please call 352-514-3436.  11-7-11-10-14
Legal Secretary/Receptionist. $9/hour. F/T. 
Needs to be responsible, diligent, and de-pendable. Call 352-371-4000.   11-16-11-15-14
Law clerks needed for research
& drafting on criminal appeals. 
flex hrs., $12/hr to start, send 
resume to Alex Paralegal, 7758 
SE83 Ct. Newberry, FL 32669
11-4-11-8-14
Web Programmers (.NET) jobs and intern-
ships available at Gainesville's 352 Media Group. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   11-8-11-10-14
Search Engine Optimization (SEO) spe-
cialist wanted at Gainesville's 352 Media Group. Email resume and SEO samples to hr@352media.com    11-8-11-10-14
ATTTENTION STUDENTS
Part time help needed at Westgate Home Sales. Please contact Matt for details 352-378-2453 x 19   11-9-11-10-14
Freight Up = More $ 2 Mos. CDL Class A 
Driving Exp (877)258-8782 www.melt-ontruck.com    10-288-1-14
UF Survey Research Center
Spanish speakers needed!
Must work during upcoming breaks
(not on holidays)
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Incentive
Great Resume Builder
(352) 392-2908 Ext: 105
720 SW 2nd Ave Suite 156
11-3-11-5-14
WANTED
Energetic, hard-working, individuals eager to 
assist customers with high-quality sporting goods and shoes. Full and part time opportu-nities. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St. No phone calls please.    11-4-5-14
Designer/Sales-part/full time. No exp.nec.
Assist cust. choosing styles, colors etc. Must work Sat. $8/hr min. Can earn $50k+/yr. Apply at Furniture Kingdom Plus...3310 NW 23rd Ave    11-4-11-5-14
Marketing Assistant, P/T.
Assists with marketing and PR
for O'Connell Center. If
interested send e-mail 
to musson@ufl.edu
11-4-5-14Medical assistant needed for busy dermatol-
ogy office. Part-time position available, 10-20 hrs wk. This is an ideal position for pre-med, nursing or allied health student. Will train en-ergetic, enthusiastic individual. Medical asst certificate not required. Email resume toofmgrbeers@aol.com.    11-7-5-14
Busy Dermatology office seeking medical
billing / front office assistant. Ideal forbusiness or similar major. Part-timeposition leading to possible full-time with management potential. email resume toofmgrbeers@aol.com.    11-7-5-14
RESEARCH PARTICIPANTS NEEDED 
FOR LANGUAGE STUDY! Must be a na-tive Japanese speaker. Benefits may include improved pronunciation of English language sounds. Interested? Please contact: ufapha-sialab@gmail.com or (352) 273-3714 for in-formation.    11-3-11-2-14
Bench Scientist: Self-motivated individual 
with good attention to detail to work in an-tibody purification and kit development. Knowledge of ELISA methodology and basic immunology is desirable. Basic laboratory skills and ability to manage multiple projects required. B.S. in scientific field preferred; laboratory experience may be substituted. Send resume to info@elisa-tek.com.   11-8-11-5-14
Looking for a fitness model for website. 
Please, send pic & info to ergofit101@gmail.com or ergofit101.com. Photography should take less than 1 hour at a popular G'ville gym. You will receive name credit & $25 visa card.    11-7-3-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.comPrivate Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696   11-9-11-30-15
COMPUTER PROBLEMS? CONFUSED?
13 yrs in the IT profession. I can resolve ANYissue ● Desktop ● Laptop ● Networking● A/V ● Cell Phone ● Gator IT Solutions 1 call does it all! 352-792-2214 Free Quote11-22-11-20-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
ADOPTION. Choose a loving & secure family 
waiting to adopt. Living & medical expenses paid. Updates on your child.Call 24hr/7day. 1-800-280-6155. Amy Eichman(Bar#830011)    11-14-11-30-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) and 
Basic Life Support(BLS) classes. Meets Shands and SFC requirements. All certs is-sued are American Heart Assoc. We do indi-vidual and group classes. Call Cardiac One at (352)494-4217.   11-23-11-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM a boutique in 
a barn!Used books,old thoughts and new things. The existing order of surfdom can-not remain unchanged. It is better to abol-ish surfdom from above than to wait until the surfs begin to liberate themselves from below. Alexander 11. Hwy.441S. 15 min. to change what you thought a store could be.    11-22-30-21
One random winner will receive a $25 visa 
card. Just like www.GoBud.org Travel/Leisure on FB. Winner will be announced on Dec 1, 2011.   11-8-4-21
GATOR SOUTH CAROLINA 
FOOTBALL TIX (2) 352-278-8166    
11-3-5-22
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: KEYS
On Newell Drive on Monday, 10/31 - late af-ternoon. Call to identify 954-801-3817   11-7-3-25VIBRAM 5-FINGERS
Awesome selection of the super hot Vibram 
5-fingers shoes. Styles for causal wear, working out and running. Come check 'em out. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St. One mile north of UF on 13th St.   11-4-5-18
FLIP FLOP SALE
All flip flop sandals on sale now. Reef, Teva, Sanuk, Roxy and Quiksilver. 15-30% off. Great selection. Lloyd Clarke Sorts 1504 NW 13th St. 372-7836    11-4-5-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Gainesville "Doobie Toss" The Video! 
Features "The Toss" 1992-'93! Now on DVD! Includes interview with the late and lovable, "Guru of Ganga," Jack Herer, and the USDA's 1942 film "Hemp for Victory!" Help fund the Hempfest! SAT. NOV. 5 Gainesville's Downtown BO Diddley Plaza! Donnations Greatfully accepted! Jodi- FL C.A.N. 321-253-3673Doobietosservideo@gmail.com    11-4-11-7-20
The Doobie Tosser says that you should 
Google this video! "UFOTV Presents: The Hemp War Conspiracy!" This is the film that the US Gov. does not want you to see!    11-4-11-7-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
For years, Mary Wise has heard 
the same question repeatedly.
“When will the Southeastern 
Conference get better?”Florida’s volleyball coach has re-
mained consistent in her answer.
“You better be careful what you 
wish for.”
The questions were deservedly 
asked. After all, in Wise’s 20 years 
coaching at UF coming into this sea-son, the Gators were not challenged by conference foes, with Florida a combined 306-12 in SEC play.
But after this past weekend, the 
coaching veteran is being asked a different slate of questions.
“I’ve gotten the email that says, ‘What’s wrong with Florida volley-ball? We lost two matches,’” Wise said. “Well, folks, you play top-25 teams on the road, those aren’t easy wins.”
For just the second time dur -
ing her UF coaching career, Wise watched her team lose back-to-back SEC games last weekend during a road trip to No. 16 Tennessee and No. 19 Kentucky . The two losses dropped Florida (17-5, 10-3 SEC) four spots in the A VCA poll to No. 17 and likely knocked the Gators out of the race for an SEC champi-onship. 
Previously , 2009 was the only 
season UF did not win an SEC title with Wise at the helm.
“For our league to take that next 
step, we’ve got to have at least one team go deep into the tournament,” Wise said. “That hasn’t been the case in recent years. I think both Ken-tucky and Tennessee have an oppor -
tunity to go very deep.”
With the exception of discussing 
continued deficiencies in transition defense by back-row players, Wise had difficulty putting a finger on exactly what went wrong during the weekend.
Outside hitters Kristy Jaeckel and 
Stephanie Ferrell were somewhat high-error players in Friday and Sunday’s games, respectively. How-ever, they were each forced to take more than 40 swings in both games, an inordinately high number for the duo.
Wise initially  pointed out Kel-
ly Murphy and Tangerine Wiggs as players who didn’t have good games against Tennessee but retract-ed that statement after reevaluating the game.
“You can look at their numbers 
and say they’re not playing well, but I think that would be short-sighting the quality competition we played against,” she said.
Since 1991, the SEC has been a 
league dominated by one team, with Florida the only program to make it to a national championship game (a 3-1 loss to Southern California in 2003). But now the Gators are stuck hunting teams like Tennessee, which Wise predicts will be the favorite to win the conference again next year.
“What we’re going to do is we’re 
going to spend time on the Gators,” she said. 
“We talked to the team about 
where we can see improvement. There’s some things you can’t con-trol. Our middles aren’t going to get any taller, but there are balls we’re not taking care of on the first con-tact.” THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 17
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
After dropping back-to-back matches on the road to Kentucky and Tennessee, Florida coach Mary Wise 
said the level of competition in the Southeastern Conference is starting to catch up to the Gators.
Wise: Parity developing in previously uncompetitive SEC� BOTH WON BY MORE THAN 
50 POINTS WEDNESDAY.
ALEX PECKHAM
Alligator Writer
 
Florida swimming coach Gregg 
Troy assessed the Gators’ rivalry 
with Florida State after Wednes-day’s meet, with one word: fierce. 
“It’s a really fierce meet, and it’s 
a really important meet for us. We certainly don’t ever plan on losing to them.”
The Florida men beat Florida 
State, 175-121, while the women earned a nearly identical 176-119 victory.
On the men’s side, it was the 
younger swimmers who carried the load. After letting a victory against Georgia last week get away from them, Troy said the Gators squan-dered the meet due to a slew of mis-takes that he attributed to inexperi-ence.
Freshmen Matt Elliott, Matthew 
Curby and Eduardo Solaeche were three of the driving forces behind the Gators’ victory. Solaeche took home the 200-yard breaststroke, Elliott took home the 100 breast and Curby earned a victory in the 100 backstroke. Both Elliott and Curby were also a part of Florida’s 200 medley relay team, which also placed first.
“Some of the younger guys raced 
really well today,” Troy said. “They really needed that. They needed a chance to get in some close races and get their hand on the wall first, and that’s what they did.”
Other strong performances for 
Florida came courtesy of junior Ja-son Taylor as well as sophomores Brad DeBorde and Marcin Cieslak, who won two races apiece.
It was a famil-
iar script for the Florida women, as the team relied on the exploits of standouts Eliza-beth Beisel, Tere-
sa Crippen, Sarah Bateman and Ja-mie Bohunicky to 
coast to a comfortable victory.
Bateman turned in the best per -
formance of the four, touching the wall first in the 50 and 100 freestyle, as well as the 100 butterfly. 
Bohunicky, a Gainesville native, 
continued her dominance in free-style events by taking the 200- and 500-yard races.
The win against Florida State is 
the first meet in another busy stretch for the Florida women, who now head to Ann Arbor, Mich., to take on Michigan and Stanford in sepa-rate meets on Friday and Saturday.Men, women handle 
Florida State at home
LANDON WATNICK
Alligator Writer
 
Florida only trailed Texas by eight strokes 
heading into Wednesday’s final round.
But when all was said and done, the Gators 
left Austin, Texas, still searching for a tourna-
ment win. 
To close out the Betsy Rawls Invitational, 
No. 10 UF shot 15-over for a three-day score of 892 (285-304-303, +28). The team finished in a three-way tie for second place with Pep-perdine and Tulsa, 12 shots behind first-place Texas. 
“We made too many mistakes,” coach Jan 
Dowling said. “But we had an opportunity to win, and that’s what we’re trying to do. It’s disappointing, but we got ourselves in con-tention and that experience is invaluable. … We had a heck of a first round and had some good individual accomplishments, too.”
While Florida came up short, the second-
place result is its best tournament finish of the fall season, topping a third-place showing at the Cougar Classic in September. 
Andrea Watts was UF’s top performer on 
Day 3, carding a 2-over 74 on four birdies against four bogeys and a double bogey. The senior ended the event with a 224 (+8), her best three-day score this year. 
“The main word for her is ‘resiliency’ for 
this week,” Dowling said. “She stayed patient and stayed positive and was able to get her head in gear to make those birdies. I’m happy for her and the way she finished.”
Boasting an impressive streak heading 
into the final round, junior Mia Piccio finally crumbled Wednesday. After shooting even par on her front nine, she tallied two bogeys and three-straight double bogeys, ending her day 8-over. 
Still, Piccio (+5) managed to place 10th in-
dividually, her third top-20 finish this season. 
“She’s disappointed 
right now,” Dowling said. “Mia got herself in conten-tion and I’m very proud of her. She was leading the tournament after two days. She’s going to handle this 
really well, and the next time she’s leading or sup-posed to lead, I think she’s 
going to take it.” 
Four of Florida’s five golfers in the lineup 
finished in the top 27. 
The Gators will have more than three 
months off until they begin their spring sea-son at the Northrup Grumman Regional Chal-lenge in Palos Verdes, Calif., on Feb. 13-15.  
“The team knows we’re capable of great 
golf, and when it all comes together, it’s very good,” Dowling said. “This tournament finish has left a bitter taste in their mouth. I think it’s going to motivate them to work really hard during the postseason.”Disappointing final round 
leaves Gators tied for second
“You can look at their 
numbers and say they’re 
not playing well, but I think 
that would be short-sighting 
the quality competition we 
played against.”
Mary Wise
UF coachDowling
 Troy
18, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011
well and I don’t regret the decision 
I made at all.”
Though his son grew up watch-
ing games in the O’Connell Cen-ter, the elder Donovan wasn’t sure about how receptive Billy would be to actually playing a game back home after Catholic’s coach, Steve Howes, initially suggested the matchup. 
“Last year some time, [my dad] 
was just asking ‘Hey, would you like to come down for a game?’” Billy said. “I said, ‘Sure why not,’ so they were able to work it out. But it’s really exciting.”
The Cardinals are no strangers 
to exhibition games against high-profile teams. To open the 2010-2011 season, they took on Notre Dame in South Bend, Ind.Despite his busy schedule, Don-
ovan was able to attend the 72-47 win by the Irish, which was also his son’s first collegiate game. While the Cardinals lost by 25 points, Bil-ly and his teammates were able to take something from the game.
“It really gives us some confi-
dence I feel like, and lets us realize that we can play with a Division-I team, whether they are in the top 10 or not in the top 25,” he said.
The Gators, led by probable 
starters Erving Walker, Kenny Boynton, Bradley Beal, Erik Mur -
phy and Patric Young, will present a similarly stiff challenge and have won their last 21 exhibition games dating back to 2000. 
Coach Donovan said he expects 
everyone on the team to see play-ing time against the Cardinals, al-though sophomore guard Scottie Wilbekin will likely be out with a broken index finger.
As for Billy, he doesn’t really 
know what to expect from sharing the court with his dad for the first time.
“It is a little weird,” he said. “But looking back on this a cou-
ple years from now, I really feel like it’s going to be worth it for me and a special moment for myself and my father.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@
alligator.org.
Alligator File Photo
Florida coach Billy Donovan had to talk to his son before confirming an exhibition between UF and his school, Catholic University.
Wilbekin out with broken index finger
HooPs , from page 20
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator s taff
Florida forward Tahnai Annis scored both goals in the 
Gators’ 2-0 first-round win at the SEC Tournament.
Barney out for season with facial fractures
Baker and put the ball into an empty 
net from 10 yards out for her sixth goal of the season.
“Before Taylor even kicked the ball, 
I had already started running,” Annis said. “I didn’t even have to stop my run because I was already past the de-fense.”
The early Florida lead forced Geor -
gia to play aggressively, resulting in more space for the Gators to oper -
ate than they had in recent games in which they trailed throughout.
“The game was wide open be-
cause they were behind,” Burleigh said. “There was no bunker, so that helped.”
The Florida defense handled the Georgia attack well throughout the game, allowing just one shot on goal in the first half. With the Bulldogs pressing to get back in the game in the second half, they were only able to muster two more shots on frame.
With just 14 seconds remaining in 
the first half, the Gators added to their lead after Thompson sent a corner into the box. Junior midfielder Holly King headed the service, and Annis was able to kick it in out of the ensuing scuffle from six yards out.Annis stepped up in the absence of 
junior forward McKenzie Barney, who will miss the remainder of the season after she sustained facial fractures in a collision while going for a header in the season finale against South Caro-lina. Barney, a team captain, gave her captain band to Annis prior to Wednesday’s match.
Annis downplayed her success af-
ter the game, noting the importance of the win for her team.
“It’s all or nothing right now,” she 
said. “One game and you could be done for the rest of the season, and we definitely don’t want that.”
The Gators play again Friday night 
when they take on 8th-seeded Ala-bama, which upset top-seeded South Carolina, 1-0, on Wednesday.
soccer , from page 20“It really gives us some 
confidence I feel like, and 
let’s us realize that we can 
play with a Division-I team, 
whether they are in the top 
10 or not in the top 25.”
Billy Donovan
Catholic University guard
“One game and you could 
be done for the rest of the 
season and we definitely don’t 
want that.”
Tahnai Annis
UF forwardRainey suffered the injury 
in the first quarter against 
Georgia, and he has been seen on campus wearing a protec-tive boot this week.
Pressure, takeaways: In 
Florida’s last two losses, Quinn said he was most disappointed in his defense’s inability to cre-ate turnovers and put heat on the quarterback. 
Against Auburn and Geor -
gia, which beat Florida by a combined 15 points, the Gators managed a total of just four sacks and one takeaway — a first quarter interception against the Bulldogs that the offense failed to capitalize on. 
Homecoming still mean-
ingful: Despite losing four straight games, Floyd said Saturday’s homecoming game against Vanderbilt is impor -
tant to Florida. 
“We win, we get to have fun 
with Gainesville,” he said.
“We lose, we’re in our 
dorms, sleeping, thinking about what happened. It’s a big week. It’s homecoming and we want to be out having fun.”   
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@
alligator.org� ‘DORES SITTING AT 4-4.
MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
 
The passion was visible in 
the eyes of their first-year head 
coach. 
Minutes after dropping a 
heartbreaker to Georgia, James Franklin was poignant, direct and aggressive. Miffed by what he felt was disrespectful trash talk lev-eled toward his team at the hands of the Bulldogs, Franklin made sure people understood he thinks things are now different at Van-derbilt. 
“We’re also going to fight, I 
want to make sure everyone un-derstands that,” he said. “We are not going to sit back and take stuff from anybody. Anybody. No one. Those days are long gone and they are never coming back — ever.”
It’s not all hot air; the Commo-
dores are backing up their coach’s boisterous barking with their play — at times. 
Down 20-7 at halftime on Oct. 
15 against UGA, Vanderbilt led a charge, pulling within five after Zac Stacy’s 19-yard touchdown run with 9:15 remaining. But quar -
terback Jordan Rodgers threw an interception late to seal any hope of the Commodores grabbing their first home win against the Bulldogs since 1991. 
Two weeks later, at home 
against then-No. 10 Arkansas, Vanderbilt held the lead 21-14 at halftime. Leading 28-20 to the start the fourth quarter, the Com-modores drove 57 yards to the Razorbacks 3-yard line, a game-clinching touchdown just yards away. But running back Zac Sta-cy fumbled on the ensuing play. Arkansas returned it 94 yards for a touchdown and converted a 2-point conversion to tie the game. A field goal on the Razor -
backs’ next series was all it took to hold on for the win.
Still, Vandy’s play has been 
enough to garner some respect from Florida, with defensive end Sharrif Floyd saying he has seen a difference from last year’s 2-10 team.
“They’re playing with a little 
bit more heart in my eyes,” Floyd said Wednesday. 
While trying to put to bed a 
four-game stretch of losses, the Gators are also trying to prevent a longer streak from ending Sat-urday in The Swamp: Florida has not lost to Vanderbilt since 1988.
“We can’t overlook Vandy one 
bit,” defensive tackle Omar Hunt-er said. “They’re a good team; they pushed Georgia to the limit, they pushed Arkansas to the limit.”
However, it doesn’t matter 
what Florida or any other oppo-nent thinks if Vanderbilt can’t find a way to win. That’s the difference between perception and reality. 
But if there’s a sign that Frank-
lin’s words about change are true, it’s that he recognizes the differ -
ence. 
In another telling moment in 
front of the media, after espous-ing all the positives that came from the near defeat to Arkansas, Franklin showed just that Mon-day.
“The only thing that really 
matters,” he said, “is the wins and losses.”
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@
alligator.org. THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 19
AP Photo
Coach James Franklin said he knows the only thing that will truly 
change what people think about Vanderbilt is wins. 
First-year coach Franklin trying to change 
perception at bottom-dwelling VanderbiltTHE RALLY
Greg: There’s a big difference between 
a disappointing season and a “lost” season. 
Right now, UF’s is definitely the former. 
But a respectable finish, a winning record and a bowl game are all still attainable. 
The Gators have lost four games against 
ranked teams without their starting quarter -
back. With John Brantley back in the fold, they could conceivably win out and end the year nationally ranked. 
Last season, seven teams with four or more 
losses finished in the top 25, and only one of them could boast that it faced a pair of top-five opponents. 
The Gators may not win the Southeastern 
Conference, but their finish still matters to fans, boosters, recruits and, more importantly, the team itself. 
That’s why UF needs to keep playing its 
best players. The time for the freshmen to take over isn’t upon us just yet. 
Tom: Hold on a minute, Greg. A trip to the 
TaxSlayer.com Gator Bowl (which is where Florida will likely end up if it becomes bowl eligible) and a .500 record in the SEC for the second straight year (if UF wins out) is “re-spectable” — if you’re a program like Vandy.
But Florida isn’t Vandy . Florida is Florida, 
and this season went from disappointing to lost last weekend in Jacksonville, when the Gators’ chances of a division title went out the window.
Florida’s depth 
has been thin all year, and it hasn’t helped the team one bit. So why not dip into the reserves and get some more of those fresh-men — you know, the ones that were a part of the nation’s 12th-ranked recruiting class, ac-cording to Rivals.com — in the mix and have this team better prepared for next season, when Florida will have a clean slate?
Greg: If those freshmen were ready, they’d 
be showing it in practice. And if they were showing it in practice, they’d be on the field. 
But they aren’t, so they’ll continue to sit 
the bench. And if you think it’s disappoint-ing when the No. 12 recruiting class can’t earn playing time, watch what happens when next year’s recruiting class is ranked in the fifties because nobody wants to play for a certifiably insane maniac who went 5-7 in his first year as a head coach because he tried to get freshmen more time. 
This isn’t the pros. Tanking won’t earn UF 
a better draft pick. The only way to add talent is to recruit it, and the only way to recruit it is to win. By no means will this 
team be up to Florida’s lofty standards, but it can still avoid outright embarrassment. 
Tom: Just to be clear, 
10 of the 19 signees from Florida’s class from February have seen significant action, 
whether it’s offense, defense or special teams. Two of the other nine players who signed transferred before the season, and another one is out with a season-ending injury. That’s 10 of 16 true freshmen playing so far this season.  
It’s not outrageous to propose that those fresh-men get more time on offense and defense
Will Muschamp has been high on Louchiez 
Purifoy and Graham Stewart on defense, and it isn’t going to hurt the SEC’s youngest de-fense (2.36 average years of experience) to get those two into the mix. 
On offense, the Gators’ receiving corps has 
been bad. Most notably, there is no big, pos-session receiver. Why not get Ja’Juan Story in there? The kid is 2 inches taller than any of the four wide outs in Florida’s rotation. The Gators could use that size on offense. 
Greg: You can’t bench people just because 
younger options could potentially be better, especially if the newcomers haven’t shown anything that would lead you to believe that’s the case. 
Deonte Thompson has put five years of 
hard, albeit unspectacular, work into this pro-gram and if he’s the best wide receiver on the roster he shouldn’t be benched for a guy like Story just because Story is young and tall.
What kind of a message does that send to 
current and future Gators? “No matter how well you play in practice and how good you are compared to the rest of the guys at your position, we might bench you just because we feel like it.”
There’s something to be said for fairness 
and loyalty . 
Tom: You’re right, you can’t bench peo-
ple because younger options could be better. However, you can bench people for not pro-ducing, and there are plenty of guys on this team who aren’t carrying their share.
I don’t know about how they do things in 
Connecticut, but where I’m from, if you aren’t producing, you aren’t playing.
Besides, I’m not calling for Muschamp and 
Co. to bench everyone; all I’m saying is Florida needs to let some of the younger guys see the field, burned redshirts be damned, because this season hasn’t, and won’t be, a successful one. 
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org and 
Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org.
With hopes of title dashed, should freshmen see more time?
Tom Green
twitter: @tomas_verde
Greg Luca
twitter: @gregluca
FooTbALL , from page 20Turnovers 
remain a concern for Quinn
“We are not going to sit 
back and take stuff from 
anybody. Anybody. No one. 
Those days are long gone 
and they are never coming 
back — ever.”
James Franklin
Vanderbilt coachTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Tennis Playing In ITA Championships
Both the Gators’ men’s and women’s tennis teams travel to 
Flushing, N.Y., today to play in the USTA/ITA National Intercollegiate Championships. Check alligatorSports.org for coverage. Fresh off close games against Georgia and Arkansas, first-year coach James Franklin said this isn’t the same old Vandy.See Story, Page 19.
Alex Orlando / Alligator
After switching from defensive tackle to defensive end in fall camp, sophomore Sharrif Floyd is starting 
to become acclimated to his new position. He had eight tackles, including two for loss, against UGA.
TYLER JETT 
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Sharrif Floyd is starting to hit 
his stride coming off the edge.
Floyd, who switched from de-
fensive tackle to defensive end be-
fore the season, has been meeting with coordinator Dan Quinn after practices this fall. The two watch film, both of Floyd’s performances and those of defensive ends who played for Quinn in the NFL.
Early in the year, Floyd strug-
gled to identify what he needed to focus on before each snap. So while they watched Quinn’s for -
mer players on tape, the coordina-tor would point out to Floyd what those players were looking at as the play progressed.
“Sometimes you can have a 
tendency to try and look at too much,” Quinn said. “There’s an old saying: ‘If you see a lot, some-times you don’t see much.’ But if you see a little, a key, a tackle … sometimes that can lock you in.”
Floyd finished second on 
Florida with eight tackles Satur -
day against Georgia, including a team-high two tackles for a loss and a quarterback hurry. 
At 295 pounds, Floyd is much 
bigger than a typical end, but he is a good fit for Florida’s 3-4 scheme. He sees himself moving back to tackle in coming years, but for now he has been adjusting nicely to playing the edge.
In addition to reading the of-
fense, Floyd has had to learn to apply his power game to a po-sition where players are more known for speed. 
“I’m a big guy,” he said. “I’m 
not going to be a slim (defen-sive) end, so I have to do big-guy 
moves. That’s what I’ve been doing, and it’s been working.”
McCray’s sta-
tus: Quinn de-clined comment when asked Wednesday if 
linebacker/defensive end Ler -
entee McCray had practiced this week. McCray exited Saturday’s game prematurely with a shoul-der injury.
Coach Will Muschamp said 
Monday that McCray was “ques-tionable to probable.” If the ju-nior can’t go, Quinn said Darrin Kitchens would replace him in the team’s 4-3 package.  
Getting Rainey back: Mus-
champ said he hoped redshirt senior Chris Rainey could run a little bit to test his sprained right ankle Wednesday. Floyd becoming comfortable in new role at defensive end
JOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
The Gators benefited Wednesday 
night when Tahnai Annis gave them 
something they had not had in more than two weeks: a first-half lead.
No. 23 Florida (15-6, 8-4 South-
eastern Conference) defeated Georgia (12-6-2, 6-4-2 SEC), 2-0, in its opening-round game of the SEC Tournament in Orange Beach, Ala., thanks to two first-half goals from the senior forward.
Entering the tournament, Florida 
was 11-0 when scoring first but had fallen behind in four consecutive games. It was the first time Florida led 1-0 since its 2-0 win against Ole Miss on Oct. 14. Prior to that, their 3-0 win against Kentucky on Oct. 2 was the last game in which they led first.
Coach Becky Burleigh said the 
Gators made a point in practice during the week to be more aggressive from the back and be quicker getting on the attack.
The practice paid off in the 26th 
minute when keeper Taylor Burke 
played a long ball to senior midfield-er Lindsay Thomp-son into UGA 
territory. Thompson flicked the ball ahead to Annis, who broke through the Bulldogs’ back line, made a move to her right to get by keeper Ashley Annis lifts No. 23 Gators 
to SEC Tourney semis � UF PLAYS CATHOLIC AT 7 P.M.
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Entering his 16th season with the Gators, 
Billy Donovan has shared the court with thou-
sands of opposing players, fellow coaches and former colleagues. 
Tonight at 7 in the O’Connell Center, he’ll 
add a family member to that list.
Aside from coaching No. 8 Florida during 
its season-opening exhibition against Catholic University, Donovan will also be playing the role of proud parent whenever his oldest son, also named Billy, checks in at guard for the Cardinals.
Like his father, the 6-foot-1 Donovan is 
known for his long-range shooting prowess. He scored more than 1,000 points as a four-year starter at St. Francis High in Gainesville, but didn’t see himself staying close to home for college.
“He had absolutely zero interest in play-
ing for me — did not want to do that,” coach Donovan said. “I’ve never really pushed him toward basketball. Never really pushed him toward Catholic University. He did this all on his own. It’s what he wanted to do.”
Instead of walking on at 
Florida, Billy, now a sopho-more, decided to enroll 
at Division-III Catholic in Washington D.C. 
He saw limited playing 
time in 19 of the Cardinals’ 30 games during his fresh-man season but expects a 
larger role this year after Catholic graduated its two leading scorers.
“I kind of wanted to get out of Gainesville a 
little bit,” he said. “Just go to a Catholic school and play basketball. … It really worked out Donovan, son to square off in 
exhibition home game tonightsee F OOt, pAge 19
see hOOps, p Age 18see sOccer, p Age 18Quinn
Donovan
UF Soccer
Quotable
“They may be small, but they’re technically 
sound.” 
Sharrif Floyd
UF defensive lineman (on Vandy’s o-line)
