VOLUME 106 ISSUE 33 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Student musicians vie for solo spotlight
One student won solo performance with the 
orchestra in an upcoming performance, pg. 3. Questions over election presented to UF Supreme Court
The Election Commission is set to start the investigation, pg 3.  
Gay Pride Festival returns to Gainesville this year
The festival will take place on Oct. 22, pg 4. 
The 
Avenue talks 
to Comedy 
Central’s 
“Workahol-
ics.” See 
Story, Page 
10. 
88/66
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 8CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD  15SPORTS 17 Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff 
     Gainesville activist Jesse Schmidt stands before a crowd of about 120 people as Occupy Gainesville rallies 
on the steps of City Hall Wednesday evening. Occupy Gainesville is a splinter group of Occupy Wall Street, a movement to “stop corporate greed and corrupt politics,” according to occupywallst.org. 
� THE FIRST RALLY TOOK 
PLACE ON WEDNESDAY.
  BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  College towns are joining 
a national movement, and 
Gainesville is no exception.
  The Occupy Wall Street 
protest has now spread to 75 college campuses, according to the Occupy Colleges web-site.
  Occupy Wall Street is a pro-
test in New York City to voice the opinion of the 99 percent of the population that isn’t as wealthy as the top 1 percent,  said Maya Garner, a member of Occupy Gainesville.
  Occupy Gainesville held 
an informational meeting Wednesday at 5:30 p.m. at the Bo Diddley Community Plaza. 
  The meeting was held to 
organize the efforts that will parallel those of the Occupy Wall Street protesters.
  At ﬁ  rst, the plaza was the 
scene of the meeting, but once the crowd became too large it moved across the street to the front of City Hall.
  “We have no country in a 
sense,” said Jesse Schmidt, a Gainesville activist.
  He described the Occupy 
Gainesville protest as a revival of the ﬁ  ght against multina-tional corporations.
  “We are standing with 
brothers and sisters all over the world,” Schmidt said.
  While the movement is not 
led by anyone in particular, multiple organizations are in-volved.
  “We don’t have the future 
that was promised to our par-ents,” said Jeremiah Tatter-sall, organizer of Fight Back Florida, a group dedicated to making sure union and stu-dent issues are represented in Florida. Occupy Wall Street 
movement makes it to Gainesville
  SAMANTHA SHAVELL
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  The UF College of Medicine plans 
to launch a new traumatic brain injury 
research center within the next few weeks.
  A UF alumnus recently donated 
$500,000 to help establish the new cen-ter, which will be housed in an existing space in the Department of Emergency Medicine.
  “The center will be a one-stop shop 
for information and resources on brain injury for victims, families, students and professionals who wish to under-stand more about this devastating dis-ease,” said Latha Ganti Stead, who will spearhead the new research.
  The money will go toward Stead’s 
professorship.
  At the center, 
there will be lectures on brain injury-relat-ed topics to residents training in emergen-cy, neurology, neu-rosurgery, psychol-
ogy and critical care. 
  The center will also provide in-ser-
vice training for nurses managing vic-tims of brain injury. 
  Stead said she hopes to develop $500,000 donation will help 
fund new brain trauma center  ON CAMPUS
  RACHEL CROSBY
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  Plastered bulletin boards and chalk-covered 
sidewalks have made it hard to avoid UF’s 
newest student-focused website: fratweiner.com.
  The website is run by part of the assumed 
male, non-Greek portion of the student popu-lation. 
  Featuring candid, phone-quality pictures of 
fraternity members on campus doing every-thing from walking to class to hanging at the Reitz Union, as well as Sperry-clad induced captions like, “Straight Off the Yacht,” the web-site, at ﬁ  rst, seems comical.
  But quickly the mood turns, and the site 
becomes, as some have said, comparable to a “Mean Girls” style “Burn Book.”   With the ability to comment on photos 
anonymously available to everyone, what might have been seen as funny has morphed into a type of cyberbullying.
  Explicit comments are becoming more com-
mon, and most of them are aimed at the young men’s sexuality , one referring to a member as, “the frattiest [expletive] I’ve ever seen.”
  As far as the pictures portray, the posts are 
unique to UF. 
  To some, the comments aren’t considered  Fratweiner.com attacks male 
Greeks with photos, commentsSEE OCCUPY, PAGE 5
SEE MEDICAL, PAGE 5
SEE FRAT, PAGE 5“Since anyone can comment on 
the website, they have the ability to 
counteract anything they don’t like. I 
don’t see the problem.”
Jeffrey Rudolph
pre-pharmacy freshman
Stead
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 33 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tyler Jett, Greg Luca,
  Corey McCall, Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Kathryn Milstein, Adrianna Paidas,  
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Brandon Davis
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Amber Hughes, 
  Allison Klempert, Kyle Mueller,   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus
 C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Alexander Silva, Natalie TeerFORECAST
MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY TODAY
RAIN
85/68RAIN
81/67RAIN
82/66RAIN
84/66PARTLY
CLOUDY
88/66
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening
Student Global AIDS Campaign 
(UF) - Second General 
Meeting
Today, 6:30 to 7:30 p.m.McCarty B, Room 1108Come learn about fundraising and volunteering opportuni-ties with SGAC. We are an AIDS education and aware-ness club that fundraises for global health organizations and serves the Gainesville community in diverse ways. We cover relevant HIV/AIDS issues at every club meeting and several events lined up for October. To learn more, come to the meeting and enjoy free snacks, or visit our group on Facebook at Student Global AIDS Campaign (UF). 
Gators for Green Design 
Fundraiser
Today, 7 to 9 p.m
Karma Cream1025 West University Avenue  
Come out to Karma Cream for GGD’s first fundraiser of the year. Twenty percent of Karma Cream’s revenue that night (if customers say they are with GGD) will go towards student prize money for the Green Design Exhibition to be held in the spring. Karma Cream offers unique flavors such as lavender honey, lemon cookie and chocolate orange, as well as the classics, coffee, milk-shakes, pastries, vegan options 
and more. 
Afghan War Protest
Friday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Plaza of the AmericasThe UF Libertarians and Gainesville Area Students for a Democratic Society will be holding a protest in Plaza of the Americas against the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq on the tenth anniversary of the for -
mer. The protest will include a 20-foot display showing the approximate number of ca-sualties since the wars began. Anyone interested in joining the cause is welcome. 
Eerie Acres Haunted Attraction
Friday and Saturday,7 to 11 p.m.14372 NW 50th Ave.Chiefland, FL 32626Corn Maze, Hayride and Haunted Woods Trail  
Eerie Acres offers Halloween Fun and Horror.  
Guests can get lost in a 9-acre maze filled with twists, turns and dead ends, face their fears along a 1/2 mile walk-ing trail through a dimly  
lit, fog-filled forest populated by heinous characters and scenarios or view a variety of Halloween/fall decorations while relaxing aboard a 3/4 mile hayride. For more infor -
mation, pricing or tickets visit www.eerieacres.com.
Henson Alternative: Stuffed and 
Unstrung Friday, 7:30 p.m. Phillips Center for the Performing ArtsHappening” in the subject 
line to jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your sub-missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper. 
CORReCtiOns
In Wednesday’s edition of the 
Alligator, an article incorrectly 
stated that students with private insurance or student insurance through the university are not eligible to use the CVS Caremark prescription discount card at the UF Student Health Care Center Pharmacy. The card may be used at the SHCC by both uninsured and insured students. The card cannot be used in combination with insurance. Insured students may only use the card to obtain discounts on prescriptions not covered by private or university-sponsored insurance.
In Tuesday’s edition of the 
Alligator, a story about Alachua County property tax rates incor -
rectly reported the number of counties in Florida. There are 67.
natiOnaL
Obama remembers Steve Jobs as 
visionary, innovator
WASHINGTON — President 
Barack Obama is remembering Apple co-founder Steve Jobs as one of America’s greatest inno-vators and says the world has lost a visionary.
The man behind the iPod and 
iPhone, as well as the personal computer and the iPad, Jobs died of cancer Wednesday at age 56.
Obama said in a statement 
Wednesday night that Jobs was brave enough to think differ -
ently, bold enough to believe he could change the world, and tal-ented enough to do it.
The president also said Jobs 
exemplified the spirit of Ameri-can ingenuity.
In a tweet sent separately 
from his statement, Obama said, in his words, “There may be no greater tribute to Steve’s success than the fact that much of the world learned of his passing on a device he invented.”
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSExperience Henson puppe-
teers like you’ve never seen them — off script and uncen-sored. Flanked by 80 Henson puppets, performers will take audience suggestions and run with them in this improv show for grown-ups. Student tickets are only $15 and can be purchased with a valid student ID at the Phillips Center Box Office and at the University Box Office (lo-cated in the Reitz Union). For more information, please call the Phillips Center Box Office at 352-392-2787 or visit www.performingarts.ufl.edu.
Tango for the Cure
Saturday, 5 p.m.308 W. University Ave. Argentine Tango Club is hosting its annual fundrais-er event for Breast Cancer Awareness. The event will feature workshops for all levels including beginners that starts at 5 p.m., and a dance social including per -
formances that starts at 8:30 p.m. Everyone is welcome to join, to learn, to dance or just to watch tango for a cause. All donations will go to the American Cancer Society. For more details, check the Facebook event page.
Gators March for Babies 2011 
Team Captain MeetingSunday, 6 p.m.Reitz Union, Room 282  
Gators March for Babies 2011 team captains or those interested in becoming cap-tains for their    organizations please meet Sunday for the second meeting. The meet-ing will cover information about registration as well as instruction and advice about fundraising. For more information about the team captain meeting please join the Gators March for Babies 2011 team captain Facebook group. 
The Bethel Seventh-Day 
Adventist Church Free Community Health and Information Fair 
Sunday, noon to 5 p.m.
740 NE 21st Street, across from Duval Elementary School on NE 8th AvenueResidents in the area of the church as well as students who do not have health insur -
ance or who are not followed regularly by a physician are invited. The UF College of Medicine Mobile Outreach Clinic will be available to conduct health screenings.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
KATIE KOPOTIC
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students and Gainesville residents will 
have an opportunity to participate in a rally 
against National Geographic’s lack of using recycled paper for its magazine. 
The “National Geographic: Practice What 
You Print” campaign will have its official kick-off  Oct. 12, and people will be encouraged to show their support of National Geographic switching to partially recycled paper.
“It’s hypocritical for National Geographic 
to not use recycled paper,” said Paige Milch, 19, an elementary education sophomore at UF.“National Geographic has inspired such 
environmentalism, yet they are not printing on recycled paper.“
Milch organized the National Geographic 
campaign for the UF campus through her in-ternship with Student Public Interest Research Group.
The campaign will also take place on cam-
puses across the nation. 
The kickoff to the campaign will involve 
stations set up around campus in which stu-dents will be able to have their pictures taken within golden frames, similar to the border of the National Geographic magazine.
The words “Nat Geo: Practice What You Print” will adorn the frames so that the mes-sage is clearly conveyed. 
National Geographic purchases its paper 
from a mill operated by Verso Paper Corp. in Maine, according to National Geographic. 
This mill is one of the largest contributors 
to the pollution of the Androscoggin River, the inspiration for the Clean Water Act, said Milch. The National Geographic website confirms 
that recycled paper is not used in the manu-facturing of the magazine save for the heavier paper used for the cover.
Milch said her goal is to have at least 500 
students take a picture with the frame and send the photos to National Geographic to illustrate that students would like to see the magazine switch to recycled paper. 
Milch said she hopes that if National Geo-
graphic switches to using 30 percent post-consumer paper on average, its act will inspire other magazines to go green as well. 
She is already about 40 pictures closer to her 
goal. 
Amanda Cohen / Alligator
First-year music graduate student Don-Paul Kahl plays the saxo-
phone at the University Auditorium Wednesday. Kahl is vying for a solo with the UF Orchestra in the UF School of Music Concerto Competition.
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
The UF Supreme Court finalized a list of questions 
about the elections process Wednesday night for an Elec-
tion Commission investigation.
The Court Justices came up with questions of their own 
and heard questions from the Students Party and Student Senate Allocations Committee Chairman Joe Pardo.
At the end of Monday night’s Supreme Court hearing, 
the Justices instructed the Election Commission to investi-gate the methods. They also agreed Monday to temporar -
ily halt the scheduled Student Senate vote to validate the 
results. 
The Commission, led by Chairman 
Grant Schnell, will compile an investi-gation report and give it to the court by noon Saturday . The Justices decided to hold a hearing Monday . 
At Monday’s hearing, Pardo and the 
Students Party will be able to file mem-orandums that suggest resolutions to 
the issue. The Students Party’s recommendation is due 5 p.m. Sunday , and it will be sent to Pardo. 
Pardo’s recommendation is due before Monday’s 
meeting. Each party will have 20 minutes to present argu-ments.
The court rejected only two questions, both presented 
by Students Party member Jonathan Ossip. The questions regarded the possibility that student voters could have lied about their addresses in affidavits.
Pardo said he was satisfied with the breadth of the 
questions certified by the court. He said he was confident the court would find enough evidence to remove the in-junction on Student Senate.
“I think that says it all,” he said.Election questions 
presented to courtMAGGIE POWERS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Don-Paul Kahl gasped for air. His 12 minutes 
were almost up. 
Kahl, a music performance graduate student, 
was one of 32 UF musicians who participated in 
UF School of Music’s annual Concerto Compe-tition Wednesday afternoon at the University Auditorium. 
The 22-year-old saxophonist competed in 
hopes of earning a solo in UF’s upcoming or -
chestra performance.
“I dream big,” Kahl said. Kahl said he imagines the room filled with 
an eager audience who paid to watch him per -
form.
Charles W. Pickeral, director of operations 
at the School of Music, gave each participant 12 minutes to perform. Twenty-two undergraduate students and 10 graduate students competed.
Pickeral said the competition differs from 
others because it showcases a variety of instru-ments, even though most are centered around just one. 
Three music teachers, two from the Univer -
sity of North Florida and one from the Univer -
sity of South Florida, judged the contestants this year.
Pickeral has new judges come in each year to 
encourage a fair competition. 
“These judges don’t know who won last 
year,” he said. “They’re not bringing any bag-gage.” 
Although Kahl did not end up winning the 
competition this year — that honor went to un-dergraduate saxophonist Joshua Bond and so-prano graduate student Anna Feucht — he said he still was glad he participated.
When he plays the saxophone, he said, he 
expresses his passion by moving along with the instrument.
“Music is movement,” Kahl said. “It’s a 
movement of air. Why shouldn’t it move us?”Student musicians compete at concert
“It’s hypocritical for National        
Geographic to not use recycled paper.”
 Paige Milch
 UF sophomoreGroup to protest National Geographic printing methodsOssip
4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011
on campus
ORIANA PAOLILLO
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Swamp Bowl Flag Football Tournament is back this 
year with new activities and more competition. 
In its 24th year, the bowl will not only feature flag foot-
ball games but also a punt, pass and kick game and an accu-
rate throwing competition. The tournament will take place Oct. 21 to Oct. 23 at the Maguire and UVS fields and the Southwest Recreation Center courts.
The bowl provides schools around the Southeast with 
fun, competitive flag football games.
About 50 schools from the Southeast will compete this 
year, compared with the 45 that competed last year, accord-ing to Marty Dempsey, coordinator of competitive sports for the Department of Recreational Sports.
By participating, teams can gain leadership experience, Dempsey said.
“One of the main reasons [students should participate] is 
that they have the opportunity  not only to compete but to represent the University of Florida and say that we are the best in the Southeast,” he said.
Brandon Morris, who has participated in the tournament 
for the past three years, said participants learn by playing and make long-lasting friendships.
“You are playing with the best of the best from south-
eastern schools,” said Morris, a 24-year-old family youth and community sciences senior.
“Being in the bowl is a reality check,” Morris said. “You 
get to measure your team and realize that you might not be what you thought you were.”
Participants can compete on all-male, all-female or coed 
teams. 
Winners will not only receive a Swamp Bowl 2011 Cham-pionship trophy but also free entry into either the American Collegiate Intramural Sports or National Campus Champi-onship Series tournaments. 
All participants can take part in the new activities free 
of charge, and top male and female players will receive gift certificates. Runner-up players will receive a plaque.
Brandon Baroody, an accounting and marketing senior 
at the University of Central Florida, is the captain of the three-time defending men’s championship team Immortals. Baroody, 26, said the atmosphere of the bowl is what he is looking forward to most.
Dempsey said the bowl is Southwest Rec’s favorite an-
nual event.
“We are looking forward to it and get pretty amped up 
for it,” he said.
For more information, visit http://www.recsports.ufl.
edu/facilities/southwest-recreation-center.Flag football tournament to attract teams from across Southeastalligator File photo
A lesbian couple, one in uniform, hold hands at the 2009 Gainesville Pride Festival at Bo Diddley Community Plaza. The 2011 Pride Festival will be held Oct. 22.
� THE FESTIVAL IS FREE AND OPEN 
TO THE PUBLIC.
MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
The 2011 Pride Festival will be held at 
the Bo Diddley Community Plaza on Oct. 
22 from 2 p.m. to 9 p.m.
The festival begins immediately after 
the Pride Parade, which is scheduled to start on University Avenue at 1 p.m.
Gay pride events have been in 
Gainesville since 1992, according to Terry Fleming, co-president of the Pride Com-munity Center of North Central Florida, which is hosting the festival. 
“It’s very important for the LGBT com-
munity to be visible, and that’s one of the main things this is about,” Fleming said.
The festival began as a picnic in West-
side Park before moving to the plaza in the late 1990s. 
Live entertainment and vendors, in-cluding food vendors, community organi-zations and churches from the area will all be at the plaza. 
There will also be a face-painting booth 
for children.
Between 3,000 and 4,000 people attend 
the festival and parade each year, accord-ing to Fleming. 
The festival is free and open to the pub-
lic. 
It is co-sponsored by the City of 
Gainesville.  
“LGBT folks are often mistreated 
against,” Fleming said. “There are many of us, and we are a part of every walk of life. With this, the community gets together to gain acceptance and be prideful.”Gay pride fest, parade to swing by Gainesville Oct. 22
“It’s very important for the LGBT 
community to be visible, and that’s 
one of the main things this is 
about.”
Terry Fleming
co-president of the Pride Community Center of 
North Central Florida  He said if an Occupy UF protest was to 
start, it would be at the Plaza of Americas.
  Students for Democratic Society pro-
tested at Tigert Hall in September against 
tuition hikes, said Eric Brown, a ﬁ  rst-year political science major.
  He said Occupy Gainesville is working 
against corruption created by corporate loans, bailouts and unreasonable interest rates.
  “It’s a nice sense of community,” he said. “Everyone is coming together for a common goal.”
  Brown found out about SDS at a sum-
mer rally during his ﬁ  rst semester at the UF and said he was immediately im-pressed by the student group.
  “If you are a freshman or a senior, [the 
tuition hike] affects everyone,” he said.
  Joe Walters, a ﬁ  fth-year management 
major, said the Occupy Gainesville move-ment is the ﬁ  rst protest he has ever had a stake in.
  “People’s livelihoods should never be 
sacriﬁ  ced for a dollar,” he said.  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 5
 Alligator File Photo 
  Despite an increase in enrollment, the percentage of students ﬁ  nishing their college degrees within 
four years has remained about the same, according to a report by Complete College America. 
� UF HAS THE HIGHEST RATE 
OF GRADUATION IN FLORIDA.
  MINA RADMAN
 Alligator Writer
 
  A national report released 
Tuesday shows that despite an 
increase in enrollment, the per-centage of students ﬁ  nishing their college degrees on time has remained about the same. 
  The report was compiled by 
Complete College America, a nonproﬁ  t organization founded in 2009. The report analyzed data from 33 states, including Florida, to explain how many students are completing their degrees within four years, which is considered “on time.” The data is broken into multiple categories, includ-ing whether students enroll part time or full time at a two-year college or a four-year university.
  Contrary to the report’s ﬁ  nd-
ings, the number of students who graduate within four years at UF has increased over the past few years, said UF Provost Joseph Glover.
  Of the 6,749 UF freshmen in 
2006, 64 percent graduated with-in four years, which is a six- per-centage-point increase from the 58 percent the 7,279  freshmen who graduated within four years in 2005.   According to the report, of every 100 students that enroll in a public college or university, 14 will graduate within four years from a two-year college, and 24 will graduate within eight years from a four-year university.
  UF has the highest graduation 
rate in the state, with 82 percent of students graduating within six years, which is the average amount of time it takes nationally for students to graduate.  
  Paula Pluchino, a 19-year-old 
aerospace engineering sopho-more, doesn’t think graduating within four years would be ben-eﬁ  cial for her education.
  “It’s important to have experi-
ence in the ﬁ  eld interning or con-ducting research,” Pluchino said. “That can push back my gradua-tion date even more.”
  She also plans to study abroad, 
which will make it more difﬁ  cult to graduate on time. 
  “I don’t like being forced to 
graduate on time because I want to accomplish all my goals ﬁ  rst,” Pluchino said.  Despite increased enrollment, graduation rates stay the same
Center funded by endowment dedicated to scientiﬁ  c discovery
new models of interdisciplinary health care techniques that 
optimize safety, service, outcomes and resource use.
  Stead was recruited to UF in 2010. She is the chief of clini-
cal research in the College of Medicine and holds an adjunct appointment as professor of emergency medicine at the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine. 
  While at the Mayo Clinic, she developed protocols for 
victims of acute stroke, which included diagnosis speciﬁ  c tool kits for individual patients. These tool kits centered on patient education and advocacy. 
  Frank Toral, who graduated from UF in 1989 with a 
bachelor’s degree in political science, donated the money through the Toral Family Foundation Professorship in Trau-matic Brain Injury. 
  With his Ft. Lauderdale-based law ﬁ  rm, Toral, Garcia and 
Batista, Toral focuses on helping survivors of brain and spi-nal cord injuries negotiate with large insurance companies and major corporations. Toral is also a former president of the Brain Injury Association of America.
  Stead said her previous work and productivity is why the 
Toral Foundation chose UF. 
  “The endowment directly supports scientiﬁ  c discovery, 
and the science will help us better to serve our victims of TBI,” she said. MEDICAL , from page 1
UF: Site not a conduct issue
a big deal. 
  “The people in the pictures are anon-
ymous, too,” said Jeffrey Rudolph, an 
18-year-old pre-pharmacy freshman. “Since anyone can comment on the website, they have the ability to coun-teract anything they don’t like. I don’t see the problem.”
  Though fraternity members are the 
subjects of all the scorn, the Greek com-munity as a whole is offended. 
  “Clearly someone is very bitter if 
they have to tear other people down to make themselves feel better,” said Chrissy McLarty, a 20-year-old tele-communication junior and member of a sorority.
  In response, UF has stated that it 
cannot take action as long as the posts remain anonymous. UF can only take action under university policy if the identity of the poster(s) is revealed.
  “Being unkind to other people is not 
necessarily a violation of the student conduct code,” said Mandy Hambleton, assistant director for Student Conduct and Conﬂ  ict Resolutions. “The reason we have the conﬂ  ict resolution services is so that we can respond to conﬂ  icts that occur that aren’t violations of uni-versity policy.” FRAT , from page 1
OCCUPY , from page 1Group will protest corruption“The center will be a one-stop shop for          
information and resources on brain injury for 
victims, families, students and professionals who 
wish to understand more about this devastating 
disease.”
Latha Ganti Stead
doctorReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR
Wednesday’s question: Would you ever 
eat food with ghost chili pepper sauce? Today’s question: Were you sad when you heard Steve 
Jobs died?
18 TOTAL VOTES35% YES
65% NOWhy the iPhone Ire?
Everyone will end 
up liking it anyway
If you didn’t watch the unveiling of the new iPhone on Tuesday, we just have to one thing to say: Way to have a life. 
But the worshipers of everything Apple, who watched the 
press conference, ended up leaving (or more than likely just turned off their MacBook Pros) with a feeling of disappoint-ment.
Not only were fans not blown away by the new iPhone, 
investors were disappointed as indicated by a drop in Apple’s stock after the announcement. 
What’s wrong with Apple? The new iPhone only operates faster, has a better camera, 
allows syncing without being connected to a computer and includes a new voice-activated service that responds to voice commands. 
What year is it, 2010? Come on, Apple, get with the pro-
gram. 
By now, iPhones should hover beside you at all times, brush 
your teeth, comb your hair, turn into a scooter to take you to work, be made out of unobtainium from Pandora and allow you to make phone calls without dropping a connection.
Unfortunately, the world has lost Steve Jobs, a true vision-
ary and the spiritual leader of the company. His eye was one of the keenest in the technology world — which is a big reason why Apple has had so much success.
May he rest in peace.The new guys will have trouble filling these large, almost 
mythical shoes. 
But will the company continue to thrive?Of course. Apple just did a poor job at over-hyping the announcement 
of the new iPhone. It’s not the end of the world, and it’s cer -
tainly not the end of Apple.  
According to a commenter on the Alligator website, last 
week’s editorial about Facebook was an attempt by members of the Editorial Board to seek a job with Mark Zuckerburg. 
So, before you accuse us of trying to get a job with Apple, 
let us just say that our discussion of modern technology and the public’s response to changes is only meant to highlight the fact that in the grand scheme of things, these technologies have completely changed the way we live. 
We should all cut the innovators of today and the inventors 
of tomorrow some slack. 
The producer of your touchscreen phone that plays music, 
allows you to surf the Internet and lets you throw infuriated flying beasts at pigs knows what they are doing. 
While you can disagree with a new change here or there, 
there’s no point in getting riled up about it. 
Chances are, in the long run, you are going to love it. Stop complaining and play some more Angry Birds.Local drivers are asking for catastrophe
You guys suck.
No, I’m not referring to those of you who voted 
against a tuition hike despite the fact that you prob-
ably don’t work to pay for your own tuition, and that money 
could have gone to restoring UF’s ranking above the Uni-versity of Miami.
I’m not talking about all the people who have been up-
dating their Facebook statuses and profile pictures for breast cancer awareness month yet have never contributed a penny to  promote cancer treatment research.
I’m not even referencing the droves of you who abandon 
your school spirit as soon as it becomes clear that the Gators are not the best team in the SEC.
No, when I say you suck, I mean each and every last one 
of you. And I mean that because Gainesville is an absolutely atrocious city to drive in.
It’s easy to blame it on our elderly population. It’s a pop-
ular stereotype for a reason. But a quick Wikipedia search reveals that only 9.8 percent of Gainesville’s population is older than the age of 65, compared to the national 12.8-per -
cent level. That doesn’t explain it.
So why, I ask you, is getting around Gainesville such a 
major pain in the ass? The conclusion I’ve come to is that some of it (maybe a huge part of it) is the fact that Gainesville is home to some terrible, terrible drivers.
If you think about it, you know who I’m talking about. 
They’re everywhere. I can’t tell you the last time I pulled up to a light and found myself ahead of the other cars on either side of me.
That’s usually not a big deal. Generally speaking, the 
only ill will that results from Gainesville drivers’ inability to stop in front of the white line is that I end up feeling slightly demasculinized when flanked by two Toyota Prii that are an entire car length further ahead than I am.
But it can become an issue, specifically when I try to turn 
right and find my view entirely blocked by some 10-foot tall truck that decided it would get as close to oncoming traffic as physically possible.
There are other noticeable problems that are far more 
aggravating. I cannot, for example, possibly come up with an explanation for why everyone feels the need to go 35 mph on any road with a limit of 40 mph, when those same people consistently travel 50 mph on Southwest 16th Avenue by Shands, despite the 35 mph speed limit posted there.
And don’t get me started on 
the people who pull into what-ever lane they please without con-
sidering that by doing so, they’re blocking an entire line of cars who are trying to turn.
You want to get north onto Southwest 34th Street from 
Southwest Archer Road? If it’s a red light, you know full well that you’re going to have to cut through either the gas station or that little apartment complex directly behind it. Sure, it’s illegal, but the cars that decided to block the turn-ing lane certainly don’t seem to care.
Here’s the thing: If you guys were just bad drivers it 
wouldn’t really be an issue. I’d pity you for your incompe-tence. But I’d get over it.
What frustrates me is that I witness driving miracles on 
campus every damn day. Pedestrians blindly stumble into the middle of the street and can fully expect 20 cars to quick-ly stop and patiently wait for them to cross.
Let me tell you that it’s not like that on other college cam-
puses. You’d get run over at Florida State University.
But here, drivers on campus consistently show that they 
possess the capability to be considerate and attentive. It’s amazing. It’s amazing because the second you turn off cam-pus, you’re thrown back into the fray of disaster and chaos.
So I’m going to make a proposal. All that skill and tact 
you show when driving on campus? If you could please, pretty please, take a moment to apply that same finesse to your driving elsewhere in Gainesville, then I, in turn, will never again bore you with a column dedicated to my whin-ing about your driving.
Deal?Alex Guilmartin is a psychology and pre-law senior at UF. 
His column appears on Thursdays.
Alex Guilmartin
letters@alligator.org THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Travis Hornsby got a few 
things wrong about Social Security in his Monday 
column.  
He regurgitates many of the 
same attacks on the popular gov-ernment program which, despite being disproven time and time again, come back during every Social Security debate.  
The first is the implication 
that Social Security has been an extraordinary burden on our government finances. Actually , the 76-year-old program has re-mained fairly stable throughout its existence, running surpluses, which were put in a trust fund.  
 The issue is with abnormal 
fluctuations in population; when the massive baby boomer gen-e r a t i o n retires it will put a strain on 
Social Security’s ability to main-tain its flow of benefits.  
The second popular attack is 
the insistence that when Social Security was created, it was only meant to provide temporary re-lief at the end of a person’s life, since the average life expectancy was only 66. This statistic is mis-leading, because the extraordi-nary infant mortality rates dur -
ing the early decades of Social Security skew life expectancy averages.  Judging the fiscal pru-dence of Social Security based on modern life expectancy averages is flawed as well because for those on the bottom half of the income distribution, life expec-tancy after retirement has hardly increased at all. This is especially true for lower- to middle-income Americans, many of whom oc-cupy more labor-intensive jobs. For the last 76 years, Social Se-curity has been there to provide financial stability and dignity to American workers who have given so much. Amid an era of growing inequality and uncer -
tainty , we should be forthright in defending the things our gov-ernment does to benefit the com-mon man. 
Ford Dwyer is a political science 
and history junior at UF . He is the editorial director of the UF College Democrats.
Columnist loses an old debateGuest column
Ford Dwyer
Speaking Out
Microfinance — the provision of small, 
group loans to poor people in poor countries — is, depending on whom 
you ask, either the latest way for western capitalists to exploit third world laborers or the miracle cure that will allow the world’s poorest citizens to successfully run their own businesses and work their way out of poverty. The government of Andhra Pradesh, the In-dian state where I spent the better part of last summer, clearly agrees with the former view. In 2007, after a spate of farmer suicides, the government nearly wiped out the state’s entire microfinance industry by making repayment of microfinance loans illegal. Many of the de-velopment organizations that support microfi-nance, on the other hand, clearly believe that microfinance has significant potential. I have met many people who sincerely believed that their microfinance efforts represented their best contribution in the fight against global poverty. However, by over-selling the benefits of microfinance, these organizations risk leav-ing other important problems unaddressed.
I tend to be more skeptical — while micro-
finance is clearly beneficial to poor countries, these benefits are neither as large nor of the form that many of microfinance’s proponents claim. 
First, I do not accept the implicit premise 
that small businesses represent the way out of deprivation for the majority of the world’s poorest citizens. Second, microfinance lend-ing is structured in a way that is of little use to people who wish to start new and innovative businesses.
In Andhra Pradesh, small, family-owned 
shops are a dime a dozen: Drive down any major road and you’ll probably see at least one every hundred yards. During my time in In-
dia, none of the small-business owners whom I met earned an income significantly higher than comparable daily laborers. Economic studies done in this part of India have shown that the average owner-operator of one of these busi-nesses earns less than the minimum wage. Most of these small business owners are run-ning small businesses because they have no alternatives, not because they are somehow more entrepreneurial than the citizens of de-veloped countries.
If given the choice, many small business 
owners would rather be working in a stable, wage-paying job than running their own busi-nesses. The owner-operator of a small business bears a tremendous amount of risk — a wage-earning employee, on the other hand, has sig-nificantly greater security in regards to future income and employment. 
Even if small businesses were a feasible 
route out of poverty, microfinance is unsuited to properly support these endeavors. 
Traditional loans to the poor are very risky 
and time-consuming from the lender’s per -
spective. 
Microfinance loans, in contrast, are com-
pletely inflexible — the repayment dates are fixed, and defaults are rare because an entire group of borrowers is usually responsible for the repayment of every individual’s loan. This rigidity is not well-suited to entrepreneurship, which, by definition, is risky and uncertain. 
Jonathan Pedde writes for The Dartmouth at 
Dartmouth College.
Microfinancing may not help poorGuest column
Jonathan Pedde
UWireSpeak up for your rights
By now, you’ve probably heard 
about the Student Government elec-
tions scandal that I’ve come to call “votergate.” 
In short, hundreds of voters were 
prompted to vote in a district they didn’t live in, specifically the com-muter students’ district, which was uncontested in the election.
In the first 20 percent of the elec-
tion, 491 ballots were cast in District E, or 92 percent of the votes in that district. 
After a fix to the system, 44 bal-
lots, or 8 percent of the votes, were cast in the remaining 80 percent of the election. All in all, 723 percent more ballots were cast in District E this year, which I again remind you is the district of commuter students and had only one uncontested candi-date on the ballot.
It is impossible to look at those 
numbers and say that there isn’t a problem, but that is exactly what the Unite Party has done. Its members argued that the election was fine, and that the outcome was fair. This is obviously not the case.
When members of the Students 
Party called for an investigation, the Unite Party opposed it at every turn. In fact, it was arguing against the in-vestigation at Monday’s UF Supreme Court hearing until the very end and then turned around and called it an “appropriate measure” after the Court ruled against Unite. I’m sure we’ll see another flip-flop this week when it goes back to opposing a new, fair election after the investigation is concluded.
It’s up to you, the students, to 
keep these officials in check. SG has gotten more and more corrupt since I became a student here, and it’s fi-nally time to tell them that enough is enough. Don’t let these SG/Unite Party officials silence your voice.
If you experienced any problem 
voting or if you believe your ballot was cast in the wrong district, the Students Party is actively working to restore your right to a fair election. 
Please, as we continue our inves-
tigation, email me with any informa-tion regarding issues with the elec-tion at jonathan@ufstudents.org.
Jonathan Ossip
Students Party member
n n nStearns dragging his feet 
One week after postal workers 
rallied in Support of HR 1351, Rep. Clifford Stearns has not signed on as a co-sponsor of this bill. 
As Stearns has claimed to be a 
proponent of creating good jobs, his failure to support this bill is to the detriment of 100,000 service jobs.
 The United States Postal Service 
operates on zero tax-payer dollars and solely on the sale of postage and other services, so any claim of a bailout is a clear falsehood. Because the congressman has always been an advocate for military veterans, the veterans at the USPS are curious as to why he  is not supporting them.
HR 1351 will restore financial 
stability to the USPS and prove that over-payments to the pension funds are real, and the service is in no "cri-sis" and has actually turned a profit over the last four years, even in the midst of a recession.
HR 1351 now has 222 co-sponsors, 
and it is a bi-partisan group, and over 50 percent of the House. Stearns' ab-sence from this 222 is startling.
Brian O'Neill
President
North Central Florida Area Local
American Postal Workers Union AFL-
CIO
n n n
Al-Awlaki forfeited his rights
International terrorists raise new 
questions to international and do-mestic law, an area in which I have absolutely no credentials.   
It seems, however, that when a 
person kills and plans to kill across international boundaries, brags about that killing, lives in a country without a fully functioning govern-ment and bears no allegiance to that country or any other, then he has for -
feited the legal rights provided to cit-izens of most countries.  Historically these people were considered pirates and were killed when caught.   
Had al-Awlaki been in a country 
with an effective law enforcement agency, the U.S. could have request-ed extradition.  Living in Yemen, he (probably intentionally) denied the U.S. that option. 
Steve Packard
Retired Air Force Officer
IT Specialist
Student Health Care CenterLetters to the EditortheAvenue    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_AVENUE
This Week’s Blog Roundup  
Check out this week’s Alligator Blogs for surprising factors for school 
success (not just studying and taking tests well) and fun things to do in Baton Rouge and New Orleans this weekend. Visit alligator.org/blogs. Twit Pick 
@rainnwilson: Bought the entire @MarcAnthony collection from Kohls for my sleazy, latin alter-ego, “Tuco.” Head online so the Avenue can give you the downlow on the recent changes to Facebook (Haven’t you updated your status about it enough?) 
Matt Hoyle /  Alligator 
Comedic Relief 
Blake Anderson, Anders Holm and Adam DeVine star in Comedy Central’s “Workaholics.” 
Check out what the cast unveiled to the Avenue inside on page 10.
SAPHIRA LAZARRE
Avenue Writer 
With acts including a human pin-
cushion, glass-walker and -eater, a 
bed of nails and a fire-eater, the au-dience will be no less than intrigued by “Mr. Blank’s Weird & Wandering Sideshow.”
Tonight, “Mr. Blank’s Weird & 
Wandering Sideshow” will be mak-ing its way to Gainesville. The show will take place downtown at The Laboratory, 818 W University Ave. The event is scheduled to begin at 9 p.m. Since today is recognized as “Mad Hatter Day,” audience mem-bers are asked to dress the part. 
“Ringleader” and show direc-
tor, Mux Blank, 36, of Athens, Ga., described the show as a slightly im-provised multimedia music and per-formance piece. Some consider the show a modern-day mix between HBO’s “Carnivale“ and “Ripley’s Believe It or Not!”
Blank said that every show is dif-
ferent because the performers tend to feed off of the audience’s energy to gauge which pieces to use.
 “My show is one of oddities and 
amazing performances,” Blank said.  “It’s theater of the odd, weird and magical. It’s a mix of carnival, circus and sideshow.”
The term “sideshow” describes 
strange acts of human peculiarities, museum pieces, small performances and solo performers as a subset of a larger show. However, in the case of Blank’s presentation, the sideshows are the main attraction.The troupe originates from a larg-
er group, “Mr. Blank’s Carnivale of Black Hearts,” based in Athens, Ga. 
“All of our guys have dedication 
and a flare for the dramatic,” Blank said. “That’s what keeps our shows interesting.”
The core members perform acts 
that range from belly dancing to jug-gling and specialize in death-defying acts. Blank mentioned that although the shows are meant to be anything but normal, safety comes first. 
“Some of the acts we perform 
can be very, very dangerous if done wrong,” Blank said. 
For the rest of this story, vist alliga-
tor.org/the_avenue.
Tonight’s sideshow will 
present mix of oddities  
Craig Gum / Alligator 
Blank’s show will be performed to-
night at 9 at The Laboratory.
CHRIS ALCANTARA
Avenue Writer
Have you ever wondered what would happen if you were 
to take the vocals from one song and combine them with the 
instrumentals of another? Well, Chicago-based production duo The Hood Internet has become a master in the art of creating “mashups” and will be showcasing its talent in Gainesville next week.  
Sharing the stage with Nicos Gun, Bang Bang Boom and 
Cassolette, The Hood Internet will be performing for a live au-dience at Double Down Live at 210 SW Second Ave. on Oct. 12. “This will be our first time in Gainesville,” said Steve Reidell, 
one half of the duo. “And we’re looking for -
ward to playing again here.” 
The Hood Internet, composed of Aaron 
Brink (aka ABX) and Steve Reidell (aka STV SLV), is a well-known production group that specializes in the combination and mix-ing of hip-hop instrumentals with indie rock vocals, and vice versa, to create unique and original songs known as “mashups.” 
Since the group’s formation in 2007, The 
Hood Internet has released seven mixtapes, as well as hun-dreds of free-to-download singles that can be found on the group’s website at thehoodinternet.com. 
One of the most notable singles released by The Hood In-
ternet includes its mashing of the Beastie Boys’ “Shake Your Rump” with Matt & Kim’s “Good Ol’ Fashion Nightmare.” 
The end result, titled “Good Ol’ Fashion Rump Shaker,” is 
an upbeat jam that keeps your head nodding while listening to the booming voice of the Beastie Boys rap over the instrumen-tals of Matt & Kim.
For the The Hood Internet’s Gainesville appearance, 
Grooveshark and Garage Mahal will be sponsoring the show.
“We chose to have [The Hood Internet] play Double Down Indie rock and hip-hop mashup duo coming to Gainesville 
see HOOD, p AGe 9Reidell
music
Live because we’ve been a fan of the 
venue since the Common Grounds and Covered Dish days,” said Vishal Agarwala, director of sponsorship and events at Grooveshark. 
As for The Hood Internet’s set list at 
Double Down Live, Reidell said Brink and he will be playing a selection of songs from the past four-and-a-half years. 
Doors for the show will open at 9 
p.m. with a starting time at 10 p.m. Tickets are $9 in advance or $15 at the door and are available for purchase on-line at TicketWeb.com. The show is for those 18 and older unless accompanied by a parent or guardian. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 9
KATE FELDMAN
Avenue Writer
Just a few weeks after what would have 
been “The Muppets” creator Jim Henson’s 
75th birthday, his son, Brian, is taking to the road with an uncensored improvisation comedy show, complete with puppets.
“Henson Alternative Stuffed and Un-
strung,” created in 2005 by Brian Henson and Patrick Bristow, is described on its web-site as a “live, outrageous, comedy , variety show for adults only .” 
Six puppeteers perform on stage with 80 
puppets, called Miskreant Puppets, broad-cast to the audience on two large screens. On stage, the audience sees the actors and pup-pets, but the television screens show only the puppets. 
“The cast we’ve put together are all such 
pros, such top-notch improvisers and pup-peteers,” Bristow said. “Every time we per -
form is completely and utterly different. We want a fresh, unique, living show that’s just a little nerve-racking.”
There are no age restrictions, but the per -
formance can be offensive and dark at times, so the audience is warned to be prepared.
“Improv isn’t about being funny ,” said 
Liz Anderson, president of UF Theatre Strike Force. “It’s about being interesting and real-istic and finding the humor in it. Trying to entertain an audience is fairly difficult. You have to find the difference between having fun and making it a performance.”
Bristow, who describes his emcee role as 
the “bridge between the audience and the puppeteers,” said that part of the appeal of “Stuffed and Unstrung” comes from the brand name itself.
“When I first heard about the show, I was 
completely interested,” said Michael Blachly, University of Florida Performing Arts direc-tor. “It’s ideal for a student population who grew up knowing ‘The Muppets.’ It’s a ma-ture look at puppets.”
The show was named one of Entertain-
ment Weekly’s Top 10 Best Stage Shows of 2010, and the Miskreant Puppets most re-cently appeared at the 2011 Grammy Awards show, performing “Forget You” with Cee Lo Green and Gwyneth Paltrow.
“Stuffed and Unstrung” will take place 
Friday at 7:30 p.m. at the Phillips Center. Student tickets are $15 for any seat in the house, and non-student tickets range from $25 to $45. 
Tickets can be purchased by calling 352-
392-2787 or going to ticketmaster.com.“Muppets” creator’s son brings improv puppet show to town
Carol Rosegg / Alligator 
Puppeteers Julianne Buescher, left, and Colleen Smith perform on stage with their pup-
pets in “Henson Alternative Stuffed and Unstrung.”
Courtesy to the Alligator 
The Hood Internet, a duo specializing in mashups of hip-hop and indie 
rock, will be performing Oct. 12 at the Double Down Live.
The Hood Internet will 
perform locally next week 
HOOD , from page 9ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Avenue Writer
Tea has a whole new appeal. Gone are the 
days of high-noon tea at the Four Seasons.
Say goodbye to Earl Grey and Tazo; you 
will not be seeing any of them in the new 
clique of gourmet teas. Bubble tea gives a nod to its old-fashioned predecessor in its roots, but it is definitely not your grandma’s cup of tea.  
Bubble tea, or “boba” tea, is in essence 
iced tea with tapioca pearls and possibly some added flavoring. Yes, you read that correctly, the ever-familiar starch, tapioca, is what makes this tea special. But these pearls, often referred to as “bobas” or bub-bles, are not just plain tapioca. The pearls are cooked to chewy perfection and usually sweetened with brown sugar or honey to give them their sweet syrupy outer shell. If this description is not enough to convince you of bubble tea’s awesomeness, then the next five reasons should do the trick. 
1. Basically there are gummy bears in 
your tea. That may not sound too appetiz-ing, but believe me it is. “I’d describe tapi-oca pearls as chewy gummies. It is it’s own thing,” said Jon Huang, Lollicup employee of three years and bubble tea maker. 
2. It’s a healthier alternative to sodas 
and other beverages. Tea is naturally rich in antioxidants and vitamins — key word here being natural — unlike other beverages that are enhanced with chemicals and protein. 
3. It comes with a warning. Most 
bubble teas are served in cups that read: “Please drink carefully to avoid choking on the boba.” You know a drink is boss when it comes with a warning.4. The flavor options are vast and deli-
cious. “My favorite combination is taro with 
mango and pearls,” senior Corinne Oliph-ant said. Flavor combinations range from red tea and green apple to the milky royal flavor. 
5. It’s a fun drink. How often can that 
be said of a non-alcoholic drink? Beside looking cool, it comes with a vacuum seal that covers the entire drink and then a giant straw pokes through it—it is a nov-elty. Drinking this will bring you back to the days of cotton candy and pixie sticks. 
The price tag on 
these drinks will not l e a v e y o u r wal-let fat, but it 
won’t 
b r e a k 
the bank 
either. One 
regular-sized 
tea with pearls 
and an added 
flavor will set you 
back about $3.75, 
but it’s worth every 
penny. Five reasons why you’ll fall in 
love with a glass of bubble tea  
 Bento Cafe
Blue: 3832 W Newberry Rd.
Red:  3418 SW Archer Rd. 
 Lollicup
 3550 SW 34th St.ALYSSA HOLCOMB
Avenue Writer 
Hair regimens, hard partying and 
Pierce Brosnan … oh my! Comedy Cen-
tral’s “Workaholics,” starring Adam DeVine, Anders Holm and Blake Ander -
son of the group Mail Order Comedy, seem to perfect the hungover persona of 9-to-5 office workers, but in reality , they’re practically the same.
“Workaholics” is a scripted show fol-
lowing the antics of three guys just out of college who are telemarketers that live and work together.  
“I think we draw a lot of the stuff from 
real life,” Anderson said. “We gotta juice ‘em up for TV a little bit. I think that’s what makes the characters seem real be-cause we kinda take stuff from real life.”
The Avenue got the opportunity to 
participate in a phone conference call with the guys from the hit series, and we learned a thing or three.  
The Secret to Luscious Locks
Anderson, who is recognized mainly 
by his large, borderline afro-esque curly hair, also says there is a secret to keeping his locks “luscious.”
“I think at some point I did have 
some vitamin that I was taking, because I heard it would make my beard grow, but that didn’t really work out,” he said. “It may have had some effect on the hair on my head though. But other than that, it’s pretty much shampoo when I remember, and then let it dry via driving around in my Jeep.”
Same Comedy, Same Setting, Different 
Influences
When it comes to filming their half-
hour show, which airs on Comedy Cen-tral Tuesday nights at 10:30, there is a mixture between script and sketch.
“We like to get loose; Kyle [Newa-
check, the director] lets us come off the leash a little bit,” Holm said.But even though the show departs a 
little from the typical office-set entertain-ment, it is  on par with its predecessors.
“It’s the exact same. It’s ‘Office Space’ 
meets ‘The Office.’ There’s an office, there’s people in the office working, and they love to use staplers,” Holm ex-plained.
Unlike other sketch comedies stick-
ing to a strict comedic formula, the group’s influences come from a wide va-riety of funny faces, such as “Curb Your Enthusiasm”’s Larry David or the rowdy guys from “Jackass.”
Pop Culture at its Best and WorstAs for pop culture, the ‘Holics seem to 
debate over their favorite figures. Holm recently created a buzz around singer Amy Winehouse’s death at this year’s San Diego Comic-Con, saying that he “didn’t care.” 
Anderson justified his publicized re-
mark with a simple explanation: “She died during Comic-Con, and that’s our drunkest week, so when you ask ques-tions, you might get weird answers.”
Apart from musical figures, the group 
agrees on which actor portrayed James Bond the best.
“Pierce was pretty damn good … and 
he’s in ‘Mrs. Doubtfire,’ so that’s tons of brownie points for me,” Anderson said. 
Whether it’s pop singers or perfect 
hair, the Workaholics exemplify the typi-cal college lifestyle: partying hard and cracking jokes about life.
Catch their show on Comedy Central 
every Tuesday at 10:30 p.m. following “Tosh.0.” 10, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Avenue Writer 
Weezer will take its talents to sea as the head-
lining act of The Weezer Cruise, presented by 
Sixthman. The Weezer Cruise will be setting sail from Miami, Fla., to Cozumel, Mexico, on Jan. 19 and returning to the port Jan. 23. 
Weezer fanatics, rejoice! Not only will guests 
attend two Weezer concerts, but they will also have the opportunity to take a photo with the band and participate in a Q-and-A session. 
Dinosaur Jr., Sebadoh, Gene Ween and Dave 
Dreiwitz, Wavves, The Ant-lers, Yuck, Free Energy, Boom Bip, J. Mascis, Lou Barlow, Keepaway, Ozma, The Ner -
vous Wreckords, The Knocks, Sleeper Agent and Yacht Rock Revue will treat the 2,500 pas-sengers to live performances throughout the trip. 
Though music will not be the only form of 
entertainment on this cruise, guests can compete in a large-scale flip-cup tournament, dance and sing at an ‘80s-themed prom night and compare hideous sweaters on the perfectly appropriate ugly sweater night. 
The venue vessel will be the Carnival Des-
tiny. Prices start at $799 per person for double cabins or $599 per person for four people. 
So pack up your ugly sweater and those Bud-
dy Holly glasses, because it’s time to hit that “Is-land in the Sun” with Weezer.The Weezer 
Cruise: Not your average experi-ence at sea
Rivers Cuomo
lead vocalist, Weezer
Matt Hoyle / Alligator 
Anders Holm, Adam DeVine and Blake Anderson are the hard partying, 9-to-
5-working post-college graduates in Comedy Central’s “Workaholics.”Cast of show “Workaholics” gets candid 
on tv
 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 11
10 COMEDIES THAT’LL GIVE 
YOU YOUR DOSE  
 Animal House
 Friday The Hangover Coming to America Step Brothers Wedding Crashers Borat The 40-Year-Old Virgin American Pie Grandma’s BoyARYANNA HARRELL
Avenue Writer
It’s no secret that having a good laugh from 
time to time can help lighten your mood and 
make you feel a little better — if not at least for that moment. Not only can it make you feel bet-ter, but it also helps increase your tolerance for pain.
In a recent study conducted by researchers 
from the University of Oxford and published in the “Proceedings of the Royal Society B,” laughter was found to be the best medicine for pain. The physical motions involved in laugh-ing trigger the release of endorphins, which manage pain and promote feelings of well be-ing and can act as painkillers in our bodies.
Paul Schauble, Ph.D. psychologist at UF, 
said he believes that laughter is a healthy and necessary process that is a powerful means of dealing with pain and other discomfort. 
“Being under stress and anxiety is not good 
for the immune system,” Schauble said. “When we laugh, that tension is re-leased emotionally and physically , and we gain a different perspective on something that may have otherwise been alarming.”
In one of the experiments conducted, re-
searchers split volunteers into two groups. One group was shown 15 minutes of comedy , such as “Friends” and the other was shown “boring” material, like golf. At the end of the trial, those shown 15 minutes of comedy increased their pain threshold by about 10 percent, according to BBC News.
The laughter measured in this study wasn’t 
just any kind of laughter, though. In order for laughter to really work as a medicine, one must engage in involuntary, full-belly laughter that creases the eyes. Those that did not engage in this kind of laughter did not have as significant results. 
So, next time you’re feeling down, laugh 
until it hurts, or until you fall off of your dino-saur. 
Laughter found to be best medicine for pain
12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011
 He Says…  She Says… The butterflies have 
filled your stomach.  
You’ve checked your ap-pearance in the mirror a million times, brushed your teeth twice and rehearsed impressive one-liners in your head.  Your best friends text you encouragements as you grab your keys, wal-let and optimism before heading out the door.  
The preparation ritual 
for a first date is a deli-cate balance of hope and realistic expectations.  So, doesn’t it just suck if it fails miserably?He Said, She Said: What’s your bad first date story? 
Thankfully, the relation-
ship gods have smiled on me when it comes to 
first dates. My friends, however, haven’t shared the same luck. 
Wesley Homenda, a 20-year-
old at the University of South 
Florida, had a particularly rough first date one night last spring. 
He had finally landed a night 
out at a club with a girl he had been working on for awhile. When he picked her up at her apartment, he was ecstatic. She was wasted.
The second they reached 
the club she disappeared into the crowd in a drunken stupor. Wes didn’t see her again un-til the night was over. She was hanging all over another guy and asking   for a ride to her girl-
friend’s house. 
She promised Wes her friend 
was having a rough night and needed her there. Wes, who was too disappointed to care, agreed to drive her. And that wasn’t even the icing on the heartbreak cake. When they pulled up, Wes saw the guy from the club an-swer the front door.
While a club may not be the 
typical first date scenario, it’s an experience everyone can learn from. 
Just because you finally 
landed the date with the person of your dreams doesn’t mean it’s going to end like a fairytale. I’m not saying be judgmental or skeptical, just make sure you know the true character of the person before you let your guard down. They need to be as interested in you as you are in them. 
Oh, and don’t take a girl to a 
club on a first date.
— JACOB ROMOSERWhen I was 19, my now ex-boyfriend and I de-cided to take a “break.”  
Rather than mope, I saw it as an opportunity to go out and flirt my ass off. 
 It was then that I met Hugh.  
He was a super good-look-
ing law student with a wicked 
sense of humor, who also shared my love for frothy beer.  
Of course I was going to 
give him my number.
Fast forward five days, 
and we go out on the big first date.  
Only this time, Hugh wasn’t as 
funny as I remembered.  And he was 20 minutes late.  
Sure he was hot, but his per -
sonality reminded me of a block of wood.  
On paper, our date may have 
been considered decent, but a guileless critic could have eas-ily graded the connection on this firstie a C+ at best.
As Hugh was driving me home, 
we had the misfortune of getting caught in a traffic jam, a motion-less, big-city, bumper-to-bumper cluster with no end in sight.  
Our conversation dwindling, 
I sat there praying for a miracle.  And then it came.  
Looking down at my lap, I saw 
that the crimson tide (keyword: TIDE) decided to make its ap-pearance.  
There was no hiding this mess, 
and absolutely nowhere to run.  
Wanting to die, I figured the 
best thing to do was clue him into my plight.  Buzzkill.  Thank God his radio worked.  
Ladies and gentlemen, lesson 
learned: Never date a guy named Hugh. 
— KAY BEA
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
$379 3/3 All-Inclusive
$349 4/4 All-Inclusive
VISA Gift Cards Available
Call us today at 352-336-3838!
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $339
w/$100 credit!
3/3’s @ $429 with 42” TV
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
1BR/1BA available in 4/4 SW condo
$375/mo. Close to everything, bus line.
All utilities included. Furnished.Call Nalini at (352) 514-3398           10-14-11-2-1
SIGN & DESIGN OPEN HOUSE!
Take a tour Oct 7th from 12-6
*Food*Prizes*Music*Specials
Rates $339 and up $0 app.
Now signing! 352.379.9300
10-7-11-12-1
Professional/Grad Student.
All amenities. Must be studious & quiet,
safe & secure. $390/mo.Leave message 333-8300 or 514-3320    10-17-11-10-1Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREEFrederick GardensCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2
A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.Great pools • Fitness • TennisCall for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’sBivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2Roommates a Hassle?
Move into your own downtown apt!www.ArlingtonSquare.orgStudios and 1Bdrms starting at $599!Check availability now! 338-000212-7-11-74-2
3BR, 2BA, Condo Unit, Ground Floor, Kitchen 
& living area; Swimming pool & tennis courts; The Sparrow; $700.00 per month.Call Cristen at 352-514-6222    10-17-11-40-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House
Historic spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1800/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    10-10-11-35-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. 
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1st month half price! Vacant lots alsoavailable. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-588710-31-46-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
GIGANTIC 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority/Norman/Shands area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Was $2400 re-duced to $1780 OBO. 352-665-8166 lv msg.   10-25-11-30-2
1BR/1BA Apt,. Large screened-in porch, 
W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499. Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #2. Please call 352-371-3473    10-31-11-33-2
● 2BR2BA HOUSE, w/carport, W/D hk-ups. 
Pet ok. $750/mo● 1BR/1BA APT Pet ok. $475/mo.Call 352-332-8481 or 352-359-1644    10-14-11-20-2
ATTN: UF and Shands Employees 
2 BR 1 Bath homes in Gainesville. 
Spacious fenced-in yards, bring your pets! 
Brand new energy upgrades. $570-$660/mo
Near 6th St. on 39th Ave. 336-9477   
10-17-25-2MOBILE HOMES AS LOW AS $500 DOWN
We Finance - Payments as low as $425./mo
Nice, quiet community near airport.
Buy now - sell after you graduate!
Lamplighter MHC 352-372-4207
www.mhcomm.com
10-6-11-1-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-155011-2-11-20-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler Plaza. Asking $650/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    10-12-11-87-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
FORE SALE: 2002 CELEBRITY MOBILE 
HOME. 14 X 40, 1BR/1BA. Screened porch. Excellent condition. Need to sell. $8500/ne-gotiable. Call 352-336-5013   10-12-5-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 15
●BED SET TWIN $49
●FULL $69●QUEEN $89●KING $99352-376-0953 4390 SW 20TH AVE   10-6-11-30-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
MUSIC STORE NEAR UF-Buy-Sell-Trade@
Discounts We also offer music classes in all instruments & dance. We are the only chari-table music & dance school. Scholarships available. studiopercussion.org 352-338-8302     10-20-20-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
10-31-11-42-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      10-6-11-74-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
$$ CASH PAID, UP TO $500 $$
FOR JUNK CARS & TRUCKS
RUNNING OR NOT, ANY CONDITION
SAME DAY PICK UP. FREE TOWING
NO TITLE NEEDED. CALL 352-771-6191
 10-11-11-30-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   10-12-11-35-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   10-12-20-14
 The Smartphone Club needs data entry 
workers to help update our membership list. Must be able to work at home online with-out any supervision. Guaranteed pay for Guaranteed work.www.thesmartphoneclub.com/Colleges/FL    10-25-11-25-14
Sanctuary needs a hard working,
dependable person to care for rescued farm 
animals & advocate a plant based diet. Able 
to lift 50lbs, work outside, some computer 
work. www.rooterville.org, emails pls.
10-10-11-7-14
WAITPERSON NEEDED
Sawamura Japanese Steakhouse. Apply 
from 2:30 - 4pm at 1624 SW 13th St. No calls please.   10-7-5-14
PERSONAL ELF WANTED 10-12 hrs/wk! Job 
includes everything from ironing to cleaning toilets. Work independently while listening to iPod. If you are honest, dependable, & hard-working call 352-416-0014. Students only.10-6-11-4-14
MOVIE EXTRAS
To stand in the background for a major film. 
Experience not required. Earn up to $300/day. All looks needed. 877-568-7065    10-31-11-20-14
Website Design Paid Internship
with small publishing company in Alachua. 
$11.00/hr, 8 hrs/wk. Send resume to
biopressinfo@gmail.com.
10-13-11-7-14
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) $99 
and Basic Life Support (BLS)$35. Classes run continuously to fit your schedule. American Heart Association Card issued. Call Cardiac One at 352-494-4217.    10-14-11-30-15
Fiddle, Guitar & Mandolin Lessons
Various styles. Contact Alan Stowell 372-
9248 or 262-0171   10-11-10-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   10-11-10-15 
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696   11-9-11-30-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   10-19-11-100-16
THE NATIONAL ALLIANCE
ON MENTAL ILLNESS (NAMI)
Peer-to-Peer Program
A FREE 10-week recovery education course 
for adults living with mental illness who would like to achieve and maintain wellness. NAMI-certified Peer Mentors who are successfully managing their own conditions teach the course. We meet once per week for two hours, and use a combination of lecture and interactive exercises in a confidential setting. Each participant receives materials related to course topics, such as mental illness and the brain, coping skills, decision-making tools, and relapse prevention. Class size is limited and pre-registration is required. Classes be-gin January 25, 2012.
For more information,
contact the NAMI information line at
(352) 374-5600 ext 8322,
or email info@namigainesville.org
www.namigainesville.org/P2P_Gville_Site.htm
10-14-10-16
ADOPTION. Choose a loving & secure family 
waiting to adopt. Living & medical expenses paid. Updates on your child.Call 24hr/7day. 1-800-280-6155. Amy Eichman(Bar#830011)    11-14-11-30-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Short haired black male cat, adorable grin! 
Friendly, loving, easy to get along with. Neutered, tested, vaccines current. Will microchip with placement. Free to a good home! Questions or pics:mandy.e.adams@hotmail.com    10-6-11-5-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM... A boutique, 
KEY WEST 1970's style. We got it all for you, from all the world, imports you can believe in. Clothes, Gifts, Art, Books, Music, Plants... Hwy 441S.... 15 min that could change you.   10-26-31-21
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Orange and Blue Debut
Already looking forward to next season? Florida 
announced Wednesday that next year’s spring game will take place on Saturday, April 7. The Podcast
With a road trip to Baton Rouge, La., coming up this Friday, the usual alligatorSports podcast with host Greg Luca will hit the Internet today. Make sure you check it out on our website or subscribe on iTunes. Will Muschamp called LSU cornerback Tyrann Mathieu a “ballhawk,” as the sophomore has forced multiple turnovers.  See Story, Page 19. 
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Coach Will Muschamp said Wednesday that freshman quarter-
back Jacoby Brissett would be the backup if Jeff Driskel starts. 
END OF GREGULATION
On the surface, Jeff Driskel 
seems like the obvious choice to start in place of 
John Brantley. 
He came to UF as Rivals.com’s 
No. 1 quarterback,  and has had a stranglehold on the backup role since the second week of fall camp. He is the only Gators quarterback other than Brantley to attempt a pass this year and seems to be UF’s future at the position. 
But Saturday is a little too soon, 
and that’s why the Gators need to start Tyler Murphy.It has got nothing to do with 
Murphy’s ability. Driskel is by far the better player and a superior athlete with more in-game experi-ence. 
But you don’t throw your king 
against the ace, you save it for the best opportunity. For Driskel, that starts next week at Auburn. That’s where he’ll get to learn the ropes and practice for his future.
Sending Driskel to Baton Rouge, 
La., to get eaten alive by the Tigers is not what’s best for the future of UF’s program. The LSU defense has all the talent necessary to give D r i s k e l fits. 
With  
guys like M o r r i s 
Claiborne, Tyrann Mathieu, Thar-old Simon, Lardarius Stimpson  and Barkevious Mingo (only one of those names is fake), LSU is go-ing to harass Driskel and pound him into submission. Beyond the obvious injury risk, 
who knows what a beatdown in Death Valley would do to Driskel’s confidence? 
In four appearances this season, 
he’s 7 of 16 for 73 yards and two interceptions. This isn’t nearly a large enough sample size to judge his skills, but it certainly doesn’t bode well for Saturday. 
And I’m not the only one who 
knows it. LSU defensive coordi-nator John Chavis has watched the same games we have, and he learned last weekend how easy it is to give UF’s offensive line trouble with a few second- and third-level blitzers. And his unit is even faster than the one Alabama brought to The Swamp.
LSU’s run defense touts a No. 
3 national ranking despite facing one of the toughest schedules in the country. The Tigers held Or-egon, last year’s No. 1 offense at 531 yards per game, to just 335 to-tal yards, including only 95 on the ground. 
If Driskel has to endure a 
Gators should start Murphy, not risk Driskel’s development
SEE GREG, p AGE 20TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Jacoby Brissett has come a long way in a short 
time.
After the freshman entered training camp buried 
on Florida’s depth chart at quarterback, coach Will 
Muschamp said Wednesday that Brissett would be the backup Saturday against No. 1 LSU if fellow freshman Jeff Driskel were to start.
It’s quite a jump for Brissett, who was behind 
Driskel and redshirt freshman Tyler Murphy after the two competed in spring practice as well as the spring game in April.
While Driskel, the nation’s top-rated passer 
coming out of high school last year, enrolled early at Florida in January to get a head start on learning offensive coordinator Charlie Weis’ offense, Brissett was still weighing his college options.
Weis personally recruited Brissett, who was also 
considering offers from Miami, 
Washington and Wisconsin. It wasn’t until two days after Na-tional Signing Day that Brissett committed to Florida, against his mother’s wishes.
Brissett, the nation’s No. 3 du-
al-threat quarterback according to Rivals.com, completed his senior year of high school at Palm Beach 
Gardens Dwyer High before coming to Gainesville in the summer. 
That put him at a disadvantage against the other 
two quarterbacks vying for time behind incumbent starter John Brantley.
“The only reason why Jacoby hasn’t been a fac-
tor at this point is only because he came here in the summer time,” Weis said Tuesday . “He had to play catch-up over the other guys. The other guys were here in the spring when we put everything in; that’s the only thing that’s kept Jacoby from being possi-bly the second guy in.”
But in his short time with the Gators, Brissett has 
made strides in practice. 
Wide receiver Frankie Hammond believes the 
freshman has caught up to Driskel and Murphy in terms of comfort with the offense, and Hammond said Brissett actually has the advantage when it Brissett climbing QB depth chart
SEE qUARTERBA ck, p AGE 20TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Florida’s defensive line has struggled to pressure 
quarterbacks this year, and the unit will face its stiff-
est test yet Saturday. LSU has allowed only three sacks this season, the fewest in the Southeastern Con-ference.
Florida’s pass rush, meanwhile, ranks tied for fifth 
in the SEC with nine sacks through five games. The Gators rarely pressured Crimson Tide quarterback A.J. McCarron last week. 
Florida failed to record a sack, and while McCar-
ron’s numbers were pedestrian (12 of 25, 140 yards), the quarterback completed passes on third downs to move the chains four times Saturday.
Defensive coordinator Dan Quinn said the Tigers 
often use seven blockers on pass plays, keeping a tight end and running back in to protect quarterback Jarrett Lee.
“They’re playing well as a unit,” Quinn said of the 
LSU offensive line. 
“It’s an experienced group coming back. It’s a 
function of those two things: an experienced club along with help from the outside guys.”
While Lee ranks ninth in the SEC with 158.6 pass-
ing yards per game, he has been efficient, tossing just Florida pass rush 
facing SEC’s top 
offensive line
SEE NOTEBOOk, p AGE 20
Greg Luca
twitter: @greglucaWeis
“[LSU’s offensive line is] playing well as 
a unit. It’s an experienced group coming 
back.”
Dan Quinn
UF defensive coordinator18, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
UF midfielder Erika Tymrak and Auburn’s Katy Frierson were the SEC’s 
lone representatives on the U.S. U23 national team this summer.
�FLORIDA PLAYS AUBURN 
ON FRIDAY AT HOME.
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
It has become increasingly 
clear this season why Florida’s 
Erika Tymrak and Auburn mid-fielder Katy Frierson were the Southeastern Conference’s lone representatives on the U.S. U23 national team this summer.
Both, in their own way, have 
been nearly unstoppable for their teams.
“Some people say we have 
similar traits,” Tymrak said. “We’re both very technical, but at the same time, we’re different. … She’s more of a playmaker I feel like. I tend to dribble more and go at people.”
Almost midway through the 
SEC table, Tymrak is tied for a league-best nine goals — a career high — with four assists. Frier -
son, a senior, is the SEC assists leader with nine dimes on the year and three goals.
In the pursuit of slowing down 
Tymrak’s average of 1.69 points per game, most teams have re-sorted to levying a steady stream of fouls on the midfielder. While at times the cheap shots and rough play have frustrated her, Tymrak has kept her cool.
“If somebody tries to foul me, 
I try to shy away from the play a little bit, maybe play 1-2 touch and when they’re not expecting it, go after them again,” she said.
With Frierson and Auburn 
coming to Gainesville this Fri-day, Tymrak will likely see more of the same looks from the oppo-sition. 
The Tigers have an SEC-worst 
163 fouls on the season, an aver -
age of 13.58 a game. Their 13 yel-low cards through 12 matches are also a league-high.
Florida, on the other hand, 
rarely gets into the kind of foul trouble as Auburn, with 38 fewer fouls on the year and only three yellows.  The Gators’ strategy to prevent Frierson from distribut-ing to her teammates will have to come another way.
“You can watch film on a team 
all you want, but unless you have the ability to shut that player down, they can be unpredict-able,” Tymrak said. “My coach always likes to compare it to (Barcelona striker Lionel) Messi. The defenders know what he’s going to do, but he still gets by the person.”
Redshirt junior defender Kat 
Williamson pointed to the back line’s ability to regularly pressure deep into the other team’s half as a way to simply keep possession away from top-flight players like Frierson. 
Last Sunday against Kentucky, 
Williamson and the defense used the same strategy to hold the Wildcats’ leading scorer, Kelsey Hunyadi, without a point after she scored two goals and two as-sists in her previous two games.
“We make it hard for players 
to zip the ball through us in or -
der to find channels to score in,” Williamson said. “As a team, not only the back line, we did a really good job closing them quickly so they don’t get chances.”
With a chance to move past 
Auburn into sole possession of second place in the SEC, UF coach Becky Burleigh said the team also has the advantage of not having to travel for both Friday’s match and an Oct. 23 tilt against league-leader LSU. 
The Gators haven’t lost at 
home in conference play since 2006, and they must keep Frierson in check to extend that streak.
“They’ve got one of the best 
players in the league in Katy,” Burleigh said. 
“We respect the heck out of 
her, and they’ve always played well against us. I don’t remember very many easy games against Auburn.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@
alligator.org
SEC’s top midfielders to square off 
“You can watch film on a 
team all you want, but un-
less you have the ability to 
shut that player down, they 
can be unpredictable.” 
Erika Tymrak 
UF midfielder  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 19
Alligator File Photo
LSU cornerback Tyrann Mathieu (14) has forced four fumbles this season — the same num-
ber as Florida’s entire defense. Mathieu returned two of those fumbles for touchdowns.
There are plenty of questions 
surrounding the Gators this week as they head in to Death 
Valley to take on No. 1 LSU. Who will start at quarterback? Will Flori-da be able to establish the run? How will the defense respond after last week’s beating? 
Naturally, none of those are ques-
tions you submitted. 
@cwoodfin: Do y’all think it’s 
time to start rethinking the Mus-champ thing if we lose two straight? #Panic
Absolutely . First of all, there’s no 
“if” about it. Florida will lose to LSU on Saturday. And when Will Mus-champ steps up to the mic after the game and says, “We got beat by a better team,” again, reporters like us will be asking him how it feels to be sitting on the hot seat. 
The Gator Nation doesn’t de-
serve this. All the loyal fans that come to games early and don’t leave until the final whistle deserve a win every time. Every season should end with Muschamp holding up the crystal, especially his first as a head coach in the toughest conference in the nation. 
We’ve already started the web-
site. Tell your friends. FireCoach-
Boom.com. #Sarcasm. 
@AlligatorArmy: If the Gators 
had to turn to one lineman at quar-terback (and don’t rule it out!), who would be the best at it?
You always seem to hit us with 
the random, lighthearted questions that really make us think. This one falls into that category, and we ap-preciate it.
After some serious consideration, 
the Gators should turn to left tackle Xavier Nixon when they get abso-lutely decimated at quarterback.
Nixon is easily the most ath-
letic of the team’s linemen, and if it comes down to it, Florida is going to need to turn to its best athlete to run the offense. In the offseason, Nixon dropped 55 pounds — and no one is quite sure why — but he regained it and is back to a svelte 292. Still, he has shown the ability to slim down if need be. 
Imagine a 237-pound Nixon run-
ning Florida’s offense. It would be glorious.
@anostro: After back-to-back 
blowout losses to far superior teams, will these guys pack it in? How likely is a 0-4 spurt?
While a 0-4 spurt isn’t completely 
out of the question, it won’t happen because the Gators packed it in. Muschamp and offensive coordina-tor Charlie Weis are serious motiva-tors. They’ve also been around the block a few times. Responding to adversity is part of the job, and it’s also part of the reason both of them have been successful at every stop along their coaching trail. Alabama, LSU, and maybe even Auburn and Georgia, are better teams this year, and losing games to them is not an indictment of the Gators’ toughness or mentality . 
@PhilipGaryTalks: I asked for 
long passes and Weis answered. Now how about running backs Mike Gillislee and Mack Brown getting more play time?
Weis is obviously a man of the 
people (and an avid alligatorSports reader), but we don’t think you’ll be seeing too much of Gillislee and Brown this weekend. Weis loves Chris Rainey and Jeff Demps — his “rug rats” — and they are Florida’s best two weapons on offense, so don’t expect the Gators to venture from the norm. 
However, if you follow the logic 
of one of our writers, Florida should just start backups because the team doesn’t have a chance in Death Val-ley . If that’s the case, expect a lot of Gillislee and Brown.
@gatorzgal24: (Chris Leak led 
Florida to a road win against an undefeated LSU team in 2003). Can lightning strike twice?
We know this is the easy answer, 
but no, it cannot. 
Lightning never strikes twice, or 
so they say . This weekend in Death Valley will be no different. Whether Florida starts Jeff Driskel, Jacoby Brissett or even Tyler Murphy , as one of our columnist’s contests the Gators should, the chances of Florida leaving Baton Rouge, La., with a win courtesy of a freshman quarterback like it did in 2003 are very slim.
Driskel and Brissett are likely to 
have bright futures in college. But the forecast for them this weekend is gloomy . 
But don’t expect lightning. 
Submit questions on Twitter: 
@alligatorSports.
Playing Nixon at QB, lightning strikes and sarcasmMATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Like last weekend, when Florida plays 
LSU on Saturday , the Gators will be trying 
to stop a Heisman candidate from beating them.
But unlike last weekend, this standout 
plays on the defensive side of the ball.
LSU sophomore cornerback Tyrann Ma-
thieu has entered the discussion for college football’s most prestigious honor in his sec-ond year with his penchant for making big plays. Through five games, Mathieu has an interception, 1.5 sacks and four forced fum-bles; Florida’s entire defense has four forced fumbles. He has returned two of those fum-bles for touchdowns, leading Gators coach Will Muschamp to call Mathieu a “ball-hawk” — a term coaches have tried to instill as a representation of the Gators’ defense.
“Just an electric guy on the field,” Mus-
champ said of Mathieu. “[He] plays with great energy; tough, hard-nosed, great blitzer. Has just a knack for getting the ball off people as far as strips are concerned and interceptions. Just one of those guys that shows up in the right spots regardless of what’s being asked of him.”
Mathieu leads LSU in tackles with 35, 
including four for a loss of yard, and he has four pass breakups. On a defense filled with NFL-caliber players, Mathieu stands out. 
Florida right guard Jon Halapio said the 
offensive line has to be aware of Mathieu’s positioning on the field, attention usually reserved for defensive ends or pass-rushing linebackers. 
“We have to know where he’s at,” Hala-
pio said. “He’s a defensive standout player that we see on film, so we’re going to have to watch out for him.”
Mathieu will be on the attack against 
one of three freshmen quarterbacks for Florida. One of those young signal-callers, Jeff Driskel, has been vulnerable to turning the ball over early this season. 
Driskel threw an interception on his first 
career pass in the opener against FAU, and the freshman tossed another just before halftime against Kentucky. While that sec-ond interception was not entirely Driskel’s fault, the fumble that led to the Wildcats’ only touchdown of the game was, and it happened because Driskel held on to the ball too long in the pocket. 
Not feeling the pressure before it’s too 
late will be a problem that could plague which-ever freshman quarter -
back ends up taking the snaps Saturday, as Ma-thieu showed last week 
against Kentucky when he came off Maxwell Smith’s blind side to strip 
the ball and return it for the score. 
LSU coach Les Miles said it may be a bit 
premature for Heisman talk regarding Ma-thieu, but that doesn’t mean he isn’t talking up his star. 
“He has all the characteristics that you 
would want and allow somebody in a na-tional voting position to award,” Miles said. “I don’t have the view of the nation’s best performances and how the seasons are go-ing for many others, but for Tyrann Ma-thieu, he’s having a great year.”
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@alligator.
org. LSU’s Mathieu poses stiff test for Florida, freshmen QBs
THE MAILBAGMathieu
comes to arm strength. 
“(He is) just being more comfortable and be-
ing more sure of himself and learning the plays 
and getting in a rhythm and setting his feet, making progressions, making throws and just being out there practicing,” Hammond said of Brissett. 
“(He is) just a poised quarterback.”While Brissett has shown improvements, all 
three quarterbacks have split repetitions in prac-tice this week. 
Weis and Muschamp won’t decide on a 
starter until today or Friday , though it appears Driskel and Brissett are the favorites to see the field in Baton Rouge, La., this weekend. Still, Brissett isn’t likely to let Driskel earn the 
start easily.
“[Driskel] will have to prove to me every day , 
every year that he’s going to be better than me for him to win that starting spot,” Brissett said when he committed to Florida in February.
Regardless of which one plays, Florida’s 
players and coaches seem comfortable with any of the team’s three options executing the game plan in Death Valley.
“I feel a lot better now than I would have go-
ing in last week in the game,” Weis said. “When John goes down you have to cut back with what you’re doing. At least now ... you can devise a game plan around less-experienced guys rather than more-experienced guys.”
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org.20, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Gators left guard Dan Wenger (56) said he apologized to John Brantley for allowing the hit that 
injured Florida’s senior quarterback during the second quarter of the Alabama game.  
Wenger takes blame for 
hit that injured Brantley
one interception in 108 attempts this 
year. 
LSU’s pass protection has been a 
major reason why, as he has not had to force throws.
Lee has also received plenty of help 
from Tigers pass-catchers.
“It seems like he has a lot more con-
fidence in his receivers this year,” de-fensive back Jaylen Watkins said. “He’s giving his guys a chance to make plays on the ball, throwing it up there for them.”
Wenger apologizes to Brantley: Left 
guard Dan Wenger looked shaken up when asked Wednesday about John Brantley’s injury. Toward the end of the second quarter Saturday, Wenger was overpowered by Alabama linebacker Courtney Upshaw, whose sack on Brantley led to the injury keeping him out this week.
“I apologized to him, and it’s just one 
of those things where we have to come together, and he understands that it wasn’t intentional and that I feel terrible about it,” Wenger said. “But you’ve just got to move on.”
Stopping the run: Florida was 
gashed by Alabama last week for 226 rushing yards — as many yards on the ground as the Gators allowed in their previous four games combined. Mus-champ said the defense did not do a good enough job reacting to Alabama’s offensive linemen.
“It’s about playing blocks,” he said. 
“It’s about understanding your job within each call and striking the guy across from you, keeping him off the second level, and we did not do a good job of that the other night.”
Quinn said the problem was not nec-
essarily coachable. Florida just needs to be tougher, something he said was not an issue prior to last week.
“They out-physicaled us in the 
game,” he said. 
“That’s hard to accept and swal-
low, and that’s what happened. We addressed it, and now we’re moving forward.”
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org. noteBook , from page 17
quArterBA ck , from page 17Brissett splitting reps in practice 60-minute game filled with frustra-
tion, confusing schemes and thunder-ous hits against that defense, what’s that going to do to his psyche long-term? 
He didn’t look all that comfortable 
against FAU, UAB and Kentucky, and appeared downright scared against Alabama. 
And that was at home.Now he’s headed to Tiger Stadium, 
where an average of 92,533 fans have made LSU’s first two home games nightmarish for opponents. And those were against Northwestern State and Kentucky. When Florida last visited Death Valley, in 2009, a stadium-record 93,129 helped LSU give UF all it could handle. Can Driskel orga-nize the offense and call the signals through that?
Florida’s athletic department shel-
ters all of its freshmen from media ac-cess, so I’ve never had an opportunity to speak to Driskel. Even if I had, it wouldn’t have been nearly enough time to learn how he’s likely to re-spond to adversity or handle himself in pressure situations. 
But the fact of the matter is he’s be-
ing asked to step into one of the most high-profile jobs in collegiate sports for the first time as his team travels to the stadium a 2007 ESPN.com survey of coaches said was the single tough-est place to play. To expect success from any first-timer would be crazy.
So how can the Gators keep Driskel 
from folding?
The answer is simple: Don’t give 
him the chance. 
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alliga-
tor.org.
greg , from page 17