INSIDE
◗ Sharrif Floyd will miss Saturday’s game, and coach Will 
Muschamp is not pleased with the NCAA’s decision, pg 1.◗ Gators defensive coordinator Dan Quinn said the team will be looking to force turnovers against UAB, pg 14.◗ Forward Erik Murphy was reinstated Thursday, pg. 24.
TOM GREEN 
  Alligator Sports Editor
Linebacker Jon Bostic watched 
from the sidelines in disbe-lief, and all left tackle Xavier 
Nixon saw were clumps of dirt kick-ing up from the ﬁ  eld as 88,708 fans erupted in The Swamp.
  Chris Rainey spun past a defend-
er in the backﬁ  eld after it appeared he would be stopped for a loss, and the 5-foot-9, 180-pound running back streaked down the left sideline and into the end zone.
  It was the second of Rainey’s 
three touchdowns in Florida’s season-opening 41-3 win against Florida Atlantic last week, and one of ﬁ  ve scored by Rainey and fellow speedster Jeff Demps on the night as they combined for more than 300 all-purpose yards.
  “They’re versatile players,” Nix-
on said. 
“They just make things happen 
and it’s great to see them together in tandem to get touches. It’s just a beautiful thing.”
  The display set the tone for Flor-
ida’s offense, and for the two senior running backs, who have a chance to become the ﬁ  rst 1,000-yard rush-ers at Florida since Ciatrick Fason in 2004.  Should that happen, Demps and Rainey would also become the ﬁ  rst pair of Gators to rush for 1,000 yards in the same season.
  Shifting Gears
  The days of the spread-option are gone, and Rainey couldn’t be happier.
  Throughout their Florida careers, 
Demps and Rainey played in Urban Meyer’s spread offense, where they took handoffs or pitches and lined up next to the quarterback in the backﬁ  eld. 
Now, the Gators have adapted 
a pro-style attack under offensive coordinator Charlie Weis, and the team is running what Demps called a tailback-friendly, run-ﬁ  rst of-fense.
  They line up two yards deeper in 
the new system, making it easier to read the defense and ﬁ  nd holes.
  “It’s the best thing that ever hap-
pened to me,” Rainey said. “The whole offense is made for us, so I’m just glad it happened.”
  Rainey was part of a pro-style of-
fense at Lakeland High, where he ran for 2,478 yards and 32 touch-downs as a senior and helped lead the Dreadnaughts to three consecu-tive state championships.
  “We’re in an offense I love, and I 
can’t wait to perform,” Rainey said during fall camp.
  He and Demps didn’t have to 
wait long, as the changing of the guard was evident just one game into the season. 
  Although Weis said Florida kept 
the offense relatively vanilla for the opener, his philosophy of establish-ing the run early and often was on display against Florida Atlantic last Saturday.
  The twosome ran 23 times for 
three scores and 184 rushing yards, including 105 from Demps, who reached the century mark for the ﬁ  fth time in his career. 
  “Everything starts with the 
run game,” Weis said. “It’s obvi-ous we’ve got a couple of dynamic guys.”
  But their impact on offense went 
beyond carrying the ball. 
Along with the lofty rushing to-
tals, the two had 88 receiving yards as Rainey led the team with six re-ceptions and 67 yards. 
Both also made key contributions 
on special teams.
  Rainey scooped up a blocked 
punt and brought it back for a touchdown, and Demps returned the opening kickoff to the house only to have it called back due to a holding penalty.
  “I tried to forewarn you of what 
I expected, and what I expected was basically what you saw,” Weis said. “They’re both exceptional football players.”
Speed KillsWeis called Demps and Rainey 
the two fastest players he has ever coached — at any level.
  Given what Weis has accom-
plished and seen in his 32-year coaching career — which includes 16 seasons in the NFL and four Su-per Bowl rings — when he makes that kind of claim, people tend to listen.
  “Everyone who comes in — all 
my boys from the other level, I say the same thing to them,” Weis said. “I say, ‘You’ve never seen anything like this.’ I don’t know if they can play dead, but I know they can run.”
  Demps is a world-class sprinter 
who reportedly turned down a lu-crative professional track contract to return to Florida for his senior season. 
In March, he ran a 6.55 in the 
60-meter dash to break his own school record and claim the NCAA championship, and he has run the 100-meter in under 10 seconds on multiple occasions.
  Rainey also ran track when he 
ﬁ  rst arrived in Gainesville, earning All-America honors as a freshman when he helped lead the Gators to a third-place ﬁ  nish in the 4x100 at the NCAA Outdoor Championships.
  Fortunately for the Gators, their 
speed on the track translates to speed on the turf, where they have routinely shown the ability to break off what coach Will Muschamp calls “explosives,” or runs longer than 10 yards and receptions longer than 20.  “They’re huge for this team,” 
redshirt senior quarterback John Brantley said. “Two of the fastest — probably the two fastest running backs in the country.”
  Each claims to be faster than the 
other, but Demps concedes that he likes to bowl through and outrun defenders while Rainey is the shifti-er, more elusive back.
  Regardless of who may be faster, 
both should expect to touch the ball a lot in their ﬁ  nal collegiate season.
  “They’ll both be out there a whole 
bunch,” Weis said recently. “They’ll be tired after games. They’ll both be tired.”
  Staying on their feet
  The biggest hurdle both backs 
face is remaining on the ﬁ  eld for a full season.
  Each has dealt with injuries or 
off-ﬁ  eld issues during his time at Florida. 
Rainey’s freshman season in 2007 
was derailed after four games when he sustained a shoulder injury, and both missed signiﬁ  cant time last year when Demps sprained his left foot against Tennessee and Rainey was arrested and subsequently sus-pended by Meyer.
  Demps hurt one of his wheels 
after he carried the ball 26 times against the Volunteers. He missed time and was hampered by the sprain for the remainder of the sea-son.
  “It was frustrating,” Demps 
said. “Coach Meyer would come by 
me every week and say, ‘You got ten carries in you this week?’ and I would say, ‘Yes coach.’ Just be-ing me, I’m a competitor. But deep down, I don’t think I was physically ready.”
  But Demps said there is no lin-
gering pain and he is ready to take on a full load, and a full season. So is Rainey, who said he has matured over the last year and has learned to think before he acts. 
  Still, Weis said concerns remain 
about the duo’s stamina and the ability to ﬁ  nd the right balance of “utilizing them enough, but not too much.”
  Neither has recorded more than 
99 carries nor sniffed the 800-yard rushing mark during his career. 
But, with a steady rotation in the 
backﬁ  eld to keep each other fresh and healthy, Rainey and Demps could eclipse those marks and go down as the ﬁ  rst 1,000-yard rushing duo in Florida history.
  “I’m a big fan of Demps and 
Rainey,” Weis said. “I’m not used to having two guys that are that fast and that quick. It’s a very unusual quality, but the best part about it to me is that they’re very close to being the same guy.” 
  Contact Tom Green at tgreen@
alligator.org. Editor Tom Green      Assistant Editor Matt Watts        Cover Photo Dana Burke and Matt Watts
 Alligator       Friday, September 9, 2011KICKOFF
UF defense vs. UAB offense UF offense vs. UAB defense
TE WR
CBRT
DERG
DTC LG LT
DE
LB OLBWR
CBQBRB
S SJohn BrantleyChris Rainey OR Jeff Demps
Jamie Bender Calvin JonesDeonte 
Thompson
Nick AdamsMarcus Roberson
OR Jeremy Brown
OR Jaylen WatkinsMoses Jenkins
OR Cody RiggsJelani 
JenkinsMatt ElamJosh Evans 
OR Josh Shaw
Jon  
BosticRonald 
Powell
Omar 
Hunter Jaye 
HowardDominique 
EasleyJordan 
Reed
Patrick 
HearnKennard 
Backman
Bryan Ellis
Greg FranklinQuinton 
Dunbar
Terrell 
Springs Diaheem 
WatkinsDeric 
Scott
Greg Irvin Lamanski 
Ware Connor 
BoyettMarquis 
ColemanChaz 
Green
Matt 
McCantsJon 
Halapio
Caleb 
ThomasJonotthan 
Harrison
Darion 
SmithDan 
Wenger
 Terence 
EdgeXavier 
Nixon
Chris 
HubbardTE WR
CB
RT RGDE
C LGDT
LT
DEOLB MLB OLB
WR
CB
QB RBS S
Demps, Rainey could rewrite record books
FB
Trey Burton
MLB
Marvin 
BurdetteChasing
History
 Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
  Florida running back Jeff Demps rushed for 105 yards and two touchdowns in the Gators’ 41-3 win against FAU 
in the season opener last Saturday. It was Demps’ ﬁ  fth-career 100-yard game.  
 Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
  UF running back Chris Rainey (1) said the team’s new pro-style offense suits him better than the spread offense of a year ago. Rainey notched three touchdowns in Florida’s Week 1 win, including a return of a blocked punt.  “I’m a big fan of Demps and 
Rainey. I’m not used to having 
two guys that are that fast and 
that quick. It’s a very unusual 
quality, but the best part 
about it to me is that they’re 
very close to being the same 
guy.” 
Charlie Weis
UF offensive coordinator
DT
Adam 
ArthurPatrick 
HearnWRDe’Ante 
Saunders OR 
Cody Riggs
CBFlorida’s 1,000-yard rushers
Name     Year    Yards
Emmitt Smith     1989   1,599
Emmitt Smith    1987    1,341Jimmy DuBose   1975   1,307Fred Taylor     1997    1,292Errict Rhett     1993    1,289Ciatrick Fason    2004    1,267Errict Rhett     1991   1,109Earnest Graham    2002    1,085Neal Anderson    1985    1,034TE A.C. Leonard (knee)
CB Jeremy Brown (knee)
WR Robert Clark (hamstring)
WR Omarius Hines (hamstring)OUT
RB Pat Shed (hernia) QUESTIONABLEQUESTIONABLE
PROBABLE
VOLUME 106 ISSUE 14 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Homeless man’s call helps save burning law ofﬁ  ces
The building would have burned down completely, pg 4.  
Students administer aid with the American Red Cross
They are helping victims of Hurricane Irene, pg 5. Looking back: Remembering 9/11
Visit alligator.org on Sept. 11 to watch a special 
commemorative video.
  MEREDITH RUTLAND
 Alligator Staff Writer 
  
  M  embers of Christian Campus House 
became homeless when developers bought the off-campus student organization’s lot the day before Christmas Eve. 
The company is using the space to build 
a parking garage.
  Since then, the members of Christian 
Campus House congregate on UF’s Plaza of the Americas weekly to play volleyball and hang out with friends.
  Christian Campus House sold its land 
to the north of University Avenue to RLR1 LLC, the Ohio-based executive group build-ing The Stadium Club. 
The eight-story apartment complex is on 
the corner of Fletcher Drive and University Avenue.
  The company plans to use the plot to 
build a six-story parking garage to comple-ment its complex. 
  With their building sold in December and 
razed in April, members of the Christian Campus House have been forced to adapt. 
  Kelly Adams, a psychology junior and 
president of the organization, said   the group has grown by about 15 people in the last se-mester to its current count of about 35 mem-bers. 
  In addition to the $700,000 sale of Chris-
tian Campus House’s lot, the owners of The Stadium Club donated enough money for the organization to build a new center and a plot of land to build on at 1808 NW First Ave.
  Construction of the new center is sched-
uled to be ﬁ  nished by summer 2012, Adams said.
  Representatives of the company did not 
return phone calls for comment by press time.
  Campus minister Bob Gailey said he 
couldn’t divulge donation amounts but said 
Never Forget: 
Ten Years Later. 
Read a special 
section  for the 10-
year anniversary of 
Sept. 11 inside.  
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 69/11 SECTION 9CLASSIFIEDS 10
CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 1488/69 Elise Giordano / Alligator
The owners of The Stadium Club on University Avenue bought the Christian Campus Club’s original lot. With the help of donations, the club is building a new center  . DEVELOPMENT Christian Campus House to get new center  � THE ASIAN ART WING HAS 
BEEN UNDER CONSTRUCTION SINCE LAST SPRING.
EMILY MORROW
 Alligator Writer 
  
  The Harn Museum has set an open-
ing date for its new, 26,000-square-foot Asian art wing.
  The wing, set to open March 31, 
has been in construction since last spring.
  The new wing will hold 2,000 
pieces of Asian artwork that are cur-rently in the museum’s permanent collection on a rotating viewing schedule.
  The galleries in the wing will be 
dedicated to artwork from China, India, Japan, Korea, and South and Southeast Asia.
  The David A. Cofrin wing will 
also feature two Asian-inspired gar-dens . 
David A. Cofrin and his wife, 
Mary Ann, gave the museum a $10 million contribution to support the expansion.
  Tami Wroath, spokeswoman for 
the Harn Museum, said construc-tion on the new wing of the build-ing should be completed by October or November, but the entire exhibit won’t be ready for the public until the end of March.
  Museum members will get a 
sneak preview of the exhibit the night before it opens to the public, Wroath said.
  She said the museum is also 
working to plan special activities for the Asian wing’s grand opening that may be incorporated into the Harn’s Museum Nights program so students will also be able to get a preview of the new expansion.  New Harn 
art wing 
to open in 
March  TOM GREEN
 Alligator Staff Writer
   
 Sophomore defensive line-
man Sharrif Floyd was suspend-
ed for two games by the NCAA and must repay impermissible beneﬁ  ts received before he can play again for Florida, a deci-sion that did not go over well with coach Will Muschamp.
  The NCAA released a state-
ment Thursday detailing its rul-ing on Floyd, who was deemed ineligible by Florida prior to the team’s season opener against Florida Atlantic last weekend.
“I’m angered, disgusted and e x t r e m e l y disappointed that Shar-rif will have to miss two games,” Mus-champ said in an im-
passioned statement released Thursday night. 
(For Muschamp’s complete re-
action, see alligatorSports.org.)
  Floyd must sit out Saturday’s 
game against UAB and repay approximately $2,700 to charity before he can be reinstated.
    Florida athletic director Jer-
emy Foley also released a state-ment shortly after the NCAA’s 
 NCAA suspends DL Floyd two games
Muschamp ‘angered, disgusted’ by decision
SEE CENTER, PAGE 8SEE SUSPENDED, PAGE 24Floyd
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 14 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Justin Hayes,
  Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tyler Jett, Greg Luca,
  Corey McCall, Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Adrianna Paidas, Lily Parkinson, 
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Brandon Davis
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,  
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Deskt
op Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Alexander Silva, Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
THUNDER
STORMS
88/69
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. what’s happening
Campus Cleanup Extravaganza
Sunday, 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Information Booth on Turlington PlazaTeams of eight to 10 will dis-perse across campus to pick up as much trash as possible. At the end there will be a cel-ebration with free food, priz-es and awards for winning teams. Teams sign up the day of the event, so students can either come with their team or just show up.
Techno Contra Dance
Sunday, 3:30 to 7 p.m.Reitz Union Rion BallroomThe Contra Dancing Club is hosting the first techno contra dance at UF. There will be a disc jockey, black lights and dancing. Contra dancing is easy to learn. There will be an introductory workshop at 3:30 p.m. before the dance at 4 p.m. Admission is $5 for students 
and $8 for non-students.                                                                      
Something Wicked This Way 
Comes: How to Save the University
Monday, 7:30 p.m.Smathers Library 1AIn this public talk, profes-sor Cary Nelson from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign will out-line strategies for faculty and students to unite, and he will respond to the ongoing politi-cal assaults on higher educa-tion.
Health Occupations Students of 
America First General Body 
Meeting
Monday, 6:30 to 8 p.m.Little Hall 121The Health Occupations Students of America will be before 5 p.m. Please model 
your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
BRieF
UF faculty, staff can be nominated 
for awards during Homecoming
UF faculty and staff have been 
honored during Homecoming 
week since 1958.
This year, the celebration will 
be held at 5 p.m. on Oct. 20 in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom.
For the distinguished research 
mentor and distinguished faculty awards, faculty members can be nominated either by current fac-ulty members, faculty alumni or students. For the third category, the distinguished departmental award, faculty can be nominated only by department heads.
There will be multiple win-
ners for each category. 
Applications for nomination 
can be found at gatorgrowl.org and are due by Sept. 21. 
— BENJAMIN S. BRASCH having its first meeting 
of the semester. HOSA is a club for pre-health stu-dents. Come to learn about health-based volunteering, national competition, schol-arships and leadership op-
portunities. 
Swap Meet UF
Thursday, 6 p.m.
Stuzin Hall 267 Center for Entrepreneurship & InnovationSeeking an internship, ex-ternship or project oppor -
tunity with a Gainesville startup/entrepreneurial company? Here’s a chance to meet company reps from more than 30 Gainesville startups, including Grooveshark, AxoGen, Trendy Entertainment, Register Patient, Fracture and many more.Opportunities are available in areas such as marketing, Web development, public relations, computer engi-neering, advertising and more. See the full company list, event agenda and RSVP on Facebook by searching 
“Swap Meet UF — Fall 2011.”  
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to  jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event THUNDER
STORMS
91/71THUNDER
STORMS
93/72THUNDER
STORMS
90/71THUNDER
STORMS
87/70TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
� THE PANEL PREDICTED A DOUBLE- DIP  
RECESSION.
AMANDA COHEN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Leading financial-reform expert Phil An-
gelides warned students, faculty and the general 
public of a double-dip recession while talking economics Thursday evening in Pugh Hall.
“We will never close our long-term deficit 
problem — which is what we have — until we put people back to work in this country,” said Angelides, chairman of the Financial Crisis In-quiry Commission.
The U.S. Federal Government commissioned 
the  group to explore causes for current financial and economic conditions.
Angelides was the first speaker in the Bob 
Graham Center for Public Service’s fall lecture series.
Former Gov. Bob Graham and modera-
tor Dominic Calabro, from Florida TaxWatch, joined Angelides on the panel.
Graham said the key to a possible dip lies in 
the American people’s confidence in the politi-cal economy.
“This country is going to have to get back 
to what I learned in economics class here at the University of Florida: a mixed economy,” he said.
Audience members asked questions regard-
ing the possibility of another recession and the current state of the housing market.
In response to Calabro’s remark that the cur -
rent state of mind of Americans is a “moral haz-ard,” Graham cited a restructured view of the housing bubble.
“Don’t buy into the belief that housing prices 
will only go up. That formula worked the past decade of exponential growth — but it col-lapsed,” Graham said.
Guests included former gubernatorial candi-
date Alex Sink and Paul D’Anieri, the dean of the UF College of Liberal Arts and Sciences.
After the discussion, Sink said the most fas-
cinating part of the evening was the restatement of the report’s findings that the economic crisis was completely avoidable. 
“I’m just distressed about Florida,” Sink said. 
“Think of the homes, unemployment, the loss of 24,000 small businesses, and it all got started be-cause of this sub-prime crisis.”Experts discuss financial crisisweather
ERIN JESTER
Alligator Writer
Autumn in Florida: It’s that 
fleeting season that never stays 
long enough, after the swampy heat gives way to gentler tempera-tures and before early frosts bring winter clothes out of the back of the closet.  
But it’s not here yet — the crisp 
mornings Gainesville residents may have noticed aren’t here to stay, said Phil Peterson, a meteo-rologist with the National Weather Service in Jacksonville.
Peterson said lower tempera-
tures this week were caused by a cold front that pushed through central Florida over the Labor Day weekend. Cooler, drier air moved in behind it, causing September’s standard torrid mugginess to drop off.
The temperature dipped to 61 degrees Thursday morning. 
The front will continue to affect 
Gainesville until Friday afternoon, when a 30 percent chance of rain could turn the temperature back up. Peterson said moisture will be creeping back into the area over the weekend, bringing warmer temperatures. 
Temperatures will be close to 90 
degrees again by the beginning of next week.
However, Peterson said, Florida 
is entering the time of year when cold fronts begin to come, so more short-lived cold fronts will be on the way. 
Instead of killing time between 
classes in the Reitz Union like they normally do, friends Sarah Waick-owski and Joshua Brewer parked themselves under a tree on the North Lawn on Thursday because Mother Nature hasn’t been too un-kind lately.Cooler temperatures to 
last through today4, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011
Alex Catalano / Alligator
Kevin Williams, an attorney who works at the law office located in the his-
toric Fennel-Waldo House, looks through charred remains on the floor of the office, located at 719 NE First St., which caught fire Wednesday night.
LOCAL
EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
Gilbert Schaffnit was in his Chicago hotel room 
Wednesday night when he got the phone call that his 
office was on fire.
The historic Fennel-Waldo House, 719 NE First 
St., built in the early 1900s and now home to the law firms of Schaffnit and Ted C. Curtis, went up in flames around 10 p.m.
A homeless man, whom Schaffnit has yet to meet, 
was walking by when he saw smoke coming out of the windows.
He ran to the nearby CVS and called 911.“Had that not happened, we wouldn’t have a build-
ing,” Schaffnit said.
As it is, the building stands, but the fire has left its 
mark — the doors are wreathed with charred wood, and the lawn is littered with ash and debris.
No one was in the building at the time of the fire. 
Damage to the offices is estimated to total about $100,000.
Schaffnit said about 95 percent of the firms’ files 
were totally intact as they were either stored electroni-cally or in metal filing cabinets.
It took 21 firefighters about three hours to extin-
guish all the fires in the two-story building’s ceilings, walls and floors. 
Though the building has been condemned by the 
fire department, both law firms are still operating. They have temporarily moved into offices in the build-ing next door and have begun the restoration process.
The cause of the fire is still under investigation, but 
Schaffnit said preliminary evaluations have suggested it was an electrical fire.Homeless man calls in fire, saves law office
MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
Tickets go on sale Monday for country 
music star Dierks Bentley’s concert at the 
O’Connell Center on Sept. 30.
Student Government Productions is 
paying the Grammy-nominated Bentley $125,000 to perform as part of the festivi-
ties for the UF vs. Ala-bama football game on Oct. 1.
“There’s going to 
be this big energy that weekend,” said Adam 
Hewko, co-chairman of SGP . “We’re play-ing Alabama, and they listen to a lot of country 
music out there.”
Tickets will go on sale at noon at the 
University Box Office on the Reitz Union Colonnade. Student tickets are $20 for upper-level seats, $25 for bleacher seats and $35 for floor seats. General admission tickets are $40 for upper-level seats, $45 for bleacher seats and $56 for floor seats.
“At any other show,  $35 wouldn’t get 
you a lawn seat,” Hewko said.
The doors open at 6 p.m. The concert 
begins at 7 p.m. with the opening act, country singer Canaan Smith. Dierks Bentley 
concert tickets to go on sale
“Had that not happened, we wouldn’t have 
a building.”
Gilbert Schaffnit
attorney
Bentley
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students Maria Fitzgerald and 
Molly Jansen were four days into 
their American Red Cross intern-ships when they were told to pack their bags and head to Maryland. 
Hurricane Irene had hit the East 
Coast hard, and people who were left with flooded houses and ruined fam-ily photo albums needed their help.  
Fitzgerald and Jansen are emergency services interns with the North Cen-tral Florida Chapter of the Ameri-can Red Cross, said Casey Schmelz, emergency services manager for the chapter.
Interns must be ready to be de-
ployed for local and national relief services — a caveat that quickly be-came reality for the UF seniors. 
“I think anybody that can take 
the time to commit themselves to a community that they aren’t a part of [and] that they know nothing of is some[one] very remarkable,” Schmelz said.
The women aren’t taking any 
courses this semester but are instead interning full time to fulfill an aca-demic requirement for their health education and behavior majors, Fitzgerald said. 
They have been on the road for 
about two weeks. They’ve helped people in towns throughout Mary-land and New York, including Balti-more and Westchester, N.Y.
Fitzgerald saw the back half of a 
house washed away by the flooding — a building that had been a home to nine people before Hurricane Irene struck. 
One woman she met seemed to remain strong despite her tough circumstances — until Fitzgerald handed her stuffed Mickey Mouse toys, donated to the Red Cross by Disney , to give to her children. 
Then she cried. “The woman had acted like ev-
erything was fine, and then to see her crumble. …It really hits home,” Fitzgerald said.  
Jansen has dealt with the occa-
sional person who seems mentally unstable —  including one man who told her that actor Macaulay Culkin was murdered in his backyard — but said she was impacted by many of the people she met who were trying to stay positive despite their situations. 
One woman told her that the 
flooding was just “God’s way of changing the topography of the landscape.” 
Her uplifting attitude impressed 
Jansen, who met families whose mo-bile homes had been destroyed and whose school yearbooks and photo albums had been lost to the flood-ing.
Jansen had never done relief 
work before but had always wanted to. 
“It’s always been in my blood, 
but I’ve never really had the oppor -
tunity to do it [before],” she said. 
Jansen should be returning to 
Florida in one week, and Fitzgerald is set to return in about two weeks. 
That isn’t guaranteed, however, 
because work is constantly arising that requires the help of Red Cross volunteers and interns, Fitzgerald said. 
The whirlwind workdays are 
worth it for Jansen. 
“It’s kind of a rush,” she said. 
“This was the sweetest internship ever.” FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Courtesy to the Alligator 
UF students Molly Jansen and Maria Fitzgerald, who just started internships with the local Red Cross 
chapter, were tapped to help with Hurricane Irene efforts. They drove a truck to Middletown, N.Y., to dis-tribute meals to people who are cleaning up after a flood.
Students help hurricane victims through American Red CrossReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORToday’s question: Will you be attending any memorial 
events for Sept. 11?
35 TOTAL VOTES23% YES
77% NOThursday’s question: Are you going to the ice cream social for Bright Futures recipients?We are still here
Ten years later, the 
nation perseveres
“This great nation will endure as it has endured, will re-
vive and will prosper. So, first of all, let me assert my firm belief that the only thing we have to fear is fear 
itself — nameless, unreasoning, unjustified terror which para-lyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into advance.”
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt uttered these words to 
the American people during one of the greatest eras of uncer -
tainty in our history . 
The fear, terror and pain that we all felt on Sept. 11, 2001, was 
part of a long list of challenging experiences engrained in the American psyche. 
Tyranny has been a constant specter on our doorstep. Our forefathers fought for the cause of liberty against the 
largest army in the world. 
At another point, the nation was split in half by one of the 
most vicious injustices in human history . Citizens fought and killed their fellow men, and the country was on the brink of sac-rificing many liberties for the sake of preserving national unity . 
When President Roosevelt spoke the words above, our grow-
ing industrial nation was facing the prospect of becoming a Third World country.
The second time the world went to war, we were provoked 
by attacks on our own soil, throwing us into a conflict with an-other great evil. 
Through these trying times, the nation prevailed. We are still 
here. 
When the planes hit the Twin Towers and the Pentagon, the 
nation froze. Again, it was thrust into a moment of great uncer -
tainty and fear.
Was the nation “paralyzed” by a “nameless, unreasoning, 
unjustified terror?”
To some extent, we again faced the threat of creeping tyran-
ny. Not only were our enemies abroad, but also domestic. Our domestic enemies were not necessarily individuals but ideas that sought to sacrifice liberty for security. 
Some remnants of this tyranny remains, but we are still here. 
We are still writing this editorial for you to read, unabridged and uncensored. 
It cannot be said that the nation did not undergo sweeping 
changes.
The government might have, again, gone too far in its at-
tempts to protect its citizens. If you have been to the airport re-cently, you might share this sentiment.
But we are still here. After a decade, the attacks still remain vivid in the minds of 
many Americans, especially those involved or who had loved ones involved. 
And although every year we take this time to remember the 
attacks, it is even more important to remember that we are still here. 
Let’s resurrect the towers, higher, more powerful and more 
vibrant that ever. 
Let’s remind those who attacked us that 10 years later, we 
are still here.It was a day of sickening triumph on one end and un-deserved heartaches on the other.  
Ten years ago, America suffered the unimaginable. 
Sept. 11, 2001 shattered this country’s security, confi-dence and tolerance within milliseconds. 
Televisions, radios and computers were inundated 
with the horrifying image of two of the world’s most beautiful monuments falling to shreds. The frightening scene of men and women jumping out of windows trau-matized vulnerable children. The sight of fire pervading the buildings terrified apprehensive parents. 
The World Trade Center was ruined, and the Penta-
gon barely escaped total destruction. 
As a trail of smoke from the attack permeated every 
household in America, we wept at the loss of our fellow citizens and prayed for a day in which our injured coun-try could stand up again and face our vicious and impla-cable enemy. 
In the meantime, we searched for answers relentlessly, 
trying to understand the intentions of the cruel master -
mind behind the attack. The repercussions of 9/11 reso-nated without fail, and our hatred sprouted in every di-rection. It wasn’t long before a new era was born in our country: the war on terrorism. 
Every so often, differing political beliefs will subside 
to create a profound and uniform attitude among citi-zens. The post 9/11 climate brought us just that — an un-varying, unrelenting desire to defeat those who imposed their harm on us. 
We fervently mourn the loss of the victims of the 9/11 
attacks — Americans and non-Americans alike. 
However, it is important to realize that the terrorists 
didn’t demolish all of our morale; no matter how hard they try to break the rope that ties this country together, they will always fail. 
Essentially, their actions led to  ardent patriotism. In 
particular, Ground Zero screams, “You can’t bring me down.” 
 Our nationalism has allowed us to remain hopeful 
and strong even in the face of cold-hearted and ruthless terrorists who vow to end us. It is in the blood of this country to persevere and endure.
As we move away from the 
9/11 attacks, we must continue to be vigilant. We must take ac-tion against those who harm us. 
However, we must be careful 
not to stereotype all Muslims 
but identify and isolate those with ill intentions toward us. 
In doing so, we should awaken the silent majority of 
moderate Muslims and encourage them to speak against terrorists who taint the goodness of their community. Ha-rassing and judging Muslims is not the answer, and the intolerance must stop. 
While it is disappointing that many of us have allowed 
our anger to manifest in suspicion, it is also important to understand that many Americans and 9/11 victims have successfully moved forward from the attacks. Heroism, yet again, defines our country, and courage remains un-wavering.
The terrorists of 9/11 wanted to destroy our dignity, 
discredit the founding principles of our society and strip away our stability. 
But look around you. Look at the confidence that has 
ensued from 9/11 and the innovations that have emerged to protect America. 
Be watchful of intolerant people and correct them 
when you can, but always remember that we overcame. The power of unity and balance pushed us through such an awful time in our history. The terrorists will never be successful in dampening the spirit of American determi-nation.
As Gandhi once said, “There have been tyrants and 
murderers and for a time they seem invincible, but in the end, they always fall. Think of it — always.” 
Akansha Mishra is a pre-law junior at UF. Her column 
appears on Fridays.Intolerance unwelcome as we move forward
Akansha Mishra
letters@alligator.org FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Letter to the Editor
Meat-Free Mondays applauded
Mercy For Animals commends UF for implementing 
Meat-Free Mondays in both of its dining halls to help con-
serve the environment, promote healthy eating and protect farmed animals from needless cruelty.
While it is great that UF is offering a robust vegetarian 
menu on Mondays, it would be even better if the univer-sity’s Meat-Free Mondays program was entirely meat-free — if only for one day a week. 
Just last month, the Environmental Working Group re-
leased The Meat Eater’s Guide to Climate Change and Health, encouraging Americans to eat less meat and cheese.  Last year, the United Nations declared that a global shift away from meat-based diets is vital to save the world from the most devastating impacts of climate change. Two years earlier, the Pew Charitable Trusts found that industrial ani-mal agriculture “presents an unacceptable level of risk to public health and damage to the environment, as well as un-necessary harm to the animals we raise for food.” 
How do our food choices affect climate change? Animal 
agriculture is an extremely inefficient and resource-intensive way to produce food for the growing human population. It pollutes our environment and consumes huge amounts of water, grain, petroleum, pesticides and drugs.
Cutting back or eliminating consumption of animal prod-
ucts not only helps the environment and lowers the risk of serious health problems, such as obesity, heart disease, stroke and some types of cancers, but it also helps put an end to the unnecessary suffering of farmed animals.  
Since 2003, dozens of colleges, high schools, cities, restau-
rants, chefs, celebrities, and magazines have adopted Meat-less Mondays to reduce animal suffering, combat global warming and promote healthy eating. UF has taken a big step in the right direction by offering vegetarian meals in honor of Meat-Free Mondays. We encourage the university to take it just a step further by going completely meat-free on Mondays.
Eddie Garza
New York Campaign Coordinator, Mercy For Animals
Gainesville, there is a blight upon 
you. There is a scourge upon us. I am writing of a crime most injuri-
ous and offensive.
Indeed, I am writing today to con-
demn the practice of illegal advertising. 
Perhaps you have seen these abomina-
tions along Archer and Old Archer roads (there’s an Old Archer?). You shall mark the red and the blue, the furious horizon-tal, the ignominious flag of a dreadful fleet — a fleet that is “Now Hiring Drivers.”
I have singled out a specific pizza de-
livery company because of the frequency of its offenses. Along this particular road, specifically between 23rd Terrace and 34th Street, there are, at my count, at least four advertisements placed in the median or alongside public roads. 
There are other ads, though: buyers of 
cars, gold and homes. You will find the criminals stuck to telephone poles, too — an awful omen for the justice that will eventually befall them. 
Are a few advertisements on the side 
of the road as serious as I claim? Of course not.
The corporate pizza giant’s signs are 
not that unsightly — though I think they are disgusting. 
And four signs (in a short span of road) 
have a relatively small environmental impact, assuming they are ever collected — most likely by Code Enforcement on taxpayers’ dime. 
But there is a larger issue underlying 
my complaints: that of the privatization of public space. A company’s 
use of public land for advertising must be viewed as theft, and as 
citizens we must be vigilant. 
I suppose it may be tempting to extend 
my “eyesore” argument to the Crossing Paths exhibit. Suffice it to say, not every-one enjoyed the exhibit.
Regardless, there is an absolutely nec-
essary difference: One act was a public use of public (and private) lands, the other an unauthorized use of public lands for com-mercial interests. 
Crossing Paths was funded in part by 
the Gainesville Community Redevelop-ment Agency, a publicly funded group.
Public space is for public use. Had the 
pizza company in question commissioned the finest artists from across the world to construct the finest work to advertise low prices or open positions, I would still feel the same: Public space is for public use.
I will not dare to compare a roadside or 
median to Yellowstone or to even a lesser deity such as the Ocala National Forest. But those spaces we hold in common must be protected as such. 
When you see a painted advertisement 
for a luxury apartment complex on 34th Street (you know the developers; at least you will soon), remember my words. Re-gard these “guerrilla marketers” as they are, insurgents attacking that which is yours and mine.
Ryan Fenton graduated from UF with a 
degree in English.Public land no good for adsI didn’t know it would be the last photo I would ever take of the Twin Towers. 
On a balmy day in August 2001, I ran 
around Manhattan taking in the sights as I did once or twice a year while visiting my then-father-in-law. The twin structures were amazing and strong and sent a message that was modern, in contrast to the older sights we associate with New York such as the Statue of Liberty and the Empire State Building.
When I returned home from that trip, I 
had the photos printed and placed them into a cumulative New-York-themed photo album that held every photo I had taken in my nine years of marriage and trips to the Big Apple.
A few days after I returned home to Cali-
fornia, my then-husband told me he didn’t want to be married anymore. 
I moved out and wasn’t sure what to do 
with those albums that had proved our time together. So I placed them in storage and didn’t look at them until I was ready . 
I received a call on Sept. 11, 2001, from my 
father on the East Coast around 5:45 a.m. PST. He was distraught, and I couldn’t understand what he was saying at first. He told me to turn on the television, and I saw it all playing out. I couldn’t calm him down because I didn’t know what to say.
It was more than a year after my divorce 
was final that I bought a house and started un-packing those photo albums. I opened them and searched for the last set of photos I took in New York. 
I knew I would return to New York City 
again one day, and that opportunity came in 2009 with an invitation to attend the commis-sioning of the U.S.S. New York LP-21 on Nov . 7, 2009. 
I was given access to this event because 
my Marine nephew had been invited to rep-resent his squadron on the ship. The ship carried in its hull 7.5 tons of steel from the World Trade Center Twin Towers and the message, “Strength 
forged through sacrifice. Never forget.”
I jumped at the chance to gear up with my 
30 pounds of cameras and lenses. When the press corps from The New York Times, Asso-ciated Press, each branch of the military , and the NYPD raised their cameras, I was proud to squeeze into the pack and raise mine along with them.
Families of New York firefighters and 
New York Police Department officers lost in the attacks wept all around me. The admiral of the Navy, with Hillary Clinton standing by his side, declared to his crew, “Sailors, go get your ship.” And hundreds of sailors ran past me on a red carpet. They headed to the next pier where the U.S.S. New York waited for them to claim her. 
It was the most patriotic moment I had 
ever covered in my career. I welled up and couldn’t seem to focus for a few minutes as I ran to catch up with the crew to meet them on the ship. 
I stopped during my mad dash just for a 
second and grabbed a few frames of former New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani who played a crucial role in guiding the city through its grieving process. He gave me a thumbs up, and I kept going to finish captur -
ing the story . 
The towers have become a symbol of mov-
ing forward for me. Years later, I have moved on and am happily remarried. I rebuilt my life, just as the World Trade Center continues to rebuild its life. 
Suzette Cook is a 1990 graduate of UF’s Col-
lege of Journalism and Communications and a current master’s student. 
Towers symbolize rebuildingGuest column
Guest column
Ryan Fenton
Speaking OutSuzette Cook
Speaking Out8, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011
� IT SELL CHALLAH BREAD 
EVERY FRIDAY.
MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
On the Plaza of the Americas on 
Friday mornings, students can do-
nate money to help relieve hunger and enjoy freshly baked pieces of challah bread.
Challah for Hunger, a national 
organization that began its UF chapter two years ago, sells loaves of bread each week as a fundraiser for the American Jewish World Service, a national organization that provides aid to the genocide relief in Darfur. Last year’s recipi-ent was the Bread of the Mighty Food Bank.
Student volunteers bake the 
bread from scratch each Thursday, which is sold Friday from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Challah bread, commonly known as egg bread, is a Jewish recipe made primarily of eggs, flour, yeast and sugar. The bread is  braided, baked and usually topped with sesame seeds and raisins.
“Jewish families have been 
making this for 3,000 years,” said Brenda Wolnerman, an expert challah baker and the Hillel rabbi’s wife.
It takes a full day to prepare 
and bake the bread. At 11 a.m. on Thursdays, students gather at Hil-lel to mix the ingredients, which include dry yeast, flour, vegetable oil, eggs and either sugar or hon-ey.
“It’s a personal preference be-
tween honey and sugar,” said Jes-sica Davis, the Jewish student life coordinator. “But it bakes better with sugar.”
Challah for Hunger bakes about 
three batches of bread each week, which is the equivalent of 40 loaves.  After mixing the ingredients this week, Davis and Jennifer Szlasa, a chemical engineering junior, at-tempted to smooth out the dough.
“You just need to beat the crap 
out of it,” Szlasa said.
The dough is placed in a bowl and 
left to rise throughout the afternoon.  
Students return at 6 p.m. to braid and bake the bread. The toppings are added as the bread is separat-ed and braided. The most popular toppings include cinnamon sugar and chocolate chip.
“We’ve had people get really 
angry at us when we’ve sold out of the chocolate chip,” Davis said.
It takes about an hour to bake 
the bread, which is then cut into pieces and packaged. 
The organization accepts do-
nations for each package of bread and usually asks for $3 to $4 per piece.
“We’ve had a real good presence 
on campus and the group gets larg-er as the weeks go on,” Davis said.  
For the recipe, visit smittenkitchen.com.
Student group bakes bread for charityPending city approval, 
a parking garage will be built on the lot
the tax-deductible donation was a generous gift to the organiza-
tion.
“That’s huge,” he said. “And the only way it can be explained 
is there are people out there with good hearts.”
The owners of The Stadium Club plan to fill its apartment 
complex with retail space on the first two floors, office space on the third and fourth floors and residential apartments on the fifth through eighth floors. 
The parking garage is expected to have ground-floor retail 
space.
The plan hinges on city approval. To get approval to have office space, the company must get 
approval from a city board in late September. To build the park-ing garage, the company must get approval from a different board in mid-October.center , from page 1
“And the only way it can be explained is there 
are people out there with good hearts.”
Bob Gailey
campus ministerNEVER 
FORGET
9/11: TEN YEARS LATER FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, SPECIAL COMMEMORATIVE SECTION SPECIAL COMMEMORATIVE SECTION , ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011
MEMORIAL EVENTS
§ Stories of 9/11 victims to be read aloud 
Where: Reitz Union AmphitheaterWhen: Until 8 p.m., today
§ National Day of Service & Remembrance Program
Where: VA Medical Center Auditorium, 1601 SW Archer RoadWhen: 1 p.m., Today
§ About 3,000 flags to be displayed in “9/11: Never Forget Proj -
ect”
Where: Reitz Union North LawnWhen: Until Sept. 14.  Vigil at 7 p.m., Sept. 11
§ 9/11 commemoration with moment of silence to be held at foot-
ball gameWhere: Ben Hill Griffin StadiumWhen: 6:54 p.m., Sept. 10
§ “Memorial,” presented by Gainesville Festival Choir and Orches-
tra and choirs of the First Presbyterian Church and Holy Trinity Episcopal Church Where: First Presbyterian Church of Gainesville, 300 SW Second Ave.When: 4 p.m., Sept. 11
§ Gathering for Peace, Understanding and Hope: Arts to Hearts 
Where: Trinity United Methodist Church, 4000 NW 53rd Ave.When: 5 p.m. to 8 p.m., Sept. 11
§ Several clergy from various faiths to bless a new home
Where: 2234 SE 30th DriveWhen: 3 p.m., Sept. 11
§ Film screening of “United 93”
Where: Hippodrome Cinema, 25 SE Second PlaceWhen: 2:15 p.m., Sept. 11Suggested donation $10. Includes one small popcorn.
§ Flag raising to honor American troops and their families
Where: Gainesville Health and Fitness, 4820 Newberry RoadWhen: 8:45 a.m., Sept. 11Representatives from all branches will be on hand to raise flag. A 9/11 memorial stone will be uncovered to remember the victims and a memorial pear tree. Ends with a processional motorcycle ride by the American Bikers Aiming Toward Education. 
§ Temple Shir Shalom 9/11 memorial service in conjunction with 
the opening of its religious schoolWhere: 3855 NW Eighth Ave.When: 9 a.m., Sept. 11
§ Action Network to host a memorial prayer service
Where: Passage Family Church at 2020 NE 15th St.When: 3 p.m. to 4 p.m., Sept. 11
§ Northwest Baptist Church to host a Patriot Day worship to re-
member the victims of 9/11Where: 5514 NW 23rd Ave.When: 10:45 a.m., Sept. 11
§ Oak Park Baptist Church service to include a slideshow and 
prayer remembering the victimsWhere: 4610 SW Archer RoadWhen: 10:45 a.m., Sept. 11
§ North Central Baptist to hold a prayer of peace for the nation  
Where: 8001 NW 23rd Avenue
When: 9:30 a.m., Sept. 11
§ UF speakers, music performers to hold 9/11 tribute
Where: University Auditorium and Century TowerWhen: 8:15 a.m. to 9:30 a.m., Sept. 11
§ Free admission for emergency workers at women’s soccer 
gameWhere: James G. Pressly Stadium, at the soccer game versus the Florida Gulf Coast University EaglesWhen: 6 p.m., Sept. 11To RSVP, email ncoliver33@ufl.edu with the names of those planning to attend. 
§ Bob Graham Center to host panel on nation’s safety
Where: Pugh Hall; live stream also available online at bobgraham-center.ufl.edu.When: 6 p.m., Sept. 11
— MEREDITH RUTLAND and MINA RADMANHaley Stracher / Alligator
Stars in a Field of Blue
Graduate student Jean Morrow places exactly 2,977 miniature flags on the lawn of the Reitz Union lawn to honor 
each person who died on 9/11, marking the 10th anniversary of the national tragedy. Morrow’s display is part of the 9/11: Never Forget Project at UF.
Police, firefighters driven to protect after Sept. 11 attacksCAllED TO SErvE
ERIN JESTER
Alligator Writer
One was training a new patrol officer 
at the corner of 13th Street and Univer -
sity Avenue. Another was on her break-
fast break. A third was in his first-period English class, watching his teacher scold another student for texting.
The text message told the student to 
turn on the TV. 
Sgt. Greg Armagost and Sgt. Dana 
Strama of the Gainesville Police Depart-ment and firefighter-paramedic Andrew Marsh of the Gainesville Fire Rescue Department were all watching the tele-vision as reports of the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, began to come in. 
Armagost and Strama were both on 
duty when the first, incorrect reports of the Pentagon being bombed went out on police radio. They returned to the police station, where other officers were already gathering to watch coverage of the World Trade Center burning. 
They were all watching when the sec-
ond airplane hit the building. 
It was unbelievable, Strama said. “You want to sit down in front of the 
TV and watch it like everyone else was, but you have work to do,” she said.
GPD officers buried their emotions 
and went immediately into action to secure potential targets — water tow-ers, City Hall and Gainesville Regional Utilities.
It wasn’t until they got home late that 
night, emotionally drained and physi-cally exhausted, that officers began to think about the magnitude of what was lost that day.
“At that point, we realized how many police officers and firefighters had lost their lives,” Armagost said.“[It was] sad, more than anything,” he said. “I wouldn’t say angry or upset, just sad.” 
Strama and Armagost said their pa-
triotism was strengthened and their world views were changed after the terrorist attacks, having seen there are people who take pleasure in hurting Americans. 
The Sept. 11 attacks also strength-
ened their resolve to keep Gainesville safe and sharpened their senses toward suspicious activity.
Ten years later, Armagost said, they 
are still vigilant about protecting their residents and resources.
Andrew Marsh was 15 years old and 
a student at Buchholz High School in 2001. He briefly considered joining the military after the terrorist attacks.
“I was mad,” he said.But he thought he would be bet-
ter suited to firefighting, the career he wanted to pursue since he was 3 years old. 
Marsh said he has already come to 
terms with the idea that another attack could happen at any time. 
He doesn’t think any one of the fire-
fighters who died on Sept. 11 would have any regrets about his or her work. 
“You risk a lot to save a lot,” he said. 
“We’re in the business of saving lives.”  
Marsh said he has all the respect he 
can give for those firefighters and police officers for making the ultimate sacrifice to save others in the face of evil.
“That’s the greatest sacrifice you 
could give to someone else, is your life for theirs,” he said. “That’s courage in every sense of the word.”
Erin Jester / Alligator
Firefighters from B shift at Station 1,427 S Main St., pose with “Quint,” their 
backup aerial fire truck. Firefighters said they have the utmost respect for law enforcement officers who lost their lives on Sept. 11, 2001.
Dana Burke, Brett le Blanc and Natalie Teer / Alligator StaffEMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
When Andres Martinez-Alegria graduated from high 
school, he decided he didn’t want to go to college.
Even though he had applied and been accepted by schools 
like the University of Miami and Florida Atlantic University, he 
didn’t really know what he wanted to do.
So he joined the Marines.Twelve years later — after nine years of service and tours in 
Korea, Somalia and the Middle East — Martinez-Alegria is in his second year of graduate school, pursuing his MBA.
He is among more than 750 veterans studying at UF and 
benefiting from the Post-9/11 GI Bill.
The bill went into effect in August 2009 and pays tuition, 
fees and living expenses for disabled veterans and veterans who served for at least 90 days from Sept. 11, 2001, and on, ac-cording to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs website.
This was a change from the earlier Montgomery GI Bill that 
gave veterans a lump sum of about $1,300 a month.
But recent changes to the bill have put aid recipients at a dis-
advantage, said Young-Ki Chang, president of UF’s Collegiate Veterans Society.
As of Aug. 1, the GI Bill only covers the cost of in-state tu-
ition and fees, putting any out-of-state veterans at UF at a sig-nificant disadvantage. Also, veterans no longer receive their monthly housing allowances during breaks.
“This change has the unintended consequence of hurting 
more veterans than it helps,” Martinez-Alegria said. “It’s not 
realistic to think that we’re not going to have living expenses 
during Winter Break or Spring Break.”
In December, for example, Chang said a $1,200 stipend for 
housing and living expenses might be cut to $600 due to Win-ter Break.
The Collegiate V eterans Society is currently trying to work 
with the Florida Legislature to amend the bill.
“The main goal of UF’s veterans is to get an education,” 
Chang said. “We need to continue to support them.”New GI Bill may challenge student veterans
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
Kyle Mitchell was in fourth grade when the planes hit.
Like Mitchell, now a 19-year-old political science major, 
most students at UF and colleges nationwide were young when the 9/11 attacks happened. 
“Our whole lives have been defined by what happened 
after that time,” Mitchell said. 
While he thinks most undergraduate students were too 
young to initially understand the full meaning of Sept. 11, Mitchell said many students were affected to a greater ex-tent by events that occurred afterward, like the Iraq War.
But current students may not have been as impacted by 
9/11 as the people who were pursuing undergraduate de-grees in 2001, said Ido Oren, an associate professor of politi-cal science. 
The students Oren worked with during the immediate 
post-9/11 period showed more patriotic views in class and one-on-one discussions.
Aida Hozic, an associate professor of political science, 
said current undergraduate students are still facing prob-lems that have developed since 9/11. 
“[They’re] just saddled with the legacy of these 10 years, 
and [they] know they’re saddled with it,” she said. 
While students in 2002 were motivated to serve their 
country after 9/11, today’s undergraduates aren’t as driven toward the stars and stripes. 
“For [this] generation now, there is nothing but the debts 
accumulated from that period — both economic and politi-cal,” she said.  
Mitchell said the political and economic insecurity of re-
cent years has inspired many students he knows to make a difference through their work. 
“I think among students here at UF, there’s a great sense 
of, ‘What can I do to give back?’” he said. “It’s [about] look-ing out for everyone and not just yourself.”Impact of 9/11 spans generations“This change has the unintended conse-
quence of hurting more veterans than it helps.”
Andres Martinez-Alegria
U.S. marineMELINDA CARSTENSEN
Alligator Staff Writer
Once each year around 8:45 a.m., Thomas 
Panevino watches the clock and waits.
It does not matter where he is or what he 
is doing.
He could be at his apartment in Gainesville, 
where he’s a student studying English at UF. 
Or he could be in Boca Raton, Fla., a place he’s called home since 2004.
All that matters is the moment when the 
small hand moves from 45 to 46.
This is when he presses the phone to his ear 
and talks with his mother.
  
Ten years ago, at 8:46 a.m. on a Tuesday 
in September — when members of the terror -
ist group al Qaida flew a hijacked passenger airplane into one of the Twin Towers —  Pan-evino was in his seventh-grade Spanish class in New York City, less than a mile from the World Trade Center.
It was the second day of school, and Pan-
evino, now 21, remembers exactly how the morning unfolded. He and his classmates pressed their faces to the window, watching the fire kindle from the first tower. He remem-bers his middle school principal coming over the intercom, trying to pacify teachers and students by saying there had been an electrical accident.
Panevino remembers his father, who was 
getting breakfast at Pick A Bagel near the school, being one of the first parents from his class to pick him up after the airplane crashed.
He remembers the roaring sound of the air -
plane flying low to the ground and the engine revving just before slamming into the tower.
He remembers the smoke, the ash, the 
shower of burning white paper falling like confetti from the sky . 
He remembers feeling numb.
  
When 8:46 a.m. rolls around each year on 
9/11, Panevino calls his mother, an interior designer who used to get coffee at the World Trade Center each morning with a friend.
From the morning of Sept. 11 to the morn-
ing of Sept. 12, 2001, Panevino and his father, who worked as a graphic designer for L’Oreal, didn’t hear from her.
When recounting that day, Panevino is ob-
jective.
He’s told the story before, but the words 
come out slow, as if he’s crawling through the memories.
Panevino denounces the media’s “pre-
packaged” 9/11 story and the recycled iconic photos of the Twin Towers — the ones with the still-standing towers and the single air -
plane crashed into the first tower, the smoke just beginning to billow.
To him, all of the news stations tell the 
same story: “Planes hit, buildings come down, people are sad,” he says.
“Half the things we saw — those things 
probably couldn’t be seen on TV .”
Panevino saw two people jump hand in 
hand from the first tower as ash mounted around his feet. He walked by the unusu-ally silent doorman at his family’s apartment, which was across the street from the World Trade Center, and picked up his poodle, Ed-die.
His father left a note for his wife. “I have 
Thomas. We’re OK.” 
That day, Panevino lost everything. Gone 
was his 30th-floor apartment in Battery Park City , which he found burned and gutted a few months after the attacks, along with his fam-ily’s black Jeep. 
Some of his friends never came home. Their families later left New York.
Today, he and his family have the Jeep’s 
crinkled license plate and the note to his moth-er kept away in a cardboard box, and he keeps in touch with his friends from New York.
Panevino remembers fleeing the disas-
ter. His father shielded him from ash as they crammed into a 10-person bathroom with 40 other people at a park at the tip of the Manhat-tan — a park where he used to play as a child.
He remembers sticking his hand into Ed-
die’s carrier to make sure the 6-pound dog could still breathe among all the ash and smoke. He felt the warm lick of Eddie’s tongue, and relief washed over him.
The only child among adults, he remem-
bers being hoarded onto a flimsy raft made for about eight people with about 30 people. He remembers the engine almost died, and the tail end of the boat dragged beneath the sur -
face of the Hudson River just before reaching Jersey City.
When he and his father boarded a bus to 
go stay with a friend, Panevino made the same call hundreds of  times. 
The next day , the phone lines opened. His 
mother finally picked up.
She had fled to her sister’s apartment in up-
town Manhattan. 
  
Panevino’s words don’t drip with bitter -
ness.
“The people who attacked … I could very 
easily hate them,” he says. “They blew up my home and all that.”
Over the past 10 years, he says, some U.S. 
media outlets have perpetuated a negative im-age of the Middle East, and as a result, a new type of racism has surfaced.
“These are just a few people who wanted to 
do bad,” he says. “[The media] want to make masses of people representative of a small group of crazy people — that’s the only good thing of being there, really , is I didn’t get that filtered view.”He met Jai Mirchandani, one of his friends 
from New York, when they were both about 6 months old. Their mothers walked them around in strollers in Battery Park City.
Mirchandani, who today studies interna-
tional business at George Washington Univer -
sity , says Panevino holding a particular race accountable for the attacks would be “under -
mining what his principles stand for.”
Although Panevino doesn’t consider him-
self religious, he was always curious to learn more about Mirchandani’s Indian culture.
“When my parents would have the [tradi-
tional Hindu] Diwali festival, Thomas would be there trying to understand the significance of the holiday itself — trying to understand what that means,” Mirchandani says.
After 9/11, Mirchandani’s mother warned 
him not to walk around the city alone. At that point, it wasn’t uncommon for people who looked Middle Eastern to get jumped there.
“It struck me very quickly,” Mirchandani 
says. “As a child, you don’t experience a lot of racism — especially in New York.” 
Panevino says he’s looked at everyday life  
differently over the past 10 years.
“After that day , there’s, like, nothing to 
worry about. This class, this test — it means nothing. The people who were in that tower, they would wish for my problems. Life is good.”
Sarah Deatherage, one of Panevino’s 
friends at UF, says he has the ability to turn trivial problems upside down and make them funny.
“Essentially , he’s just the happiest person I 
know,” says Deatherage, a third-year psychol-ogy major. “I think he definitely sees beauty in the world in another way that other people don’t.
“He tells me he thinks about [9/11] every day,” Detherage says. “And it’s kind of sad-dening because down here in Florida we don’t think about it every day, and it’s not part of our lives. And we forget — and he doesn’t.”
  
Growing up in Battery Park City , Panevino 
remembers the World Trade Center being the center of everything.
“I have home videos of me learning to walk 
in the World Trade Center,” he says. “I could still walk through there with my eyes closed.”
Panevino accepts the new New York, re-
plete with police officers searching for bombs and the hordes of tourists that now visit Ground Zero. 
But he doesn’t want to move back.“That time of my life is done,” he says. “It’s 
a whole lifestyle that I understand but I don’t want to be a part of anymore.”
After graduation in Spring 2012, he plans 
to attend graduate school for international communication and eventually work for a technology company.
His career aspirations and his life experi-
ences, he says, are directly related.
“Those connections are what keep us hu-
man, and keep us real, and keep us away from a life that they want to take away,” he says.
He’s eager to visit and see how the rebuild-
ing process of the World Trade Center — the “Freedom Tower” — is coming along.
“Another five, 10 years, it’s going to be how 
it was that Tuesday morning,” he says. 
As for the 10-year anniversary of the at-
tacks, he’s looking forward to getting through the checkpoint.
“I’m gonna call my mom,” he says. “It’s al-
ways a hard day . I want to be at Ground Zero. You want to return and be as close to that spot as you can, but you can’t. 
“It’s something I’ve thought a lot about af-
ter, but now it’s something I accept,” Panevino says. “It’s not something that’s so far into me now. Death was that day . Once you learn to accept that, you can start living.”SPECIAL COMMEMORATIVE SECTION , ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011
Ashley Crane / Alligator 
UF English senior Thomas Panevino, 21, who lived one block from the World Trade Center at the time of the 9/11 attacks, sits 
among the flags of the 9/11: Never Forget Project on the Reitz Union North Lawn.REFLECTINGStudent, New York native recalls 9/11 without bitterness
“Half the things we saw — those 
things probably couldn’t be seen on 
TV.”
Thomas Panevino
UF student FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 9
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
THIS WEEK ONLY
$379 3/3 All-Inclusive$349 4/4 All-Inclusive$250 VISA Gift Cards!352-336-3838www.TheLandingsUF.com           12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-1
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC!
4/4’s @ $329
Upgraded 4/4’s ONLY $359
$100 Visa Card for fall
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
STUDIO - FURNISHED
Private, quiet, secluded. $525/mo incl utils, 
cable TV, internet. Located @ Tower & Archer Roads. 378-4626    9-12-11-5-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREEFrederick GardensCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
PinetreeGardens.com
2 bed/1.5 bath Townhomes
with washer/dryer!
***$629 this month only***
Call today! 376.4002
12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2
     1,2,3,BR’s – Welcome Home!
·         HUGE floorplans! * H20/Sewer Incl!·         W/D Avail! * Pets Loved!·         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis·        376-2507 * BivensCove.com 12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1/1• 750 sq. ft •$639/mo.
2/2.5 TH• 1113 sq. ft •$799/mo.
4/2.5 TH• 1662 sq. ft •$999/mo.
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler Plaza. Asking $700/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    9-14-11-67-2AVAILABLE NOW - ONLY A FEW LEFT!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
9-30-11-29-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
3BR, 2Bath, Washer/Dryer, 
Fenced backyard, Carport,
No pets. $1450./Mo   303-877-4915
9-19-11-30-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   9-9-11-19-2
Roommates a Hassle?
Move into your own downtown apt!www.ArlingtonSquare.orgStudios and 1Bdrms starting at $599!Check availability now! 338-000212-7-11-74-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs.1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-15509-16-11-20-2
3BR, 2BA, Condo Unit, Ground Floor, Kitchen 
& living area; Swimming pool & tennis courts; The Sparrow; $700.00 per month.Call Cristen at 352-514-6222    9-19-11-20-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House
Historic spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $2000/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    9-19-11-20-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. 
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1st month half price! Vacant lots alsoavailable. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-58879-20-20-2
 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011  § ALLIGATOR, 11
Spectacular 3BR, Lakefront Condo
1 mile south of UF and Shandsrecently renovated,  $1400 monthpool, clubhouse, 2500 s.f. + garageavailable immediately (352) 262-2871    9-21-11-20-2
●Historic House walk to UF.2703 NW 2nd 
Ave.Central h/a,screened porch,private parking,laundry with w/d.perfect for grad stu-dent or professional.No pets.1st,last sec.$40 app fee. $795 mo. 352-332-5836    9-15-11-16-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
$750/mo so close to campus! 2 bed/2.5 bath. 
New flooring. Private baths & closets. Pool community on bus line. Inside laundry. No pets, NS, 1st & sec. Call Tasya Williamson today! Focus Real Estate Group 246-8591   9-12-11-3-2Spacious 3br/2ba/2cg home in Blues Creek, 
huge Mbr/ba w/walk-in closet,cent ac/heat w/sec sys,internet hookup, all appls, W/D, $1200/mo, 7953 NW 48 way, call 954-805-7827, 561-912-6223, billyo110708@att.net  9-20-11-10-2
SPACIOUS TOWNHOME with backyard,
2BR/1.5BA
off Archer Road near UF.
Contact 386-328-6229.
e-mail moritae@yahoo.com $529/month
9-29-11-15-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Stoneridge Apt / No deposit / Avail Now
* 1 Bedroom ~ 1 Bath ~ 816 sq ft* $625/mo ~ $35 App Fee ~ Sept FREE * Cats & Small Dogs OK* Email Julie at jmf1001@gmail.com    9-15-11-5-2Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-4
Big house near midtown/law school, all ame-
nities/yard. Rooms from $300/mo. Call John at scipub: 373-5630.    9-13-11-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
LAKEFRONT BARGAIN! 1+ Acres -only 
$49,900 DOCKABLE DEEPWATER! Was $89,900. Prime lakefront parcel with direct access to Gulf. On 12,000 acre recreation-al lake covered in huge live oaks! Close to the city. Paved roads, county water, power, phone, community boat launch. Excellent fi-nancing. Call now (866)952-5302    9-9-1-5GA LAND SALE - 17 Tracts to choose from. 
Creeks, pond sites, wooded, clear cut, etc. Visit our website. stregispaper.com (478)987-9700 St. Regis Paper Co.    9-9-1-5
BANK FORECLOSED, LAND LIQUIDATION, 
from $9,900, Blue Ridge mountains, paved roads, utilities, county water, panoramic views, excellent financing. Sale September 24th, Call now! (888)757-6867 ext. 214RV's/Mobile Homes    9-9-1-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
●BED SET TWIN $49
●FULL $69●QUEEN $89●KING $99352-376-0953 4390 SW 20TH AVE   10-6-11-30-6
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
●●●●3 FAMILY YARD SALE●●●●
Furniture, dishes, microwave, m&f bicycles, many items & antiques. Sat., Sept 10, 8am-5pm Rolling Oaks Estates between Trenton & Newberry 6170 SE 70th St. 472-3890   9-9-2-10
SAWMILLS from only $3997- MAKE MONEY 
& SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship. FREE Info & DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com/300N (800)578-1363 Ext.300N    9-9-1-10
PUBLIC AUCTION 150+ Spec and Dealer 
Model Travel Trailers. NO MINIMUM PRICE! Online Bidding Available Saturday, September 10, 10am Philadelphia, MS www.hendersonauction.com (225)686-2252 Lic# 266    9-9-1-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is giving away TWO scoot-
ers to our Facebook friends, one at end of Summer B, another in Fall. "Like" our FB page for more details about the giveaway. facebook.com/RoadRatMotors   9-12-11-24-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
12, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
9-30-11-21-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
2008 Dodge Dakota
6 cylinder 4 door SXT. 50,000 miles is a steal at $14,500. Call: 352-575-4103     9-13-11-6-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      9-22-11-74-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
$$ CASH PAID, $500 OR MORE $$
FOR JUNK CARS & TRUCKS
RUNNING OR NOT, ANY CONDITION
SAME DAY PICK UP. FREE TOWING
NO TITLE NEEDED. CALL 352-771-6191
 10-11-11-30-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Please submit resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
The Independent Florida Alligator
IT Department
Is now accepting applications for a
STUDENT  INTERN
If you are a student able to work 4-10 hours
per week this fall and are eager to gain
valuable hands-on experience in desktop
support and network infrastructure, then stop
by the Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F,
9am-4pm to fill out an application.
Please include available work schedule,
references, and resume.
EEO/AA.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.
$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    9-30-11-34-14
WEB COURSE ASSISTANTS wanted to 
help faculty with course websites. Applicants must be familiar with Dreamweaver, CSS and Photoshop. Be prepared to present samples of your work. Full- and part-time po-sitions are available. Pay starts at $10.00 per hour. basharat@ufl.edu, online application at http://citt.ufl.edu/contact.php.   9-9-11-17-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net9-12-11-15-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
UF Survey Research Center
Now hiring for fall semester!
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352) 392-2908 Ext: 105
720 SW 2nd Ave Suite 156
9-9-11-15-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm, 
M-F. Wkend hrs vary. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax re-sume & availability to 373-2230     9-13-11-15-14
Centerplate Part-Time Jobs!
● Event Supervisors● Warehouse Runners● CashiersApply in person at Ben Hill Griffin StadiumMonday-Friday 8:00 AM to 4:00 PMwww.centerplate.eventbrite.com
(352) 692-6244
                      9-23-11-17-14
Busy Dermatology Office seeking assistant 
to learn all aspects of billing, collections, ac-counts payable and receivable, appointment scheduling and front office management. Ideal for seniors obtaining a business BA or similar degree. Part-time position leading to possible full-time with management poten-tial. Email resume to ofmgrbeers@aol.com.    9-9-10-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. $7.50/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 NW 13th St    9-9-11-10-14g
Maintenance Supervisor  FT
AC cert. w/4 yrs. apt. maint. exp.
Must have own tools & truck. Salary
commensurate with exp. DFWP
Apply in person 2770 NW 43rd St., Ste. B
12-7-11-69-14Leasing Agent  FT/PT
Friendly, energetic person.
Exp. preferred. 20-40 hrs./wk.
hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Must be avail. weekend. Apply in person
Spyglass Apts 701 SW 62nd Blvd.   DFWP
12-7-11-69-14 
Property Manager – PT
Organized, motivated, outgoing person
for PT position at small apt. community.
Must be avail. M-F 1-6, Sat. 10-2.
Apply in person
2770 NW 43rd St, Ste B DFWP
12-7-11-69-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
Florida Football Drink Seller!
Tremendous Cash in a Short Time!Yes - it is a work out!Apply in person at Concessions OfficeGate 18 BHG Stadium       9-23-11-17-14
LIFEGUARD.$12.00 PER HOUR. 
REQUIRES CERTIFICATION.20 HRS/WK ON 3 DAY WKNDS. ADD'L HRS MAY BE AVAIL. ADULT-MALE PATIENTS IN MAX SECURITY MENTAL HLTH FAC DURING    POOL REC THERAPY.CONTACT GRADY CARTHON(352)375-8484   9-14-10-14
PHONE REPS NEEDED ASAP
Flexible Shifts, Must be Articulate and Reliable371-5888 X111 or 6020 NW 4th Pl, Ste G9-30-21-14
 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011  § ALLIGATOR, 13
Personal assistant: 5 hours/Monday. Must 
have car, GPS, driver's license, fluent English. Computer & website skills. Cleaning and organizing skills. Email info@gviolins.com.   9-13-11-8-14
Wanted: Head Lacrosse Coach for boys var-
sity at Gainesville High School. Playing exp. a must. Fax resume to C.J. Boulware: 352-955-7283. Info: 352-955-6707x289 /boulwarecj@gm.sbac.edu     9-30-11-20-14
Micanopy Animal Hospital is looking for an 
experienced head veterinary technician with supervisory skills. Duties include: Ordering, inventory management, scheduling, training, and personnel management. Apply online at www.MicanopyAnimalHospital.com.    9-9-11-5-14
MARTIAL ARTS INSTRUCTOR WANTED!
For growing tkd school in Gainesville.Friendly, energetic person.Experience preferred.Leave message at (352)375-0700.     9-23-11-14-14
Doorstep Delivery seeks delivery drivers! 
Flexible schedule, perfect job for students looking for extra $. Very busy during game weekends! Must be 21+ with a clean driving record. Please call 352.224.3090 for more details.   9-21-11-10-14
Participants wanted for Perception Study. 
Ages 18-35, Native English Speakers with normal hearing. $10 compensation for partic-ipation. Contact Krista at spl.ufl@gmail.com. Study begins September 15th.   9-21-10-14Inactive adults are needed to participate in 
a study conducted by the UF GetUpAndGo initiative assessing the accuracy of an ad-vanced pedometer. Compensation will be provided. If interested, call 336-406-3706 or email us at FitBit10000@gmail.com    9-12-2-14
Occasional Babysitter needed for my two 
boys, ages 5 & 2, in Alachua. MUST be avail-able W and F mornings 7:30-10:30. Typical schedule would only be Fridays. Good pay! Email resume and references to liz.greas-er@gmail.com or call 386-518-6509.    9-13-11-3-14
If you are age 18-30 with a sedentary to mod-
erately active lifestyle, Dr. Thomas Buford is conducting a study to investigate the poten-tial role of blood flow in the loss of muscle as we age. Participation in the study will require 5 visits to the clinical lab, medical history, blood and muscle tissue sample, physical and cognitive testing, MRI. Compensation of up to $250 in gift cards. Call the UF Institute on Aging, 352-273-5919.    9-22-11-10-14
RETAIL - THORNEBROOK CHOCOLATES
Looking for a sweet job? We are hiring PT staff at Thornebrook Chocolates! Must be available year-round. E-mail resume to Cathleen@ThornebrookChocolates.com.    9-19-11-7-14
Driver- Southern Freight needs Drivers!! 
Solo, Team, Company & O/O. We have LOTS of FREIGHT!!! Call (877)893-9645 for details.    9-9-1-14
Need 13 Good Drivers Top 5% Pay & 401K 
2 Mos. CDL Class A Driving Exp (877)258-8782 www.meltontruck.com     9-9-1-14Drivers- No Experience ~ No Problem. 100% 
Paid CDL Training. Immediate Benefits. 20/10 program. Trainers Earn up to 49¢ per mile! CRST VAN EXPEDITED (800)326-2778 www.JoinCRST.com    9-9-1-14
$5,000 Sign-On Bonus! Frac Sand Haulers 
with complete Bulk Pneumatic Rigs only. Relocate to Texas for tons of work! Fuel/Quick pay available. (800)491-9022    9-9-1-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15 HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   10-19-11-100-16
ALL YOUR CPR AND FIRST AID NEEDS
FLORIDA HEARTSAVERwww.floridaheartsaver.org 575-0119                        9-30-28-16
A childless couple seeks to adopt. Flexible 
work schedule. Will be HANDS-ON parents. Financial security. Expenses paid. Catherine & Michael. (ask for michelle/adam). (800)790-5260 FL Bar#0150789    9-9-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
KANAPAHA
BOTANICAL GARDENS
HALF OFF WITH GATOR ONE CARD 
DURING THE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER.
Come and enjoy our beautiful gardens!
9-30-20-21Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
Horse boarding, $350/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome    9-30-11-38-15. 
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
Finish Line Resume Services
Professional Quality Resumes
Affordable and Prompt
additional services upon request
www.finishlineresumeservices.com
9-14-11-10-15
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) $99 
and Basic Life Support (BLS)$35. Classes run continuously to fit your schedule. American Heart Association Card issued. Call Cardiac One at 352-494-4217.    10-14-11-30-15
Any job large or small
Mowing, raking, powerwashing, cleaning, 
etc. Call 352-231-1776    9-14-5-15
ALLIED HEALTH career training-Attend col-
lege 100% online. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. SCHEV certified. Call (800)481-9409 www.CenturaOnline.com     9-9-1-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.com    9-9-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting, *Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. Call (888)203-3179 www.CenturaOnline.com    9-9-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA approved program. Financial aid if qualified - Housing available CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (866)314-3769.    9-9-1-15
DIRECTV Summer Special! 1 Year FREE 
Showtime! 3 mos FREE HBO/Starz/Cinemax! NFL SUNDAY TICKET Free - Choice Ultimate/Premier - Pkgs from $29.99/mo. Call by 9/30! (800)360-2254    9-9-1-15
Heat & Air JOBS - Ready to work? 3 week 
accelerated program. Hands on environ-ment. Nationwide certifications and Local Job Placement Assistance! (877)359-1690    9-9-1-15
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Stay Informed on Gameday
Follow the alligatorSports football writers on Twitter 
Saturday for in-game updates from the game: @tomas_verde, @gregluca, @tyler__jett, @wattmattsMore Stories Online at alligatorSports.org 
UF’s soccer, men’s and women’s cross country and women’s golf teams are all in action this weekend. The Gators soccer team plays FSU tonight at 7 p.m. Check the website this weekend for daily updates.Gators forward Erik Murphy was reinstated on Thursday after being indefinitely suspended in April.  
See Story, Page 24. MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Above all else, one thing 
stands out from last Saturday’s 
win against Florida Atlantic. 
Not the 468 yards of total of-
fense. Not Chris Rainey’s electric evening. Not the stifling defense which allowed a mere 137 yards. Not even Jelani Jenkins’ thunder-ous hit on FAU receiver Willie Floyd. 
Turnovers. John Brantley threw an inter-
ception in the first half, and later, a second on a poor throw into triple coverage in the end zone. Freshman backup Jeff Driskel tossed up another on his first pass attempt.
“When you have a minus-3 
turnover ratio for the game, usu-ally you’re going to lose,” offen-sive coordinator Charlie Weis said Tuesday. “That’s one of our points of emphasis, not just with John Brantley, but with the whole offense.”
Weis also pointed to three oth-
er near giveaways, including the snap from center Jonotthan Har-rison that sailed over Brantley’s head and brought back painful memories from a season ago. 
Coach Will Muschamp has 
repeatedly harped on the impor-tance of turnover margin, and ad-mitted that the Gators’ minus-3 mark simply will not get it done.
“We can talk about all the oth-
er stats you want to talk about, those are the two critical ones: big-play ratio and turnovers,” he said Monday. “It’s a huge con-cern of taking care of the ball of-fensively.”
Not only will the Gators need to better protect the rock against UAB on Saturday night at 7, they’ll also need to make some things happen on defense. The Blazers return a potent spread-offense attack that went for more than 500 yards in five different games a year ago.UF’s defense limited Alfred 
Morris to 16 yards on 14 carries last week, but Florida couldn’t force a giveaway. Jenkins dropped an easy interception that likely would have resulted in a pick-six — the Gators’ best opportunity for a turnover.
“Even though we held them 
to limited rushing yards and lim-ited passing yards, [turnovers are] one thing we stress every game,” Bostic said. “We need at least three turnovers a game. 
Who knew college football’s 
story arc would take such a mundane turn?
Don’t get us wrong; we still love 
the game. We love watching “College GameDay” while recovering from hangovers. We love bro’ing out, play-ing cornhole and heckling fans from other schools during afternoon tail-gates. We love seeing Utah State upset the defending national champs in week one. (Wait, what?)
But what’s with those sitcom-writing 
hacks hijacking our sport’s storyline? We’re tired of this will-they, won’t-they drama unfolding with Texas A&M. Se-riously, other Big 12 teams, can you just step aside and let this happen? 
But rest assured, fans. We here at 
the alligatorSports Brand Picks Col-umn are only focused on what you love most: games on the field. That’s why we let a pair of writers debate the game between Missouri (of the Big 12 or the SEC or the Big Ten, depending on when you read this) and Arizona State (from the Pac-12 or 14 or 16 or 32). Let’s get it on.
Mizzou (+7.5) will keep hope alive 
tonight because …
Friday nights belong to teams with 
clear eyes and full hearts, and the Ti-gers fit the bill.
Quarterback James Franklin is the 
black Matt Saracen of the Midwest, mi-nus the whole sleeping with the coach’s daughter thing. He is a creative sopho-more who likes to scramble. He is being asked to replace the golden boy sooner than expected. The whole town doubts he can be a leader.
Before tonight’s game, with pres-
sure mounting, Gary Pinkel will chan-nel his inner Eric Taylor and deliver a poetic, chilling speech as wistful indie music plays in the background: “Don’t you ever forget this: you should feel real proud. This is all yours for the tak-ing. It depends on how much you want it.”Picks
Column
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF:  7 p.m., Saturday 
TV/RADIO:  FOX Sports Florida /
WRUF AM850
see PICKs, P age 15
Brett Le Blanc / alligator s taff
Florida linebacker Jelani Jenkins (3) dropped a near interception against FAU on Saturday, and the 
Gators posted a minus-3 turnover margin despite handily beating the Owls 41-3. 
Gators 
must win turnover battle
BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
Kristy Jaeckel knows there’s no time for 
wasted chances. 
As a senior who has lost in the NCAA 
Regional Semifinal to end the first three sea-
sons of her college volleyball career, she can summarize the new feeling within her in one word.
“Maybe there’s more urgency to get things 
done,” she said.
That urgency was a large part of this past 
summer, which saw all of Florida’s volleyball team stay in Gainesville and work on what it felt was the biggest reason for last year’s disappointing finish.
“We were really focused 
on our defense as a unit,” Jaeckel said. “We were try-ing to clean things up and design and designate who’s taking what.”
Although no one will 
confuse the 6-foot-2 outside hitter for a defensive spe-
cialist, teammates insist Jaeckel has put a new emphasis on defense this season. They hope that continues when the No. 7 Gators face their stiffest competition of the young season at 11 p.m. against No. 10 Texas in the Nike Big Four Classic in Palo Alto, Calif.
“She’s been working really hard on de-
fense,” fellow senior Kelly Murphy said. “She’s in the back making defensive plays and increasing her range and touching a lot of balls.”
Through seven games, Jaeckel trails only 
Murphy and redshirt freshman libero Taylor Unroe in digs with 41. But defense is not the primary reason why Jaeckel is a two-time All-Southeastern Conference selection and a des-ignated leader on a team that lost its biggest vocal presence to graduation. 
The senior leads her team in kills with 63 Jaeckel making most of senior season at UF
Florida plays Texas in Palo Alto, Calif.
Jaeckel
see FOOTBaLL, P age 16
see VOLLeYBaLL, P age 16“That’s one of our points 
of emphasis, not just with 
John Brantley, but with the 
whole offense.”
Charlie Weis 
offensive coordinator 
 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 15
End scene. Texas — err, Missouri forever.
— TYLER JETT
Arizona State (-7.5) will spoil Tyler’s script because …
As much as Tyler wishes his boys from Missouri could get 
the job done, Arizona State is clearly more fit for the Friday night atmosphere. Quarterback Brock Osweiler turned down a basketball scholarship from Gonzaga to play for ASU, and everybody knows it’s all about two-sport stars in the high school game. Plus they’ve got a guy named Jamal Miles at re-ceiver, and he’s sure to evoke memories of pre-injury James “Boobie” Miles. Just put him in, and watch him spin. If that’s not enough, middle linebacker Vontaze Burfict is everything great about Permian stars Brian Chavez and Ivory Christian in one All-American package. The Sun Devils know what it means to be perfect, and that’s why they’re a lock to come away with the win.  
— GREG LUCA
Now, on to the picks!
In first place with a 5-3 record is Cody “Keep your friends 
close and your enemies closer” Jones, who shocked the jour -
nalism community by attending the UAA luncheon last Fri-
day , a move equal to abandoning his rebel allies for a meal with Darth Vader and the Stormtroopers. Hopefully he earned some quality brownie points to go with the free pizza.  
Also in first is alligatorSports staff writer Greg “Groucho 
Marx pied me in the face” Luca, whose fifth-grade class was forced to dress like historical figures from the 1940s for a pre-sentation. Greg, 10 years old and dressed as Albert Einstein, was then told to explain the decade to people AT AN OLD FOLKS HOME, thus disproving the myth that students from elitist northeast school systems are smarter than the rest of us. 
Sharing the top spot is InsidetheGators.com’s Kyle “We in-
tercept history in the 5-6-1” Maistri, who watched with pride as fellow Palm Beach Central alumnus Brad Peacock blew the game in Stephen Strasburg’s return from Tommy John sur -
gery. Other famous Palm Beach Central students include the assassin of “solo assassin” Lee Harvey Oswald, some guy who heckled Abraham Lincoln during the Emancipation Proclama-tion and every member of the 2008 New York Giants. 
Rounding out the unlikely four-way tie is alligatorSports 
assistant editor Matt “I can scream louder than you” Watts, who spends his days admiring the golden locks of Jaguars (backup?) quarterback Blaine Gabbert in between sending the rookie signal-caller Marlboro-scented fan mail and suggestive cell phone pictures.
In fifth at 4-4 is alligatorSports editor Tom “I wrote a feature 
on that guy!” Green, who probably would have asked Gators fullback Hunter Joyer for his autograph on Saturday if Will Muschamp allowed freshmen to speak to the media.
Tied for fifth is the Associated Press’ Mark “Am I ridicu-
lously good looking or what?” Long, whose Twitter profile features an old black-and-white photo of him gazing off into the distance. After Florida’s win last week, Mark celebrated by eugoogalizing the nightmarish 2010 season and participating in a gasoline fight with his handsome, well-dressed friends.
In one half of dead-ass last place with a piss-poor record of 
3-5 is the Florida Times-Union’s Mike “I’m going to jump in Charlie Weis’ lap one day” DiRocco, who each week nudges closer and closer to the offensive coordinator during inter -
views. Careful, Mike; there’s no turning back once you enter that black hole. Just ask Jimmy Clausen’s career.
And in the other half of dead-ass last place with an equally 
piss-poor record is alligatorSports staff writer Tyler “Leave my insecurities out of this” Jett, whose eyes began to water at a lo-cal bar last weekend when he was reminded of an insult in last year’s column. We’ll give you a hint: it involves mothers (not the bar), a phone number and a certain other staff writer. 
PICKS , from page 14
 CJ  GL  KM  MW
UAB (+23) @ UF UAB  UAB           UF            UF
MIZZ (+7.5) @ ASU MIZZ               ASU           ASU           ASU
BAMA @ PSU (+10) BAMA            BAMA         BAMA         BAMA
USCa @ UGA (+3) USCa               USCa          USCa          USCa
MSU @ AUB (+6.5) MSU              MSU           MSU          MSU
CINC (+6) @ TENN TENN               TENN          CINC          TENN
CONN (+2) @ VAND CONN               CONN          CONN          VAND
ND @ MICH (+3.5) MICH                MICH         MICH           ND
 
 TG      ML   MD  TJ 
UAB (+23) @ UF         UF               UF           UAB          UAB
MIZZ (+7.5) @ ASU          MIZZ              ASU         MIZZ         MIZZ
BAMA @ PSU (+10)             BAMA             BAMA        BAMA        BAMA
USCa @ UGA (+3)              USCa              USCa        USCa          USCa
MSU @ AUB (+6.5)             MSU               MSU         MSU            AUB
CINC (+6) @ TENN             TENN              TENN        TENN          TENN
CONN (+2) @ VAND             CONN             CONN         VAND          VAND
ND @ MICH (+3.5)             MICH              MICH         ND           MICHthree turnovers a game. That’s our goal every game.”
UAB quarterback Bryan Ellis threw for nearly 3,000 
yards with 25 touchdowns and only 12 interceptions last 
season — plenty of firepower to test an inexperienced UF secondary filled with underclassmen.
Florida will have to make UAB one-dimensional. Dy-
namic Blazers running back Pat Shed is questionable for Saturday’s game, meaning the Gators should stop the run without bringing added help from the secondary, which will allow the young guys at the back end to focus on coverage.
Creating a ball-hawking unit has been a heavy em-
phasis in practice, and because it didn’t manifest itself against FAU, defensive coordinator Dan Quinn said it’s been a major sticking point again this week.
“We could’ve had more attempts on the ball, what we 
call rips and strips,” he said. 
“In a good game, where you’re getting a lot of at-
tempts at the ball, I would like to see that number drasti-cally increase.”
In 2010, Florida held a plus-14 turnover margin in its 
eight wins. In five losses, the number was minus-12. 
“It’s such a huge stat … and it’s something that Will 
and I strongly believe in,” Quinn said. “As a defense, we really want to see more of it.”
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@alligator.org. 16, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Gators senior outside hitter Kristy Jaeckel said she 
tries to lead with her play, rather than her words.
Freshmen pushing 
Jaeckel in last year
and is the only Gator ranked in the top 10 of the SEC. 
“She’s been really good at stepping up and making big 
kills when we need them,” Murphy said.
While the clutch nature Murphy describes fell through 
when Jaeckel committed the second-to-last error in a loss 
Monday to Iowa State — one that ended in consecutive miscues for the Gators — it does go along with the men-tality the senior from Littleton, Colo., is bringing to her last year in Gainesville.
“Whether you believe it or not, your senior year you 
do have a little bit of a different mindset,” Jaeckel said. 
“It’s your last year. You know that going into every 
match.”
While they do have a five-deep leadership core, the 
Gators have started underclassmen at least once this year, and three freshmen have seen playing time in every game. 
That kind of youth puts extra pressure on Jaeckel and 
others to work hard in order to lead by example.
“Really, trying to make plays instead of just talking 
about it,” she said. “It’s easier for them to take on their roles when they see the culture that way.”VOLLEYBALL , from page 14
FOOTBALL , from page 14Quinn wants more 
turnover chances
“Whether you believe it or not, your senior 
year you do have a little bit of a different mind-
set. It’s your last year. You know that going into 
every match.”
Kristy Jaeckel
UF volleyball playerruling and said Floyd brought the issue 
to the school’s attention in February and the Gators subsequently informed the NCAA.
Florida was forthcoming with the 
NCAA, according to Foley, but the organization still deemed there were violations.
According to the NCAA, Floyd 
accepted $2,500 in cash over several months from an individual not associ-ated with the University of Florida, and he used that money for living expenses, travel and other costs. Along with the money received from that individual, who is unnamed in the NCAA’s state-ment, Floyd received impermissible benefits related to unofficial visits to several institutions prior to enrolling at UF. The NCAA made it clear that Florida was not one of the involved schools.
“Sharrif grew up in an environment 
where he didn’t have the things most of us take for granted — food, shelter and clothing,” Foley said in his state-ment. “In the absence of parents, there were kind people, in no way affiliated with the University of Florida, who were not boosters or sports agents, that helped him along the way to provide those things that he would otherwise not have had.”
The NCAA took Floyd’s situation 
and personal hardships into consid-eration and reduced his penalty from what would normally be a four-game suspension to two games.
“We examine each situation careful-
ly and consider all elements related to a student-athlete’s individual circum-stances and the violation,” said Kevin Lennon, vice president of academic and membership affairs. “This gives us the flexibility to tailor the conditions of reinstatement that take into account all details and are in the best interest of the involved student-athlete.”
If Floyd repays the $2,700 in the 
next week, he will be eligible to return for Florida’s Southeastern Conference opener at home against Tennessee on Sept. 17.
Floyd, who played in all 13 games 
as a freshman, was expected to start along the line for the Gators this sea-son. Defensive coordinator Dan Quinn said prior to the season opener that Floyd would play end in the team’s base defense, and tackle when the team used a nickel package. 
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org.24, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore defensive lineman Sharrif Floyd (73), who played in all 13 games as a freshman, was 
suspended for two games Thursday by the NCAA for receiving impermissible benefits.  
Floyd forced to repay $2,700 to charity before reinstatement
SUSPENDED , from page 1GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Junior forward Erik Murphy has been reinstated af-
ter he was suspended indefinitely in April, Florida an-
nounced Thursday.
Murphy and sophomore teammate Cody Larson were 
suspended from team activities following their April 10 arrest on felony burglary charges. The charges were later reduced to 
misdemeanor trespassing, and Murphy accepted deferred prosecution in July. He was required to undergo 50 hours of community service, avoid consumption 
of alcohol or other controlled substances for a year, and repay $440 in restitution and court costs. 
“Erik Murphy has served his punishment,” coach Billy Donovan said. 
“We’re all disappointed with what transpired, but 
there’s no question Erik has learned a great deal through the whole process and understands what a great opportu-nity and privilege it is to play college basketball.”
Murphy is expected to be a key contributor for the 
Gators in 2011, as he steps up to fill the void left by de-parted frontcourt starters Chandler Parsons, Alex Tyus and Vernon Macklin. Murphy averaged 4.3 points and 2.3 rebounds playing nearly 11 minutes per game last sea-son. 
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org.Gators forward Murphy reinstated after indefinite suspension
He was arrested in April on felony burglary charges
Murphy
