FinishingThe
Touch
There are plenty of impressive num-
bers that describe the Florida softball team’s Class of 2011.
Try 182-20, the record the group has com-
piled over the past three years.
Or 773, the number of games started — a 
total that includes no shortage of postseason 
experience for this battle-tested core.
Perhaps five, the team’s preseason rank-
ing — and the class’ number of remaining 
players: Stephanie Brombacher, Kelsey Bruder, Megan Bush, Tiffany DeFelice and 
Aja Paculba.
But there is one number that stands out to 
the Gators’ senior class.
Zero.When the class came to Florida in 2008, 
the five players shared a common goal: to 
win a Women’s College World Series cham-pionship.
They have come devastatingly close to 
achieving that goal, but the Gators fell inches short of capturing the title in 2009 when they lost to Washington in the WCWS finals.
For all the work the five seniors have 
done to establish Florida as a viable national powerhouse, zero remains their motivation.
And there is only one way for the seniors 
to be remembered as truly great.
“It would be a national championship 
banner on that wall right there,” Bruder said, pointing to the outfield wall in Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
While the team finished the 2010 season 
49-10, its worst record since 2007, there is plenty of optimism that these five can lead the Gators to the first WCWS title in school history.
Setting The Tone
Much of Florida’s hope for this year has 
to do with the mix of personality and play-ing style each senior brings to the team. 
Bruder, the self-described “loud one” of 
the group, keeps her less outgoing team-mates engaged from her spot in the out-field.
“We’re all very different and unique per -
sonalities, but we complement each other well,” Bruder said.
Paculba and Bush set the tone another 
way — not with their vocal skills, but by set-
ting an example for their teammates.
Yet even they fill vastly different roles on 
the field. Paculba, the leadoff hitter, makes 
an impact in all three phases of the game. 
Bush’s power stroke has her 18 home runs 
away from surpassing Francesca Enea as the school’s all-time leader. 
Their approach contrasts with the pitch-
er-catcher duo of Brombacher and DeFelice, 
who round out the group with their high 
level of intensity. 
“T [DeFelice] does a great job behind the 
plate directing everyone and being vocal in 
that playmaking sense,” Bruder said. 
Any differences in personalities, from 
loud and demonstrative to quiet and re-
served, have been overshadowed by the col-lective work of the group — and their desire to achieve the same goal. 
“If you look at us individually, we’re all 
different people, but I think we work well as a group,” Brombacher said. “We don’t all 
have to play with the same emotional levels, 
but we need to play together.” 
Making A Name
Although the Gators’ seniors are now 
sharing the same path to success, they cer -
tainly didn’t take identical tracks to get 
there.
While Paculba came in and established 
herself as a starter from day one, Bruder had 
to overcome some major struggles her fresh-
man year. 
After hitting only .133 in 37 games (10 
starts), Bruder knew the only way to make 
the year-two jump was to get more playing time.
She gave coach Tim Walton a simple re-
quest: Give me more at-bats. 
“Freshman year, I got maybe one at-bat a game,” she said. “But being able to see the pitcher three times and just gaining con-fidence, I told him in the beginning of the 
year, if you give me three at-bats, I’m defi-
nitely getting on with one of them.” 
Bruder has more than fulfilled that prom-
ise. 
While establishing herself as a mainstay 
in the outfield, she has been just as reliable 
at the plate with batting averages of .369 and 
.367 over the past two seasons. 
She currently holds the No. 1 spot in the 
team record book for career battering aver -
age (.343) and slugging percentage (.669). She also ranks third in on-base percentage (.429). 
But the sight of her name in the record 
books doesn’t compare to being part of a championship team. 
“Personal accolades don’t mean much if 
you can’t win,” Bruder said. 
Bruder won’t have to campaign for at-bats 
like she did her freshman year, but she will have another obstacle to overcome in her fi-nal season. With the graduation of Enea, the 
senior will shift from right to left field.
Walton said he has no doubts about her 
ability to adjust to being the full-time left 
fielder. He said Bruder’s superior athleticism, strong throwing arm 
and competitive attitude make her a more 
than capable replacement.  
But Bruder, one of the team’s strongest 
leaders, does not want the spotlight on her -
self or any individual’s accomplishments. Instead, she wants to continue improving the Florida softball program’s reputation — something she and her classmates have al-
ready helped accomplish in their first three 
years.
“I just want to continue to build into one 
of those great programs that you’ve heard of in the Pac-10,” she said. “If we can continue to form that reputation and keep getting great recruits, then we’ll be able to build into 
the legacies that the Pac-10 already have.” 
Showing The Way
Perhaps no one embodies the seniors’ 
team-first attitude like Paculba. 
While her quiet and focused approach 
may not draw the spotlight, she has let her 
play do the talking. 
The reserved second baseman has started 
all 202 games of the senior class’s run and 
has been a steady force at the plate, in the 
field and on the basepaths. 
Her .341 career batting average ranks sec-
ond in school history, and she boasts a stel-lar 58 stolen bases to go along with a .968 
fielding percentage. 
Quiet, calm and composed in her play, 
Paculba is the definitive leader by example 
for her less experienced teammates.
“It’s about guiding the younger players, 
but not really taking them out of their zone or how they like to play,” Brombacher said.
For a team that will rely on young players 
like Brittany Schutte and freshmen Kasey 
Fagan and Cheyenne Coyle, having veterans 
who make it a point to be examples of how to do things right, both on and off the field, is crucial. 
Schutte, who contributed immediately as 
a freshman last season, can attest to the sta-bility and guidance the seniors provide. 
“There’s quite a bit of them so they all 
know what to expect and they keep us pret-
ty engaged,” Schutte said.
Yet, even with the experience and leader -
ship they bring to the team, the seniors also 
benefit from the younger players. 
While winning never becomes routine, 
there is an expectation to do so, Brombacher said.
That expectation of consistency isn’t as 
engrained in the new players, so that allows 
them to play with more energy and blends 
well with the older players.
“They play with a little bit more excite-
ment than some of the seniors because they 
are excited as opposed to the business-like 
mentality of our senior group,” Walton said. 
Even though the senior class has won two 
SEC titles and rewritten the record books, 
the lure of winning a national championship 
is the driving force behind all their hard work.
“It’s definitely bittersweet when you get 
to the World Series, but you don’t get to take the big trophy home,” Bruder said. “We’re definitely looking to do that this year, and with the additions that we’ve gotten in our freshman class, we definitely think we’re 
better than ever.”   
To them, just getting to the tournament 
isn’t enough. 
Making it to the finals doesn’t suffice. Home runs and batting averages are sim-
ply meaningless numbers. 
The only number they care about is zero. 
And if they have anything to say about 
it, 2011 will be the year the outfield wall at 
Pressly Stadium receives its final touch. 
“I could care less if I go out leading zero 
categories for a career,” Brombacher said. 
“If we walk out with a national champion-
ship that’s all the proof I need.”Editor Adam Berry   ◗    Cover Photo Matt Tripp
Alligator, Friday, February 11, 2011
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN | ALLIGATOR WRITER
sports@alligator.orgSoftball Preview
One
Missing
UF seniors aim to end careers with first national title
Steven H. Keys / Alligator
Florida senior outfielder Kelsey Bruder worked her way into the Gators’ lineup as a freshman and has since become a staple in the 
middle of UF’s order. Bruder and her four classmates will be counted on to provide leadership for a young Gators team this season.
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida pitcher Stephanie Brombacher is one of the Gators’ senior leaders and has racked 
up plenty of individual accolades, but her priority in 2011 is a national championship.
Thing
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
After advancing to the Women’s College World 
Series for three consecutive seasons, the Gators are 
ranked No. 5 in the nation. 
But even the national recognition isn’t enough 
to earn the Gators respect in their own conference.
UF, which will officially kick off the 2011 cam-
paign today in Clearwater, is predicted to finish fifth in the Southeastern Conference, third in the SEC East, according to a preseason poll by league 
coaches. 
However, this may not be so much a reflection 
on the Gators but the quickly improving league as 
a whole. 
“We’re ranked No. 5 in the country, fifth in the 
SEC, so I think that’s a little bit of irony but also just shows you exactly where we’re at in the country as far as the league’s concerned,” coach Tim Walton said. 
The Gators will have plenty of chances to prove 
their doubters wrong when the SEC schedule be-gins, as they host No. 3 Alabama, No. 4 Georgia and No. 7 Tennessee at home this year.
“Preseason rankings are more of a compliment 
to what you’ve done in the past,” Walton said. “I put zero stock in it. 
I can’t even vote for myself.”
But before Florida can concern 
itself with the improved competi-tion of the SEC, the Gators must get through a demanding noncon-ference slate. 
For the fifth time in his six years 
at Florida, Walton’s team will once again have to start the journey to Oklahoma City on the road. 
Coming off a 49-10 season in which they were 
eliminated in the quarterfinals of the WCWS, the 
Gators will begin their quest for a title as they travel more than two hours to take part in the USF 
Wilson DeMarini Tournament.
The opportunity to play on the road for the 
opening series is actually beneficial for building chemistry, Walton said. 
While playing away can be challenging, it allows 
him to control certain elements he can’t at home, 
such as team meals and how players prepare for 
each game.
Players may also be paired with potential future 
roommates on the road, and having veterans to keep the young players grounded also helps main-
tain balance. 
The team’s opening-day doubleheader will be-
gin against Marshall at 6 p.m. 
The Gators will then face Florida Gulf Coast at 8 
p.m. in the nightcap. 
UF is also scheduled to play Long Island and 
NC State on Saturday before a matchup with South 
Florida on Sunday.Gators to open regular season ranked fifth in national, SEC polls
Walton
“I could care less if I go out leading 
— Stephanie BrombacherIf we walk out with a national championship,
that’s all the proof I need.”
Florida senior pitcherzero categories for a career.
USA Today/NFCA Top 25
1. UCLA
2. Arizona
3. Georgia
4. Tennessee
5. Florida
SEC Preseason Poll
1. Alabama
2. Tennessee
3. Georgia
4. LSU
5. FloridaTheWe Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 27 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Florida senior 
forward Chandler 
Parsons (right) 
has stepped up his 
game since putting 
aside all the lofty 
preseason expecta-
tions that distract -
ed him earlier this 
year. 
See Story, Page 13.German shepherd in Oregon to get stem cells to help heal hip
MEDFORD, Ore. — A former Oregon 
military dog that did two tours of duty sniff-
ing out bombs in Iraq is going to receive stem cell therapy to treat osteoarthritis in his hips.
The Mail Tribune reports the 80-pound 
German shepherd named Basco was adopted in November by Debbie Richter in Medford after he was discharged by the military.
Hip problems such as arthritis can lead to 
early death for larger dogs, and surgery op-tions such as hip replacement have a limited chance of success for an older dog like Basco, who is 7.
While researching alternatives, Richter 
says she found MediVet-America, which of-fers a stem cell treatment for joint problems in dogs and horses using the animal’s own stem cells to regenerate damaged tissue.
An Oregon State University veterinarian 
will perform the procedure.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSn THEY BROKE UP TWO MONTHS 
AGO BUT STILL LIVED TOGETHER.
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student was arrested and 
charged with sexual assault after forc-
ing himself upon his ex-girlfriend in the shower Wednesday.
Chase Corbin, a 20-year-old econom-
ics major at UF, broke up with his girl-friend about two months ago, but contin-
ued living with her out of convenience, 
according to a Gainesville Police report.
While she showered, Corbin went into her room and started going through 
her calls and text messages. 
He got angry and started yelling at her 
through her locked bathroom door, then 
kicked it open, demand-
ing to know whom she 
had been seeing.
After the two ar -
gued, police say Corbin took off his clothes, 
got in the shower and 
forced her to have sex with him. 
Corbin was arrested 
a few hours later and charged with sexu-al battery. His bond is set at $120,000.
Cloudy
63/38 FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 8
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 13
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer 
Florida Senate President Mike Haridopolos can’t foresee all the 
twists that the state legislative session will take this year. 
But he does know this: The state’s wallet is about to get $3.6 
billion lighter. 
The state senator stressed the importance of budget cuts 
throughout his presentation at  Pugh Hall on Thursday night. The 
event, hosted by the Bob Graham Center for Public Service, en-couraged people to submit questions to Haridopolos in person and online.
Faced with questions about Gov. Rick Scott’s proposed bud-
get cuts, the future of Florida students and tax breaks for state businesses, Haridopolos, who is also a lecturer at UF, ensured the audience that the budget will shrink no matter where the deepest cuts are made. 
In a later interview, Haridopolos said both Republicans and 
Democrats in the state Senate are cautious of Scott’s proposal.
“The details are the key,” he said. “Where we find common 
ground is we’re going to spend $3.6 billion less.”
While budget cuts are the legislature’s first priority , tax relief 
may be up for discussion after state spending is slashed, he said.
“We’re not going to raise taxes,” he said. “We can’t afford it, 
and people can’t afford it.”
Haridopolos also responded to questions about potential cuts 
to the state’s education system. Earlier this week, Gov. Scott re-leased his budget proposal, which called for the state to trim edu-cation spending by $3.3 billion. 
He argued that a quality education system does not exclu-State Senate president talks budget cuts
SEE HARIDOPOLOS, PAGE 5
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
Though the Unite Party and Progress 
Party will be battling for office at the 
end of this month, they both agree that fighting against the implementation of block tuition is a top priority.
UF students will have the chance to 
voice their opinions on the issue during 
the Student Government elections on 
Feb. 22 and 23.
If implemented, block tuition would 
mean full-time students are charged a flat rate for 15 credit hours, no mat-ter the actual number of credit hours taken.
Supervisor of Elections Amanda Grif-
fin said the block tuition referendum is 
the only question on the ballot.
“I think that the opinion of the Stu-
dent Body is already 
known, and it’s great that it’s on the bal-lot,” said Ben Mey-
ers, the Unite Party candidate for Stu-dent Body president. 
Meyers said he has long opposed 
block tuition and believes the Unite Par -Block tuition on ballot
SEE BALLOT, PAGE 5“We’re not going to raise taxes, we can’t afford it, 
and people can’t afford it.”
Mike Haridopolos
Florida Senate President
Corbin
StudentGovernmentJordan Streetal / Alligator
Florida Senate President Mike Haridopolos answers questions from the audience after his presentation in Pugh 
Hall on Thursday night.
Police say student forced 
himself on ex-girlfriendNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 27 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011
TODAYFORECAST
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Spencer Christen,  
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING 
African Student Union Speed 
DatingToday,  6:30 p.m. Graham Gallery
ASU is having a Valentine’s 
Day speed dating social. The first half of the event will be marked by a mix and mingle where there will be light re-freshments. The second por -
tion will be the speed dating part. 
SG Absentee Ballots
By todayAbsentee ballots for the SG election can be requested at sg.ufl.edu/elections. Look un-der “For the Voter.” The elec-tion will be held Feb. 22 and 23.
Women’s Leadership Conference 
“Blueprint for Success” RegistrationBy todayThe conference on Feb. 27 offers participants the opportunity to improve their leadership skills. With  workshops and a gradu-ate school panel, participants 
will discover the building blocks  
they need to become successful 
leaders in society.  UF alumna Diana Diaz, co-anchor for Miami News Channel 7, will be the keynote speaker. 
Fourteenth Annual Medical 
College Forum
Saturday
Reitz UnionStudents can learn about the medical school admission process and meet admissions deans and directors from every school in the state and across the country. Register online at ufpremed.org/mcf or at the 
event. 
Tradition Keepers
Saturday, 4:30 p.m. 
Heavener ComplexStudents can show their UF school spirit and UF pride by documenting their partici-pation in UF traditions. The 
group will be completing tasks 
found in the “F” Book. recognizing symptoms, and 
how to become healthy inside 
and out.
PEM Debate on Health Care 
LegislationWednesday, 7:30 p.m.Reitz Union Room 276Pre-med AMSA’s Politics and Ethics in Medicine is having 
its first debate on health care 
reform, specifically whether the United States should adopt a single-payer system. E-mail pem@ufpremed.org to RSVP .
RUB Entertainment Local Brew 
SeriesThursday, 8 p.m.
Orange & Brew
RUB Entertainment presents The Righteous Kind with locals Pseudo Kids and The Footlights for free. For more information about the Local Brew series, as well as other events, become a fan of RUB Entertainment on Facebook and follow rubenter -
tain on Twitter. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your sub-missions after above events. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.University Gospel Choir 
Benefit ConcertSunday, 6 p.m.Upper Room Ministries, 3575 NE 15th St. This concert helps the University Gospel Choir  al-leviate some costs for its an-nual spring break tour. For more information, contact 
the University Gospel Choir 
at universitygospelchoir.com or e-mail university-gospelchoir@gmail.com. 
Indonesia Scholarship 
Information SessionMonday, 4:30 p.m.Hub, Room 170
The Freeman Foundation 
is offering a fully funded, nine-week summer in-ternship study abroad op-portunity in Indonesia. Internship fields include economic development, public health, art, education and environmental protec-
tion. Interested American 
and Indonesian sophomores and juniors are encouraged to apply. 
RUB Entertainment Presents 
The Love GameMonday, 8 p.m.Orange & Brew
Visitors can participate 
in RUB’s own version  
of “The Dating Game.” Contestants of the game will win special prizes to share with each other.
Get Your Mind Right
Tuesday, 7 p.m.
Ustler Hall, 2nd floor
This Black Woman’s Image Initiative Session will ad-dress the importance of psychological issues, how to go about seeking help, 
CLOUDY
63/38PARTLY
CLOUDY
63/34SUNNY
65/38SUNNY
67/41SUNNY
70/43TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
INTERNATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS  
CAIRO — Egypt’s Hosni Mubarak re-
fused to step down or leave the country 
and instead handed most of his powers 
to his vice president Thursday, enraging 
protesters who warned the country could explode in violence and pleaded for the military to take action to push him out.
The rapidly moving events raised the 
question of whether a rift had opened be-tween Mubarak and the military command over the spiraling mass uprising demand-ing the president go. 
Hours earlier, a council of the military’s 
top generals announced it had stepped in to secure the country, and a senior com-mander announced to protesters in Tahrir 
Square that all their demands would soon 
be met, raising cries of victory that Muba-rak was on his way out.
Several hundred thousand had packed 
into Tahrir Square, ecstatic with expecta-
tion that Mubarak would announce his 
resignation in his nighttime address. 
Instead, they watched in shocked si-
lence as he spoke, holding their foreheads in anger and disbelief. 
Some broke into tears. Others waved 
their shoes in the air in contempt. After the speech, they broke into chants of “Leave, 
leave, leave.”
Organizers called for even larger pro-
tests on Friday. 
After Mubarak’s speech, around 2,000 
marched on the state television head-
quarters several blocks away from Tahrir, guarded by the military with barbed wire and tanks. 
“They are the liars,” the crowd shouted, 
pointing at the building, chanting, “We won’t leave, they will leave.”
Hundreds more massed outside Muba-
rak’s main administrative palace, Oruba, 
miles away from Tahrir in the Cairo dis-
trict of Heliopolis, the first time protesters have marched on it, according to witnesses and TV reports. 
The residence where Mubarak normal-
ly stays when he is in Cairo is inside the palace, though it was not known if he was there.
Prominent reform advocate, Nobel 
Peace laureate Mohamed ElBaradei, whose supporters were among the organizers of the 17-day-old wave of protests, issued a Tweet warning, “Egypt will explode.”
“The army must save the country now,” 
ElBaradei said. “I call on the Egyptian army to immediately interfere to rescue Egypt. The credibility of the army is on the line.”
Hours before Mubarak’s speech, the 
military made moves that had all the markings of a coup.
The military’s Supreme 
Council, which is headed by Defense Minister Field 
Marshal Hussein Tan-tawi, announced on state 
TV that it was in perma-
nent session, a status that it takes only in 
times of war. 
It said it was exploring “what measures 
and arrangements could be made to safe-
guard the nation, its achievements and the 
ambitions of its great people.” 
That suggested Tantawi and his gener -
als were now in charge of the country.
But there was no immediate reaction from the military following Mubarak’s speech, and their position remained am-biguous.
President Barack Obama appeared dis-
mayed by Mubarak’s announcement. 
He said in a statement that it was not 
clear that an “immediate, meaningful” transition to democracy was taking place 
and warned that too many Egyptians are 
not convinced that the government is seri-ous about making genuine change.
“The Egyptian government must put 
forward a credible, concrete and unequiv-
ocal path toward genuine democracy, and 
they have not yet seized that opportunity,” Obama said.
Even after delegating authority to his 
vice president, Mubarak retains his pow-ers to request constitutional amendments and dissolve parliament or the Cabinet.
The constitution allows the president to 
transfer his other authorities if he is unable 
to carry out his duties “due to any tempo-
rary obstacle.”
“I saw fit to delegate the authorities of 
the president to the vice president, as dic-
tated in the constitution,” he said. Egypt’s Mubarak won’t quit, but gives power to VP
Mubarak
4, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011
Daniela Guzman / Alligator
That’s a huge wiener!
Einstein Bros. Bagels employee Snyder Choute takes a break to take a picture of the Oscar 
Meyer Wienermobile parked outside of the Hub on Thursday afternoon.
n THE FORMS CAN BE 
FOUND ONLINE.
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer 
If you want to have a say in 
who will make decisions for 
Gainesville, you need to regis-
ter to vote in Alachua County by Monday.
Registration forms should 
be postmarked by Monday or 
dropped in the Supervisor of Elec-
tions mailbox by midnight Mon-day for you to be eligible to vote in the March 15 city election.
 “Sometimes students feel that 
[an election] doesn’t have an im-pact on them,” said Pam Carpen-ter, supervisor of elections. “But some of them end up staying in 
Gainesville and making it their 
permanent home, so it does affect them.”
As of Thursday, there were 
151,702 registered voters in Ala-chua County. 
Carpenter said about 10,000 
people voted in the election last March, accounting for 14 percent of the county’s registered voters at the time.
There are three ways to regis-
ter. One option is to fill out and 
print an online registration form. 
Another option is to download 
the registration form from the 
supervisor’s website. Interested 
residents can go to elections.ala-
chua.fl.us for more information. 
Potential vot-ers will have to 
write the infor -
mation instead of typing it in. 
A third op-
tion, which may 
appeal to those 
who don’t  have a computer, is to 
pick up a registration form at 185 locations around the county, in-
cluding several Publix supermar -
kets, UF locations and Gainesville 
schools.
“You have the opportunity to 
select who you want to represent you from the ground up,” Car -
penter said.Voter registration 
deadline is Monday
Carpenter
ON CAMPUS
By NICOLE DECK
Alligator Contributing Writer
The third annual “Elegance of Science” 
art contest, which showcases research be-
ing done at UF in an artistic format, is be-ing held this month.
Students, faculty, staff and alumni are 
eligible to submit art. A panel of judges will award undetermined prizes for first, second and third place in addition to a $200 alumni prize courtesy of the UF Alumni Association.
A maximum of five submissions are 
allowed per contestant, and artwork is limited to two-dimensional images in JPEG format with a resolution of about 800 by 600 pixels. Artists must also send a paragraph narrative explaining the art.
The contest began as a fun way to 
bridge the gap between the UF science community and the libraries, said Joe Baca, library associate at the Marston Sci-ence Library and coordinator of the con-test. 
According to Baca, the judges are look-
ing for images that are created in the pur -
suit of research at UF. Entries from any and all disciplines are accepted as long as they’re science related.
Selection criteria include artistic or 
scientific merit, degree to which the entry puts a new perspective on either science or art, success in translating between ar -
tistic and scientific vocabularies and cre-ativity of approach.
Some past entries have included cells 
under a microscope, close-ups of flowers, animals, wood and leaves, kaleidoscope-like images and water.
The contest is co-sponsored by the 
Health Science Center Library, the Archi-tecture & Fine Arts Library and the UF Alumni Association.Art show displays research
By KELLEY DAVIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 100 UF students will meet on 
Turlington Plaza Sunday afternoon to 
chalk up the campus with inspirational messages and Bible verses to show love to those who need it most on Valentine’s 
Day. 
Lacey Duncan, a UF junior, plans to 
participate in the event, which will run 
from 2 p.m. to 7 p.m.
Duncan sees the event as a good way 
to give encouragement to those who will be lonely or have low self-esteem on Val-entine’s Day.
“I believe knowing that God, whose 
love is much greater than any boyfriend or girlfriend, loves you is the best encour -
agement if you are lonely,” Duncan said.While the main idea is to write Bible 
verses, students also plan to write simple messages like “you are special,” “you are loved” and “you are beautiful” all over the campus.
Realizing you have friends and family 
and being with them can help relieve the feelings of loneliness and depression on 
Valentine’s Day, said Man-uel Lopez, an intern with the UF Counseling Center. 
To cope with depression 
on Valentine’s Day, Lopez advises stu-
dents not to sit at home alone, but to go 
out and find other friends that are single and stick together.
“I would imagine walking around and 
seeing positive messages would be very helpful to those with low self-esteem on Valentine’s Day,” Lopez said.Students chalk for love
OnCampu sn SHE LEARNED HOW TO DJ 
IN AUSTRALIA.
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
When Kayla Radics goes to work, 
she knows people will stare. She can 
feel the eyes sizing her up as she puts on her headphones and starts her computer. They’re locked on her 
every move, waiting for her to screw 
up or show weakness.
She is a female disc jockey who 
goes by “Whiskey Business.”
Radics, a 22-year-old accounting 
and international business major at UF, got her start about two years ago when she worked as bar manager at Ambar nightclub in Australia.
One night, after watching a big-
name DJ perform, she went up into the booth to compliment the man. She ended up getting a free lesson.
After that, she was hooked. Soon after, she came back to 
Florida, bought some turntables and has been spinning ever since. She even got a bass clef tattooed on her wrist to symbolize the new love of her life.
“Playing music is the only time 
that my head is clear,” she said. 
But living the life of a DJ hasn’t 
been easy for Radics. As a woman in a male-dominated industry , she has to take a lot of flak from her peers.
Perceived gender roles only 
make the job harder. Some promot-ers, Radics said, just want a pretty face. She believes they don’t under -
stand the art behind it.
She said promoters often ap-
proach her while she’s playing to re-cruit her for other events, but when she follows up with them, all they’re 
interested in is hooking up. In terms 
of professional work, there is none.
And some people are just plain 
mean. One night when Radics showed up to play a club set, the resident DJ realized she was a wom-an. He then turned to the guy next to him and started making jokes right in her face. 
He made her play the opening 
set and turned off all the computer monitors so she couldn’t see what she was doing. He sat there laugh-ing for a while, then kicked her off and turned the monitors back on for everyone else.
But the struggle pays off. Radics will open for the dubstep dynamo 12th Planet at Spannk, 21 SW Sec-ond St., on Wednesday.
sively rely on the amount of funding, but how it is used. Florida spends almost $7,000 per student, Haridopolos said, and the state 
should direct that money into classrooms to 
support teachers.
Daniel Sibol, a UF freshman, expressed 
concern over the senator’s comments on education reform. While Haridopolos dis-cussed the importance of causing change from the bottom up for health care, Sibol said his education recommendations would embrace a top-down mentality rather than 
welcome teachers as important players in 
the decision-making process. 
Haridopolos also advocated pension re-form for state employees to ensure that Flo-ridians aren’t burdened with those expenses, 
as well as Medicaid reform similar in spirit 
to the national welfare reforms made in the mid-1990s. 
Eden Joyner, a third-year political sci-
ence and public relations major, submitted a question asking for Haridopolos’ stance on a bill supporting students’ right to carry guns on college campuses. 
He  didn’t explicitly support the bill but 
admitted his sympathy as a National Rifle Association member toward the right for citizens to carry weapons. 
He suggested students visit Tallahassee 
to testify before state legislators or protest to voice their concerns about the measure. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Jordan Streetzel / Alligator
UF student Kayla Radics plays some tunes in her home studio to prepare for upcoming gigs. You can see 
Radics, or Whiskey Business, open up for 12th Planet on Wednesday at Spannk nightclub.
Student DJ defies 
gender stereotypes
HARIDOPOLOS , from page 1Elections are Feb. 22 and 23
ty stands unanimously against it, too.
He said the next step, if students vote 
against the implementation, is to bring 
the votes to administration to show that 
students at UF stand together in opposi-
tion.
Griffin said that the referendum 
question was approved by the SG Su-preme Court a couple of weeks ago.
Students for a Democratic Society, 
a group of student activists, submitted the question with a petition signed by 1,511 students.
According to SG election codes, a 
petition securing signature from no less than 2 percent of the Student Body, or 1,000 signatures for the 50,000 students at UF, is needed for a question to be put on the ballot.
Dave Schneider, a member of the 
group and the Progress Party candidate for Student Body president, said that he feels the ballot question is the next step to make administration hear the stu-dents’ voices.
“I feel very, very 
strongly that the only way we will ever get rid of block tuition is 
to get the Student Body to fight and get involved,” he said.
He said that it is the biggest issue 
students are dealing with now at UF and that they have a right to let admin-
istration know their opinion.
“It will always be the students who 
will really have the power to make 
change on campus,” he said.BALLOT , from page  1 Florida faces a $3.6 billion deficit
StudentGovernmentThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Do you think Detroit should install a RoboCop statue?
116 TOTAL VOTES17% YES83% NOThursday’s question: Do you think Gainesville is a romantic city?
Love is in the air — or is it those droplets of water that 
can’t decide if they’re rain or fog? Either way, Valentine’s 
Day is Monday. 
Whether you’re looking forward to cuddling or bouts of 
self-loathing, buying cards or complaining about the com-mercialization of human emotion, we’ve got something to match your mood. Settle in for the even-with-all-your-
angry-letters-we-know-you-still-love-us edition of...
Darts & Laurels
Various news outlets and the president himself got us 
to turn our eyes back to Egypt on Thursday. The Egyp-
tian president was expected to step down from his office; 
instead, he tried to placate protesters wound up on two 
weeks of ire by making small concessions of power. We fa-vor compromise in many cases, but this isn’t one of them. We’re chucking a we-thought-we-were-bad-at-taking-
a-hint DART to Hosni Mubarak. Talk about a bait and 
switch.
Detroit’s government is also letting its citizens down — 
but we’re not focusing on any political problems. Instead, 
we’re disappointed about  the city’s lack of a RoboCop 
statue. 
Detroit was rumored to be considering the monument, 
but Mayor Dave Bing shot down the idea via Twitter. We 
don’t care. 
We’re giving a galvanized steel you-almost-made-us-
want-to-visit-the-city-we-most-associate-with-tangible-hopelessness LAUREL to donors for a privately pur -
chased RoboCop statue. Their prime directive: making public art awesome.
If you’re like us and consider playing the air guitar 
whenever a great song comes on, sit down. We’ve got some bad news for you.
Collegiate rights of passage vary for each generation, 
but when we look back, one of ours consisted of fumbling with a plastic guitar-shaped controller, furiously hitting colored buttons with the left hand and clicking a lever with the right. 
That’s why we felt a little empty when we heard one of 
our favorite video game series was ending. For reviving an interest in classic rock and letting us to play in the pretend spotlight, we’re handing a hold-on-while-we-grab-our-lighters LAUREL to “Guitar Hero” creator Activision. 
Thanks for giving us another reason to laugh at ourselves and our friends.
Of course, Gainesville’s preferred way of getting peo-
ple to giggle at one another is the bottle. But our drinking problem could be worse: we could be living in Scotland, 
where the BrewDog firm has created the latest ridiculous-
ly expensive beverage. 
For inventing a beverage that comes in an 11-ounce 
bottle but can push you over the legal limit in a gulp, 
we’re throwing an it’s-a-red-flag-when-your-beer-needs-
a-resealable-cap DART at Sink the Bismarck beer. They 
get props for the name, though.
Although the debate is heated and will continue for a 
while, we’d like to give a thanks-for-banding-together-
on-an-issue LAUREL to UF Student Senate for voting to 
oppose Florida Senate Bill 234. While we understand the 
argument for Second Amendment rights, we are worried 
that the presence of legally obtained firearms on campus 
would lead to those guns falling into the wrong hands more frequently. 
That’s your weekly rundown. Go enjoy some chocolate 
and whatever those candy hearts are made of.Fear halts crime prevention measures
These days, the talk is all about prevention.  
Whether it is AIDS, crime, terrorism or obesity, there 
is always someone lamenting how we live in a society 
that reacts to problems we face instead of taking measures to prevent them from happening in the first place.
There is nearly universal agreement that prevention 
rather than reaction would be ideal. And many officials and ordinary citizens across the country feel strongly enough 
about the importance of prevention to raise ideas and pro-pose measures that would help solve many of the problems 
faced by society.
Unfortunately, when it comes to actually implementing 
such ideas, political ideology and personal bias inevitably 
cloud the issues and get in the way of changing the status quo.
This week, the U.S. Congress failed to extend a provi-
sion of the Patriot Act that was designed to monitor and conduct surveillance on “lone wolf” foreign terror suspects. This was a measure that was considered very important to 
the U.S. intelligence community, and we will never know 
how many acts of terror were prevented by its passage. 
And yet now, because partisan politics was the order 
of the day, this prevention technique has been repealed.  
Another example is that of the constant debate over absti-
nence education in schools. 
Research and common sense both point to the fal-
lacy of stimulating teenagers’ sexual appetites during the 
most vulnerable and hormone-crazed part of their lives, 
yet many seem to think that to promote abstinence would 
somehow destroy society as we know it. And thus, the one 
step that would take us closest to teen pregnancy preven-
tion is foiled.
Finally, consider the legislation currently before the 
Florida Senate regarding legalization of firearms on state campuses. 
Many emotionally charged debates have raged over the past couple of weeks, during which the main issue has been muddied by 
both sides of the argument. 
Some claim that students need the 
ability to draw a gun on a potential assailant, while others make the case 
that all this brandishing will result in 
accidental shootings.
Yet both sides fail to see that this 
is not necessarily an issue of safety 
but one of crime prevention. The main issue is that the mere 
presence of guns would prevent most violent crimes from 
being attempted because would-be perpetrators would 
know that there is always the chance of coming face-to-face with a gun carrier intent on stopping the crime.
There is a reason that schools are the most common 
choice for violent, armed attacks. Very rarely does one hear about a shooting in a workplace or a county fair because there is always the chance that an armed, law-abiding citi-
zen could save the day.
Thirty years ago, when frat houses, dorms and pickup 
trucks on campuses across the fruited plain were known to 
contain large quantities of legal firearms, school shootings were not a problem. Only when the right to bear arms was 
infringed upon and guns were banned from campuses was 
open season declared for a madman to enter a university 
and take his vengeance on society.
And now, when we are faced with a real opportunity to 
implement a proven measure of crime prevention, politics 
and peoples’ irrational fear of firearms comes to the aid of 
perpetrators. 
Unless lawmakers begin to boldly step outside political 
lines and turn the widespread talk into actual action, the 
only thing that will be prevented is prevention itself.
Bob Minchin is a fourth-year electrical engineering major. 
His column appears on Fridays.
Bob Minchin
letters@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
I would like to address two columns that were published 
Wednesday and Thursday critiquing the Alligator for cov-ering the various events of the Progress Party and Dave 
Schneider. 
The common point that each brought up was that there are 
members of the UF community who volunteer, and they aren’t given the front page of the newspaper, so why should the Prog-ress Party and Dave Schneider get all the attention? 
I would first like to say that I respect and openly admire 
those active members of the UF community — it’s because of you that our campus is as alive and inviting as it is. The second point I would like to bring up is that these esteemed members of our Student Body aren’t currently running for Student Gov-ernment.
If we were to look at UF as a microcosm of the United States 
and draw a parallel between the two, we could observe this similarity: There are hundreds of people in both environments who volunteer and help out. However, if we look at the U.S., the only people who get due at-tention are politicians. 
John Doe may go out every day and volunteer at the local 
hospital, but it’s when the political candidates volunteer that the cameras start flashing and the reporters start gathering.
It doesn’t mean that John Doe’s efforts are pointless and 
should go forgotten; it simply means that John Doe isn’t trying to obtain a seat of power and isn’t looking for the overwhelm-ing responsibility of running our country. The people of the United States don’t need to decide whether John Doe is a good choice to represent them, but they need to decide which politi-cian is going to represent them.
A more crass example would compare the average working 
man with the politician and how society deals with their respec-tive extramarital affairs. If John Doe had an affair somewhere in Alabama, we wouldn’t even bat an eyelash — we wouldn’t even care. However, why did the whole nation go into an up-roar when they caught wind of John Edward’s, Eliot Spitzer’s and, the most infamous of all, President Clinton’s affairs? 
The simple answer is because these are men in power and 
these are the men whom we trust with the future our nation. When they fall, we do too. When they are dishonest, America is, too.
This brings me back to our immediate environment and the 
current political elections. 
The Alligator should publish the events that the Progress 
Party and the Unite Party partake in because their actions are the catalysts that help the Student Body decide who is going to run our government. 
If there are some students who are upset because they feel 
one party is getting more attention than the other, my advice is 
that the party in the shadows needs to step up its game.
Media coverage of SG candidates’ actions understandableGuest column
Michela Martinazzi
Speaking Out
Morgan Watkins’ subtle and professor 
Matheny’s not-so-subtle denounce-ments of Gov . Scott’s proposed cuts 
to education on the front page of Wednesday’s Alligator are, in a word, wrong.
As a student, I am always in support of 
improved education, especially in a state that, according to the National Center for Educa-tion Statistics, has performed consistently at or below the national average. However, I do not submit to the naive belief that tax dollars allo-cated to education are directly correlated to the teaching of our state’s youth. In fact, I would contend that the bloated bureaucracies that 
plague public education across the U.S. utilize 
their funding so poorly that continuing to feed them money only contributes to the steady de-cline in the quality of our nation’s learning rela-tive to the rest of the world.
The simple fact is that it is folly to have faith 
in the government’s effectiveness in providing any public good. The miserable service at the Department of Motor Vehicles, the inefficiency of the U.S. Postal Service and the embarrass-ingly low profitability of Amtrak are all testa-ments to this fact. Education, however, is a spe-cial case, as we place much hope for the future 
success of our nation on the enlightenment of 
its youth. Thus, many are keen to increase edu-cation funding in the hope that we will make the future better. 
The problem of poor education is not limit-
ed to the state of Florida. It is endemic, plaguing the overwhelming majority of school districts in the States. The most significant culprits are the teachers unions, which have made the process 
of improving education impossibly difficult, 
prioritizing members over students. 
Public worker unions seem an oddity in and 
of themselves, but the ways in which they have stood in the way of education reform move beyond the crimes of inefficiency and into the realm of actively harming students.
A prime example is the unions’ recalcitrant opposition to the at-tempt to introduce pri-vate school vouchers in Florida. Ignoring a wild-
ly successful, very similar program that has 
been in place in New Zealand since the 1970s, 
the Florida Opportunity Scholarship Program was challenged in the courts and shot down in 2006, due in no small part to unions lobbying against it since 1999.
In fact, when considering New Zealand, one 
finds an astonishing disparity between educa-tion quality and funding that is essentially the inverse of that in America. Funding per stu-
dent in New Zealand was ranked significantly 
below the Organization for Economic Coop-eration and Development mean, and yet the U.N. Human Development Index shows that its education is tied for the very best with Den-mark, Finland and Australia. The success of the voucher system in New Zealand is universally accepted and is often cited as an argument in favor of implementation in America, much to the irritation of teachers unions.
The point here is that increased education 
funding simply does not translate to an increase in the quality of education, and taking up arms 
over a decrease in that funding is not the most 
appropriate response. Matheny’s stated faith in the merits of increased spending exposes his desire for government expansion, despite evi-dence against government’s role in education.
His remark comparing Gov. Scott to an as-
piring dictator of a Third World country is, reckless hyperbole aside, a contradiction. The oppression that the citizens of these “Third 
World state[s]” experience is due to govern-
ments with the hubris to believe that they can do everything. It is ironic, then, that Gov. Scott’s efforts to scale back the government’s corrupt-ing reach, especially in an area so vital as educa-tion, inspire allusions to totalitarianism.
Sam Kowalczyk3EG
Governor trying to streamline, not derail Florida educationGuest column
Sam Kowalczyk
Speaking OutClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Now Leasing for 2011-2012!
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
Text "GP" to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
OPEN HOUSE
THIS SATURDAY
10AM-8PM
Come check out our 2 & 4 bedrooms.
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @  $399** *
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-11-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
42” TV included in every apt
$444 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. 
Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus 
Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-
205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-22-
11-25-1
**6 Bedroom House**
Walk to class. Pool. 2 Living Rooms.
Game Room. 3 Bathrooms.
Lease begins August 5.
Please call 561-866-8234 for further info.
2-11-5-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet Friendly
Prem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld
352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-2
FREE iPad WITH THIS AD!!
*12 Month Lease required.
Hampton Oaks Apartments
352-333-8643
2-17-11-5-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!
·         Available NOW and August!
·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, GymGated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
Starting at $409 per person!
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011 � ALLIGATOR, 9
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 10-2  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-16-
10-40-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$439
2/1 *$558
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    2-28-11-36-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●3/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         929 nw 22 street     $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1400
●2/1  apt     2nd floor 204 nw 18  st    $1200
●2/1  apt     1st  floor 204  nw 18 st    $1100
●2/2   apt     2515  sw  35 place          $1200
2-18-11-20-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
No move in fees and $500 off March!
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA very nice house. 
Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game 
room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets 
ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-15-11-24-2
AVAILABLE  AUG 1st. 4BR/3BA beautiful 
4-year-old house, washer/dryer provided. 
Open floor plan, vaulted ceilings, fireplace, 
large rooms. 2108 NW 8th Ct. $1575/mo 339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-15-11-19-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-15-11-19-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $625/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160    2-17-11-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $410, 2 BR $500. 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $450, 2BR $550 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-11-42-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
1BR/1BA NW. $475/mo.
Available now. Pets ok.
Call 352-359-1644 or 352-332-8481     2-28-11-20-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living 
room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-15-11-9-2
10, ALLIGATOR � FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 5BR/2BA BIG, big 
yard for dogs, bonfires, etc. W/D provided. 
Fireplace in living room & game room w/ bar 
area. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1650/mo. 352-
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-15-11-9-2
Immaculate small efficiency Quiet.Wash/
dry on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No 
pets.1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus 
routes.$399/m.352-262-2871. Owner agent.   
2-21-11-14-2
Summer Place
One Bedroom *$439
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-49-2
Condominiums 2 & 4 Bedrooms now or 
summer and fall. Popular locations such as 
CountrySide, Southwest and Shands area. 
Call for details Bristol Park Realty 352 367 
2669 Bristolparkrealty.com   3-14-11-21-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 
920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. 
postj@bellsouth.net   2-18-11-10-2
3/2 Available Fall!
4 Blocks to UF
***48 Hour Special***
352-371-7777                      3-4-11-20-2
$360-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo 
in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins 
from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, 
W/D included, furnished common area. 
352.514.3398.   2-28-15-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.
Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com2-15-11-4-2
Cozy, Private and Close to Campus!
2-Bedroom Apartments available for rent im-mediately!!! Close to Butler Plaza, UF and bus routes.Short leases available.For more info, please call 786-512-0628   2-15-5-2
The Price You Want, The Convenience You 
Need! $650 - 2BR/2BA apartment walking distance of UF, shopping center and bus routes. Open Floor Plan - Small Pets allowed. Available for rent immediately 352.262.2828   2-15-11-5-2
***NICE AND SPACIOUS APARTMENT 
TWO BLOCKS FROM BEATY TOWERS****920 SW Depot Ave apt. 15. Great location and great price. Pets allowed. Parking and laundry. camipizano@yahoo.com   2-16-5-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street352-372-1494 x10www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month 2BR 1BA Apts3 BLKS TO UF! 840 Sq. Ft.Large Rooms, Plenty ofParking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac.Carpet, Pets Allowed. 829 Sw 5th Avenue.
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt 3 BLKS TO UFNew Carpet $450/Mo $600 DepositWindow A/C, Nat Gas Ht.216 SW 12th Street.
EFFECIENCY -2 Rooms(not bedrooms)
Shared Bathroom, Window A/CCarpet, Across from UF Stadium1830 NW 1st Avenue $295/Mo, $300 Deposit
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA 1BLK TO UFCentral H & Air, LaundryOn site. $500/Mo1236 Sw 4th Avenue $600 Deposit2-11-11-1-23BR APTS 1/2 block to Tigert Hall. 1227 SW 
4th Ave. 2-story brick quad, w/ 3BR apts 
available. Convenient, clean, & energy effi-
cient. 3BRs for $1350/mo. August 1st. Call 
352-514-5060 for appointment    2-17-11-5-
2
Eff Barn Apt, Newberry & 143rd area, 14 
Ac prop, A/C&Heat, well water, loft queen, 
shower bath, microwave, full size fridge, TV, 
washer/dryer $400 954-610-0006 Horse 
Board Stall or Field Extra   3-3-11-15-2
***FALL RENTAL***
4,5,6+ Bdrm Houses for Rent
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Ask abt Family Discounts
Immediate Move-In Available
2-17-11-5-2
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, 
W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & 
pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $395/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79292-28-10-82-4
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 or
jfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-cluded. $350/mo. No deposit required. 863-634-1893. Available immediately.   2-14-10-4
1 or 2 male roommates needed. 2BRs avail 
in 3BR/2BA house. Close to UF campus, on bus route, large fenced-in backyard. Cent H/AC, pets welcome. $400/mo + elec. Call 561-706-5378    2-15-11-10-4Looking for roommate in a 3/3 apartment in 
Hidden Lake. Current roommates are easy to 
get along with. Pet-friendly. Easy bus routes 
to campus. Nice pool and gym with free tan-
ning $440/mo. Contact (352) 346-5459
2-18-8-4
Female seeks roommate for furnished house 
in Starke on SR 100. $350/mo + $100 dep. 
305-972-7849 cell. Call day or night.    2-17-
11-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
Own 20 Acres Only $129/mo. $13,900 
near growing El Paso, Texas (safest city in America!) Low down, no credit checks, owner 
financing. Free map/pictures (866)485-4364
www.sunsetranches.com    2-11-1-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will 
deliver.      4-20-10-70-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still 
in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011 � ALLIGATOR, 11
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
DO YOU EARN $800.00 IN A DAY? Your 
Own Local Candy Route 25 Machines and Candy All for $9995.00 All Major Credit 
Cards Accepted (877)915-8222 AINB02653    
2-11-1-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
2-28-10-98-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-
noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF 
Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers 
welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   
2-15-10-35-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-ning & overnight shifts currently available email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-3617   2-28-10-39-14
An awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-dren’s summer camp, has positions available in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront (sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.   2-11-10-26-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   3-16-20-14
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.25/hr, experience and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 for more info and interview.    2-16-25-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-1405 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      2-11-11-70-13 
Social Media/Marketing Student to assist on 
establishing F, Twitter & Linkedin sites and maintaining with regular postings. Must be creative. Part time. Ofice in Haile. Email to sklehrer@cox.net    2-18-11-6-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Summer availability is a 
MUST. Please submit resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org AND
dkradolfer@alligator.org,
or Fax: 352-376-3015.
No phone calls please.
12, ALLIGATOR � FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011
MEDICAL RECEPTIONIST:
Full time.   Responsible for scheduling, 
phone calls, verifying insurance and coordi -
nating office activities.  E-mail resumeafn22025@bellsouth.net    2-17-20-14
Web Programmer (P/T)
Programming websites and applications 
using Classic ASP and SQL Server. Small 
company in G’ville, great work environment. 
About 20 hrs/wk. www.oandp.com/careers   
2-25-11-17-14
P/T Administrator for Non-Profit
Local nursing home outreach program seeks 
P/T admin coordinator to handle inquiries, 
monitor volunteers, coordinate projects, etc. 
About 10 hrs/wk, www.acrosstheages.org/job   
2-25-11-17-14
ATTENTION SMOKERS!!!
Smokers are needed to participate in a study
assessing the effects of various activities
on smoking. Compensation provided.
336-406-3706 or uflsmokelab@gmail.com
2-15-7-14
Summer Camp Counselors Needed
Trail's End & Chestnut Lake Camps - PA
Guaranteed Experience of a Lifetime; Limited 
openings for Sports Specialists, Crafts 
Specialists, Lifeguards & Bunk Counselors; 
June 17th - August 14th 
Gain experience working with kids. 
SUBMIT AN ONLINE APPLICATION NOW! 
www.trailsendcampjobs.com   2-18-11-10-
14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working 
environment. PT/FT positions available. 
$7.50/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 
NW 13th St   2-18-11-10-14
Gator Dining Services, located on the 
University of Florida Campus, has an imme-diate opening for experienced cooks.
 
We offer flexible schedules, competitive pay, 
and a great working environment. Those 
interested in joining this dynamic team can apply online at www.gatordining.com or 
in person in room B-73 of the Reitz Union.   
2-14-11-5-14
Family CARE GIVERS is Looking for RN's 
for Home Visits to give Meds. Immediate opening competitive pay please call today! (352) 307-8044   2-15-11-5-14
Delivery Drivers needed,
Must know the area and the grid system, with open avialibility.apply at Five Star Pizza downtown. 210 sw 2nd ave.                 2-18-11-7-14
DRIVERS WANTED
For flower shop for valentines dayMust have own car. Bring us a copy of driv-ers license and insurance cardApply in person at 635 nw 13th st, suite C    2-14-2-14
17 DRIVERS NEEDED! Top 5% Pay! 
Excellent Benefits New Trucks Ordered! Need CDL-A & 3 mos recent OTR. (877)258-8782 www.meltontruck.com    2-11-1-14
Drivers - FOOD TANKER DRIVERS 
NEEDED OTR positions available NOW! CDL- A w/ Tanker REQ'D. Outstanding pay & Benefits! Call a recruiter TODAY! (877)882-6537 www.oakleytransport.com    2-11-1-14Drivers Earn Up to 39¢/mi HOME SEVERAL 
NIGHTS & WEEKENDS 1 yr OTR Flatbed 
exp. Call: (800)572-5489 Susan ext. 227 
SUNBELT TRANSPORT, LLC    2-11-1-14
Drivers / Teams $1,000.00 SIGN ON BONUS! 
100% O/Op - Contractor Co. Dedicated 
Reefer Fleet Run California, Midwest, East. 
Call (800)237-8288 or visit www.suncocarri -
ers.com    2-11-1-14
Driver - $.33/mile to $.42/mile based on 
length of haul, PLUS $.02/mile safety bonus paid quarterly. Van & Refrigerated. CDL-A w/3 mos current OTR experience. (800)414-9569.www.driveknight.com   2-11-1-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
INSURANCE WE REPRESENT
OVER 100 COMPANIESHOME, AUTO AND LIABILITYWHY PAY MORE? 371 9696www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-27-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-0069 to schedule an appointment todayprogreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.com    2-11-1-15ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Criminal 
Justice. Job placement assistance. Computer 
available. Financial Aid if qualified. SCHEV 
certified. Call (877)206-5165, www.Centura.
us.com    2-11-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA 
approved program. Financial aid if qualified - 
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance (866)314-3769.    2-11-1-15
Heat & Air JOBS - Ready to work? 3 week 
accelerated program. Hands on environ -
ment. Nationwide certifications and Local Job Placement Assistance! (877)994-9904    
2-11-1-15
Approved for VA education benefits. Learn 
to Operate a Crane or Bulldozer. Heavy Equipment Training. National Certification. Georgia School of Construction. www.Heavy5.com Use code "FLCNH" (866)218-2763    2-11-1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
GLAUCOMA in your family? FREE 
SCREENING available for all. Participants who qualify & wish to participate in research will receive financial reimbursement. Call Dr. Levy or Cathleen Courtney 352-331-2020.   2-16-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-20-70-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
If you witnessed a collision between a Publix 
truck (semi/tractor-trailer) and a pick-up truck on August 23, 2010 at the Publix located at 
SW 34th Street and University Ave, please 
call (352) 240-9006. REWARD.
2-16-11-7-19
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Advertise in Over 100 Papers through-
out Florida for One Low Rate. Advertising 
Networks of Florida, Put us to work for You! 
(866)742-1373 www.florida-classifieds.com.
 2-11-1-21WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
WANTED: Singers/Rappers. Win $100,000 
Production Deal from YOUNG JEEZY'S DJ. 
Win FREE AUDITION: SAT FEB 12th @ 
Paramount Plaza 2900 SW 13th St 10am. 
Bring a demo. Info: 305-814-0247   2-11-11-
5-21
McintoshWorld.com. Your Botique in a barn. 
Gifts-Reggae-Music-Drums-Shoes-Sandals-Boots-Stickers-Posters-Paintings-Cards-
Books-Counter culture-Greatful Dead-LP's- 
HWY:441. 15 min. South. Spend some time. 
Formerly Environmental Circus - Key West    2-14-11-2-21
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25
Sports
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
When she paces the sidelines 
Saturday against No. 3 North Caro-
lina, coach Amanda O’Leary will do so knowing her team won’t react 
the same way it did last year.
Something goes wrong: a goal, a 
turnover or a penalty. Her players’ heads begin to drop, their sticks start 
to fall to their side, and all O’Leary can think is, “Oh, crap. You know 
this is not going to be good.”
Florida played one of its best 
halves of lacrosse last year on the 
road against then-No. 4 UNC. 
Down only two goals at the half, 
the upstart Gators looked like they 
had a chance to grab a marquee win 
against a ranked opponent for the 
first time in school history.
Then, the Tar Heels scored. And 
then scored again.
Soon, a 6-4 game ballooned into 
an 18-5 blowout, leaving the Gators 
to wonder how long it would take 
them to gain enough composure to 
compete in big games.
O’Leary believes this team is dif-
ferent from the one that went 10-8 a year ago and had a losing record 
on the road. The Gators played last 
weekend in an exhibition tourna-ment in Chapel Hill, N.C., and 
though they didn’t get an early shot 
at the Tar Heels, the coach said she saw something new in her players.
“It didn’t snowball to the effect 
of last year where once we gave up one goal, we gave up five,” O’Leary 
said. “There’s a whole lot of things 
that are involved in the maturation process of our team. One of the big-
gest things that I saw coming out of 
the weekend is that they have con-fidence in each other.”
With only one upperclassman 
on the roster, junior transfer Caro-line Cochran, the Gators don’t have 
traditional leadership roles from 
older players. The team’s core is 
made up of 16 sophomores who all 
saw action last season.
In the buildup to this season 
sophomore midfielder Brittany 
Dashiell said the Gators have be-
come a leadership-by-committee group that has used last year’s shortcomings as motivation. 
“We’re just really excited to get 
revenge on them, especially after 
losing last year,” Dashiell said. 
“And I think this year we have a lot more experience and are preparing 
differently.”
During a film session Thursday 
to prepare for the Tar Heels, the Gators reviewed some of the prob-
lems they had early last season.
Last year’s starting goal keep-
er for Florida, sophomore Cara Canington, noticed a marketable   
change in the team’s play from a 
highly frenetic, attacking style to a 
more matured, balanced offensive 
approach.
By playing within themselves 
this season, the Gators should be able to cut down on the staple of every young team: turnovers.
O’Leary said they crippled the 
POLL QUESTION ONLINE
n Check out alligatorSports.org this 
weekend for the latest installment 
of the alligatorSports Video Show, featuring a behind-the-scenes look at ESPN College GameDay.Today’s question: Which Florida spring sport’s opening day are you most excited for?Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF coach Amanda O’Leary (second from right) believes this season’s team, which will open its schedule Saturday against North Carolina, is different than the first-year squad that struggled with turnovers.
UF LACROSSE
Gators anxious to avenge previous loss to Tar Heels
SEE LAX, p AGE 16
n NO. 17 UF WILL PLAY TENNESSEE 
SATURDAY AT 6 P.M. IN GAINESVILLE. 
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
For Chandler Parsons, the key to stuffing 
the stat sheet appears to be clearing his head. 
The senior forward entered the season sur -
rounded by hype, and his game suffered under 
the weight of all the expectations. 
But now, Parsons has unclouded his mind, 
and the results have been staggering. He has re-corded a double-double in three straight games and will have a chance to extend that streak when No. 17 Florida (19-5, 8-2 Southeastern 
Conference) faces Tennessee (15-9, 5-4 SEC) on 
Saturday at 6 p.m. in the O’Connell Center. “You hear all that stuff, and you try to block 
it out and not listen to it, but maybe it did get to my head a little bit,” Parsons said. “But I know I’m doing my best to block out all that stuff, even right now.”
Parsons was a Preseason First-Team All-
SEC selection, and there were even some rumblings that he would contend for SEC Play-er of the Year. 
The expectations many 
placed on the senior were boosted even further by his personality, as people fell in 
love with the architect of last 
season’s two memorable buzzer-beaters. 
Parsons even received attention from the 
national media, as he appeared in ESPN’s top Parsons’ recently improved 
play sparked by clear mind
parsons
By JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
 
For Will Claye, Omar Craddock 
and Christian Taylor, qualifying for 
the NCAA meet at season’s end isn’t 
a big deal — it’s expected.
It comes with the territory when 
working with a jumps coach like Dick Booth.
Booth, currently in his second 
season with the Gators, has coached 47 individual national champions, 142 All-Americans and 11 Olympi-
ans since starting his career at Ar -
kansas in 1978.“I’ve been fortunate enough 
throughout my career to have that 
opportunity (to coach talented ath-letes), but maybe not a better group than this,” Booth said. “These guys 
could be historical in what they accomplish as a group.”
One of those na-
tional titles belongs 
to Taylor, who won 
the triple jump at the 
NCAA Indoor Championships un-der Booth’s tutelage last season.
“He’s great because he’s some-Florida jumpers thrive 
under esteemed coach
Track
SEE HOOpS, p AGE 16SEE TRACK, p AGE 16
UF FOOTBALL NEWS
n The Southeastern Conference 
announced its 2010 Fall Academic 
Honor Roll on Wednesday, and 19 Gators were listed based on grades from the previous three semesters.alligatorSports.org
n Check out our website for a note-
book on the No. 1 Gators baseball 
team and a story on the No. 2 wom-en’s tennis team’s upcoming matches against No. 4 UNC and No. 6 Duke.  14, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011
UF WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
  
The Gators knew the first step 
to upsetting a top-five team was 
to play their ugly brand of basket-
ball.
It wasn’t enough. Florida held the Southeastern 
Conference’s leading scorer in 
check, but it couldn’t do enough 
offensively as Tennessee ran away with a 61-39 victory in Knoxville, Tenn., on Thursday. 
Florida (14-12, 4-8 SEC) shot 25 percent from the floor, including 4 for 20 from beyond the arc. UF had a number of open looks, especially early, but struggled to knock them down. 
Tennessee (23-2, 11-0 SEC) also 
started cold, shooting 9 of 27 in the first half, but Florida couldn’t capi-talize.
After pulling within four with 
just more than seven minutes to go in the first half, the Gators went cold. 
They scored four points over 
the next 11 minutes, including zero in the first four minutes of the second half, and Tennessee re-
sponded with a 
21-4 run that put the game out of 
reach.
“We started 
the second half 
as if we didn’t expect them to 
try and come 
out and make a statement,” coach 
Amanda Butler said. “I felt like that was the difference in the ball 
game.”Entering the contest, Butler talk-
ed about valuing every possession 
and paying attention to detail.
Florida, down by nine at the 
break, kept it relatively close by 
limiting turnovers and preventing 
easy points in transition.
But UF fell apart in the second 
half.
The Gators turned it over 16 
times in the final 20 minutes, al-lowing the Volunteers to beat them over the top for easy scores.
“I’m just really disappointed 
in our second half and our lack of ability to sustain the focus that we needed to execute the game plan,” Butler said.
Guards Deana Allen and Ja-
terra Bonds combined for 10 of the 
Gators’ 24 giveaways and shot 5 
of 22 from the floor. Bonds led the team in scoring (10 points) and re-bounding (six). She played 32 min-utes after starter Lanita Bartley got 
into foul trouble early.  
“We didn’t even come close to 
what we needed to do,” Butler said. 
“You’re not going to beat anybody 
in this league with 24 turnovers.”
Tennessee pulls away from Florida for blowout victory
Butler
n BOB VAN OVERBEEK HAS TAKEN ON 
AN EXPANDED ROLE FOR THE GATORS.
By THOMAS NASSIFF 
Alligator Writer
 
Leadership is crucial in all college sports, 
whether it comes from an experienced senior or 
an emerging young star. 
It is an essential quality for teams formed of 
players ranging in age from 18 to 22, and the 
youth of the No. 7 Florida men’s tennis team has 
made its leaders invaluable to the program.
While most people view senior Alexandre 
Lacroix as the team’s emotional leader, younger players have begun to take on an increased role.
That includes sophomore Bob van Overbeek, 
a Boca Raton native who came to UF as a blue-chip recruit ranked seventh overall by tennisre-cruiting.net.
During his freshman spring, van Overbeek 
played singles on Court 4 and racked up a 9-1 record in the Southeastern Conference en route to being named to the SEC All-Freshman team.
Heading into the 2010-11 campaign, van 
Overbeek received his first singles ranking as the No. 52 player in the nation when dual match play started in January.As a sophomore, van Overbeek has been 
asked to do much more for his team. His work ethic over winter break helped him come into 
the spring season with a booming serve, which 
he rode to an 11-game singles win streak.
“Coming into this year, I knew I was going to 
have a little more responsibility ,” van Overbeek said. “We only have one senior and one junior, so Sekou [Bangoura Jr.] and Nassim [Slilam] knew we were going to be asked to do a little more.”
Van Overbeek’s streak came to an end Sun-
day at FSU, as he moved up to Court 2 for the 
first time and fell to No. 37 Clint Bowles.
The move up to Court 2 was a big step for van 
Overbeek, who said he and fellow sophomore 
Bangoura would be switching between Courts 2 and 3 for most of the season.
It’s van Overbeek’s work ethic and selfless 
mentality that give him an edge in competi-tion and make him a strong fit for a leadership role. He will be called upon this weekend as the 
Gators travel to face No. 16 Illinois on Saturday.
“The main goal, no matter what court I’m 
playing on or who I’m playing against, is just to 
get as many individual wins as possible to help the team,” van Overbeek said. 
“I’m not as worried about my own ranking, 
but getting wins for the team is the most impor -
tant thing.”Gators look to new leaders
By ALEX PECKHAM
Alligator Writer
 
After losing its top two golfers 
from last season, the Florida men’s golf team wasn’t expected to com-pete on a national level this year. 
With the team relying on sopho-
mores who saw little action during their first year in Gainesville, expec-tations were low. 
But Tyler McCumber, Phillip Choi 
and Tommy Mou helped the Gators earn a No. 3 national ranking and the top spot on the leaderboard at the JU Invitational two weeks ago. 
The Gators will face a much stron-
ger field at this weekend’s Gator Invitational than they did at the JU Invitational.  
UF’s stiffest competition will 
come from rival Florida State and Southeastern Conference foes No. 8 LSU and No. 10 Auburn, two of the three teams that have beaten Florida since the fall season began.
McCumber and Choi finished in 
the top eight, while Mou rebounded from early struggles to come in 19th. 
The trio has earned the confidence 
of Florida coach Buddy Alexander, who said that he hasn’t been all that surprised by their emergence. 
“The biggest jump 
in improvement is 
usually between the 
freshman and sopho-more year,” Alexan-der said. “They figure out time management 
and how to work on their games.
“That’s when their maturation 
process really evolves the most.”
Choi, McCumber and Mou, along 
with seniors Bank V ongvanij and Andres Echavarria, will be favored to win their home tournament, which starts at 8 a.m. on the Mark Bostick Golf Course, for the eighth straight year.UF to host home meet
GolfFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
 By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
    Asking members of the Gators 
lacrosse team why they chose to come to Florida is like trying 
to make small talk with a stranger.
 The conversation always starts 
with the weather.
  One of the biggest advantages for 
No. 17 Florida, a growing, second-year program, is the fact it is one of only a handful of teams in Division-I lacrosse that doesn’t have to deal 
with snowfall every year.
  Recruits are sold on the fact they 
can practice and play outside during 
the winter when their families and friends up north are still shoveling driveways.
  Caroline Cochran wasn’t initially 
recruited by Florida out of her high school in Maryland. The No. 15 re-
cruit in the nation, according to In-
side Lacrosse, was a senior in 2008, and the Gators didn’t start offering scholarships until a year later.
  So, the two-time high school 
All-American ended up at Virginia, where she played attacker sparingly in ﬁ  ve games as a freshman.
  “I love everyone at UVA, I’m still 
really close with all of my friends, but it wasn’t the right place for me,” she said.
  Seeking a fresh start at a new 
school, she began looking for a way out. Cochran learned UF coach 
Amanda O’Leary was heavily re-
cruiting in her home state. The coach would eventually get 17 recruits to commit out of Maryland.
  Some of them were Cochran’s 
friends. After taking their visits to Gainesville, they started giving the sophomore positive feedback on what they saw during their trip.
  “My friends from home were 
coming here, and they were like, ‘You should go look at it. It’s really awesome.’ So, I came down here and fell in love with it right away,” Cochran said. “It was actually my ﬁ  rst place I looked, and I committed a couple days later.”
  Florida’s resources have given 
the team an enviable advantage in attracting recruits, even in its ﬁ  rst two years as a program. 
  No other school in the country 
that carries men’s or women’s la-
crosse has a complex and stadium 
devoted solely to the sport, let alone one that cost $15 million to build like Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
  “Just the whole idea of how im-
portant the student-athlete is and how well they are taken care of here, I think, resonated through the fresh-man that were already here and the 
college lacrosse world,” O’Leary 
said.
  The Weather’s Fine
  Cochran said most people are 
sold on UF’s combination of the new 
facilities, expensive Nike equipment 
and, most importantly, the appeal-ing climate. 
  During the winter months, the 
Gators were one of the few teams 
in the U.S. able to practice outside. 
O’Leary said she talked to coaches 
from schools in the Northeast who 
were still stuck indoors due to snow 
storms. 
  Almost a third of all Division-
I teams (30 out of 91) that play women’s lacrosse reside in either 
New York or Pennsylvania. So far this winter, both states have been 
covered with a combined 95 inches 
of snow in their biggest cities, New York City and Pittsburgh. 
  Most snowbound teams must 
head south to play exhibition tour-naments just to get back into playing 
form each season. Meanwhile, the 
comparatively mild winters in Flor-ida allow the Gators to start practic-
ing earlier and closer to home.
  Cochran said several of her for-
mer teammates from Virginia called during a tournament in Orlando last 
week exclaiming how jealous they were that she was having 70-degree 
days this time of year.
  Redshirt freshman Erin Graziano was at Syracuse last year before an injury derailed her season, lead-
ing her to transfer to Gainesville. The New Jersey native also listed the weather as the main reason she 
chose UF over other schools.
  “Initially it was the location,” she 
said. “I mean, who doesn’t want to 
play lacrosse in Florida?”
  Graziano admitted that leaving 
Syracuse for Gainesville was a big 
risk. Usually transfers rarely commit 
to an inexperienced and untested program like Florida when their 
last collegiate stop ended poorly . 
Instead, they choose to go to an es-
tablished, safer one — usually closer 
to home.
  After O’Leary reeled in the na-
tion’s No. 1 recruiting class last year, 
Graziano said the good press about 
the Gators sounded too appealing to 
ignore, and she let the coach know 
she would like to head down. 
  The Gators have lured in four 
transfers the past two years, includ-
ing Cochran and Graziano. Entering 
its second full season of NCAA play , UF has leaned on them to provide 
stability when inexperience catches 
up with the team in close games.
  “It was just in the back of my 
head that, ‘OK we might be able to attract some of these kids that are 
already enrolled at other institutions 
that may not be happy ,’” O’Leary said. 
  While it took Graziano, a mid-
ﬁ  elder, some time to mesh with her new teammates in the locker room and on the ﬁ  eld, she said she never 
felt out of place. In her opinion, the 
biggest difference between Syracuse and Florida is how the athletes are 
treated by their peers and fans.
  “Florida as an overall atmo-
sphere is very welcoming,” she said. 
“Everyone has pride for their school and stuff, which is a huge change.
  “I’m still friends with everyone at 
Syracuse, but the whole atmosphere here is just great.”  Come On Down
  Graziano isn’t alone. Florida has 
the luxury of being a destination 
other schools in nonconference play want to visit because of the Gators’ facilities and location.
  When teams traveled to 
Gainesville last season, O’Leary said some refused to use the visit-ing locker room in the Florida La-crosse Facility not because it was insufﬁ  cient, but because it was too nice compared to what they had back home. Instead, they decided to change at a nearby hotel.
  Florida’s scheduling for this sea-
son slates them for 11 home games and only ﬁ  ve on the road.
  From Feb. 20 to March 26, nine 
games will be in straight succession at home against nonconference op-ponents and co-American Lacrosse Conference member Ohio State. 
  O’Leary expects the monthlong 
homestand to be a huge boost for a second-year team that ﬁ  nished 3-6 on the road last season. No. 2 North-western will also have to come to Gainesville this year after the Gators lost to the national runner-up by 14 goals in last season’s ﬁ  nale.
  “We got all of the jitters out last 
year,” Cochran said. “We’re going 
to be a lot more prepared this time.”  As Florida closed its inaugural 
season, the team ran into a brick wall 
of tough competition. UF gave up 62 goals in its last ﬁ  ve games leading to four losses, including three against 
conference opponents. 
  In the fall, the Gators continued 
to struggle through their October ex-
hibition schedule. Though stats and scores weren’t kept, Graziano recalls getting “kind of killed” by Duke at a tournament in Durham, N.C.
  But last weekend, in another pre-
season tune-up in North Carolina 
against the Blue Devils, the Gators 
performed at a much higher level, dropping a close game 8-6.
  “You can just see that everyone’s 
growing up and what’s to come for this season,” she said. 
  Florida has built a strong foun-
dation for a run at a postseason berth with the way its recruited and 
scheduled the past two years. 
  The team’s 2010 campaign came 
up short due to inexperience in the 
locker room and a lack of leadership on the ﬁ  eld, which led to a 1-4 mark in conference play . 
  Without those wins against ALC 
opponents, the Gators can not com-pete for a national championship.
  They will be at home in May, en-
joying the Florida weather.   Just Warming Up
Climate, facilities help ignite UF’s recruiting
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida junior Caroline Cochran is one of four players to transfer to 
UF in just two seasons. She left Virginia last year to join the Gators.
16, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF senior forward Chandler Parsons has recorded three consecutive double-dou -
bles after struggling with lofty expectations at the start of the season. 
Donovan, Muschamp willing to let 
Brissett play two sports for Florida
10 plays of the year and was selected as its 
“Voice of the Conference.”
“A lot of times what happens is when 
you’re a good player in today’s day and age, there’s a maturity that you have to have to deal with the expectations,” Donovan said. “There’s so much stuff that distracts these 
guys and can be around these guys and can 
get in their heads.”
Parsons has recently made great strides 
to block out all of those outside factors and is “playing with a clear head,” according to 
Donovan. 
UF’s coach cites Parsons’ shot selection as 
one sign of his improvement. The senior is 
now taking shots he might have passed up 
earlier in the season.
Where he may have previously tried to 
force an extra pass or a drive to the basket, Par -
sons is currently taking everything in stride. “I realized just let the game come to me,” 
Parsons said. “I’m going to take what the de-
fense gives me, but at the same time, I’m being aggressive.”
DONOVAN OPEN TO USING BRISSETT: Dono-
van said Thursday he would consider giving 
a spot on the UF basketball roster to Jacoby Brissett, a four-star quarterback signee from 
Palm Beach Gardens Dwyer High. 
Although Donovan ac-
knowledged it would be difficult for Brissett to learn 
the system after missing 
five months of practice and 
workouts, he said the two-sport star has the talent to contribute at Florida if he were to fo-
cus on basketball. 
“As far as I’m concerned, and talking to 
(UF football coach) Will (Muschamp), if he 
wants to be a part of our team, he’s more than welcome to do that,” Donovan said.HOOPS , from page 13
team last season in big games —  
the Gators had 10 more than the 
Tar Heels when they last met. But 
during last weekend’s preseason 
games, O’Leary said she saw fewer 
mistakes and didn’t notice a single penalty.
“Clearly we’re better in certain 
aspects in our game, and that cer -
tainly being the turnovers,” she 
said. “We had far fewer than we had 
in the past and I also think there’s a different attitude out there which I 
think is unique in that I didn’t see it last year.”
Despite the positive outlook 
from coaches and players, the 
Gators are picked to place fourth 
in the American Lacrosse Confer -
ence behind national runner up No. 2 Northwestern, No.11 Vanderbilt 
and a No. 15 Penn State team that Florida beat 13-11 last April.
A win on the road against the Tar 
Heels, who are coming off the best run in school history after going 33-8 over the past two years, would 
be the first step toward respect and 
a bid to the national tournament for the Gators.UF takes new attitude to UNC 
LAX , from page 13Three Gators named to Bowerman watch list
body that’s always going to keep you on your 
toes,” Taylor said. “There’s never a dull moment with him.”
Although these jumpers expected to auto-
matically qualify for the NCAA meet, they are  pleased with their efforts so far.
“It’s good to know that I’m in the meet, but 
I’m not going to sit back,” Claye said. “Last year 
I didn’t make it to nationals, so I feel like this is 
going to be a good year for me.”
Claye, who transferred to Florida from Okla-
homa last August, won the triple jump at the 2009 Outdoor NCAA Championship meet.
Craddock, a sophomore, will be competing 
in his first indoor NCAA meet after posting a personal-best 16.19m/53-1.50 in the triple jump at the Nittany Lion Challenge on  Jan. 15.
“I work with two of the best jumpers in the 
nation,” Craddock said. “That’s pretty much my motivation to get out here, keep going, and trying to get on their level.”
Automatic-qualifying marks in the season’s 
first three meets haven’t been the Florida’s jump-ers only accomplishments this season.
Claye and Taylor, along with sprinter Jeff 
Demps, were named to the most recent watch list for The Bowerman award, an honor that Taylor 
describes as the “Heisman” of track and field.
UF is the only school with 
more than one athlete in con-tention for the honor.
“I haven’t won it yet, but 
it’s an honor to be on the list,” Claye said. “But it’s just an award. I still have to go out there and compete.”
Florida will travel to three different locations 
this weekend: the Tyson Invitational (Fayette-
ville, Ark.), the Iowa State Classic (Ames, Iowa), 
and the Husky Classic (Seattle, Wash.).TRACK , from page 13Men's
Bask etball
Taylor
By ALLISON BANKO 
Alligator Writer
 
Georgia fans are known as merciless die-
hards, infamous for antagonizing, booing 
and even barking at the visiting Gators. 
That’s the one thing guaranteed when 
Florida competes against the Bulldogs, and 
it doesn’t have a lick to do with competi-
tion.
The Gators will be faced with a sold-
out crowd of more than 10,000 on Saturday at 4 
p.m., as Stegeman Coli-
seum will likely be filled to its maximum capac-ity. 
“I hear they have a bit of a rowdy crowd,” 
sophomore Marissa King said. “We just kind of have to focus on ourselves. Hopefully in the end, they’ll turn around and will be ap-plauding us rather than booing us.” 
Freshman all-arounder Alaina Johnson 
will find comfort knowing there will be at least a few Gators fans nestled among the sea of red and black.Her mother’s side of the family stems 
from Georgia and will be in attendance to cheer her on. For some of them, Johnson said, it will be their first time seeing her compete. 
While Johnson has some familiarity in 
Georgia, it will be the first time her room-
mate and freshman all-arounder Mackenzie Caquatto will have been to the state. 
Though Caquatto said she loves to trav-
el, the Southeastern Conference Freshman 
Gymnast of the Week expects it to be a chal-lenge because of the packed house. 
“We’re just going to try to stay focused 
on what we’re doing,” Caquatto said. “Try to focus on our skills and try to block them out as best we can, stay tight as a team and not let our mind wander into things that 
they’re saying.”
Sophomore Ashanée Dickerson said the 
coaching staff has been preparing the team 
all week for the rambunctious fans. Coach 
Rhonda Faehn added that the negativity the 
Bulldogs crowd hurls at them is far greater than any other venue due to the heated ri-valry between the two schools. 
“It’s just very strong,” Faehn said. “We 
don’t find that when we go to Utah. The fans there are very nice.” 
Despite the distractions the Dawgs fans 
will provide, Faehn said the experience will 
end up being beneficial for her team.
“We need our athletes to compete in those 
environments for them to learn ... and to test 
their mental strength so that it’s a learning experience,” she said. “If they’re able to han-
dle it, well then, that’s a great sign.”20, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida sophomore gymnast Marissa King said the Gators must focus on their own per-
formances as they head to Athens, Ga., to face a rowdy, unforgiving Bulldogs crowd.
Gators not intimidated by hostile Bulldogs fans
UF SWIMMING
By MELISSA PENDER
Alligator Writer 
 
The Southeastern Conference’s 
top divers will hope to make a splash 
at the O’Connell Center when the SEC Swimming and Diving Cham-pionships begin this weekend.
The swimming and diving cham-
pionships are usually held simulta-neously, but since Florida is hosting both events this year, the competi-tions had to be separate.“The divers get a real spotlight 
versus being caught in the middle of the meet,” coach Gregg Troy said. 
Divers have been warming up in 
preparation for today’s men’s 1-me-ter  and women’s 3-meter. The men’s 3-meter and the women’s 1-meter are tomorrow and both platform competitions are Sunday.
Diving coach Donnie Craine said 
he has high hopes for both teams, adding that the women have to look out for No. 2 Georgia and No. 3 Auburn. Craine also said the men’s teams to beat are No. 3 Auburn and No. 8 Tennessee.
He said the Gators have a great 
chance to excel and have been prac-ticing in a meet style by running through a list and scoring their dives.
Senior Monica Dodson and ju-
nior Kaylee Doback will represent the No. 8 women’s swimming and diving team.
Dodson achieved her second-best 
career 3-meter dive Jan. 29 against Tennessee.
“All the SEC divers are great 
competition,” she said. “I’m just try-ing to practice like I compete so that I can compete like I practice.”The No. 5 men are represented 
by senior Jon Speed, junior Anthony Lewark and freshmen Chris Jones and Mike Lewark. The younger Lewark said the Gators hope their home-pool advantage pays divi-dends.
“My goals are to do every dive 
I can as best as I can possibly do it, hopefully reach the finals,” he said. “Just being on the same boards that I’m on every day , it feels really good.”
Florida to host SEC Diving Championships this weekendGymnastics
“I’m just trying to practice 
like I compete so that I can 
compete like I practice.”
Monica Dodson
UF senior diverGeorgia expects sell-out crowd