VOLUME 106 ISSUE 11 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
TutoringZone adds new courses for more classes
Professors weigh in on the effectiveness of the service, pg 3.  
UPD ofﬁ  cer ﬁ  red for violent conduct
Keith Smith shot a graduate student in 2010, pg 4. 88/71 Asia the otter makes move to Australia
She will leave the Santa Fe Teaching Zoo 
today to breed at the Perth Zoo in Australia. Read the full story at alligator.org. 
Wide receiver 
Deonte Thompson 
(right) and fullback 
Trey Burton left 
Saturday’s game 
with injuries.  
See Story, Page 13.
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 9CROSSWORD  11
SPORTS 13 Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
  One Hot Ride
  A mid-nineties Oldsmobile Eighty Eight caught ﬁ  re in front of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium before the football game Saturday. “We go to quite a few car ﬁ  res,” said Pat Lewis, district chief of Gainesville Fire Rescue, noting that the department had responded to another car ﬁ  re that weekend. No one was injured in the ﬁ  re.   
  KEILANI RODRIGUEZ
 Alligator Contributing Writer 
  Less than a week after move-in trafﬁ  c 
cleared, after the last bed had been bunked 
and every store in a 20-mile radius of UF 
had sold its entire inventory of 3M Com-mand Hooks, Jean Palacios was moving 
out of her dorm room. And then moving 
in again.
  Palacios, 18, was a late applicant to on-
campus housing. 
  “There are more residents here than 
we’ve ever had before,” said IRHA Presi-dent Severin Walstad. “We have 200 more 
students than we expected.”  
  These additional students are being 
placed in overﬂ  ow housing. Overﬂ  ow spaces include apartments or other rooms that are not traditionally used during the 
year, including spaces in a community just south of the main housing ofﬁ  ce on South-
west 13th Street and Museum Road.
  Because of the shortage, resident as-
sistants are also taking roommates, some-thing they haven’t done since the fall of 
2009. “They’re probably the most affected 
group,” Walstad said. 
  Students who applied late are being 
placed in late-applicant triples.  Dorm shortage puts students in overﬂ  ow housing
  � THE COALITION FOR IMMOKALEE 
WORKERS IS DELIVERING A LETTER 
TO PUBLIX OFFICIALS CONCERNING WAGES FOR FARMWORKERS.
MORGAN WATKINS
 Alligator Staff Writer 
  
  A 200-mile bicycle ride will end today 
in Lakeland, Fla., where the chief executive officer of Publix Super Markets, Ed Cren-
shaw, will receive a letter signed by 30 
Gainesville-based religious leaders. 
  The purpose of the letter: to persuade 
Publix to support better wages and condi-tions for farmworkers.
  The bicycle ride and letter are part of the 
“Pilgrimage to Publix,” an event organized by Interfaith Action of Southwest Florida, said Kimberly Hunter. She is a 2008 UF 
grad who is interning with the organiza-
tion to keep the “pilgrimage” running smoothly. 
  Interfaith Action is an activist group 
that works with the Coalition of Immoka-lee Workers, an organization made up of farmworkers, to push corporations to sup-port fairer wages for and better treatment 
of migrant workers who work in Immoka-
lee, Fla. 
  The pilgrimage program includes an 
invitation to Crenshaw to visit Immokalee  Protest bicycle 
ride for better 
wages ends in 
Lakeland
HEALTH
  ERIN JESTER
 Alligator Writer 
  Despite a recommendation from the 
Centers for Disease Control that everyone 
older than 6 months get one, the Student Health Care Center ordered half as many ﬂ  u shots as last year. 
  According to Catherine Seemann, a 
marketing specialist at the SHCC, 10,000 vaccinations were ordered in anticipation of increased demand because of H1N1 ﬂ  u, in 2010, and 7,000 were administered. Seemann said the SHCC ordered only 
5,000 this year because H1N1 is less of a public concern.
  The SHCC will begin offering vaccines 
in late September at the inﬁ  rmary and Shands at UF, and outreach clinics will open around campus in October. 
  The ﬂ  u shot is free for students on cam-
pus and $25 for faculty . 
  “College students in general are a fairly 
healthy population, so they think, ‘I don’t really have to get the shot,’” Seemann said. “The reality is even if they don’t have ter-rible symptoms, they can spread it to other people with different reactions to the ﬂ  u.”
  Seemann highly recommends getting 
the shot and encourages those who are un-sure about the ﬂ  u vaccine to visit www.ﬂ  u.gov for more information.  SHCC orders fewer ﬂ  u shots for 2011SEE HOUSING, PAGE 8
SEE PUBLIX, PAGE 8Resident assistants are being forced to take roommates
“College students in general 
think, ‘I don’t really have to get 
the shot.’
Catherine Seemann
specialist at the Student Health Care CenterNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 11 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Justin Hayes,
  Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tyler Jett, Greg Luca,
  Corey McCall, Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Keri Smith,   
  Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Brandon Davis
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,  
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Alexander Silva, Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
THUNDER
STORMS
88/71PARTLY
CLOUDY
89/68THUNDER
STORMS
88/69PARTLY
CLOUDY
89/70PARTLY
CLOUDY
89/71SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. what’s happening
HEAL First Fall Meeting
Today, 6:30 p.m
Leigh Hall 207
HEAL is an organization of 
students representing various health-related fields at UF. It brings together students pur -
suing careers in medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, veteri-nary medicine, nursing and physical and occupational therapy. The group’s goal is 
to unite and build a network 
of diverse students with similar interests and career goals. Students are provided 
with the resources needed 
in order to be successful in furthering their professional ambitions. As an organiza-tion geared solely to address 
the concerns and interests of 
our members, all interested individuals are welcome to get involved. A social will be 
held at Amore Pizza after the 
meeting around 8 p.m.
Women’s Student Association 
General Body Meeting and 
Recruitment
Wednesday, 7 p.m.CSE Building 220Want to get involved on 
campus, join a community 
of women leaders and gain valuable leadership experi-ence? Come to the Women’s Student Association’s first 
general body meeting of the 
year and meet other stu-dents, learn about the orga-nization and eat free food. 
Everyone is welcome, both 
males and females, so stop by for more information. WSA has also just released applications for more than 
30 leadership positions. 
Applications can be found online at  http://ufwsa.blog-spot.com. Applications are 
due Sept. 14.
UF Pre-Pharmacy Society First 
Fall Meeting
Wednesday,  7 p.m.
Reitz Union, Room 282
If you are interested in ma-joring in pharmacy, come to the group’s first meeting and 
meet others who share your 
interests.  Students do not 
need to be a pre-pharmacy major to attend. A social will be held at Lollicup after the 
meeting around 8 p.m. 
RecSports Intramural Sports 
Softball, Volleyball and Three-on-Three Basketball 
Free Agents MeetingWednesday, 7 p.m. Southwest Recreation CenterAnyone interested in playing 
may register as a free agent. 
Free agents and intramu-ral sports captains who are looking for extra players are 
invited to attend the softball, 
volleyball and three-on-three ternship, or project oppor -
tunity with a Gainesville startup/entrepreneur -
ial company? Here’s a chance to meet company reps from more than 30 
Gainesville startups, includ-
ing Grooveshark, AxoGen, Trendy Entertainment, RegisterPatient, Fracture and 
many more. Opportunities 
are available in areas such as marketing, web develop-ment, public relations, com-puter engineering, advertis-
ing and more. See the full 
company list, event agenda and RSVP on Facebook by searching “Swap Meet UF – 
Fall 2011.”
UF Distinguished Professor 
Lecture Series: 
Arlan Rosenbloom, 
Department of Pediatrics
Sept. 15,  6 p.m. to 8 p.m.Hough HallThe UF Hough Hall 
Graduate School of Business 
presents “Insights and Conundrums about Growth Hormone Action Pathways.” Refreshments will be served. 
RSVP by Sept. 13 to mccrayi@
ufl.edu.
31st Annual Gainesville 
Cycling FestivalOct. 22-23, 8:30 a.m. both days  
Both rides begin and end at the Northwest Boys & Girls Club at 2700 NW 51st St.  
The cost per ride is $25 for a mail-in form postmarked by Oct. 15, $26 for a credit card registration and $30 for 
an Internet registration or 
$40 for a handwritten reg-istration on Oct. 22 or 23. Proceeds benefit the Boys & Girls Club of Alachua 
County. For more infor -
mation, visit the festival’s 
website at gccfla.org/gcf/.  
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to  jflechas@alligator.
org. Please model your sub-
missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” sub-
missions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.basketball free agents meet-
ing at the SWRC arena. For 
more information on how to register as a free agent, please visit http://recs-ports.ufl.edu/intramural-
sports/find-a-team/. 
Grand Opening of Dance 
TranceThursday, 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 
p.m.7230 W University Ave. Dance Trance is a nation-wide, high-energy dance-
fitness program that com-
bines all styles of dance with all genres of music for a sweaty dance-fitness 
class. 
Techno Contra Dance
Sept. 11, 3:30 p.m. to 7 p.m.  
Reitz Union Rion Ballroom  
The Contra Dancing Club 
is hosting the first techno contra dance at UF. There will be a disc jockey, black 
lights and dancing. Contra 
dancing is easy to learn, and there will be an intro-ductory workshop at 3:30 p.m. before the dance at 4 
p.m. Admission is $5 for 
students and $8 for non-students. 
Something Wicked This Way 
Comes: How to Save the UniversitySept. 12, 7:30 p.m.  
Smathers Library, 1A
In this public talk, profes-
sor Cary Nelson from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign will 
outline strategies for fac-
ulty and students to unite, and he will respond to the ongoing political assaults on higher education.
Health Occupations 
Students of America First General Body Meeting  
Sept. 12, 6:30 to 8 p.m.  
Little Hall 121  
The Health Occupations Students of America  will be having its first meeting 
of the semester. HOSA is 
a club for pre-health stu-dents. Come to learn about health-based volunteering, 
national competition schol-
arships and leadership op-portunities. 
Swap Meet UF
Sept. 15, 6 p.m.Stuzin Hall 267 (Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation)
Seeking an internship, ex- TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
Sept. 9, 1966: Students object to a $25 late 
registration fee. 
Sept. 6, 1985: Administrators ban over -
night “camp out” protests in an attempt to 
curb violence against student protestors. 
Sept. 9, 1992: Student Government 
members discuss the “Life Saver Program,” 
which includes a card that gets students a free soda or beer at participating establish-ments during certain hours. 
Sept. 6, 2000: Finance senior Louise 
Reardon is elected to become the liaison between the Alachua County Republican Party and the state Republican Party, repre-senting more than 30,000 registered Repub-licans. The 21-year-old is a member of Chi Omega sorority.
Sept. 10, 2009: Nick Saban signs a con-
tract extension as the head coach of the Uni-
versity of Alabama football team.
— CLARE LENNONacademics
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
Before students posted on Facebook 
that TutoringZone “is like academic 
sex,” before there were 31 tutors and thousands of student clients, there was just Matt Hintze.
He had a reputation as a good tu-
tor when he was an undergraduate at the University of California, Los An-geles, and he carried that reputation to graduate school at UF. The requests kept coming, and Hintze started his company in 1999.
Now he is CEO of TutoringZone, a 
private tutoring company regarded by 
many UF students as the savior of large 
“weed-out” courses. About 11,000 indi-viduals visited the TutoringZone offic-es during last year’s spring semester.
TutoringZone offers weekly tutor -
ing sessions, test preparation, practice exams, study materials, review packets and interaction with tutors through Fa-cebook. 
But TutoringZone isn’t the only 
tutoring service in Gainesville. StudyEdge, which opened during the summer, offers services similar to those at TutoringZone. Smokin’Notes offers note supplements to classes. 
Tutoring in Gainesville has become 
so prevalent,  professors are now famil-iar with it.
Macroeconomics professor David 
Denslow said TutoringZone tutors are able to condense the lecture material 
in a short amount of time. 
He said the “es-
sence” of the class is not always captured on tests and be-cause TutoringZone 
teaches to the tests, 
students who rely on those last-minute 
sessions might miss important things.
“My theory is that the job market 
will catch on to that,” Denslow said.  
Some UF students use TutoringZone as their main method of test preparation, going to last-minute reviews instead of 
classes.
TutoringZone Chief Operating Of-
ficer Larina Hintze said she and her 
husband, Matt, know some of their patrons use TutoringZone as a substi-tute for classes. However, she said the rewarding part for Matt is seeing the hardworking students who use the service for extra help when they un-derstand a concept.
Although TutoringZone has stuck 
with mostly business, math and sci-ence classes in the past, this semester, an applied physiology and kinesiology class and two different journalism class sessions are being offered.
Reporting professor Mike Foley said 
he is somewhat flattered that his class will be supplemented at TutoringZone. He said learning to write is hard, and 
he is glad students are seeking help.
Foley said he is interested to see how 
the tutoring sessions will be taught be-
cause several lab instructors besides Foley teach and grade students’ writ-ing.
Although he said he thinks the Tu-
toringZone founders are “terrific en-trepreneurs,” and he has heard good 
things about the service, he is a little 
skeptical of tutors’ ability to replicate the experience he gives his class.
“I bet they don’t dance!” he said.
TutoringZone adds new class sessions
Foley
EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
A single tear clung threateningly to 
Brayden’s cheek as his daddy walked out 
the door as if it couldn’t decide whether to fall or not.
He heard his teacher say he couldn’t eat 
his apples and oatmeal if he was crying, but watching his dad walk away was always so sad.
“Brayden’s sad,” 2-year-old Olivia 
lisped, her cheeks bulging with apple slic-es.
Her white-blonde braids bounced in as-
sent to say that sometimes she gets sad too when her mom and dad drop her off.
She swallowed her mouthful. “But So-
phia’s my friend.”
And that makes all the difference.At Baby Gator, the child care center for 
the children of UF students, faculty and staff, everyone is a friend. 
Little victories are celebrated — like 
when Sophia dumps her milk cup out by herself or when Kelsey waits her turn — and instructions are given with love.
The 270-or-so students at the three facili-
ties on campus are taught to listen, to share and to wash their hands often.
In addition to their set curriculum, stu-
dents from 6 weeks to 5 years old learn sign 
language and a smattering of foreign lan-
guages.
In August, they learned about animals. 
September’s theme is “All About Me.”
The children are divided into four age 
groups. Tiny Gators are 6 weeks to 10 months old, Little Gators are between 10 months and 30 months, Growing Gators are 2-and-a-half to 4 years old, and Future 
Gators are between 4 and 5 years old.
The children are split up between three 
centers on campus: one on Newell Drive, 
one on Village Drive and one by Lake Al-ice.
Baby Gator’s relationship with the uni-
versity has its benefits. Many parents are faculty members and have expertise they are more than willing to share with their 
children’s classmates.
“The university is extremely 
supportive of us,” said Pam Pal-
las, the director of Baby Gator.  
When the program was doing lessons on the ocean, a deep-sea diver came in for the day to show kids his scuba equipment and shark teeth, she said.
This university support played a ma-
jor part in Baby Gator’s recent expansion 
which is still a work in progress.
In June, UF purchased the Children’s 
Creative Learning Center building on 
Museum Road for an expansion of the program. On July 5, 83 students from the Village Drive center were moved down the street to the newly opened location, dubbed the Lake Alice center.
Renovations of the building are ongoing 
to convert space into classrooms and are ex-pected to continue through early October. The Lake Alice center will eventually 
take all of the students from Village Drive, as well as about 40 new children.
“I love that we’re able to do so much for 
children and families,” Pallas said. “I love being able to provide a safe place for par -
ents to bring their children and know that they’ll have an exceptional day.”
That day starts around 6:30 a.m. when 
the first kids come bouncing through the door. Teachers, like Miss Ashley Evange-lista and Miss Caitlin Holmes at the center 
on Newell Drive, serve breakfast provided 
by Shands.
On Thursday , the Little Gators had 
palm-sized bowls of oatmeal, red apple slices and small glasses of milk.
Breakfast lasts until about 8:15 a.m., 
when most of the students have been dropped off for the day. After breakfast is a little bit of playtime while the teachers call kids one-by-one to apply sunscreen and bug spray.
Ms. Sonia Castro calls everyone to the 
rug and starts reading “Why Should I Share?” while Miss Nika Lorenz whirls silently around the classroom, pulling out markers and puzzles for the next activ-ity and sending kids one-by-one to use the bathroom and wash their hands.
The day flies by; the lessons and struc-
tured centers are punctuated by play-ground time and hand washing, lunch and 
tooth brushing and, of course, nap time 
from about noon to 2 p.m.
Parents come to pick up their children 
by about 6 p.m., and then the teachers can go home to get ready for the next day.
When asked what she liked about her 
job, Miss Caitlin didn’t hesitate.
“The kids,” she said. “The kids make it 
worth it every day.”4, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2011
Matthew Riva / Alligator Staff
Sophia, 3, holds a bag of dinosaurs during playtime in her Baby Gator class. One 
of her two teachers, Nika Lorenz, graduated from UF’s ProTeach program.
ON CAMPUS
Baby Gator a place of learning, laughter� A SAFE DRUG HAS NOT YET BEEN DEVELOPED.
MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
UF researchers may have found a new way to fight co-
lon cancer.
Medicinal chemists took a toxic chemical produced by 
certain marine microbes and modified it so the chemical 
would be toxic to cancer cells.
According to Hendrik Luesch, an associate professor of medicinal chemistry at UF, certain cyanobacteria from the 
Pacific Ocean produce chemicals called apratoxins. 
These chemicals are used to as a de-
fense mechanism to fight predators and competitors in nature. 
“A while ago, we found that they have 
the ability to kill cancer cells,” Luesch 
said. “However, these natural products can also have damaging effects to nor -
mal cells.”The researchers designed a related chemical compound 
that is more toxic to cancer cells than the original without affecting normal cells.
Low doses of the compound were given to mice with 
colon cancer, and researchers discovered that the com-
pound stopped the growth of the cancerous tumor with-
out the poisonous effect of the natural product.
About half of all anti-cancer drugs are similar to natu-
ral products taken from organisms, Luesch said.
More research must be done before a drug based on 
apratoxins can be tested on human patients. Researchers modify ocean chemical as potential cancer cure
� HE THREATENED TO SHOOT  
A DRIVER STOPPED FOR SPEEDING.
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
University Police Officer Keith Smith, who 
came under scrutiny last year in the shooting 
of a student, was fired Thursday due to his conduct on the job. 
The conduct evaluation was prompted by 
Smith’s handling of a traffic stop on July 23, when he threatened to shoot a 20-year-old man whom he pulled over on a charge of reckless driving.
Smith pursued the man because he was 
driving 79 mph on West University Avenue in a 35-mph zone, according to a police report Smith filed.
The driver was reportedly throwing vari-
ous items, including bottles, out of the top of his Mercedes convertible.
While pursuing the car, Smith drove “at 
an unsafe speed and in an unsafe manner,” according to an Aug. 26 letter issued by police Chief Linda Stump. 
Dashboard video of the traffic stop showed 
Smith pursuing the Mercedes, which slowed to a near stop. Smith pulled up behind the car as it continued to roll slowly forward. 
Smith ran toward the car and told the man 
to stop. Smith yelled at him, threatening to 
shoot him. He used several expletives during 
the incident.
The driver turned off the car and told 
Smith he had done so. Smith then pulled him from the Mercedes and made him lean over the back of the car, handcuffing him. 
The driver and passenger in the car were 
not UF students, said UF spokeswoman Jan-ine Sikes.
Smith was placed on administrative leave 
with pay, pending review of his conduct dur -
ing the stop, according to an Aug. 25 letter from Stump. He received a notice of intent to “discontinue/non-renew” his appointment at UPD on Aug. 26 — a decision that would  mean his termination. 
Stump wrote that the termination came 
because she had “lost confidence” in Smith’s 
judgment and ability to perform his du-
ties as a UPD officer. She cited the July 23 traffic stop as an example of such conduct.  
She made the final decision to fire Smith on Sept. 1. Smith can no longer work for UF in any capacity . 
Smith will be given a one-time severance 
pay equal to three months’ salary in accor -
dance with UF regulations.
Visit alligator.org to see the footage.UPD officer 
fired for violent 
traffic stopLuesch
 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 5
 Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
  Whisked Away
Asia, a 2-year-old Asian small-clawed otter, peeks out of her cage at the Santa Fe Teaching Zoo during one of her train-
ing sessions. She is leaving today to breed with another otter at the Perth Zoo in Australia. Visit alligator.org for the full story. 
  CLARE LENNON
 Alligator Writer 
  Students who want to run for Student Gov-
ernment now have the option to run under the 
Students Party , a new minority party that  looks to challenge the Unite Party’s majority rule.
  Carly Wilson, director of communications 
for the Students Party, announced the forma-tion of the party in a news release Thursday. 
  Students who wish to run for a Senate posi-
tion under either party must attend qualifying, which runs today from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in Room 284 of the Reitz Union. 
    Wilson said Students Party members will 
focus on ending corruption and determining positions based on group afﬁ  liation, which she said the Unite Party practices.
  “They are really out only to beneﬁ  t them-
selves,” she said.
  Wilson said another Students Party goal is 
to withdraw some of the privileges given to 
higher-level SG ofﬁ  cers. 
  Unite Party spokeswoman Christina Bonar-
rigo said such privileges come from outside 
revenue and dismissed the idea that Unite Par-ty members do not pay attention to students’ concerns.
  “We were elected by the students, and 
therefore we represent the students and their needs,” Bonarrigo said. Students Party 
makes debut
 ERIN JESTER and JASMINE EARLS 
Alligator Writers 
  
  A UF materials engineering professor 
who suffered a heart attack is in stable con-dition thanks to two students.
  Stephen Pearton, 54, was in the Reitz 
Union food court Wednesday when he be-gan to have a heart attack. S  ophomore Lauren Mickle was waiting 
in line for a salad at Croutons when she saw Pearton seizing up and making chok-ing sounds.   A male student waiting near Croutons jumped out of line and began performing CPR. Mickle, who is a lifeguard for UF RecSports, stepped in to help. 
  Paramedics arrived shortly after and 
administered several shocks with a deﬁ  -brillator. Pearton was taken to the Shands 
Cardiac Intensive Care Unit. 
  UPD spokesman Brad Barber said the 
students’ quick response had an impact on 
saving Pearton’s life.   Mickle said it was the ﬁ  rst time she had performed CPR.  
  Mickle said police told her Friday that 
Pearton was in stable condition and recov-ering.  Professor stable after suffering heart attack  “They are really out only to beneﬁ  t 
themselves.”
Carly Wilson
communications director of the Students Party
ON CAMPUSReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORFriday’s question: Are you going to be in 
town for the long weekend?79% YES
21% NO
122 TOTAL VOTESToday’s question: Have you ever gone to a session at TutoringZone?Strike Three
Firing of UPD officer 
long overdue
A traffic stop that turned violent was the straw that broke 
the camel’s back for UPD officer Keith Smith, the same 
officer who shot a graduate student in the face on cam-
pus two years ago. 
On July 23, Smith was involved in a high-speed chase down 
West University Avenue with a driver who was reportedly driv-
ing 79 mph in a 35-mph zone. 
What should have been a routine speeding stop became 
unnecessarily violent when the driver of the speeding vehicle slowed down to ask Smith where to stop near 34th Street. 
As recorded on the police cruiser’s dashboard, Smith begins 
yelling at the driver and threatening to shoot him. He then pulls the driver from the car and handcuffs him. 
Smith has been fired for this incident, something we believe 
should have happened sooner. 
As many in the Gainesville area will remember, Smith was 
involved in the shooting of the doctoral student who suffered 
from mental health problems in 2010. 
Kofi Adu-Brempong approached officers with a table leg 
when they stormed into his campus apartment after they were called about screams coming from inside.
Smith, after receiving orders from his superior fired his as-
sault rifle. Adu-Brempong was shot in the face and the hand. 
Smith was also involved with an incident in the Porter’s 
neighborhood in southwest Gainesville where officers harassed 
and threw eggs at suspected drug dealers and prostitutes. 
To top it off, Smith was involved in another chase with a ve-
hicle that failed to stop behind the white line at an intersection in 2007. This was another totally unnecessary abuse of power. 
According to his personnel file, Smith had the highest num-
ber of physical arrests for his shifts during 2008. One has to won-der how many of these turned physical for no reason. 
Smith’s record of reckless abuse of authority shows he never 
should have been on the squad that dealt with the doctoral stu-dent. 
Smith was a member of the Critical Incident Response Team 
during the student shooting, which is designed “to respond to active shooters,” said UPD Chief Linda Stump in 2010. 
The Crisis Intervention Team should have been called to deal 
with this situation instead, since they have received training on how to deal with those struggling with mental health issues.  
Even though the student shooting incident could have been 
avoided by sending the proper team to handle the situation, Smith’s record should have indicated that he was not right for a 
team that responds to “active shooters.” 
Smith appears to have a history of aggressive behavior, and 
if he was ever in a situation involving an “active shooter,” could have made matters worse.
Why Smith, who supposedly was on a highly skilled re-
sponse team, was on traffic duty the night of the high-speed 
chase is another question.
Guest column
Keep campus clean after football games
Gamedays are here again.
I love waking up to body paint smeared in 
the bathroom, a terrifying amount of strangers 
in my town and cars parked on my sidewalks.
Tens of thousands of football fans from far and wide 
gather at The Swamp to cheer on their team. 
I thank them for their enthusiasm and their ticket 
payments.
But what is UF left with once the game is over? 
Well, a win, we hope, but that’s beside the point.Up to 10 tons of extra waste are generated from the 
stadium, while four more tons of extra litter can be 
found on our campus. 
That is nearly 23 tons of extra waste for each home 
game. 
Homecoming weekend, which is Nov. 4-6 this year, 
can generate between 28 to 30 tons of extra litter and 
trash. Even more staff and time are required for Gator Growl. So while you’re enjoying the parade, pay atten-tion to what you’re throwing away.
Most of the trash consists of food and drink products. 
More than four tons of cardboard and beverage contain-ers are thrown away during each home game weekend. 
Is it fair that UF will be ransacked and trashed on 
seven out of 12 game weekends this year?
Think of the additional employees and hours the 
Grounds Department has to supply to pick up after the more than 90,000 fans. We have the serious luxury of a dedicated staff that helps keep UF looking as presti-gious as it should be. 
There has got to be some serious Disney magic that 
goes into whipping the campus into shape; mounds of trash just disappear overnight and the campus sparkles once more. Try not to take advantage of that.
Instead of drowning in piles of refuse, let’s make sure 
our bottles and cans make their way into the proper re-cycling bins. Better yet, invest a couple of dollars in a reusable bottle that you can use all year long.
As of this February, UF has 
saved about 154,000 12-ounce 
bottles of water. Those water fountains with the bottle refill stations are really working, so please keep using them.
The Neutral Gator Initiative took UF’s athletics pro-
gram and made it carbon neutral. The entire campus will be carbon neutral by 2025, UF President Bernie Ma-chen said in his speech on Earth Day in April. 
“If you threw a dart anywhere on our campus map, 
you would likely hit an area touched by our sustainabil-ity efforts,” Machen said.
It’s up to all of us to join our staff in this mission. 
Acting with sustainability in mind does not mean trying 
to preserve the world how it is; instead, it means chang-
ing the way we behave in order to extend our planet’s future.
I’d like to point out that with the world’s current pat-
tern of resource use, we will require the equivalent of 
two planet Earths by 2030. Harnessing the sheer amount 
of people who are normally at UF  — and the increased 
amount of people here on gamedays — should be the 
first step toward being an example for other large uni-
versities. 
Machen also mentioned that the University Athlet-
ics Association hopes to accomplish its goal of a zero-
waste stadium by 2013. That’s an amazing step forward for UF, and I hope we can reach it. Anything is possible 
with the correct attitude.
There’s no reason our orange and blue can’t add a 
touch of green to the mix. I love seeing The Gator Na-
tion crush its opponents on the field. I’d love it even 
more if we could team up together and crush our waste 
output.
Sami Main is a journalism junior at UF.Sami Main
Speaking Out TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Most Americans, especially the 
Obama administration, hoped that the summer of 2010 would 
be the summer of recovery . It turned out to be the summer of discovery as Ameri-
cans discovered that the increasingly larger 
numbers on the national debt clock would actually have to decrease. The result: the November 2010 elections, during which the tea party saved the Republican Party and walloped the Democrats. This summer could be characterized as the summer of dysfunction. Washington gridlocked, and there were more fireworks than the Fourth 
of July . The result: a debt downgrade by a 
firm infamous for being too generous with its financial rankings. However, like anyone who has suffered through a traffic jam un-derstands, gridlock only requires one bad driver. In summer 2011, the Obama White House failed majestically to acknowledge or address the greatest obstacle to Ameri-ca’s future success.
To be fair, both Democrats and Republi-
cans have contributed to the national debt. The annual deficits under the Bush admin-istration may have been merely a tenth of the size of the deficits under the Obama ad-ministration, but Obama is correct in men-tioning that he inherited a large national debt and came into office during a period of economic turmoil. He’s done much to 
attempt to solve the latter but seems alarm-
ingly willing to ignore the former. 
The national debt this past year was 
approximately $14 trillion, already a stun-ningly large sum, but miniscule compared to the future. Largely led by growth in the already expensive entitlement programs, the unfunded obligations of the United States government currently amount to a 
staggering $61.6 trillion, or $528,000 per 
household. By 2049, Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security will consume all tax revenue, assuming that tax revenues re-main at their historical average.
While President Obama is not fully re-
sponsible for these absolutely unsustain-able obligations, he is the president of the United States. Presidents are expected to 
lead not only their party but also the nation 
— without exception. Inheriting a national problem is not rea-son to ignore it. Lin-coln inherited a na-tion on the brink of civil war; he fought 
for the Union. Presi-
dent Reagan inherited a seemingly perpet-
ual Cold War; he defeated an evil empire. Obama inherited a debt crisis. He should have tackled the root of the problem: out-of-control growth in entitlement spending.
The new Republican majority in the 
House provided Obama with a genuine chance to tackle the entitlement crisis with-
out fear of political retaliation. Rep. Paul 
Ryan, D-Wisc., even did the heavy lifting by proposing a plan to reform entitlements and pay off the national debt. Obama re-sponded with a heavily political speech and his own “plan” so vague that, when the Congressional Budget Office was asked to score it, CBO Director Douglas Elmendorf responded, “We don’t estimate speeches.” 
During the entire debt ceiling debate that 
engulfed the summer, the president of the United States could not come up with a sin-gle legitimate plan. The only existing alter -
native to the Republican plan — the status quo — is entirely unacceptable. Retirement security programs are on their deathbeds, the entire nation is in the sick room and the president is on holiday from obligations. 
Raising taxes on “billionaires and million-
aires” (plus all those making $250,000 or more) would pay for a mere few days of government spending — clearly not a cred-ible solution.
Compromise requires that two sides 
come to the table with conflicting propos-als and meet in the middle. When one side lacks a plan, it’s nearly impossible to come 
to terms. The results of this summer’s debt 
debate should have been real, bipartisan entitlement reform, but a bipartisan com-promise would require that both sides have a plan. For the dysfunction to begin and the recovery to begin, America needs a presi-dent who will recognize and address the debt crisis in good faith. The nation needs an upgrade in leadership.
Derek J. Bekebrede is columnist for the 
Harvard Crimson at Harvard University.
Despite having inherited mess, 
Obama needs to step it upUWire
Conservative columnist William J. 
Buckley Jr. famously said he would rather be governed by the first 2,000 
names in the Boston telephone book than by the faculty of Harvard University. 
Buckley’s quote captures a larger anti-
Harvard sentiment in American politics — a sentiment that has often haunted gradu-ates as they seek public office, forcing them to address an often exploited assumption that they answer to the Northeast liberal elite.
Now, Elizabeth Warren faces the same 
“Harvard problem.” Warren — who has 
been a member of Harvard Law School’s 
faculty for nearly two decades — is prepar -
ing to launch a campaign to unseat Repub-lican Sen. Scott P . Brown.
But even before her official announce-
ment, Republicans have questioned wheth-er as a Harvard professor, Warren “best represents” the views and values of Mas-sachusetts voters.
Although she has been upfront about her 
ties to Harvard, Warren’s message thus far — replete with stories from her small-town childhood in Oklahoma — seems designed to counteract any reputation she may have earned as an out-of-touch Harvard elitist.
When did Harvard become a bad word 
in professional politics?
The grudge against Harvard can be 
traced back to the Vietnam War, when Har -
vard famously banned the ROTC program, according to Massachusetts Democratic strategist Mary Ann Marsh. She said that even in the 1960s, Harvard seemed like a place where “people don’t spend time with the everyday people,” and “where people are far more interested in theory than inter -
acting with people.”
Democratic strategist Scott Ferson 
echoed that Harvard is now often a nega-tive buzz word in politics — synonymous with the idea of an out-of-touch class of Northeastern elites that is unpopular with most of the electorate.
Fundamentally, Harvard invokes a class tension that Ferson said Brown would exploit in a 
general election by trying to convince vot-
ers that there is no way a Harvard professor 
could understand their problems.
Ferson added that the current politi-
cal climate will make Warren’s status as a Harvard faculty member an especially big hurdle for her campaign.
“At a time when ‘tea party, no experi-
ence and never put an economic equation together’ sells, I think it is going to be par -
ticularly difficult for her,” he said.
Defending a more aggressive foreign 
policy strategy this week, Republican presi-dential hopeful Mitt Romney used Presi-dent Obama’s connection to Harvard to paint him as weak on defense.
“That may be what they think in that 
Harvard faculty lounge, but it’s not what they know on the battlefield,” Romney 
said. 
While he doesn’t mention it on the cam-
paign trail, Romney holds business and law 
degrees from Harvard.
It is a stretch to say that the Harvard 
name has been a detractor for all candidates with ties to the University. There are cur -
rently 31 members of Congress with Har -
vard degrees.
Warren isn’t shy about her connection to 
Harvard.
“There’s nothing to handle,” Warren 
told the Boston Globe upon being asked about her association to the University. “It is what it is. I’m also 5-foot-8.”
In addition to emphasizing her Oklaho-
ma roots, Warren has said she would take her “scrappy” style to the floor of the U.S. 
Senate.
“It’s about being willing to take a good 
idea and fight for it,” Warren told the Globe. 
“It’s being willing to throw your body in front of a bus to block bad ideas.”
Caroline M. McKay is a staff writer for the 
Harvard Crimson at Harvard University.Rhetoric paints Harvard 
grads as out-of-touch elitistsUWire
Caroline M. McKay
UWireDerek J. 
Bekebrede
UWire
Mark said he would buy the textbooks before the hur -
ricane strikes. He strolled through the streets of New 
Brunswick, N.J., thinking about all the excitement 
the new semester would bring. He entered the bookstore, pro-
ceeded promptly to the basement and then to the third aisle. 
He snatched up his French textbook, took a quick glimpse at the price tag and began to frown — $148.35. Shortly thereaf-ter, he learned the textbook contained a one-time online access code and thus cannot be resold. Mark let out a big sigh and slowly and hesitantly walked back upstairs.
It may be a little peculiar that I, Mark Kim, am unhappy 
about buying a textbook. Being the big nerd that I am, I have 
a tendency to hoard books. I must have spent close to $4,000 
buying the textbooks — yes, textbooks — sitting on my not-so-little bookshelf. 
Though a majority of them are mathematics textbooks, 
plenty are, at best, loosely connected to my field of study. Then why must I, a lover of textbooks, cringe whenever I buy my textbooks for many of my classes?
The answer is that many of them are simply not worthwhile 
purchases. Indeed, the state of the textbook market is atrocious. 
The prose in science textbooks is not readable by humans; in 
many humanities textbooks, the prose is marred by low-qual-ity filler text surrounding the read-this-and-nothing-else bold-faced sentences. 
Each new edition of an already-horrendous textbook brings 
no improvement but bears only a minor permutation in section and page numbers so it can be force-fed to new students. The prices reach new heights every year, yet the highly specialized editorial staff who suppos-
edly justify this inflation let even the 
most inane mistakes slip through the cracks. One cannot shake 
off the feeling that the powers that be are conspiring against him to pay an inordinate amount of money for a book he will never want to read.
All is well, perhaps, if the professor actually makes you use 
the textbook. All is well if you get to sell back the textbook at a reasonable price. 
The problem persists, however, even when money is not 
the issue. The abundance of low-quality textbooks affects the lower-division education as well when the students are getting the textbooks “for free.” These textbooks are so poorly writ-ten that many students never come to accept the simple idea of learning by reading. Every idea must be explained, creating another generation of people whose educational experiences cease completely at graduation.
Can you, dear reader, imagine a classic textbook, read by 
generation after generation? Most likely not, I would imag-ine. The typical textbooks you have in mind will perhaps run through a few more editions and sink forever into oblivion. There are such things, however, as classic textbooks. Take “A Course of Pure Mathematics” by the British mathematician G. H. Hardy, for example. Originally written in 1908, it is still one of the most widely read mathematics textbooks. 
But college mathematics curricula changed substantially 
since then, and “A Course of Pure Mathematics” cannot be as-signed as a textbook for a course anymore. 
Even so, its popularity among students of mathematics has 
not faded.
Hardy’s textbook is the product of a time when there was 
barely a textbook market. Since there was no such occupation as a textbook writer, each textbook was written by a writer and would adhere to the same standard of prose that essay writers and novelists did.
As such, a substantial number of old textbooks were well 
written, and it was not uncommon for several generations to share the same basic textbooks.
Human knowledge is expanding more rapidly than ever, 
and perhaps it is impossible for different generations to use 
the same textbooks. Each will require different kinds of knowl-
edge, and new textbooks will have to be written. I do believe, however, that the textbook writers of our time could learn a thing or two from their predecessors. 
As the legendary mathematical expositor Paul Halmos 
wrote, “Mathematical writing is ephemeral, to be sure, but if you want to reach your audience now, you must write as if for the ages.” Ideally, textbook writers of any field should follow this dictum.
Mark Kim is a columnist for the Daily T argum at Rutgers 
University.
Many textbooks are not worth money; writing should be timelessUWire
Mark Kim
UWirePalacios was one such student. 
She was placed in a triple on the 
ground floor of Weaver Hall. 
“Our room had two desks, two 
dressers and two closets,” she said. “And three beds.”
According to Sharon Blansett, as-
sistant to the associate vice president for student affairs, there are current-ly 7,765 students living on campus. This year, UF received 10,284 appli-cations for on-campus housing from 
incoming students alone.
“Each year, we anticipate cancel-
lations based on historical trends,” 
Blansett said.
UF housing offers more room 
contracts than there are rooms. “By 
offering more con-tracts than we have 
spaces for, we en-
sure that we open as 
close to 100 percent occupancy as pos-sible,” she said.
Blansett said 
staying as close to 
maximum capacity as possible al-
lows housing to provide the most af-
fordable rent rates and offer a wide range of services to residents.
During the first week of classes, 
Palacios received a call saying she 
had a new room. The transfer pro-
cess was not easy.
When she received the offer to 
switch rooms, she wondered how 
she would move all her things again 
and was told by the housing office to use the bus. 
Eventually, she found a way to 
move: her roommate’s car.
“We managed to fit everything 
into this tiny car,” she said. “Then when we closed the door, my lamp broke. I’m down a lamp now.”MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
As fans poured into Ben 
Hill Griffin Stadium on Sat-
urday night for the UF versus 
Florida Atlantic University 
match-up, UF alumnus Don Crews celebrated a milestone few Gators only dream of 
achieving. 
He attended his 500th 
Gators football game.
He made the trek up to his 
row-81 seats near the 25-yard line – seats he’s had for 39 
years as a season ticket hold-er – and watched  Coach Will Muschamp lead the Gators to 
a win for his UF debut.
Crews, 76, graduated from 
UF in 1963 with a  bachelor’s 
degree in building construc-tion. 
He went to the Gators 
home games as a student, but he couldn’t afford to attend away games. 
He started going to away 
games in 1965 when he and his wife of 53 years, Lu, re-turned to Florida after spend-ing a year in New Jersey. 
Crews has about 502,000 
miles on his Ford, which he’s had for eight years and drives to every away game because he doesn’t like to fly. 
“I’m not one of those guys 
that have flags and banners and all that junk,” he said. “When the game comes, I go to the game. Every Florida 
game is important.”
When the Gators season 
starts, Crews’ family knows 
where he’ll be every game-day. Whether the game is in 
Gainesville, a few hours away 
from his Cocoa Beach home, or in another state, he’ll be there. 
“I can’t remember when I 
missed a game,” he said. 
His family also knows not 
to plan any important events 
on Gators gamedays. When 
his oldest daughter, 45-year-old Christine O’Shea, set her wedding date, it was unfortu-nately on the same day as a UF football match. 
“I said, ‘Well, I won’t be 
there,’” Crews said. “‘I’ll be 
at the Gator game.’ So she 
changed the date.”
He doesn’t miss a game. His youngest daughter, 
38-year-old Cathleen Gray, 
was born on a Friday in Octo-
ber. 
Crews spent time with his 
wife and newborn daughter in 
the hospital that night. 
The next morning he head-
ed out to watch the Gators 
play. 
“He’s just that kind of 
guy,” Lu Crews said. “He’s very consistent.”
For the past several years, 
the Gators football team has 
kept one date open for Crews 
—Oct. 20, his wedding anni-versary. 
The couple has a tradition 
of traveling to away games 
before their anniversary and 
then continuing their trip up to the mountains to spend time together every year, Lu 
said. 
This year, they’ll attend 
the Louisiana State University 
and Auburn University games during their anniversary trip, 
which will end at the UF ver -
sus University of Georgia 
game in Jacksonville. 
“That’s kind of very special 
for us, those fall games,” Lu said.
When Crews was younger, 
he would get into a fight every time he went to the Florida-
Georgia game, according to 
his friend Fred Sharp, whom he has known since the 1960s.
“Georgia has always been 
the most vehement of our op-ponents,” said Sharp, who is also a UF alumnus. “The fans have been at odds with each other ever since I’ve been go-
ing, too.”
After decades of 
Gators games, Crews has 
a few favorite players.  
Former UF quarterback Tim Tebow is one of them, along 
with Emmitt Smith and Dan-
ny Wuerffel. 
But the best football player 
he’s ever seen? That’s Wilber 
Marshall. 
Now that the Gators foot-
ball season has officially start-
ed, Crews will start his ritual over again. 
For every home game, ev-
ery away game and every championship or bowl game the Gators play this season, 
he’ll be there in the stands 
cheering them on. 
After 500 games, Crews 
has seen the Gators win and loose. 
He’s seen them win na-
tional championships and lose Southeastern Conference championships. 
But after 500 games, there’s 
still one thing he’s never seen.
“I’ve never seen them 
win every game in one year, and I’m hoping I’ll live long 
enough to see them win every 
game in a season,” he said. 
But whether they achieve 
that goal or not, one thing 
won’t change.
Don Crews will always be 
at the Gators games — rain or shine, win or lose.
8, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2011
Photo courtesy to the Alligator
Don Crews shows off his UF football ticket stubs. On Saturday, 
he attended his 500th Gators football game.Alumnus attends 500th Gators football game
Six people made the 200-mile trek from Immokalee to Lake land
and learn about the farmworkers’ situations firsthand. 
Aramark, which provides food services for UF, reached an agreement with the CIW in 2010.
According to a news release on Publix’s website, the 
company’s stance is that the CIW’s complaints should be handled by the farmworkers’ direct employers, not gro-cery retailers. 
Publix officials also state in the release that the protest 
“ironically” hurts Florida’s farmworkers and Florida’s produce industry.
The release includes statements regarding how the 
minimum wage has changed several times since 1978, 
and how if workers feel if productivity standards are too 
strenuous, they should seek employment elsewhere and force employers to revise standards.
The release also states that Publix does not support 
any violations of human rights, and its team is unaware of any instances of slavery in its supply chain or any examples of payments made below minimum wage to 
workers. 
Hunter and five other people left Immokalee by bicycle 
Saturday, starting their 200-mile pilgrimage to Lakeland. 
The group is made up of Hunter, two other Interfaith Ac-tion members and three Immokalee farm workers. They stopped in various cities along the way to edu-
cate people about their cause and work on grassroots or -
ganizing efforts. 
Darinel Sales, one of the CIW members on the bicycle 
ride, has worked on Immokalee farms for two years. 
His interview responses were translated from Spanish 
by Margaret Gleeson, a member of Interfaith Action who is biking with Sales and the others to Lakeland. 
“I’m a farmworker, and I’m working alongside other 
farmworkers in the coalition to eliminate…the physical violence and other kinds of abuses that exist in the field,” said Sales, 26. “One of our major hopes as a farmworker community is that Ed Crenshaw will hear our message and will listen to our message and join with us to work 
together in the Campaign for Fair Food to do what he can 
do to improve our situation.”PUBLIX , from page 1HOUSING , from page 1Housing 
offers more spots than dorm roomsGAmed Ay
“I’m working alongside other farmworkers in 
the coalition to eliminate…the physical violence 
and other kinds of abuses that exist in the field.”
Darinel Sales
Immokalee farms employeeBlansett
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS Classifieds
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
THIS WEEK ONLY
$379 3/3 All-Inclusive$349 4/4 All-Inclusive$250 VISA Gift Cards!352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com           12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC!
4/4’s @ $329
Upgraded 4/4’s ONLY $359
$100 Visa Card for fall
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
VALUE PLACE GAINESVILLE
New Extended Stay Lodging 3 miles to UF★NO LEASE - NO CREDIT CHECK
★FREE Utilities, Special UF Monthly Rates
★Furnished Wkly Single Studio $219.99+tax
★Kitchens, Laundry, HD TV/HBO, Secure
5505 SW 41st Blvd.,  I-75, Exit 382352-672-6008 ValuePlace.com/GainesvilleFL     
9-6-11-16-1
STUDIO - FURNISHED
Private, quiet, secluded. $525/mo incl utils, cable TV, internet. Located @ Tower & Archer Roads. 378-4626    9-12-11-5-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
PinetreeGardens.com
2 bed/1.5 bath Townhomes
with washer/dryer!
***$629 this month only***
Call today! 376.4002
12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
12-7-11-74-2
     1,2,3,BR’s – Welcome Home!
·         HUGE floorplans! * H20/Sewer Incl!
·         W/D Avail! * Pets Loved!
·         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
·        376-2507 * BivensCove.com 12-7-11-
74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
FULLY UPGRADED – Only 
$1,099
($367/person)
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1/1• 750 sq. ft •$639/mo.
2/2.5 TH• 1113 sq. ft •$799/mo.
4/2.5 TH• 1662 sq. ft •$999/mo.
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!
●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!
●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2011
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    9-7-11-62-2
AVAILABLE NOW - ONLY A FEW LEFT!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
9-30-11-29-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 
352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
3BR, 2Bath, Washer/Dryer, 
Fenced backyard, Carport,
No pets. $1450./Mo   303-877-4915
9-19-11-30-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   9-9-11-19-2
Roommates a Hassle?
Move into your own downtown apt!www.ArlingtonSquare.orgStudios and 1Bdrms starting at $599!Check availability now! 338-000212-7-11-74-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs.1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-15509-16-11-20-2
3BR, 2BA, Condo Unit, Ground Floor, Kitchen 
& living area; Swimming pool & tennis courts; The Sparrow; $700.00 per month.Call Cristen at 352-514-6222    9-19-11-20-2Near UF Campus The Baxter House
Historic spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. 
Custom built with many beautiful, unique 
features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $2000/
month obo + util. Call 275 1259    9-19-11-
20-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area. 
Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, 
new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Avail 
now - 1 yr. $1780 OBO. 352-665-8166 lv msg  
9-6-11-10-2
2BD/2BA townhouse, full W/D, huge 
closets, tile and laminate flooring, fenced 
backyard, pet friendly, near UF, very clean, 
section 8 accepted. $725/mo  
2911 SW 38th place - (954) 439-2076
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home.  
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to 
$400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1st month half price! Vacant lots also
available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887
9-20-20-2
Spectacular 3BR, Lakefront Condo
1 mile south of UF and Shands
recently renovated,  $1400 month
pool, clubhouse, 2500 s.f. + garage
available immediately (352) 262-2871    9-21-
11-20-2
●Historic House walk to UF.2703 NW 2nd 
Ave.Central h/a,screened porch,private 
parking,laundry with w/d.perfect for grad stu-
dent or professional.No pets.1st,last sec.$40 
app fee. $795 mo. 352-332-5836    9-15-11-
16-2
3 blocks to UF – Gatornest
$550 – Only 3 left
Bike to UF – Centerpoint
$450- Only1 left
4BR/2BA House
directly across from Law School
W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
2392 NW 2nd Avenue – Call for details
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
9-8-11-10-2
The Polos
ONE MONTH FREE
Move In By September 15th
Call For Details!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
FOR RENT: 4 BED/2 BATH HOUSE, OFF 
NEWBERRY RD ACROSS GAINESVILLE HEALTH & FITNESS.$1200 RENT PER MONTH, $300 PER PERSON. CALL: 786-586-5670 OR 305-439-3435EMAIL: KLAND304@AOL.COM   9-7-11-4-2
Sublease NOW-Jan 2012 (Extendable) 
3BR(1550 sqft)/ 2 Bath/ Lv/ Dine/ Kitchen/ Large Screened Porch/Balcony. Close to 
UF. In Complex : Club hs; Pool; Sauna; 
Laundry; BBQ; Parking. Pets allowed. $800/
mo(reduced).  352-356-8889    9-6-11-1-2
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-4
Male roommate needed - 4 BR house, 14 
blks from campus. Safe & secure NW neigh -
borhood. Great deck & yard. Clean, nicely furn, new appl, $575/mo incl util, w/d. AJ 561.718.5567    9-6-11-10-4$350 moves you in! No deposit or last months 
rent. Mature male student to share furnished 
4/2. FR, LR, W/D, maid service, yrd man, 5 
min from UF, new kitchen, big yard. No pets, 
non-smoker. (813) 362-7729 or 362-7881
9-6-11-10-4
Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $379/MO
cable, internet, utilities, pool+ more
beautifully renovated, on bus route,  
Call 352  262-2871             9-7-11-5-4
Need female/nonsmoker roommate; 2bed/1 
bath apt; $255 a month (not including utili-ties); available NOW; 12 month lease; non-refundable deposit of $44.50; 3 miles from UF/7 miles from SFC; contact Becca at 352-222-8117.    9-7-11-5-4
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     
12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
●BED SET TWIN $49
●FULL $69
●QUEEN $89
●KING $99
352-376-0953 4390 SW 20TH AVE   10-6-
11-30-6
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-
74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2011  § ALLIGATOR, 11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr 
Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-
6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups 
available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is giving away TWO scoot-
ers to our Facebook friends, one at end of 
Summer B, another in Fall. "Like" our FB 
page for more details about the giveaway. 
facebook.com/RoadRatMotors   9-12-11-
24-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-
74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
9-30-11-21-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!
PRICES SLASHED!!!!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS
CASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $999
94 FORD TAURUS $999
96 HONDA ACCORD $1499
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $1999
98 FORD F250 $2500
02 CHEVY BLAZER $4999
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLES
NO CREDIT CHECK
MOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!
352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!
PRICES SLASHED!!!!
NO CREDIT CHECK!
352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $8999
03 MITS ECLIPSE $7999
05 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999
352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $12999
04 HONDA ODYSSEY $9999
05 SUZUKI XLT $9999
352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-74-13
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
12-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
9-8-11-74-13 
$$ CASH PAID, $500 OR MORE $$
FOR JUNK CARS & TRUCKS
RUNNING OR NOT, ANY CONDITION
SAME DAY PICK UP. FREE TOWING
NO TITLE NEEDED. CALL 352-771-6191
 10-11-11-30-13
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Please submit resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
MEDICAL ASSISTANT
PT or FT for a doctor's office. Experience 
preferred. Email resume to:snpohani@gmail.com      9-8-11-5-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm, 
M-F. Wkend hrs vary. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax re-sume & availability to 373-2230     9-13-11-15-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    9-30-11-34-14
12, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2011
NEED NANNY TO TRAVEL: all expenses pd;
min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs/wk @ $12/hr;
4yr old/1.5 yr old; bonus hr$; exp; good refs;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &
schedule to  info@noahsarknanny.com
9-6-11-15-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
WEB COURSE ASSISTANTS wanted to 
help faculty with course websites. Applicants 
must be familiar with Dreamweaver, CSS 
and Photoshop. Be prepared to present 
samples of your work. Full- and part-time po-
sitions are available. Pay starts at $10.00 per 
hour. basharat@ufl.edu, online application at 
http://citt.ufl.edu/contact.php.   9-9-11-17-14
Busy Dermatology Office seeking assistant 
to learn all aspects of billing, collections, ac-
counts payable and receivable, appointment 
scheduling and front office management. 
Ideal for seniors obtaining a business BA or 
similar degree. Part-time position leading to 
possible full-time with management poten-
tial. Email resume to ofmgrbeers@aol.com.    
9-9-10-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 
372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
Veterinary Receptionist
Experience preferred. Must be available 
afternoons and Saturdays. Apply in person 
at Jonesville Animal Hospital, 14145 W 
Newberry Rd, Newberry
9-6-11-16-14
Personal assistant: 5 hours/Monday. Must 
have car, GPS, driver's license, fluent English. Computer & website skills. Cleaning and organizing skills. Email info@gviolins.com.   9-13-11-8-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net9-12-11-15-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
UF Survey Research Center
Now hiring for fall semester!
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352) 392-2908 Ext: 105
720 SW 2nd Ave Suite 156
9-9-11-15-14
Five Star Pizza Downtown
is looking for
Postive Profesional Attitudes
car is required for all personel
variety of hours availabe
apply in person at 210 sw 2nd ave.
between 1 p.m. and 5 p.m.
9-7-11-10-14
Centerplate Part-Time Jobs!
● Event Supervisors● Warehouse Runners● CashiersApply in person at Ben Hill Griffin StadiumMonday-Friday 8:00 AM to 4:00 PMwww.centerplate.eventbrite.com
(352) 692-6244
                      9-23-11-17-14
NANNY NEEDED for 2: 18mon/4yrs
2wks/mon/min; 40hrs/wk @$12/hrNoah's Ark Nanny: email res., pix &sched: to info@noahsarknanny.com    9-6-11-8-14SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working 
environment. PT/FT positions available. 
$7.50/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 
NW 13th St    9-9-11-10-14g
Maintenance Supervisor  FT
AC cert. w/4 yrs. apt. maint. exp.
Must have own tools & truck. Salary
commensurate with exp. DFWP
Apply in person 2770 NW 43rd St., Ste. B
12-7-11-69-14
Leasing Agent  FT/PT
Friendly, energetic person.
Exp. preferred. 20-40 hrs./wk.
hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Must be avail. weekend. Apply in person
Spyglass Apts 701 SW 62nd Blvd.   DFWP
12-7-11-69-14 
Property Manager – PT
Organized, motivated, outgoing person
for PT position at small apt. community.
Must be avail. M-F 1-6, Sat. 10-2.
Apply in person
2770 NW 43rd St, Ste B DFWP
12-7-11-69-14
Florida Football Drink Seller!
Tremendous Cash in a Short Time!
Yes - it is a work out!
Apply in person at Concessions Office
Gate 18 BHG Stadium       9-23-11-17-14
Farm Help & Outdoor Work - must be reliable, 
organized; will work around class schedule; 
farm experience/light carpentry skills a plus; 
references w/phone no. required; send re-
sume to skking@gator.net.    9-7-5-14
GET PAID TO TYPE!!
Fast, accurate typists needed for au-
dio transcription work. Create your own 
schedule Monday - Friday, 7am - midnight. 
Compensation based on speed and accu-
racy (around $8.50 an hour if you type faster 
than 70 wpm). Walking distance to campus. 
Ideal for PT and Students! Email inquiries to 
gnvjobs@uigfla.com Requirements: 
- Must work a minimum of 16 hours a week- Must be attentive to detail
- English must be your first language     9-7-
11-5-14
LIFEGUARD.$12.00 PER HOUR. 
REQUIRES CERTIFICATION.20 HRS/WK ON 3 DAY WKNDS. ADD'L HRS MAY BE AVAIL. ADULT-MALE PATIENTS IN MAX SECURITY MENTAL HLTH FAC DURING    POOL REC THERAPY.CONTACT GRADY CARTHON(352)375-8484   9-14-10-14
PHONE REPS NEEDED ASAP
Flexible Shifts, 
Must be Articulate and Reliable371-5888 X111 or 6020 NW 4th Pl, Ste G9-30-21-14
Wanted: Head Lacrosse Coach for boys var-
sity at Gainesville High School. Playing exp. a must. Fax resume to C.J. Boulware: 352-955-7283. Info: 352-955-6707x289 /boulwarecj@gm.sbac.edu     9-30-11-20-14
Micanopy Animal Hospital is looking for an 
experienced head veterinary technician with 
supervisory skills. Duties include: Ordering, 
inventory management, scheduling, training, 
and personnel management. Apply online at 
www.MicanopyAnimalHospital.com.    9-9-
11-5-14IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
Horse boarding, $350/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-
time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing 
available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome    
9-30-11-38-15. 
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
Finish Line Resume Services
Professional Quality Resumes
Affordable and Prompt
additional services upon request
www.finishlineresumeservices.com
9-14-11-10-15
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) $99 
and Basic Life Support (BLS)$35. Classes run continuously to fit your schedule. American Heart Association Card issued. Call Cardiac One at 352-494-4217.    10-14-11-30-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
12-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
GATOR ALUM
NEEDS 2 TICKETS TO UF-BAMA GAME. 
STUDENT TIX OK IF UPGRADED.
CALL OR TEXT 561-504-3352.GO GATORS!                        9-8-11-3-22All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses 
Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen 
Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   
10-19-11-100-16
ALL YOUR CPR AND FIRST AID NEEDS
FLORIDA HEARTSAVER
www.floridaheartsaver.org 575-0119                        9-30-28-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Florida’s opener against FAU
Did John Brantley do enough in Week 1 to show 
you he’s a different player in 2011? Vote online at 
alligatorSports.org.Underclassmen in the secondary
Which potential starter will play the largest role for Florida this season?Elam (70%)        Roberson (13%)        Saunders (9%)         Riggs (9%)Former Gators greats Abby Wambach (left) and Heather Mitts reminisce on their time in Gainesville.See Story, Page 15. 
� FLOYD WILL MEET WITH 
NCAA TO DETERMINE STATUS.
GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Two days after sophomore 
Sharrif Floyd was declared ineli-
gible just prior to Florida’s season 
opener, the reasoning behind his 
status remains unclear. 
Coach Will Muschamp de-
clined further comment Monday, 
saying only, “He’s fine.”
The University Athletic Asso-
ciation released a statement say-
ing Floyd will remain ineligible until he is cleared to play by the 
NCAA. The only clarification of-
fered was to say that the issue “is not related to sports agents, Uni-versity of Florida boosters or his 
recruitment to Florida.”
Ron Cohen, Floyd’s former 
coach at Philadelphia George 
Washington High, told the Palm Beach Post that Floyd is sched-
uled to have a hearing with the 
NCAA today. 
Floyd played in all 13 games 
as a freshman and was projected 
to be a starter at defensive end. 
Senior William Green started in his place against FAU. 
Injury update: Muschamp said 
he expects sophomore fullback 
Trey Burton and  redshirt senior 
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Will Muschamp would not comment on the status of Sharrif Floyd’s eligibility on 
Monday after the school announced before Saturday’s game that Floyd would not play.   
Floyd not 
eligible, hearing set for today
THE TOM GREEN SHOW
The way things looked in The Swamp on Saturday, 
you’d think the Urban Meyer era never ended.
The Gators were using superior speed to run 
around, past and through the Owls. The defense was suf-focating. Special teams came through with a blocked kick and one (nearly two) touchdowns, and hey, there was even a 6-foot-4, 235-pound quarterback running the ball 
as  Florida romped to an easy 41-3 win.
But don’t think one convincing victory against a vastly 
overmatched Florida Atlantic squad is a sign of things to come this season — a subpar Sun 
Belt team is not a Southeastern Conference-caliber foe.
Coach Will Muschamp even 
said as much Monday afternoon when he admitted the team ap-proached the game with the un-
derstanding it will “play better 
people throughout the year” and “to be realistic here,” 
venturing away from the coach-speak to which we’ve all become accustomed. 
Sure, quarterback John Brantley finally looked calm 
and collected under center. He looked like a man who 
was in command of the offense, but he wasn’t asked to do 
much against FAU.
Of his 21 completions, 13 were on screens or passes in 
the flats. He took what the defense gave him, dropping 
off dinks and dunks to the fastest running back duo in the 
land, Chris Rainey and Jeff Demps, who made the Owls BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
Kelly Murphy’s kill attempt rico-
cheted off the net and back to her. 
Instead of a pleasant sendoff after a lengthy homestand, Monday’s match ended in the first loss of the season.
In a wild meeting that saw the No. 
9 Gators (6-1) come back from a 2-0 deficit only to ultimately fall 3-2 (19-25, 27-29, 25-17, 25-18, 14-16) to No. 19 Iowa State (7-0), Florida was ham-pered by a slow start and late errors.
“It’s really disappointing because 
we worked so hard to get to that point,” junior Tangerine Wiggs said. 
“When we get there, we need to make 
sure we stay disciplined.”
Although the Gators had two less  
attack errors than the Cyclones and out-hit their opposition .251 to .208, UF recorded a season-high 17 service errors. Florida averaged 9.5 service er -
rors per game in the first six matches of the year. Five of those misfires came in the deciding fifth set, a frame Flori-da would like to forget.
“It was just the execution in the 
end,” junior Betsy Smith said.
Iowa State opened the contest 
in dominating fashion. Before the match’s 10-minute break, the Cyclones out-hit the Gators .331 to .177 and out-blocked them six to four. 
Behind 12 kills and eight UF attack 
errors, ISU cruised to an easy first-set victory. Florida then blew a 24-21 lead 
to lose set two 29-27.
“We showed them some numbers Gators lose 
first match 
of season
Be realistic Gator Nation, that was just Florida Atlantic
Tom Green
twitter: @tomas_verde
SEE TOM, p AGE 16SEE VOLLEYBALL, p AGE 16
SEE FOOTBALL, p AGE 14UF VOLLEYBALL14, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida defensive tackle Dominique Easley (2) helped the front seven completely disrupt 
the FAU offense on Saturday. The Gators recorded two sacks and 11 tackles for loss.
Florida 41, Florida Atlantic 3
FAU’s offensive ineptitude through its 
first four series — all three-and-outs. With UF leading 17-0, it became abun -
dantly clear that the Owls would not be able to muster the offensive firepower to hang with Florida. FAU finished the game with 137 yards of total offense.
Jeff 
DempsOn Saturday, Rainey 
accomplished something only two other players have done since 1996: score a touchdown rushing, receiving and via a return. He finished the day with a career-high three scores, 79 rushing yards on 11 carries and a team-leading six receptions for 67 yards, proving it’s once again good to be Chris Rainey.Howard, along with sophomore Dominique Easley, disrupted FAU’s offense at the line of scrimmage all night as the Gators’ defense turned in a dominating performance. Howard had four total tackles (two solo), including one of the team’s two sacks.
SWAMP STUDS
Jaye
Howard
DT
(1 point)18  
Florida recorded 18 first downs before its 
defense gave up one to FAU. The Owls didn’t 
get a first down until 3:30 remaining in the 
second quarter, with UF already ahead 24-0.KEY STAT
Chris
Rainey
RB
(3 points)TURNING POINT
RB
(2 points)
Solomon Patton blocked a punt with just more than 
10 minutes remaining in the third quarter. Patton came around the left edge of FAU’s punt protection unit and 
got his hands on Mickey Groody’s punt, which was 
scooped up by Chris Rainey for the touchdown to make it 31-3.THREE KEY PLAYS
Chris Rainey  3 
Jeff Demps                2
Jaye Howard  1STANDINGS
Offensive coordinator Charlie 
Weis called Demps and Rainey the two fastest backs he’s ever coached, and Demps did his best to prove Weis right Saturday. He racked up 105 rushing yards and two scores for his fifth career 100-yard game. He also took the opening kickoff to the house, but it was nullified due to a holding call.
John Brantley threw a 14-yard touchdown pass to 
Chris Rainey in the first quarter. When Rainey caught the ball in the flat and scampered to the end zone, it 
was the Gators’ third swing pass of the drive, and sixth 
of the game, setting the tone for their offense.
Jelani Jenkins’ hit on the sidelines midway through the third quarter. Jenkins blew up a Florida Atlantic receiver, embodying Florida’s physical defense on the night.
1 2 3 4Final
Florida Atlantic
Florida3 0
10 4131407010
SCORE BY QUARTERSTYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Dominique Easley made Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium his own ballroom Saturday night; 
one that happens to rely heavily on hip hop and welcomes 280-pound performers.
The season opener is always a forum for 
excessive celebration, a medium to release pent-up energy built from eight months of waiting for actual games to be played. Eas-ley took it to another level against FAU.
He danced on the sidelines. He danced 
on the field. He danced before the game. He danced at every chance during the game.
“Easley sucks at dancing; sucks at danc-
ing,” defensive tackle Omar Hunter said. 
“But you know what? He keeps us going 
when he does that. He brings a lot of juice to this team, and I love that.”
The Gators’ front seven had more than 
enough juice in Saturday’s 41-3 beatdown of the Owls. FAU squeaked out just 30 yards rushing, and it couldn’t move the chains until less than four minutes remained in the first half. Its quarterback didn’t look com-
fortable until the game was out of reach.
Graham Wilbert was only sacked once 
Saturday, but he felt plenty of pressure. 
Running back Alfred Morris, meanwhile, gained 16 yards on 14 carries. Morris rushed for 928 yards last season, including 80 against Muschamp’s Texas defense, and he ran for 1,392 the year before that.
“Their kids were coming off the ball and 
exploding into our offensive line,” FAU coach Howard Schnellenberger said.
Much has been made in the offseason 
about Muschamp and defensive coordina-
tor Dan Quinn’s fluid formations. Florida’s 
front would shift from 4-3 to 3-4 throughout games, Muschamp said in his introductory press conference last December.
So far, so good.Saturday’s effort was a far cry from last 
season, when Florida’s play at the line of scrimmage was a weak link on a unit that performed quite well overall. The Gators’ 
defense was ranked ninth nationally in 
2010, but the group allowed 130.62 rushing yards per game — 31st in the nation.
Muschamp thought the team’s pass 
rush was subpar, though the Owls did keep seven players in pass protection throughout the game. The energy of the defensive line, however, was palpable.
Sophomore Ronald Powell, who record-
ed one of Florida’s two sacks, could be seen jawing and even feigning punches with of-fensive linemen throughout the night. After one incident, a referee warned him to stop. He did it again; the official called an un-sportsmanlike conduct penalty.
As for Easley , he was perhaps the only 
player more hyped than Powell. 
At one point in the first half, he lifted a 
pass-blocking Morris above him like a pro wrestler.
“He’s a monster,” Hunter said.And a good defensive tackle. And a 
dancer, though not a skilled one.
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org.Easley, defense dominate FAU
Burton, Thompson not 
expected to miss game on
Saturday against UAB
wide receiver Deonte Thompson, 
both of whom left Saturday’s game with injuries, to be fine. 
Burton sustained some bruis-
ing in the hip and rib area on his left side. He left in the first quarter but returned later in the game. 
Thompson took a heavy hit to 
the back of the head after making a catch on a crossing pattern early in the fourth quarter, but Mus-champ said the wideout did not 
suffer a concussion on the helmet-
to-helmet blow. 
Muschamp added that junior 
wide receiver Omarius Hines, 
who missed Saturday’s game with 
a hamstring injury, is expected to be back this week against Ala-bama-Birmingham. 
Also absent against FAU were 
junior cornerback Jeremy Brown (knee) and sophomore wide re-ceiver Robert Clark (hamstring), who Muschamp listed as “prob-
able-to-questionable” for next 
week. 
Driskel’s playing time: Mus-
champ restated on Monday the desire to give freshman quar -
terback Jeff Driskel meaningful snaps, adding that he will do so again against UAB if the opportu-nity presents itself. 
Driskel entered for three plays 
against FAU with 6:04 remaining in the second quarter, then again with 8:01 left in the fourth. 
He completed 4 of 6 passes 
for 42 yards and an interception, 
while also running twice for 8 
yards. 
Weekly awards: Redshirt se-
nior defensive tackle Jaye How-ard was named the Southeastern 
Conference’s Co-Defensive Line-
man of the Week following his 
four-tackle, one-sack performance 
against Florida 
Atlantic. 
Howard also 
recorded 1.5 
tackles for loss.
M u s c h a m p 
singled out  run-
ning backs Chris Rainey and Jeff Demps as the team’s offensive 
players of the week. 
Muschamp also cited sixth-
year senior and Notre Dame trans-fer Dan Wenger as the team’s best 
lineman, while left tackle Xavier 
Nixon was mentioned as the play-er who gave the most effort. 
On defense, Muschamp gave 
sophomore linebacker Jelani Jen-kins his “Hard Hat Award,” men-tioning a powerful hit Jenkins made while breaking up an FAU 
pass attempt midway through the 
third quarter. 
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@
alligator.org.FOOTBALL , from page 13
Tom Green and Maegan Dennis / Alligator Staff Demps
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Though it has been 10 years since 
U.S. women’s national team mem-
bers Abby Wambach and Heather Mitts last dressed out in orange 
and blue, memories of their time in 
Gainesville flood back in an instant. 
Immediately, UF’s national cham-
pionship win in 1998 comes to mind, followed closely by the friendships they made as teammates building a new program. 
Even the “awesome,” 25-cent 
drafts at Calico Jack’s on Tuesday 
nights, as Wambach recalls, seem as 
if they were enjoyed yesterday.
“I was driving around and I’m 
like, ‘That wasn’t there, that wasn’t 
there,’” Mitts said. “It’s changed a 
little bit, but at the same time, a lot of it’s very familiar and obviously it’s still an amazing place to be.”
Perhaps the most recognizable 
aspect of their college days, howev-er, was the crowd of 3,728 on hand — the largest in four years at Pressly Stadium — to greet them Friday night during No. 13 Florida’s 3-0 win against Texas Tech.
With the 2010 opener drawing 
just 1,932 people, the last time the Gators started the season with the same buzz around the program was in 1999, when more than 4,700 showed for the first home game against Florida State. 
To begin that season, the summer 
heroics of the famous World Cup ti-tle over China were still fresh in the 
nation’s memory.
“I was 19 years old sitting here in 
Gainesville when the women won 
the World Cup in ’99 and never in my wildest dreams did I think that I would have a moment similar to that,” Wambach said.
Much like her sophomore year, 
Wambach has seen a spike in atten-tion toward women’s soccer, which is even more impressive to the 31-year-old considering the U.S. fell short of winning the Cup this year.
Following the July 17 final 
against Japan, Mitts and Wambach saw attendance skyrocket 88.8 per -
cent in Women’s Professional Soc-cer, where they play for the Atlanta Beat and magicJack, respectively.
“We, as a national team, hope 
that it transcends all the way down the ladder,” Wambach said. “We want people talking about women’s soccer because, truthfully , it’s not nearly as popular in this country as 
we think it could be, and I think we 
did something special in Germany that got people talking about it.”
For Mitts, making the sport rel-
evant year-round and not just every four years starts at the collegiate level with the type of work UF coach Becky Burleigh does to produce in-ternational-caliber players.
“Obviously Title IX has a lot to do 
with that,” Mitts said. “Just having the opportunity for so many girls to come here and to play college soccer and for us to have a league now, all of this is a part of the result of how far soccer has come here in the Unit-ed States.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@
alligator.org. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Former Gators greats Heather Mitts (left) and Abby Wambach (right) spoke to the team before Friday’s 
3-0 win against Texas Tech at home in front of nearly 4,000 — the largest crowd in four years. 
Wambach, Mitts reminded of Gainesville glory days after visit
“I was 19 years old sitting 
here in Gainesville when 
the women won the World 
Cup in ’99 and never in my 
wildest dreams did I think 
that I would have a moment 
similar to that.”
Abby Wambach
U.S. soccer playerwhere Iowa State was so significantly better in making de-
fensive plays,” UF coach Mary Wise said. “You just can’t win matches without the defense.”
With a pep talk in their arsenal, the Gators charged out 
of the locker room for easy wins in the third and fourth sets. 
Florida out-hit the Cyclones .469 to .229 in set three and out-
blocked ISU in the two sets by a total of nine to one.
“At that point, we just got to where we had nothing 
to lose,” said Wiggs, who combined with middle blocker Smith for a .587 hitting percentage and 12 kills in the third and fourth frames.
With an early-season game on the line, freshmen Madi-
son Monserez and Holly Pole were consistently tossed into the most intense situations of their young careers.
“Madi and Holly did great,” Wiggs said. “It’s really 
hard to go into a situation like that. They did a great job of staying composed.”
But the Gators could not close out the drama in the fifth. 
Leading 13-12 coming out of an Iowa State timeout, Florida allowed a 14-14 tie before an attack error by Kristy Jaeckel, and what was eventually ruled an attack error by Murphy crashed Florida’s comeback dreams.
“Right now, we could be undefeated without playing 
them,” Wise said. “But we wouldn’t know as much about ourselves.”16, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Gators right-side hitter Tangerine Wiggs had a career day on Monday against Iowa State, but the junior took Florida’s 
first loss of the season especially hard and was seen crying on the court after the match.
Unforced errors doom No. 9 Gators’ chances in decisive fifth set
VOLLEYBALL , from page 13
pay.
Those swing passes won’t always cut it against 
an SEC defense, and Florida’s offense is going 
to have to show a lot more than that if it wants 
to make some real noise this year. Part of that means establishing a legitimate vertical passing game with Quinton Dunbar and Deonte Thomp-
son, something Florida was unable to do against 
FAU, resulting in an 0-for-4 effort from Brantley on passes of 20 yards or longer.
That shouldn’t be the Gators’ biggest concern 
moving forward, though. The offense looked just fine against FAU and moved the ball with 
relative ease. Florida didn’t even have to punt a 
single time.
The real issue is with something that Mus-
champ has been preaching since he was intro-duced as the Gators’ head guy in December: 
turnover margin.Florida gave the ball away three times (two 
Brantley interceptions and one from freshman 
Jeff Driskel on his first career pass attempt). However, the number of takeaways looked just 
like the first letter in Owls, thanks to a dropped 
would-be pick-six from Jelani Jenkins.
Similar performances against SEC teams 
won’t pan out as favorably for the Gators down 
the line.
“[Not forcing any turnovers] is a huge con-
cern,” Muschamp said. “That’s something we try 
to emphasize. We were minus-3 in turnovers … it’s a huge concern of taking care of the ball of-
fensively.”
For as many positives as there were to take 
from Saturday’s win — and there were plenty — 
there’s also a lot that needs to be worked on.
Because, let’s be realistic here, the Gators did 
what they were supposed to Saturday and noth-ing more.
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org.TOM , from page 13
The men’s and wom -
en’s teams began the sea -
son with a pair of overall 
and individual victories at the five-team Western Car -
olina Invitational on Friday.
Leading the way for the 
No. 22 women’s squad was Kenyan newcomer Florence N’Getich, who ran a tune-up style, two-mile race in 11:02.7. She edged senior Genevieve LaCaze by eight seconds for the win, as the Gators placed six other run -
ners in the top 10.
“[Florence] is a phe -
nomenal athlete, just how quick she’s adjusted to Gainesville and to Florida and the team has been great,” UF coach Todd Mor -gan said. “It’s like she’s been here for three years.”
The men’s 5k race 
proved even closer at the top for No. 26 Florida, with 
freshman Jimmy  Clark  (15:39.11) beating  out team -
mates  Tyler Da -
vidson and 
Matt Mizereck by just over a second at the line. 
“The plan was to just 
get to the front and run with a tight back,” Morgan said. “[Jimmy] is adjusting really fast to everything and it was nice to see his colle -giate career starting out on a great note.”
Both teams received 
a perfect low score of 15 points in Cullowhee, N.C., after sweeping the top five individual finishes in each race.
Men’s 5k
1. Florida, 15
2. Western Carolina, 453. UNC-Asheville, 804. North Greenville, 1155. Warren Wilson, 145
Women’s Two Mile
1. Florida, 152. Western Carolina, 543. UNC-Asheville, 714. North Greenville, 1275. Warren Wilson, 130UF Cross Country Wins First Event
Morgan
John Boothe / Alligator Staff