We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 9 TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Florida senior 
forward Chandler 
Parsons (right) is 
part of a frontcourt 
that has struggled 
all season from the 
free-throw line. UF 
is shooting 65.1 
percent from the 
line this season.
See Story, Page 14.Partly
cloudy
68/48LOWELL, Mass. — Police say a fake valet 
at a Massachusetts emergency room offered 
to park a pregnant woman’s car, then drove away with it.
Lowell police Capt. Kelly Richardson tells 
the Boston Herald that the woman drove her -
self to Lowell General Hospital at 3 a.m. Fri-day while suffering labor pains.
She parked outside the emergency room 
doors and was met by a man wearing a uni-form-style shirt who introduced himself as the valet.
The man said she couldn’t park there but 
volunteered to take her keys and move the car. Then, police say, he drove away.
While being admitted, the woman was 
told the hospital didn’t offer a valet service.
The car was found Saturday morning. 
Police are examining it for fingerprints and other evidence to try to find the suspect.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSCops in Massachusetts say fake ER valet nabs expecting mom’s car
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 10
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 14
Jesse Lash / Alligator
Dancing for Dollars
Eleni Rodriguez, a member of Sabor Latino, performs at the Gators United for Haiti Auction and 
Talent Showcase on Friday night. Gators United for Haiti has set a goal of raising $50,000 for relief efforts in Haiti.
LOCAL
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
In the winter of 2009, Ben Meyers needed to get his drunk friend 
home. 
As they came out of a midtown bar, they spotted a taxi parked 
on the street. This would be a great way, Meyers thought, to get a 
lift for the mile walk back to Fraternity Row. 
But Meyers, the current UF Student Senate president, ran into a 
problem — the driver never ran his meter.  
And the ferryman asked a high price. For the mile-long drive, 
the driver asked Meyers to shell out $20. 
“Bar fee,” he said the driver called it.Not knowing what to do or how to negotiate, Meyers relent-
ed. He paid the fare, and for an entire year, he didn’t take the taxi again.
There have been many similar complaints of taxi drivers in 
Gainesville over-charging students for cab fares. Sometimes, the fares drivers demand can be things like $20 per passenger to travel only 10 blocks, Meyers said. 
Situations like these are made possible by drivers who park out-
side bars and wait for drunk students to come out. Without a call being made to a dispatcher, drivers don’t have to report their fares, and are free  to charge whatever fees they want to students, Meyers said. 
 In addition, if drunk students refuse to pay, drivers may threat-
en to call police in an effort to coax payment out of passengers.
“Knowing students, if I was a taxi driver and I had nobody look-
ing over my shoulder, it would be fairly easy to pull a stunt like that,” Meyers said.
Nineteen-year-old Hannah Hong was another who got into 
similar situation. 
In early fall semester, Hong was traveling downtown with three 
of her Alpha Delta Pi sorority sisters.
After getting a ride from another sister to the area, Hong 
found it difficult to find another ride back to her apart-ment on Sorority Row. The taxi seemed like a viable option.  
When the taxi arrived, the driver did not inform Hong of how much she would be asked to pay. Instead, he just drove.  
And when they arrived, Hong said, the bombshell came — $20 per person.
Hong found a way to scrape together the $80 sum that was be-
ing demanded, but she fumed.
“It was completely ridiculous,” she said.
Though Hong’s driver was deviating from a normal flat-
rate, charging flat-rates to students is not illegal in Gainesville. 
Taxi drivers are permitted to charge whatever they like, so Taxi fees not 
fair to students
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer
The race for one of Florida’s U.S. 
Senate seats is officially under way, 
and UF has one of its own profes-sors in the political battle. 
Mike Haridopolos, the State 
Senate president and a UF profes-sor, launched a campaign website, 
mike2012.org, last week. Harido-
polos became the first Republican to jump into the race, putting pres-sure on other potential Republican 
runners to decide their own candi-
dacy. 
Ryan Garcia, the second vice 
chairman of UF College Republi-cans, believes the timing for Hari-dopolos to launch his campaign is perfect. 
“People like new blood,” Garcia 
said. “Haridopolos is a charming, 
charismatic guy, 
and I think he 
would do a great 
job for the state of Florida and this country.”
In addition 
to his duties in the state senate, 
which he has served in since 2003, Haridopolos has also been a UF 
professor for three years, said Al-
bert Matheny, associate dean of the UF College of Liberal Arts and Sci-
ences who oversees the senator’s 
UF work.
 In an e-mail interview, Matheny 
said he couldn’t remember anoth-
er instance of a politician serving 
a term in office and working as a professor at UF at the same time. Lawton Chiles became an endowed professor of political science at UF 
after he had stepped down from 
his U.S. Senate seat.
Haridopolos usually teaches 
three classes during UF’s fall se-mester. In the spring, his legisla-
tive duties shift his work base to 
Tallahassee. He currently oversees about a dozen UF students intern-ing with the state government. 
“This is a real plus for UF be-Haridopolos to run for Senate
Haridopolos
He teaches a class at UF
SEE HARIDOPOLOS, PAGE 4 SEE TAXIS, PAGE 9“Knowing students, if I was a taxi driver and I had 
nobody looking over my shoulder, it would be fairly 
easy to pull a stunt like that.”
Ben Meyers
UF Student Senate presidentNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 9 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Nicole Deck, 
  Safid Deen, Desiree Farnum, 
  Olivia Feldman, Greg Fink, 
  Josh Isom, Caitlin O’Conner, 
  Briana Seymour, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,   
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Dynamo Policy Group General 
Body MeetingWednesday, 6 p.m.Anderson Room 034The Dynamo, UF’s first and only student-run think tank, shall be hosting its first gener -
al body meeting Wednesday. Topics will include getting published, speaker ideas and our first social. New members are encouraged to attend and leadership opportunities are available. 
Get Carded meeting
Wednesday, 7:15 p.m.Little Hall 127There are 110,179 Americans currently waiting for a life-
saving transplant. Come learn 
how you can help raise aware-
ness about organ and tissue donation with Get Carded at our first meeting of the semes -
ter. All majors are welcome. 
For more information go to 
http://www.groupspaces.com/GetCardedUF. 
Psychology Club & Psi Chi 
MeetingWednesday, 7:20 p.m.Little Hall 101Eager to meet fellow psychol-
ogy majors? Are you interest-
ed in learning about graduate 
school, volunteer and research opportunities? Then come to the first Psychology Club meeting Wednesday at 7:20 p.m. in LIT 101. Come early Web development, public re-lations, computer engineer -
ing, 3-D modeling and more.  
RSVP on Facebook is request-
ed but not required.
 
Gainesville Comedy Showcase
Wednesdays and Fridays, 10 
p.m. Free stand-up comedy 
featuring both professional and 
local comics. The  showcase is 
located at Mother’s Pub on Wednesdays and Jeff’s Deli on 
University Avenue on Fridays. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper. for pizza! The guest speaker 
will be Ira Fischler. For more information and updates, add our group on Facebook or go to www.psych.ufl.edu/~psichi
Campus Diplomats Forum
Thursday, 6 p.m.Arredondo CafeAttend our forum to find out more and see if you have what it takes to become a Campus Diplomat. For more information, or to download an application, go to dso.ufl.edu/studentorgs/diplo-mats/. Applications are due Jan. 29.
2nd Tech Entrepreneur Intern 
Swap MeetThursday, 6 p.m.Hough Hall lobby
Searching for a spring or 
summer internship with a local start-up company?  Here’s your chance to meet 
company representatives 
from over 15 local start-ups, 
including: Grooveshark, RegisterPatient, Trendy Entertainment, and Fracture. Internships are available in fields such as marketing, 
PARTLY
CLOUDY
68/48PARTLY
CLOUDY
70/45SUNNY
72/50RAIN
68/46PARTLY
CLOUDY
67/39SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY
TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer
Some students are using it for smooth 
skin.
Others want it for firmer lips.
It’s also being used for bigger breasts.
That’s what some students and UF em-
ployees are using the UF Division of Plas-
tic and Reconstructive Surgery’s discount for this year. 
The discount gets students and faculty 
20 percent off non-surgical procedures, such as laser hair removal, microdermabra-sion and Botox treatments. 
For surgical procedures such as breast 
augmentation, liposuction and tummy tucks, the department has a 20 percent discount on surgeon’s fees, said Jennifer Brindise, marketing and public relations 
specialist for UF Department of Surgery.
Bruce Mast, UF’s chief of plastic and re-
constructive surgery, said the cost of plas-
tic surgery can range from a couple thou-sand dollars for a non-surgical procedure 
to as much as $15,000 for a face-lift-nose-
job combo. 
By that estimate, a 20 percent discount could mean anywhere from $400 to $3,000 
off the surgeon’s bill.
“So, it’s really nothing to laugh at,” 
Mast said.Lindsay Howell, UF plastic surgery 
clinic manager, said since the discount, 
she has noticed an increase in the number of student and employee patients for plas-tic surgery. 
Popular choices include non-surgical 
work such as laser hair removal at $900 for the whole leg and surgical work such as breast augmentation for which the price 
can vary depending on the type of im-
plants used and their size.
She could not give an exact number be-
cause she did not want to violate patient confidentiality rules.
She said she thinks the discount lowers 
the “taboo” of plastic surgery and brings in patients other than those who would typically get plastic surgery.
Mast said surgery discounts in private 
practices are common since cosmetic sur -
gery is usually not covered under health insurance. 
He said market trends and the economy 
usually figure into discounts as well.
But he also said UF’s discount was 
more to honor the relationship between the plastic surgery department and uni-
versity employees and students.
“It’s not like we go out and put up fliers 
and stuff,” he said. “We’re not using it as a 
sleazy commercial marketing ploy.”
 Photo illustration by Max Reed and Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Students could save $400 to $3000 on a discounted surgery from the UF Divsion of 
Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery.
ON CAMPUS
Students, faculty take advantage of surgery discount
By SKYLAR RAMSEY 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Despite some outdoor site can-
cellations due to rain, about 200 
UF students participated in a Day of Service around Gainesville to celebrate Martin Luther King Jr. 
on Monday morning.
“The rain has affected the 
turnout, but not nearly as much 
as we had expected,” said Steven Vutsinas, UF’s graduate assistant 
for the Center for Leadership and 
Service.
The MLK Day of Service is a na-
tional event meant to bring people 
together to serve their communi-
ties, according to its website.
About 85 students spent the 
day volunteering indoors at the Children’s Home Society of Flor -
ida’s Tot Spot Thrift Store located on Main Street. 
“CHS is an organization that 
works with abused and neglected 
children, as well as children in the 
foster system,” according to Beth Nahlik, UF’s assistant director for the Center for Leadership and Service. 
The thrift store allows its low-
income clients to essentially shop for free.
Eddie Bell, an aerospace engi-
neering senior at UF, said they are cleaning and reorganizing the ga-rage to make it neater. 
Bell volunteers at the thrift 
store every Saturday.
He said that it is always good 
to have help. 
Chris Jones, a graphic design 
sophomore at UF, said that he likes knowing that he is spending his day off wisely by volunteering 
at the thrift shop instead of sleep-
ing in.
The morning ended with the 
Day of Service Closing Ceremony 
at Touchdown Terrace at Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium where lunch and door prizes were provided for the 
volunteers. 
This is the first year 
students were given 
the opportunity 
to reflect on their 
community ser -
vice experi-
ence.
The Day 
of Service was the first 
scheduled event in the Dr. Mar -
tin Luther King, Jr. Celebration 
Week. 
“In the spirit of the day we en-
courage students to be active in their community, trying to leave their mark as Dr. King left his,” 
Vutsinas said.UF students kick off 
MLK celebration week 
with ‘Day of Service’
 HE IS CHARGED WITH 
FELONY BATTERY.
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was ar -
rested and charged with felony 
battery Sunday afternoon for beating an elderly woman in 
her home.
According to the Gainesville 
Police report, David Lapp, 42, had been renting a room from 
the victim for the past month and a half.
That afternoon the victim, 
65, was in the kitchen making coffee when Lapp came in from 
his bedroom 
to talk to her, the report stated.
He  start-
ed arguing with her 
about a lock 
on the front door that 
gave him trouble the night be-fore and soon got violent, push-ing her against the wall.
“I can do anything I want 
here, and there is nothing any-one can do to stop me,” Lapp said,  according to the police 
report.                                 
The victim called police, 
and when they arrived at about 4:45 p.m., they found her with 
no visible injuries, the report stated.
Lapp is charged with one 
count of felony battery against a person 65 years or older and 
has since been released from 
custody.Local man arrested for 
beating his elderly landladyBy KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
January 21, 1969: Protesters nation-
wide flush toilets during the last words 
of Nixon’s inaugural address, but par -
ticipants on campus are foiled by a strange “coincidence.”
Reitz Union male bathrooms were 
suddenly out of order during the speech and conveniently repaired moments af-ter the speech was over. UF employees denied the maintenance had anything to do with an attempt to stop the national “flush-in.”
January 18, 1971: A marijuana study 
committee,  sponsored by SGA and UF, is created and staffed in order to gather information on various aspects of weed smoking, especially issues of legality. Members of the committee include 
UF law students, a former federal nar -
cotics agent, a director of a local drug-store, a counselor and a UF graduate student in pathology.
January 20, 1978: A new student-
safety measure is announced. By the end of the month, 14 “blue box” phones will be installed all over campus, allow-ing students to reach the Student Night-time Auxiliary Patrol at any time. The estimated cost: $3,076.
January 21, 1991: The Holy Trinity 
Episcopal Church on Northeast First Street is consumed by fire, causing more than $500,000 in damage. Thankfully, the 12 children in the church’s child care were evacuated before anybody was hurt.
Lapp
DayMartin Luther King Jr .
Commemorate4, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2011
He will run against Sen. Bill Nelson
cause we have had difficulty placing interns there 
historically,” Matheny said.
If Haridopolos wins the Republican primary, he 
will most likely face incumbent Democrat Bill Nel-son in November 2012. Nelson has served in the U.S. Senate since 2000, making him a potentially tough competitor, said Beth Rosenson, UF associate 
professor of political science. 
Rosenson said that while he may be able to capi-
talize off of anti-Obama sentiment, Haridopolos’ 
lack of national political experience may be a hin-drance to his campaign.
For Haridopolos, another problem that may be-
come an attack point during the campaign is the ethics investigation into his financial disclosures last year. 
Haridopolos admitted his failure to disclose in-
formation about a $400,000 Mount Dora investment home and other concerns and reached a settlement with the Florida Commission on Ethics in Decem-ber.
“It’s a sin of omission, not one of commission. ... 
I don’t think it’s going to hurt him,” Rosenson said. “If he can get the party nomination, I think it’s a 
pro-Republican climate and he has a good chance.”
Even if Haridopolos doesn’t win, such a high-
profile race could help him in future campaigns, 
she said. 
“It’s a good risk for him to take,” she said. “I 
don’t see much that he could lose.”HARIDOPOLOS , from page 1LOCAL 
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
Timothy Miles aspires to study 
electrical engineering at Georgia 
Institute of Technology, but right 
now he is just trying to turn in his 
homework on time.
To help him along, City Com-
missioner Sherwin Henry has met 
with Timothy every week since 
October to talk about school, sports 
and success.
Timothy, a seventh-grader at 
Abraham Lincoln Middle School, is one of seven students in a new mentoring program, Gainesville Enrichment Mentoring Program, which pairs up at-risk middle school students with city govern-ment employees.
He said Henry tells him to work 
hard and to never give up. 
“It’s pretty strong,” Timothy 
said of Henry’s encouragement.
Jared “Ashten” Crawford wants 
to be a CEO. His mentor, Rick Mul-ligan, said the 13-year-old has the smile and confidence of a business-man.
He just needs the education.Both Ashten and Timothy are 
part of the statewide organization 
Take Stock in Children, which also 
oversees the city mentoring pro-gram. The statewide program cur -
rently gives mentors and Florida 
Prepaid scholarships to 125 at-risk, 
low-income students in Alachua 
County. 
While the graduation rate for 
at-risk students in Florida hovers at 57 percent, the program has a 92 percent success rate.
Every Friday, Mulligan visits 
Ashten at Howard Bishop Middle School. They talk about the pizza in New York, algebra and Gators football as Ashten slouches com-fortably in his chair.
Mulligan, the executive director 
of Alachua County Public Schools Foundation Inc., brought Ashten information once about a high school designed for aspiring busi-nessmen.
“As we went over it, he was 
completely engaged in it,” Mulli-gan said. “Totally absorbed.”
It’s interactions like that, he said, 
that make all the difference. Mulli-gan said the mentor’s purpose isn’t to be an extra parent or a watchdog. 
Mentors are advocates, friends and 
confidantes. If nothing else, a men-
tor’s purpose is just to be there.
Mentors are asked to dedicate at 
least a year to the relationship. Ide-
ally, the pair will stick together for 
six years, until the mentee gradu-
ates. Mulligan, who keeps a framed picture of Ashten on his desk next to one of his grandson, said he’s in it for the long haul.
“I couldn’t imagine walking out 
on him,” he said. “That’s like walk-ing out on your own kids.”
Mulligan admits it’s not easy 
to be Ashten or his peers. They’re growing up in a world foreign to him, a world where education is sometimes looked down upon, 
fighting is the best way to solve 
arguments and, “What? Are you 
dreaming? That’s not for you,” are common responses to goals.
Most students in the program 
come from single-parent house-holds, he said. Some of them grow up in an environment where peo-ple move in and out of their lives faster than they go through a tube of toothpaste. Mulligan said men-tors are a consistent, reliable pres-ence.
There is, however, one problem: 
The program can’t take every stu-dent. 
When a student is accepted, a scholarship is immediately pur -
chased and set aside until he or she graduates. More money for schol-arships means more children in the program. Last year, Take Stock in 
Children in Alachua County had 
110 applications for 23 slots.
In order to choose whom to take, 
a system ranks students based on 
their risk factors. Similar to  mea-
suring the power of a hurricane, 
students are ranked from category 
one to four. From there, the staff chooses students who will be most successful in the program.
Mulligan repeats what seems 
to be the program’s mantra: “The way out of poverty is education and relationships.” He knows a scholarship alone won’t keep these kids out of trouble. But, perhaps, someone who tells them week after week, “You can do this. You’re very capable,” will make a difference. 
“I want my mentee to be an all-
star,” he said. “I want him to really shine.”
Mentor program provides scholarships, guidance
“I couldn’t imagine walk -
ing out on him. That’s like 
walking out on your own 
kids.”
Rick Mulligan
mentor
Alligator File Photo
UF lecturer Mike Haridopolos sits in UF’s Bob Graham Center for 
Public Service on February 5, 2008.
By DANIELA GUZMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The running support of UF students 
for the people of Haiti warmed up a par -
ticularly cold morning Saturday.
Gators United for Haiti honored the 
victims of last year’s earthquake with 
a 5K run/walk. More than 300 runners 
crossed the finish line at the Commuter 
Lot on Gale Lemerand Drive to raise 
about $6,000 for the cause.
The “Chomp the Quake” 5K run/
walk was the result of a semester-long coordinated effort of about 15 student or -
ganizations that compose Gators United for Haiti.
Sky Georges, president of Gators 
United for Haiti, said the organization was established shortly after the disas-
ter that occurred on Jan. 12, 2010, as a front to raise money for the victims of the earthquake.
Hayley Paradise, a runner that partici-
pated in the 5K with her sorority, said a $20 registration fee goes a long way.
“As much as we think that our dona-
tions are small, every little bit helps,” she said.
The proceeds will go toward Partners 
in Health, a public health 
care organization cooperat-
ing with the Red Cross to 
support the devastated na-
tion.
Their projects include rebuilding and 
enhancing Mirebalais hospital in Haiti to provide its residents with comprehensive 
medical attention.
Gators United for Haiti is $3,000 away 
from the initial donation goal of $50,000 
to help Haiti in the renewal process.Run raises $6,000 for Haiti
HaitiRelief
“It’s a sin of omission, not one of com -
mission. ... I don’t think it’s going to hurt 
him.”
Beth Rosenson
UF associate professor of political sciencen ASTRONOMERS NOW BELIEVE 
THERE ARE 13 ZODIACS RATHER THAN 12.
By LEILA MILGRIM
Alligator Contributing Writer
After finding out about the zodiac 
change, Dana Orlando logged on to Fa-
cebook and posted, “What is an Ophiu-
chus, and why am I now one of these?”
Orlando is one of many UF students 
who was confused by the zodiac iden-tity crisis that has altered horoscopes.
According to an article in Time News-
Feed, a discovery regarding the axis of the Earth and alignment of the stars has led astronomers from the Minnesota 
Planetarium Society to believe that there 
are 13 zodiacs on the astronomical cal-endar, as opposed to the 12 that the an-cient Babylonians believed there to be. 
Because of this, the dates that fall under 
each sign have changed.
Sophomore Jennifer Wilson said her 
world turned upside-down when she discovered she was no longer a Libra and was supposedly a Virgo.
“I feel so confused as to which horo-
scope I am supposed to be relating to,” Wilson said.
Sophomore Hayley Johnson said 
horoscopes are too vague to be accurate.
“I think it is silly that people care so 
much about the horoscope change,” she said.
A rumor of the horoscope change 
only applying to people born after 2009 is also confusing students.
“I guess I will never truly know my 
horoscope,” Wilson said. “I think people just need to continue to have faith in what they have always believed in.”Students respond to 
changed zodiac signs  TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Melanie Brkich / Alligator
Charlie Meister, 70, feeds kids at the Greathouse Farm 
Equestrian Center in Gainesville.
By MELANIE BRKICH
Alligator Contributing Writer
Felicity hasn’t accepted her kids. 
Although they’re just a few hours 
old, she won’t nurse them.
But that’s perfectly normal — Fe-
licity is a goat.
“Goats don’t always accept their 
babies,” said Charlie Meister, 70, who owns Felicity and about 60 oth-er goats at Greathouse Farm Eques-trian Center.
Meister’s farm, located about 10 
miles from UF campus at 11004 SW 67th St., is booming with baby goats, or “kids,” and more are on the way.
About a year ago, Meister put an 
ad for his goats in the Alligator clas-sifieds.
Meister said he’s gotten calls 
from both students and faculty as a 
result of his ad.
Cindy Toth, 57, is one of Meis-
ter’s customers and a professor in 
UF’s College of Public Health and 
Health Professions.
She already had two adult goats 
when she fell in love with a another 
couple of Meister’s kids. 
She decided to keep the two 
brothers as pets. She named them Leo and Vinny, after Leonardo da Vinci and Vincent Van Gogh, respec-tively.
Toth said she bought the goats 
primarily to keep as pets but has found that they have other uses, too.
She and her husband are current-
ly trying to get agricultural exemp-tion for their property, meaning that their property taxes will go down as a result of owning the goats.
They also help trim down the 
grass and weeds on their 10 acres of land.
In the last year, Meister has sold 
about 20 goats intended for a variety of purposes from producing milk and cheese to being pack animals that assist hikers to being compan-ions for other farm animals.
Meister’s goats, some of which 
are named Melanie, Tarzan and Ru-ger, jump up around Meister’s legs like excited puppies, tails wagging as he sets down their lunch — a bucket of milk.
“They all have different person-
alities, and they all look a little dif-
ferent,” Meister said.
A lot of dedication goes into car -
ing for the goats, and it shows. 
His Nubians, a specific breed, are 
registered show goats and have won 
numerous blue ribbons.
The price of one goat can fall be-
tween $100 to $500 depending on size and pedigree. 
Because of Meister’s awards, his 
goats are more valuable.
Meister started GreatHouse 
Farms as an equestrian center about 
20 years ago with his late wife Jan. 
He worked for UF at the time, where he spent 30 years doing research in integrated pest management.
Meister now devotes all his time 
to raising his goats.
Meister said he hasn’t done any 
advertising other than the classi-fieds of the Alligator, but he hopes 
to branch out someday.
For now, Meister is entertaining 
the idea of producing his own goat 
cheese. 
“I’m more interested in finding 
good homes for my goats and de-veloping an industry.”Man makes living selling kids
The baby goats cost $100 to $500
“I’m more interested in find-
ing good homes for my goats 
and developing an industry.”
Charlie Meister
goat ownerThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Have you skipped class in favor of tutoring sessions?
171 TOTAL VOTES70% YES30% NOFriday’s question:  Should Bright Futures scholarships be harder to obtain?
Last week, the Alligator learned of an event being 
planned by the Dove World Outreach Center in Gainesville. We will not dignify the event by dis-
cussing it in this publication.
We only bring it up in this space to explain to our read-
ers the reasoning behind our decision not to focus any at-tention on the event.
The most basic role of a newspaper is to inform its read-
ers, so the decision to withhold information is not made lightly.
After careful consideration, we felt it was our respon-
sibility as journalists and as members of society not to 
contribute to a culture of hatefulness, vitriol and a general 
lack of respect for others.
The Alligator can’t allow itself to be the mouthpiece 
for any group, but especially not a fringe group that has 
a track record of exploiting the media to advance its mes-
sage and notoriety.
We hope the rest of the media, both local and national, 
will resist the temptation to sensationalize this event.
Lastly, we hope this act of transparency on our part 
will promote trust with our readers. Now that you’ve been let in on our decision making process, we hope you un-derstand our decision, even if you disagree. At least you know the decision was not made hastily or without due 
consideration.
And you can rest assured that all other dilemmas that 
face us will be treated with the same sense of responsibil-
ity and diligence.Media Blackout
In this case, no news     
is good news
Tutoring services an unwelcome crutch
TutoringZone is God, right? 
It saves your grades and gets you through those 
grueling courses in a five-hour brain rape involving 
some coffee and the infamous packet. Spare yourself the 
hours of lecture-watching and instead spend the night be-
fore the exam in Club West with some Smokin’Notes and 
you’re good to go. 
This is how I spent my first finals week at UF, but I 
dare pose the question: Are we being extorted in order to succeed? 
Before the pitchfork-armed mob comes chasing me 
down, yes, Smokin’Notes and TutoringZone are genius study materials and grade savers, but how close are we to supplementing whole courses with an 80-page packet of 
brightly colored paper? 
I go to class, watch my lectures and do my assign-
ments. 
Simply put, I’m a loser. 
Why then, even at my dorkiest, am I spending $30 more 
to pass ECO2013? 
Yes, the packets, Smokin’Notes, note cards and practice 
tests are comforting, but doesn’t spending extra money border on ridiculous? We don’t think about it because we 
are enamored with the idea of easy studying. 
We pay thousands of dollars for classes, yet many of 
us ride through them reciting our mantra, “I’ll just live at TZ the week before the exam.” I’ll confess, this was my 
philosophy for fall finals. In retrospect, I’m a little pissed. I spent five months attending class, studying and keeping 
up with assignments, but I still found myself shelling out 
$50 to feel prepared. 
We are most often exploited with online lecture classes. 
As a business major, I am familiar with online lectures, and TutoringZone and Smokin’Notes cater to these courses. I enrolled in one of these courses last semester, and despite watching lectures and completing every online quiz, I circumvented 
a panic attack only by buying 
the Smokin’Notes. The carefully phrased definitions and format-
ted formulas were too tempting to 
pass up, especially when the on-line lectures left me clueless. 
The materials let students feel 
comfortable with slacking in class 
because they can fall back on them if they miss a lecture or 
pass on a quiz or assignment. 
There is no cheat sheet for life.
Should we rely on these materials when we have a 
semester of classes and course material under our belts? Does the option to purchase these packets encourage stu-dents to blow off classes and rely on a cram session? 
For many students, the allure of more free time is a 
worth a session at TutoringZone. 
I remember when it was embarrassing if you needed 
extra help for school. With the glamorization of services such as TutoringZone, it is encouraged when it shouldn’t be necessary. 
I’m all for working smarter, not harder, but have the 
days of old-fashioned dorkiness come to an end? 
Should we stop attending classes, then put in Red Bull-
fueled eight-hour sessions at TutoringZone a few days be-fore exams? Students do this successfully, so what’s the incentive to not conform? 
Where’s the reward for those who attend class and 
keep up with assignments? 
For the time being, crammers keep cramming. At least 
you’ll learn to pass tests.
Laura Ellermeyer is a first-year finance major. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.Seize the Day
His dream still rings 
true, but, oddly enough, the day we 
take to celebrate it appears to undermine Martin Luther King Jr.’s vision.
We’re all for having an-
other day away from the paper, but getting a day off  school and work in honor of a man who fought for equal-ity in both the classroom and 
office seems a little strange. 
There are some appro-
priate ways to celebrate, of 
course. For one, some people 
use the extra time to volun-
teer and better their commu -
nities, which perfectly ties in with the preacher’s hopes. The local news sometimes 
uses the day to spotlight 
changes for the better in in-ner-city areas, showing that the dream still lives wherev-
er there is hope and effort.Some people would ask 
why we don’t pay attention 
to these issues more often. We say it’s the attention that 
warrants keeping the holi-
day around. We’re for ac-knowledging King’s legacy; we’re just not so sure about ditching school for it. After 
all, sitting in an integrated 
classroom, learning mate-rial just as unsatisfactorily (c’mon, this is Florida, after 
all) as the students the next 
school over is one of the best manifestations of the chang-es the country’s undergone since the civil rights move-
ment.
Rather than wasting the 
day away, as many of us did, 
maybe it’s time to go about 
our usual business imagin-
ing how extraordinary the 1960s activists would think our 21st-century routine is.
 Laura Ellermeyer
letters@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
This year marks the 150th anniversary of the on-
set of the Civil War. 
Ideally , this meaningful anniversary could 
serve as a time of reflection about the current state of the South. In many quarters, the South’s role in this 
war is viewed as heroic. Large segments of the popu-
lation view the South’s secession from a federal gov-ernment as completely justified because they believe 
that government violated their states’ rights. As the 
Sons of Confederate Veterans put it this year, “All we wanted was to be left alone to govern ourselves.”
It is wrong for Southerners to glorify our past, 
though, because there is absolutely nothing glorious 
about it. The reality is that the most significant state’s right being usurped from the South was the right to own slaves. 
The first line of the Declara-
tion of Secession by Mississippi states, “Our position 
is thoroughly identified with the institution of slavery 
— the greatest material interest of the world. Its labor supplies the product which constitutes by far the larg-est and most important portions of commerce of the 
earth.” 
All other Southern states that wrote declarations 
of secession identified slavery as the principle induce-
ment for secession as well.Admittedly, the South was not only concerned about maintaining slavery. 
It also cared about the states’ rights to suppress free-
dom of speech, such as that of abolitionists, the right to violate the sovereignty of non-slave states by abduct-ing runaway slaves with the use of lethal force, and 
the right to secede after elections they found unfavor -
able. Many southerners to this day still believe in se-
cession after elections they disagree with. Shortly after President Barack Obama took office, an anti-tax rally was held in Texas, during which protesters chanted, “Secede!” Afterward, Governor of Texas Rick Perry 
suggested that, while he does not endorse the idea of 
secession, Texas could secede if it wanted to.
Why , then, do millions of Americans still treat the 
Confederate flag with such reverence?
Whatever their reasons are, it is unlikely they are 
positive. The South has dragged its feet on every sin-gle civil rights issue this country has faced. 
Its citizens were (and are) more opposed to wom-
en’s right to vote, desegregation, and the decriminal-
ization of sodomy than any other region of the country . 
The South currently has higher rates of violent crime (despite its use of the death penalty with its purported deterrence effect), higher rates of obesity, and lower educational attainment on average than other states. It also has the highest rates of teenage pregnancy, di-vorce (despite its religiosity), and wealth inequality . In fact, the term “culture of honor” is regularly used to describe how southerners respond to slights with 
more physical aggression than other Americans.
What is there to be proud of? What, in all of Ameri-
can history , has the South ever done that has separated 
it from the rest of the country in a positive light? Even if the South had positively distinguished itself from the rest of the U.S., which it hasn’t, why would that reflect well on the people who just happen to be born there?
There is absolutely no reason to honor the South on 
the anniversary of a war it fought in order to maintain the right to own human beings. 
Even the more thoughtful individuals I encounter 
still honor confederate soldiers’ bravery as they do all soldiers who died in the Civil War, but what is bravery for the cause of injustice? 
We Southerners should be embarrassed by , not 
proud of, our ancestors who volunteered to fight and die for the Confederacy . There is nothing intrinsically praiseworthy about sacrificing your life, and there is nothing laudable about taking a position that was in-defensible 150 years ago and attempting to defend it now.
Hudson Todd is a columnist for the Vanderbilt Hus-
tler at Vanderbilt University.Southern pride 
not warranted
While watching the show “Teen Mom” on MTV , 
my friends and I cringe as we see young girls, even younger than we are, faced with the 
challenges of coping with unplanned and generally un-wanted pregnancies. Watching them juggle school and deal with emotional detachment from their friends and family makes me wonder why anyone is against teach-
ing teens about safe sex and how to prevent unwanted 
pregnancies.
According to the Center for Disease Control, one 
third of young women in the United States become pregnant before the age of 20, and eight in 10 of these 
pregnancies are unwanted. 
Being a teen mom is stressful. The New York Times 
reports that 80 percent of the time pregnancy drives 
these young women to drop out of school. Without a 
high school diploma, it is much harder to get a job that 
pays decent wages. The dropout rate alone illustrates the profound effect that teenage pregnancy has and demonstrates why something needs to be done to lower the teen pregnancy rate.
We need to educate teenagers about ways to prevent 
unwanted pregnancies. They need to be told that while abstinence is the only sure way to not get pregnant, there are options to substantially reduce the risk if they 
choose to have sex, including condoms and birth con-
trol pills.
Unfortunately, many adults do not want to face the 
fact that young adults will have sex no matter what their parents may say. The idea of providing a broad 
range of information in addition to “abstinence only” 
has become a highly political issue.
Interestingly, the pregnancy rate is much higher in 
the “red states” —  majority Republican – than in the 
“blue states” — majority Democrat. The CDC reports 
that the red states have higher teen pregnancy rates; the majority of them have rates between 39 and 65 percent, while the majority of blue states have a rate below 38 percent.
One reason why red states have a higher pregnancy 
rate is that an increasing number of red state school dis-tricts are adopting abstinence-only sex education and some local churches are encouraging young adults to 
take virginity pledges. This lack of education about safe 
sex seems to be contributing to high teen pregnancy rates.
In today’s world, though, it is unrealistic to believe 
that teenagers will wait for marriage. Popular culture — through books, TV, magazines — reinforces every day that it is accepted to have sex before mar -
riage. Some of these sources even 
glorify pregnant teens.
Sarah Palin is a strong believer in teaching abstinence 
before marriage and advocates a “pro-life” position. 
It was extremely surprising to find that her 17-year-
old daughter, Bristol, was pregnant and not yet mar -
ried. Instead of being hidden away, Bristol was ap-plauded for keeping the baby, and the media and her mother’s conservative supporters made her out to be a 
brave girl.
Similarly, Britney Spears’ sister, Jamie Lynn, became 
pregnant at the age of 16 and was also not married. 
She got a People magazine cover story and was also 
portrayed as a strong girl for taking on the challenge of 
having a child at that age. When young adults like these two are made out to be heroes for having their children in their teen years, young girls might think they could be seen as a hero too.
In reality, though, it is much harder to raise a child, 
especially as a teenager. 
These two young girls are celebrities and have well-
off families who can support them through school and 
help raise the child; most teenagers who become preg-
nant do not have this luxury.
The series “Teen Mom” shows its audience what it 
is really like to have a child at a young age and what it does to your life. 
These girls suffer rejection by their peers and fam-
ily. They also have to take on the stress of caring for their children while going to school. This is what media should be projecting to the public to show that it is ex-
tremely difficult to take care of a child when you are so 
young.
I am not advocating having sex before marriage or 
suggesting that all young adults who get pregnant lead horrible lives. What I am saying is that many young 
people are choosing to have sex in their teen years and 
I believe all teenagers should be aware of what they are getting themselves into. They should know that there are options out there if they do not want the responsibil-
ity of a child.
Popular culture needs to take responsibility and 
show the harsh truth about being a teen mom.
Anita Babbitt is a columnist for The Lawrentian at Law-
rence University.Teenage pregnancy not so glamorousUWire
Anita Babbitt
UWireUWire
Hudson Todd
UWire  By KAITLYNN FLOYD
 Alligator Contributing Writer
  
 The cause of autism remains 
uncertain after research con-
necting it to the MMR (Mumps-Measles-Rubella) vaccination has been gradually questioned.
  Andrew Wakeﬁ  eld, along with other researchers, published an 
article in The Lancet in 1998 that 
attempted to link autism to the MMR vaccination, but this re-search is being discredited.
  According to the American 
Medical Association, this re-search has several critical ﬂ  aws, including fabricated results. The research discouraged 
parents from having their chil-dren receive the MMR vaccina-
tion, which gives live doses of the measles, mumps and rubella.
  Sherry Windham, 
immunizations program manag-er for the Alachua County Health Department, questions the re-
search.
  “You would think if someone 
was doing a study, there would be 
several participants in the study, not just 12,” Windham said.
  She said she’s noticed more 
people today believe vaccination is a “bad thing.”  Darlene Edwards, a pharma-
ceutical representative, feels it’s a disservice to a child not to be vaccinated. 
However, Edwards has friends 
who believe there is a link be-tween the MMR vaccinations and autism. 
  In March of 2010, American 
Medical News reported that one in ﬁ  ve believe some vaccines cause autism. 8, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2011
Presents
Ayaan Hirsi Ali
Islam and Freedom
A discussion of her new book, Nomad
Thursday, January 20th, 6p.m.
University of FloridaPugh Hall OcoraFree parking available
352-846-1575
www.bobgrahamcenter.ufl.edu
PublicHealth
INTERNATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
  BEIJING  — Just over half of the Chi-
nese public believe relations with the U.S. 
worsened last year, and the overwhelming 
majority blame Washington for the de-
cline, according to a survey published on Monday.
  Roughly 53 percent of those responding 
saw relations with the U.S. getting worse last year, said the survey, carried out joint-ly by the ofﬁ  cial China Daily newspaper and the Horizon Research Consultancy Group. 
Just over 80 percent blame the dete-
rioration on Washington, according to the survey.
  The results appear just one day ahead 
of a state visit to the U.S. by Chinese Presi-dent Hu Jintao intended to restore balance to relations following a troubling year dur-ing which the sides sparred over contro-versial issues such as human rights, the 
Dalai Lama, and arms sales to Taiwan.
  The survey questioned a sample of 1,443 
Chinese citizens aged 18 and over living in 
Beijing and six other Chinese cities during 
Dec. 20-30 last year. 
The newspaper did not detail how par-
ticipants were selected, and gave no mar-gin of error.
  Despite the slip in perceptions, almost 
49 percent of Chinese had favorable atti-tudes toward the U.S., compared to 63 per-
cent who viewed Germany positively and just 29 percent who felt that way toward Japan.
  Tensions on the Korean peninsula 
topped the list of concerns for Hu’s visit, followed by Taiwan and trade issues.
  Despite their political differences, eco-
nomic relations between Beijing and Wash-ington are becoming increasingly crucial. 
The U.S. is one of China’s biggest mar-
kets, with $380 billion in annual trade largely in Beijing’s favor.
China is currently the largest foreign 
holder of U.S. government debt.
  Hu sounded a conciliatory tone in a rare 
interview with U.S. newspapers ahead of his visit, saying the two countries could mutually beneﬁ  t by ﬁ  nding “common ground” on issues ranging from combat-
ting terrorism and nuclear proliferation 
to clean energy and infrastructure initia-tives.
  “There is no denying that there are 
some differences and sensitive issues be-tween us,” Hu said in written answers to 
questions submitted by The Washington 
Post and The Wall Street Journal that were published over the weekend. 
“We both stand to gain from a sound 
China-U.S. relationship, and lose from 
confrontation.”  Survey says most Chinese see ties with US worsening
 AP Photo
  In this photo released by China’s Xinhua News Agency, passengers crowd in a wait-
ing room of the railway station in Yinchuan, capital of northwest China’s Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region. 
 Health ofﬁ  cial says autism, vaccinations not linked
One in ﬁ  ve people believe some vaccines cause autismTUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 9
Student Government, local police teamed up in the sting operation
long as the charges are posted in the 
window and pre-approved by the city .  
Despite its legality, flat-rate charging has led to situations where students are gouged 
by drivers claiming to be charging flat “bar 
rates,” Meyers said. 
“The companies stand to lose from these 
policies,” he said. “If taxi drivers aren’t reporting that they’re giving rides, then 
they’re not giving their share of the fares to 
the company.”
When he assumed the position of Stu-
dent Senate president, one of the issues 
Meyers sought to address was students’ 
rights and one of the problems on his mind was the taxis. 
The  issue came under the microscope of 
FICA, or the Fairness In Commerce Ad-Hoc Committee.
Meyers said he believes cooperating 
with the city would be the best way to get taxi drivers to run their meters. 
 On Tuesday at 7 p.m., a joint meeting 
between the City Commission and Student 
Government will take place in the Reitz 
Union Grand Ballroom, and the taxi issue 
will be on the docket.
In addition, SG has the Alterna-
tive Transportation Ad-Hoc, which 
aims to further promote methods of al-ternative transportation in the city.  
By bulking up promotion of services like SNAP , GOTCHA and Zipcars, Meyers said he hopes to create more competition for tax-
is, which would in turn force taxis to offer 
more competitive prices.
Student Body President Ashton Charles 
is another SG official who once found herself at the mercy of over-charging taxi drivers.  
She began talking to others in her 
apartment complex and found they 
had the same problems she did.  
Some had reported being charged over $40 
to get to midtown or downtown. 
Charles decided to see for herself. 
She, along with Meyers, decided to take 
part in a one-night sting operation in which they would take the taxi along with under -
cover police officers from the Gainesville 
Police Department on Dec. 8. The purpose 
of the operation would not be to make ar -
rests, but rather to just see which drivers 
wouldn’t run the meter.
The majority of the time, the meter 
wasn’t running.
The operation ran from 10 p.m. that night to 3 a.m. the next morning.  
Out of 19 fares, University Police 
Department spokesman Jeff Hol-
comb said, 11 did not run the meter.  
According to a list compiled by the Gainesville Police Department, the follow-
ing companies were found to have not run the meter: Bestway Cab, Unimet Taxicab Co., Safety Cabs and Gator Taxi Cab. Gainesville 
Cab Co. was the only company listed that 
was reported to have run the meter every 
time during the operation.
Michael Ross started Bestway Cab in 1997.  
The now 44-year-old Ross said that his com-
pany has since been known for providing 
great service, in the process earning service 
contracts with the state attorney’s office and the public defender’s office. 
City Ordinance 28-9 allows for flat-rate 
charging, and Ross said his charge sheet, 
which includes a variety of flat-rate charges, 
has been approved by city hall.
On top of that, Ross said that drivers will 
sometimes offer discounts on per-head flat 
rates when large parties come into a taxi. 
“If we have to start running the meter, 
there will be no more discounts,” Ross said. 
“It’ll be what the meter says.”
Ross admitted that the charge sheet, 
which lists the company’s flat rate, is re-
quired by law to be posted in three places 
in all taxi cabs, could be confusing to stu-dents. On top of confusing rate sheets, Ross 
said that newer cab companies coming into 
town have created a negative perception of 
his company and Gainesville’s entire taxi 
industry.
“We’ve got new cab companies and they 
are flat-rating out of this world,” he said.  
That’s why Ross puts the burden of respon-sibility on his drivers to make sure passen-gers agree to fares before rides.
However, not all drivers fulfill that obli-
gation. 
The only way Ross  knows there’s even a 
passenger in the vehicle is when people call in for dispatch. When drivers are flagged down by customers, he relies on the driver’s 
word to know they had a fare. 
He said a way to self-police his 
company would be to put cam-
eras in cars, but that’s not feasible.  
So Ross instead relies on the honor system, trusting his drivers to follow the rules out 
on the road. 
One such driver is Joe, who drives a taxi 
in Gainesville.
Before he carried people around the city 
in his taxi, Joe, whose real name is being withheld, was a drummer. 
Twenty-three years ago, he set the beat 
for his band, and that was all he ever intend-ed on doing.
But after the band split and his wife be-
came pregnant, Joe had to find a new pro-
fession. Armed with only his skills as a mu-sician and a driver’s license, Joe decided to drive cabs for a living. 
“[My favorite part is] meeting people 
from all walks of life and lots of different 
countries,” he said. “People come to UF 
from all over the world. It can be fun. Back 
when I was a dispatcher, I missed that part 
of it.”
But the biggest problem for Joe, and 
many other taxi drivers, is the pay. 
“You never know how much you’re gon-
na make from one day to the next,” he said. “Trying to budget on a cab driver’s wage 
is difficult. You don’t even have minimum 
wage to rely on.”
Joe said that he believes there is a nega-
tive perception of taxi drivers and compa-
nies in Gainesville as being “crooked.” A  lot 
of that has to do with the fares. Instead of 
clearly explaining fares, fare sheets leave a 
lot of gray area. 
“Students definitely deserve a simpler 
system,” he said.
The system of flat rates is designed, Joe 
said, to make things easier on the drivers 
and the passengers. And it can sometimes 
work in favor of students as opposed to 
against them.
Joe gave the example of taking four stu-
dents from The Swamp restaurant to down-town. 
By running the meter, he would be 
charging a student a $10 minimum in ad-dition to an additional $1 for extra pas-sengers. The total would come out to $13.  
But if he instead offered a per-head flat rate of $3, it would come out to $12, saving the students a dollar. 
But the lack of a steady income could 
lead drivers to take advantage of the flat-rate system, Joe said.
“The honor system of reporting fares is 
only reliable as the honesty of the driver,” 
he said.
Ultimately, both Meyers and Student 
Body President Ashton Charles say that the 
issue of taxis overcharging students is one 
of student safety. 
“The moment I hear that somebody’s 
willing to drive home four beers in rather than take a taxi,” Meyers said, “I know that 
there’s a major issue.”TAXIS , from page 1What you need to know
n Four Gainesville taxi services were 
found to have not run the meters in their taxis during a sting operation by the Gainesville Police Department and University Police Department. Bestway Cab, Unimet Taxicab Co., Safety Cabs and Gator Taxi Cab. n If you feel you have been overcharged by a taxi company, you are advised to call the police to mediate the situation, OR take note of the taxi number and re -
port the driver to the company’s owner the next day. n A normal fare for a taxi with the me -
ter running might be $3.00 as a base meter fare, $5.50 for the first mile and then $2.50 per mile after. However, if the metered rate does not exceed the taxi’s minimum fare, the student will be charged whatever the taxi’s minimum fare is. Usually between $10-12. n Students cannot be retroactively charged for underage drinking. So don’t be afraid to call the police if you feel you’re being charged unfairly. However, if you’re acting out, you can then be charged with public intoxication. Also, if the University Police Department is called, students may be reported to the Office of Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution. n A joint meeting between the Gainesville City Commission and the Student Senate is being held Tuesday in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom at 7 
p.m. 
 n  FICA, or the Fairness In Commerce Ad-Hoc committee, was specifically cre -
ated to battle the taxi issue, and other business practices that it deems to be preying on students. Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds TUESDAY,  JANUARY 18, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$380 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Gainesville Place
Now leasing for 2011-2012!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
 (352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $399***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
Student Friendly 4/4's 
$424 for EVERYTHING
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
Call for current specials!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
Huge Rm,4/2 N.W.Home
.3 mi to SFC, 8mi UF. 2 lv rms, laundry rm, garage, lg kitchen, porch. Clean + Neat. 325 + 1/4 util. 1st, last, sec dep (negotiable)!352-283-9905, sarad7821@yahoo.com    1-18-8-1
Free rent, utils., etc. near
campus for female in exchangefor overnight staying withelderly female. For details,call Sarah 373-7965 10am-6pm m-f    1-19-11-5-1
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        
4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Studios $599 Downtown location
Arlington 352-338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
*NEWLY UPGRADED APT HOMES*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-20-10-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-21 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe-NW 23rd Blvd
1s-$699 2s-$789 3s $859.
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400  madisonpointe.org4-20-70-2
●ONE MONTH FREE●
Available for Immediate Move-Ins
1,2, and 3 Bedrooms
(352)335-7656
www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
1/1 $599 *2/2.5 townhouse $779*
4/2.5 townhouse $1099*Washer/Dryers*
352-332-7401 www.thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted. Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
● Amazing Rent on 1 and 2BR apts.
Ranging from $390 to $545.Sorry no pets or Section 8.Madison on 20th. 335-7066      4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625
·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779
·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!4-20-10-70-2
Renting Now!!
We have REAL 1/1s
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE-1 MO FREE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
3Blks to UF- GATOR NEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS 1 MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
1-31-10-68-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's f rom $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-22/2 & 3/3 Roommate Matching
Walk In ClosetsPrivate BathroomsCable w/HBO & ShowtimeFull size W/D
Pet friendly
352-374-3866                  4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-19-
10-103-2
CALL TODAY!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free!
Sundowne Villas
Studio *$430 and 1/1 *$457
Located behind Butler Plaza
Pet friendly No weight limits!
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$447
2/1 *$548
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free
Sunrise Villas
One Bedroom Villa *$428
Near UF and Shand's
Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Ph. 372-4835  www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
First Month Free
Campus Walk Apartments
All Inclusive Individual Leases
4 Bedroom Townhomes and flats
Located on UF campus
$350 per bedroom All Inclusive
Semester Leases available!
(352) 376-0828
(Rental office at Homestead Apts.)
www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2011  � ALLIGATOR , 11
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/
shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-
closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year 
lease, $700/mo
●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr lease
●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida 
rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and 
tennis courts. $1000●Downtown 2 BR at the Lofts at W. University.  This modern designed unit in-
cludes cable, internet, washer/dryer, and 2 
onsite parking spaces. Minutes from UF and 
Shands, $1050/mo●Mallorca Square,Large 2br,2.5 ba town-house convenient to Oaks Mall and UF/hos-
pitals, many extras,$895/mo
●Treehouse Village- 2/2  New Carpet,D/W, 
W/D incl.,on covered bus line close to down -
town, UF/Shands. $595●BIG 3/3 in SW, Ceramic/Carpet, D/W, W/D 
includes clubhouse, pool, comp lab, volley -
ball, tennis, basketball, MUST SEE $900
★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
4-20-10-70-2Immaculate small efficiency,quiet.Wash/
dry on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No pets. 
1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus routes.Avail 
Dec 27.$399/m 352-262-2871 Owner agent. 
1-24-11-14-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7129 SW 45th Place. $550/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114    1-20-11-10-2
LOW COST MOVE IN!
Small 2BR $375/mo.
Call 352-372-6881 or 352-213-3901   1-20-11-10-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-23BR/2BA HOUSE
Sunroom, garage, updated. 3103 NW 4th 
Terrace. $825/mo. Call Andrea Martin, Keller-Williams Realty 352-281-3131   1-21-11-10-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    1-21-11-10-2
 ●●●●●●●   NEAR  UF   ●●●●●●●
4 Apts  2/1 in College  Park area
(5/3 House) (4/3 House) (3/2 House)
available for August  Manny  352-317-4408
info & pic  gainesvillestudentrentals.com
1-31-11-16-2
Studio for rent. Bedroom, kitchen, full bath-
room, total privacy. 3 miles from Butler plaza 
near Tower Square. $475.00 per month 
includes Utilities, Cable TV, & Internet Call 
352-378-4626 or 352-262-4290    1-28-11-
15-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shady lot. 
From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No 
pets. Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 
13th St. 376-5887    1-24-11-10-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2s with vaulted ceilings $999
3/3 Townhomes w/Private Baths $1089
Garage included, Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
www.madisonpointe.org          4-20-66-2
Available Aug 1st. 3BR/1BA very nice house, 
short bike, cent H/AC, dishwasher, disposal, 
W/D provided. Very private backyard with 
small garage. 924 NW 9th Ave. $1100/mo. 
Call 352-339-2342 Other houses available   
1-25-11-9-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $5501 year lease, SD, NS, NPCall/Text 352-870-7256gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA very nice house. Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-339-2342 Other houses available   1-25-11-9-22BR/1BA cabin, 20 acres. Fixer-upper. 
Horses/dogs welcome. 27802 SW 120th 
Lane, Newberry. $555/mo. Comes with 
horse. Long driveway. In Gothe State Forest. 
Call 330-329-8834    1-26-10-2
*5 BEDROOM HOUSE*
Walk to class. Right Across from The 
Swamp stadium. Available Aug 1st.
Wood Floors. Lots of parking. Please call 
John @ (561) 866-8234 for further info
1-21-6-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th St       352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
●**ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month, 2BR 1BA Apts, 3  BLKS 
TO UF! 840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms,  Plenty 
of Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. 
Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  
●**CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt  3 BLKS TO UF, New Carpet 
$450/Mo  $600 Deposit Window A/C, Nat 
Gas Ht. 216 SW 12th Street.
●**EFFICIENCY -2 Rooms(not bedrooms)
Shared Bathroom, Window A/C, Carpet, 
Across from UF Stadium, 1830 NW 1st Ave  
$295/Mo, $300 Deposit
●** ROCKWOOD VILLAS:
5542 SW 8th Place $750/Mo, $800 Deposit. 
Pets Ok, 2BR 2BA, Newly painted, New 
Carpet, Tile Floors in LR, Inclds Washer/
Dryer, Pool, Tennis Courts, Bus Line to 
Shands & UF.     1-18-11-1-2
3 bd 1 ba in NE Gville . Beautiful, restored 
hardwood floors, stainless steel appliances, 
W/D, front porch, back deck, fresh paint. Lg 
fenced property, Pets OK. Great location. 
Available now. 516-459-7654.    1-24-11-5-2
Looking for female sublease for 1/1 in a 4/4 
at the Woodlands of Gainesville. $565/mo includes utilities, fully furnished, pet friendly! Please call 727-804-6893 for more details.   1-19-5-3
Would someone PLEASE sublease this apt?Male to take over sublease in 2br/1b. Walking distance to campus. Directly off University Ave. $325 from 2/11-7/11. Email gatorgal24@gmail.com for specificis   1-19-11-3-3Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, 
W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & 
pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $425/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79291-31-10-42-4
1st month free. Grad student looking for fe-
male roommate in fully furnished 4/4 condo 
at Countryside. $425/month. Short term 
lease available. Cable/internet, utils, W/D, 2 
bus routes. Contact Megan 727-542-8155.   
1-21-11-11-4
Large Room in NW Home.
$450/mo incl utils & DSL, large closets. No 
pets. Mature, non-smoker, grad student/professional. Scott 352-335-8209   1-20-11-10-4
Roommate wanted- Share nice clean NW 
area 3 Br, 2 bath single family home with two 
senior UF students- fenced back yard- wash-
er/ dryer-fireplace- $320 mo. & 1/3 utilities. 
Call Jon-321-537-5640 or 352-665-9547    
1-21-11-10-4
Female looking for same to share a furnished 
3BR/2BA condo. 10 mins by bus to UF cam-pus. $400/mo including utils. Great Location! Call 850-974-0686   1-21-11-10-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-cluded. $350/mo. No deposit required. 863-634-1893. Available immediately.   1-19-11-3-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  GraniteCounters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
2BR/1.5BA newly renovated townhouse. 
6134 SW 8th Lane. You have to see it to appreciate it! Come see it and make an of-fer. Call 352-281-7411 or 786-537-2963 and make an appointment   1-31-11-17-5
Rent to Buy. 2BR/2BA Capstone Quarters Condo Near Shands. Private porch, back-yard, new carpet, paint and appliances. Community Pool, $650/mo. $54,900 Call 352-378-4626   1-28-11-15-5
12, ALLIGATOR  � TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2011
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-70-11★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
★★★GatorMoto★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit 
shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275 GatorMoto.com  4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
1-31-10-78-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $169989 Ford Bronco II $149997 Pontiac Transport $149996 Chevy Blazer $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-1298 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948    This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
What's black and white & read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
 TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-
noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF 
Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers 
welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   
1-25-10-20-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Flex hours. Excellent 
Word, Excel, typing, internet skills. $7.25/hr. 
Indicate current semester & if available sum-
mer schedules, major, graduating semester. 
siva1950@yahoo.com   1-21-11-18-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-ning & overnight shifts currently available email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-3617   2-28-10-39-14
TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2011  � ALLIGATOR , 13
A awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have 
fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, 
then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-
dren’s summer camp, has positions available 
in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, 
softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront 
(sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, 
WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, 
H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, 
Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-
ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call 
us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at 
www.campmataponi.com.   2-11-10-26-14
Smokers are needed to participate in a study 
assessing the effects of various activities on 
cravings, withdrawal, mood, and smoking. 
Compensation will be provided. If interested, 
call 336-406-3706 or email
uflsmokelab@gmail.com    1-28-14-14
GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND 
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS 
FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY 
PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT 
JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-6300
2-4-11-20-14
CAREER POSITIONS
Stay in Gainesville. Great benefits and op-
portunities. Flexible hours.
● ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT
● SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
Please apply online at http://www.gleim.com
1-21-11-10-14Administrative/Sales: Well organized individ -
ual with good attention to detail and strong 
customer service skills to perform front office 
and sales duties for a local food testing labo -
ratory. Must be able to work with international 
distributors and generate sales and promo-
tional materials with guidance. Some travel 
required (<5%). Great attitude and positive 
phone demeanor are essential. Background 
in a scientific field is a plus. Submit resume 
to info@elisa-tek.com.    1-18-11-7-14
University Athletic Association - Accounting
Currently seeking flexible individual for part-
time (OPS) filing clerk. Varied duties includ -
ing data entry and filing. Experienced in Microsoft Excel & good organizational skills 
required. Minimum wage position averag -
ing 20 hour per week. Please fax resume to 
(352) 375-5182.     1-26-11-12-14
Personal Business Manager in Ocala, FL:
Position will support the CEO of a company; 
will be responsible for day-to-day needs in 
business and personal activities. Attend to 
schedules, attend meetings, manage house -
holds. A "Chief of Staff" for family/business 
and liaison for clients. Some travel required, 
domestically and internationally. 
Requirements include extremely profession -
al and personal attitude, great organizational 
and communication skills, analytical and 
problem-solving abilities, computer literacy, 
experience in supporting executives and 
managing projects, flexibility of schedule, 
ability to learn quickly; must be self-sufficient 
and able to work independently. 
College education is preferred, but experi -
ence supporting executives is acceptable. 
Salary is negotiable. Call 352-615-5051    
1-18-11-6-14Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
Local high school is seeking an Assistant 
JV Coach for its girls lacrosse team. Playing 
experience is required. Paid position from 
1/31 - 4/9. Contact Lynn at 352-378-5476 for 
more information.   1-21-11-8-14
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Experienced Part time. 
Some weekends and holidays.
Apply in person at Jonesville Animal 
Hospital 14145 W Newberry Rd. Newberry
1-21-11-7-14
Free rent, utils., etc. near
campus for female in exchange
for overnight staying with
elderly female. For details,
call Sarah 373-7965 10am-6pm m-f    1-19-
11-5-14
Computer tech, Skills to repair comps. Must 
have car. Be honest, available, dependable. 
Part time, make own hours. hr@blue4.com    
1-26-11-10-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
2-9-20-14
Female UF student caregiver needed for 
28-year-old disabled girl. Must have personal low-profile vehicle (no SUVs). Duties incl toi-leting & companion services. Sun 9am-8pm. Luxurious work conditions. $10/hr. 377-1306   1-19-11-5-14
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.25/hr, experience and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 for more info and interview.    2-2-15-14
Nutritional Supplement Store is seeking part
time help. MUST HAVE vitamin sales expe-
rience or strong nutritional education.
Apply in person at Sunflower Health Foods,
87 SW 34th St, Gainesville
1-19-11-5-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
NPD Online Research $9.50/hr+
P/T Product Researchers and TestersKeep the products you test, and write a short review. Good English skills required. Apply at www.PaidOnlineResearch.info   1-20-5-14
Lot person, Polaris of Gainesville. Clean 
machines,load, and unload for customers, clean building, very minor mechanical, hours1p-6p M-F apply in person[students prefered]12556 NW US HWY 441 Alachua Fl 32615   11-20-11-5-14
CNAs who believe in compassionate care & 
uncompromising services are encouraged to apply on-line at http://ck546.ersp.biz/employ -
ment. Strict background checks/drug screen. 12hr shifts, days, nights & wkends avail.1-24-11-7-14
CONSTRUCTION SUPERINTENDENTASSISTANT
Full or part time student. Responsibilities - 
AutoCAD, SketchUp. Assist with planning hanger, putting green, guest house, swim-ming pool, fountain construction and main-tenance of multiple business and residence properties. Back up Shipping, yard main-tenance. Apply at http://www.gleim.com.    1-27-11-10-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm 
& 3:30-9:30pm, M-F & wkends. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax resume & availability to 373-2230    1-20-11-5-14
NANNY for 12+ hrs / afternoons;
exp w/ 3 yr/old; 2:45pm T, W, + 1 more; 
must be patient, structured, music exp;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix &
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com   1-19-
11-4-14
Looking for Masters of Accounting Student 
to conduct an Activity Based Cost Analysis. 
Two week project, pays $15/hr. Please send 
resume and cover letter to
wecare@chestnutfirm.com    1-21-11-5-14
Science Assessment Editor Needed - FT
Progress Testing seeks individual with out-
standing science, editorial, and organiza -
tional skills to join editorial team in maintain -
ing and expanding our test item banks for 
K-12 schools. Prior teaching exp pref. Send 
resume to lbresko@progresstesting.com   
1-21-11-4-14
MEDICAL ASSISTANT
PT or FT for a doctor's office. Experience 
preferred. Email resume to:snpohani@gmail.com          1-24-11-5-14
Looking to have fun while working hard and 
staying in shape? 1800GOTJUNK is hiring outgoing gals/guys to cover mainly Tu, We, or Th morning Truck Team shifts. Other shifts 
available. +21 age req'd for insurance. $8.50 
- $11/hr. Email cover letter and resume to 
cameron.lansdell@1800gotjunk.com1-24-11-5-14
AFTER SCHOOL SUPERVISOR for
2010-2011 school year, $9.00 hr+ to start. Apply 8505 NW 39th Ave. GNV    1-24-11-
5-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 
www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
INSURANCE WE REPRESENTOVER 100 COMPANIESHOME, AUTO AND LIABILITYWHY PAY MORE? 371 9696www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-27-15
Sports
TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
alligatorSports Podcast ONLINE TEEING OFF WITH ADAM BERRYMatt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida senior forward Chandler Parsons, a 52.9 percent free-throw shooter this season, is part of a Gators frontcourt that has 
shot 54.9 percent as a group from the charity stripe. UF is shooting 65.1 percent, making it 267th out of 346 Division-I teams.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
As Erving Walker stood at the free-throw 
line for a one-and-one with his team down by a 
point and 1:09 left, Gators fans looked on with bated breath. 
There was a palpable sense of anxiety in the 
O’Connell Center, as one of UF’s biggest flaws was about to decide the outcome of the game.
Although Walker is one of the team’s most 
clutch free-throw shooters, the junior guard missed the front end, keeping South Carolina ahead and negating UF’s first shot at a lead in nearly 30 minutes. 
“I can’t ask for a better situation to be in at 
the foul line, but I just missed it,” Walker said. “It’s real frustrating. We don’t want to leave those free points out there, especially down the stretch.”
Sixteen seconds later, Gamecocks center 
Sam Muldrow drilled a three-pointer to give South Carolina a two-possession lead that UF would never overcome. 
Thanks partially to its 12-of-22 performance 
from the free-throw line, including five straight misses to close out the contest, Florida (13-4, 2-1 Southeastern Conference) fell 72-69 Sat-urday against South Carolina (11-5, 2-1 SEC), 
thus bringing an end to its five-game winning Gators seeking improvement from free-throw line
By ALLISON BANKO 
Alligator Writer
 
Following the Florida gymnastics 
squad’s first meet Jan. 7, coach Rhonda 
Faehn said the team would be playing around with its lineups this season, al-lowing some athletes to rest while oth-
ers gain exposure in new events. 
Faehn’s plans played out again Fri-
day night, as the No. 1 Gators used a 
new lineup combination to topple No. 16 Kentucky in the O’Connell Center with a final point tally of 196.775 to 192.900.Normal contributor Maranda Smith 
didn’t compete in the floor exercise, while Alaina Johnson, the SEC Fresh-man Gymnast of the Week, rested 
from the balance 
beam routine. 
In her place, 
freshman Macken-
zie Caquatto made her debut. 
“Being up in the beam lineup this 
week was a little bit nerve-wracking,” she said. “But I just went up there and tried to stay calm and do everything Lineup shuffling allows 
rest, new opportunities
n Jets LB Bart Scott had a legendary postgame interview/
standoff with ESPN after his team’s victory Sunday. ESPN.
com’s headline describes Scott as “emotional,” which is like calling Bill Belichick “somewhat reserved.” ... I’m also excited for another week of awesome Rex Ryan interviews. He seems to have drawn the line at putting his own foot in his mouth.n  We have a ton of content at alligatorSports.org, 
including the first episode of our brand new video 
show. Also, check out our recruiting blog for an up -
date on Chase Hounshell, an offensive line recruit who decommitted from Florida on Monday night.n  Tyler Jett, Greg Luca and podcast first-timer 
Jesse Simonton join host Adam Berry to discuss the latest Florida football news, analyze the week in Gators basketball and freestyle about a number of other topics. Subscribe on iTunes.“It’s real frustrating. We don’t 
want to leave those free points out 
there."
Erving Walker
UF guard
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 16
SEE GYM, PAGE 16
SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 16n SECOND-HALF COLLAPSES HAVE 
BECOME COMMON FOR THE GATORS.
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
ATHENS, Ga. — A constant point of 
emphasis for the Florida women’s basket-
ball team is setting the tone early in games.  
Coach Amanda Butler believes execution in the first four minutes is integral to success. 
But it has been the opposite — the crunch-
time minutes with the game on the line — that 
has led to multiple late-game collapses for the 
Gators.
Most recently, UF (12-7, 2-3 Southeastern 
Conference) allowed a 16-point lead to evapo-rate in the final nine minutes against Georgia, 
dropping their second straight SEC game, and 
third in the last four, 70-64 in Athens, Ga., on 
Sunday. 
A feisty crowd got into the game as Georgia made its surge, but Butler said she couldn’t at-tribute the loss to the anxiety Florida’s young 
roster might have felt in a hostile environ-
ment.
“Composure and decision-making under 
pressure — I don’t know that that’s nerves, or if that’s a lack of experience, or if that Geor -
gia is really good and they didn’t play really good until the end. I think it’s probably a com-
bination of all those things,” Butler said. “It’s 
something that we’ve got to be better at.”
Butler is right, because Florida’s struggles 
at the end of games are becoming a trend.
UF held a 66-59 lead late against DePaul on 
Nov. 18 but was able to score just eight points over the final 8:27 and eventually lost 74-73 af-
ter a last-second tip-in from Kayla Lewis was 
waved off. 
Three weeks later, Florida squandered a 
five-point halftime lead and was outscored by 
20 in the second half in a 69-54 loss to Hamp-UF struggling late in games
GymnasticsTUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
All week long, the Gators dealt with 
multiple obstacles. The No. 6 women’s 
team struggled with sickness, while the No. 5 men’s team lacked depth as coach Gregg Troy and nine of team’s best left for 
the SMU Classic.
Troy’s squad finished short of expecta-
tions this weekend in Dallas, taking fourth 
place as Florida scored 272 points — 46 be-hind first-place Michigan, ranked No. 13.
While UF posted a pair of 60-point 
victories over visiting Florida Atlantic, the Gators also failed to match their pre-vious output in NCAA qualifying times 
and speed in the pool Saturday in the 
O’Connell Center Natatorium.
“We were hit the hardest with the 
flu, so we really just had to go wherever they needed us to go,” said junior Shara Stafford, who managed one of her best performances at home with a win in the 200-yard freestyle — an NCAA “B” quali-fying time of 1:48.76.
Along with Stafford, Florida (4-3, 0-1 
SEC) received a strong effort from junior Sarah Bateman, who won two events in-dividually and contributed to both of the Gators’ relay wins. Bateman’s participa-tion in four events was a rarity in the meet, as many of the women’s swimmers were pulled after one event to help them further recover from the team’s flu spell. 
Another issue surrounding the meet 
was the team’s response to missing Troy.
“Everybody is a little bit at ease when 
coach Troy is not here, just because he’s the head coach and you never know what he’s going to do,” Stafford said.
In Troy’s place was associate head 
coach Martyn Wilby , who said something was missing from both teams, though UF only lost one event the entire meet.
“The focus was OK. It wasn’t great,” 
Wilby said. “Over the next two weeks, 
they’re going to really be under the gun.”
For the men (4-2, 2-0 SEC), freshman 
Michael Lewark posted career-highs in 
the 1- and 3-meter dives. Coming into the meet, Lewark said his focus was on replac-ing the output of his brother, Andrew. 
“[Andrew] just came out and told me 
to let my body do the work, and every-thing else would fall in place,” Lewark 
said. “I just went out and tried to win both 
boards like he would.”UF overcomes illness, depth issues
UF TENNIS
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
 
After coming to UF a year ago as the No. 6 overall recruit, 
Sekou Bangoura Jr. has had to live up to high expectations. Now, in his second season as a Gator, he is showing why he was so highly regarded. 
After a strong fall season in which he won the Lakewood 
Ranch Intercollegiate Clay Court Classic in his hometown of Bra-denton, Bangoura is currently ranked No. 28 in the country . 
The talented sophomore is improving at a rapid pace and has 
become considerably stronger since he has been at Florida, coach Andy Jackson said. 
Bangoura reached the quarterfinals at the Southeastern Con-
ference Indoors for the second time in his career over the week-end.
Although he lost badly to Tennessee’s John-Patrick Smith, 
Jackson said Smith successfully executed a tactic that Bangoura had not expected. 
“(Smith) is a lefty with a very big serve and plays power ten-
nis,” Jackson said. “(Smith) took a lot of pace off the ball and sort of baited Sekou into being the attacker. Unfortunately , Sekou 
took the bait and played tactically the wrong way .” 
Despite the tough loss, Jackson remains encouraged that 
Bangoura can be one of the nation’s top 10 players, even saying it 
could happen sooner rather than later. 
Bangoura’s development will be important to a Gators team 
that will lose its top player and only senior in Alexandre Lacroix 
after this season. 
Lacroix, the No. 4 player in the country, was 
also eliminated in quarterfinals play at the SEC 
Indoors after enduring a physically demand-
ing three-set match in the previous round. 
“Sometimes excuses are true. This early in 
the season, Alex wasn’t physically ready to play his fourth match in two days,” Jackson said. 
However, Jackson believes there is a good 
core group of players in Bangoura, sophomore Bob van Over -
beek and junior Nassim Slilam, who can step into Lacroix’s shoes 
once he departs. 
“We want all three to learn as much as possible from Alex and 
be able to replicate his success on and off the court,” he said.Blue-chip prospect reaching potentialn SIX ATHLETES AND ONE RELAY 
COMBINE FOR NINE TOP-15 MARKS.
STAFF REPORT
 
Florida’s track and field teams won 10 
events and posted three meet records in their 
season-opening performances at the Nittany Lion Challenge, and the national rankings re-
flected the Gators’ strong showing.
The Track and Field Results Reporting 
System released its rankings Monday, and 
six UF athletes and one relay team hold nine spots in the nation’s top 15 in their respective events.
Omar Craddock, who automatically qual-
ified for the NCAA Champi-onships in the triple jump in 
Saturday’s meet, is the squad’s 
highest-ranked competitor. The sophomore jumper, who tied a personal-best mark of 16.19m/53-1.50, is currently 
second in the country and one of two athletes to have already automatically qualified for the national triple-jump title.  
Junior Genevieve LaCaze and freshman 
Cory McGee are also among the nation’s top 15 in two different distance-running events. LaCaze checks in at third in the women’s 3,000-meter (9:34.42) and 13th in the mile (4:49.48), while McGee is seventh in the 3,000-meter (9:43.72) and fourth in the mile (4:46.70). 
Kemal Mesic (fourth, men’s shot put), the 
women’s 4x400m relay (fifth), Jeremy Postin (tied-13th, men’s weight throw) and Fidela James (14th, women’s weight throw) round out the ranked Gators.Gators enter
rankings due to hot start
Track
Bangoura
Without coach, Florida tops FAU
“Over the next two weeks, 
they’re going to really be under 
the gun.”
Martyn Wilby
UF associate head swimming coach16, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2011
Coaches attempting to create pressure situations in practice
streak. 
  The Gators have been leaving points at the line all season, 
connecting on just 65.1 percent of their free-throw tries — a ﬁ  g-
ure that ranks 11th in the SEC and 267th out of 346 teams in Division I.  
  “That’s huge,” senior center Vernon Macklin said. “The bad 
part about it is we actually work on free throws a lot.”
  Coach Billy Donovan and his staff have been stressing the 
importance of free throws throughout the season and have been trying to work on correcting the problem in practice. 
  In many instances, the coaches have attempted to generate 
pressure situations for their players, usually by requiring them to make a certain number of free throws to move on to the next segment of practice. 
  But as much as the coaches try to ﬁ  x the problem, there is 
only so much that can be done as a group. 
  “It’s the only thing not team. We just got to go out there and, 
individually , just make free throws,” senior forward Chandler Parsons said. 
  While guards Walker and Kenny Boynton 
have combined to shoot 75.8 percent from the line, frontcourt starters Macklin, Parsons and Alex Tyus hit just 54.9 percent as a unit. 
  This deﬁ  ciency can be a major detriment 
to UF, as frontcourt players are more likely 
to be fouled as defenses look to prevent easy looks close to the basket. 
  “A lot of times, being a great free-throw shooting team has to do with how well your frontcourt players shoot it,” Dono-van said. “Tyus, Macklin and Parsons, they’re on the ﬂ  oor, and they’re going to continue to get fouled a lot.”
  Macklin in particular has been a questionable free-throw 
shooter his entire career.  
  The senior center is shooting 41 percent from the line this 
season after connecting on 58.8 percent of last year’s attempts 
and 31 percent of his shots in two years at Georgetown. 
  These struggles have prevented Donovan from using Mack-
lin in late-game situations, as teams are likely to foul him inten-
tionally in order to extend games. 
  “V ernon Macklin, his whole career, has not been a great 
free-throw shooter,” Donovan said. “And I wish I had a magic potion to make him a 90 or 85 percent free-throw shooter, but it’s not going to happen.” HOOPS , from page 14
Gators more focused on routines than scores early in season
that I did in practice because it’s been pretty 
solid there.” 
  Caquatto scored a 9.725 for her routine. 
Even with her performance, the scores on beam for the squad were lower than usual, as 
sophomore Ashanée Dickerson earned an un-
characteristic 9.550. 
  Dickerson said her performance resulted 
from her getting ahead of herself and rushing through her routine. 
  “I thought they did well,” Faehn said of 
her beam lineup. “I thought some of the rou-tines were better than what the score showed. However, we’re not really concerned with the scores. We look at how the athletes are do-ing.” 
  Johnson also said she doesn’t look at her 
scores during meets, but she continued to 
make Gators history against Kentucky by 
scoring a 9.950 in vault, making her one of four freshmen for Florida to do so.  
  “Mackenzie and Alaina are top, elite ath-
letes,” Faehn said. “With that comes a lot of experience under high-pressure situations. It’s nice to see they don’t get rattled in the warm-ups and that carried over into the competition. It brings a calming effect to the other athletes as well.” 
  Friday’s meet also allowed for some gym-
nasts to gain experience in areas outside of their comfort zones. Junior Nicole Ellis com-
pleted her ﬂ  oor routine, which she hasn’t 
done since her senior year of high school, 
Faehn said. Ellis ﬁ  nished with a 9.750 for her performance.  
  The Gators’ newest roster addition, fresh-
man Jade Wiggins, made her collegiate gym-nastics debut, performing in beam and uneven parallel bars. Though Wiggins fell in her bars routine, Faehn said she has only been training 
with the team for less than a week. 
  “We really wanted to get her out there to 
give her a chance to see not only how she’d 
perform, but she has to get out there,” Faehn said. “It’s better to do it at home than at a road meet. She needs more numbers under her belt, more training in our environment and our pressure situations in the gym. I really think she’ll start to come around.” 
GYM , from page 14UF looks to future after losses
ton University. Then, searching for their ﬁ  rst 
true road win of the season against Auburn 
on Jan. 6, the Gators allowed a 22-9 Tigers 
run in the ﬁ  nal 6:43 that again erased a ﬁ  ve-point halftime lead. 
  While the losses are troubling,  captain 
Jordan Jones isn’t focused on the past. In-stead, Jones is choosing to turn her attention to the team’s next challenge.
  “We have a tough team coming into the 
O’Dome on Thursday,” Jones said of No. 19 
Kentucky. “It’s going to be a test for us to bounce back, to come to work on Tuesday and get this right.”
  The Wildcats (13-4, 
2-2 SEC) have won two straight conference games 
after a three-game skid, 
and they possess the tal-
ent to extend Florida’s los-
ing streak to three games.
  “[The loss against 
Georgia] is a heartbreak-er,” Jones said. “But you 
ﬁ  nd out how good you are and how mature 
you are … in how you bounce back.” W-HOOPS , from page 14Men's
Bask etball
“We’re not really concerned with 
the scores. We look at how the 
athletes are doing."
Rhonda Faehn
UF gymnastics coachJones
Defensive Line Coach Bryant Young  — San Jose State defensive 
   line coach, 2010; Notre Dame defensive graduate assistant, 
      2009; San Francisco 49ers defensive lineman, 1994-2007Who’s
In
Who’s
Out
FS Will Hill — 2 INTs, 102 yards; 1 pass breakup; 1 forced fumble; 54 
tackles, 2 tackles for lossQB John Brantley — 200 of 329 (60.8 percent), 2061 yards, 9 TDs, 
   10 INTs, 116.36 rating
CB Janoris Jenkins  — 3 INTs, 68 return yards, 1 TD; 8 pass breaups
    44 tackles, 6 tackles for loss; 1 sack; 18 punt returns, 150 yards 
Alexander Silva / Alligator Staff