VOLUME 106 ISSUE 32 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Expert prescribes more online games
Jane McGonigal spoke about the positive 
effects gaming has on people’s lives, pg. 3. Funding cuts could limit UF construction, renovation
Rick Scott vetoed some requests earlier this year, pg 3.  
Ra Ra Riot to perform at UF on Oct. 13
The concert is free and open to the public, pg 8. Freshman Jeff 
Driskel may 
not be the 
starter on 
Saturday
 after all. 
See Story, Page 14. 
87/64
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 9CROSSWORD  11
SPORTS 13Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Chili Chomps
Jorge Aranjo, a 21-year-old mechanical and aerospace engineering senior, and Amit Gupta, a Ph.D. candidate in electrical 
engineering, participate in the Munchies 420 ghost pepper chili wing eating challenge. Neither could ﬁ  nish his plate. See story, Page 4.
 
� THE LOCAL GROUP WILL HOLD A 
MEETING TODAY DOWNTOWN.
  EMILY MORROW
 Alligator Writer
 
  The movement that has drawn thou-
sands of protestors to Wall Street is coming to Gainesville.
  Occupy Gainesville, a local group in sup-
port of the Occupy Wall Street and Boston demonstrations, will hold an informational meeting today at 5:30 p.m. on Bo Diddley Community Plaza. 
  The meeting, which has about 130 at-
tendees “conﬁ  rmed” on Facebook, is being held to lay out a strategy for the Occupy Gainesville protest set for next Wednesday, also at the downtown plaza, said Jeremiah 
Tattersall, an organizer.
  The protest in New York City began on 
Sept. 17 and has drawn thousands of pro-
testors over the past two-and-a-half weeks, sparking similar events in about 150 cities across the United States and 28 in countries including Mexico, Ireland and Canada.
  Tattersall said he thinks one of the big 
failures of the Occupy Wall Street protest has 
been its lack of a clear agenda.
  “We’re Gainesville, we’re not a major 
center of commerce,” he said. “We want to 
have a clear message from the beginning.”
  The speciﬁ  c demands of the Occupy Wall 
Street protests have yet to be expressed, but posts on the Occupy Together website and Tumblr.com reﬂ  ect dissatisfaction with so-cial and economic inequality and the effects  Wall Street 
protests make it to Gainesville
STUDENT LIFE
  SAPHIRA LAZARRE
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  The UF Student Health Care Center 
announced last week that it would be-
gin accepting a discount prescription 
card that beneﬁ  ts students who don’t have health insurance. 
  The free card, offered by the CVS Ca-
remark and the National Association of Counties (NACo), offers an average sav-ings of 24 percent off the regular retail price on brand-name and generic drugs, 
according to a March 9 NACo and CVS Caremark press release.
  SHCC spokeswoman Catherine A. 
Seemann said the center started offering the card because it is trying to imple-
ment as many money-saving opportuni-ties for students as possible.
  “Anytime we ﬁ  nd out about a new 
program that assists students, gener- Health care center accepts prescription cards
  MINA RADMAN
 Alligator Writer
  Zipcar is offering student organizations up to $5,500 each for 
making a difference.
  The car-sharing company , which allows members to rent cars at an hourly or daily rate, received a $300,000 grant from Ford to 
start the “Students With Drive” program. The program provides students with free Zipcar memberships and driving credits.
  From October to April, college student organizations can up-
load videos or photos to the Zipcar Facebook page to explain how they would use the company to make a difference on their campus or in their community .   About 250 schools across the 
country are participating in the program.
  Five ﬁ  nalists and 10 semi-ﬁ  nalists will be selected each month. 
Finalists will receive $5,500 each in Zipcar credits to put toward 
membership fees and driving costs, and  semi-ﬁ  nalists will re-ceive $1,000 in credits.    The winners will be selected by other fans on the Facebook page, and each of the monthly winners will be eligible to win the grand prize: an additional $5,000 in driving credit, $10,000 to the organization and $10,000 to the university .     Students compete for free Zipcar membership, driving creditSEE INSURANCE, PAGE 5SEE OCCUPY, PAGE 5
Ford-funded program will continue through April“Generally, we try to do our best 
to help students know about it so 
they can save money.”
Catherine A. Seemann
SHCC spokeswomanNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 32 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tyler Jett, Greg Luca,
  Corey McCall, Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Kathryn Milstein, Adrianna Paidas,  
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Brandon Davis
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Amber Hughes, 
  Allison Klempert, Kyle Mueller,   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Alexander Silva, Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call 
our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. what’s happening
Women’s History Month 
Applications and General 
Body Meeting
Today,  7 p.m.
Reitz Union Room 285The Women’s Student Association has extended the deadline for Women’s History Month Committee applications to Friday , Oct. 7, at midnight. Applications can be found on-line at ufwsa.blogspot.com. 
To learn more, students can 
attend the Women’s Student Association’s third general body meeting of the year. Everyone is welcome — male and female.
Green Drinks
Today, 6 to 8 p.m.The Midnight Cafe & Bar, 233 South Main St.Come out and support Cinema V erde and help bring people together who are interested in 
sustainability and networking 
with others. Florida Express, a commercial recycling service that has recently expanded Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after 
above events. Improperly for -
matted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.operations from Ocala to in-clude services and offices in Gainesville, will sponsor the meeting. Contact Trish Riley at 352-327-3560 for any infor -
mation.  
Afghan War Protest
Friday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.Plaza of the AmericasThe UF Libertarians and Gainesville Area Students for a Democratic Society will be holding a protest on Plaza of the Americas against the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq on the 10th anniversary of the 
former. The protest will in-
clude a 20-foot display show-ing the approximate number of casualties since the wars began. Anyone interested in 
joining the cause is welcome. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY
RAIN
81/67RAIN
81/65RAIN
83/67PARTLY
CLOUDY
88/65SUNNY
87/64
 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
ORIANA PAOLILLO
Alligator Contributing Writer 
World-renowned gaming ex-
pert Jane McGonigal gave stu-
dents a seemingly unexpected piece of advice Tuesday night: She urged them to spend more 
time playing games online.
McGonigal spoke Tuesday 
night at the Pugh Hall Ocora 
Room at a forum sponsored by the Bob Graham Center for Public Service.
Her presentation — titled 
“Are gamers better citizens?” —  highlighted the positive effects  
online gaming has on people’s 
lives.
About 250 people attended 
the event and participated in a multiplayer thumb wrestling event.
Based on the number of at-
tendees, McGonigal coined the game a “level-4.5 thumb war.”
The objective of the game 
was to show attendees some of the emotions gamers experience after playing online games.
McGonigal defined gam-
ers as people who play games regularly , even for five to 10 minutes.
“Gamers experience love, 
pride, excitement and curiosity , which we then spill into our real lives,” she said. 
When you hold somebody’s 
hand for six seconds your body releases oxytocin, which makes you feel confident, McGonigal said.
“Now you can ask some-
body cute near you for their phone number,” she joked.
Gerard Robinson, a 19-year-
old applied physiology and ki-nesiology sophomore, said he liked the use of the thumb-wres-tling exercise to meet people.
“We can make a fast and 
positive connection [through 
gaming] with people we don’t 
even know,” Robinson said.
McGonigal, who has a 
Ph.D. from the University of California-Berkeley , is a leader in the  movement to create on-line games that connect with real-world problems. The most recent game she created, Super -
Better, is designed to increase resilience in the face of illness. 
“It was created to get peo-ple in sub-Sahara interested in gaming,” McGonigal said. “But it has spread all around.”
McGonigal advised people to see games not as a way to es-cape but as a way to solve prob-lems and to see life as an “epic game.”
Filipe DeAndrade / Alligator
Jane McGonigal urged students to spend more time playing 
online video games. She stressed the positive effects that playing games have on people.
on c AmpusExpert talks benefits of gaming
JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Staff Writer
Repairing and maintaining UF 
campus facilities may be tough  next 
year as state funding looks to be down again.
A revenue-estimating conference 
released numbers Monday that show limited funds will likely be available for repair and maintenance projects, and no new projects may get funded.
State money for these expenses 
comes from the state’s Public Educa-tion Capital Outlay. PECO funds are collected from a utilities tax and are used to fund new research and teach-
ing facilities.
Earlier this year, the Board of Gov-
ernors, the governing body of the 
State University System, approved a $22 million dollar funding request for repairs and renovations — a request that may not be fully met, according to estimates. 
In an email, Vice President for Busi-
ness Affairs Ed Poppell wrote that all universities are currently discussing what alternatives might exist for fund-ing projects.
With final funding decisions com-
ing from legislators and Gov . Rick Scott, expectations are marked with fear of the veto pen.
Earlier this year, Scott vetoed sev-
eral funding requests from UF, includ-
ing money for repair and maintenance 
of existing facilities and $6 million for UF’s Research and Academic Cen-
ter at Lake Nona, which is located in Orlando.
Kelly Layman, 
spokeswoman for the Board of Gov-
ernors, wrote in an 
email that the esti-mates confirm the board’s concerns 
with the state of PECO funding.
“We look forward to working with 
the Legislature on options and solu-tions this session,” she wrote. “We are committed to working to protect the 
state’s extensive investment in exist-
ing facilities while we address the demands of new projects simultane-ously.”Funding cuts could limit UF 
construction, renovations
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WINTER HAVEN — The first thing 
you’ll do upon entering Legoland Flor -
ida is walk up to the nearest oversized 
Lego model and touch it: Is it really made out of those little plastic bricks that are 
as much a part of American childhood 
as skinned knees and ice cream cones?
The answer is yes. And thankfully, they’re all glued to-
gether to withstand abuse from the kids and curious parents who will be visiting Florida’s newest theme park, opening Oct. 15. 
Situated in little Winter Haven, 45 
minutes from Disney and the other Or -
lando-area attractions, Legoland Florida is aimed at kids from 2 to 12. Visitors can marvel at the Lego models scattered throughout the park, visit a castle, shoot lasers and ride four rollercoasters.
But there’s a special area for toddlers, 
too, and parents will certainly linger in the amazing Miniland USA area, which features the skylines of New York and other big cities, as well as Florida land-
marks, all constructed from Legos. 
“Every Lego model you see in the 
park is made with standard Lego pieces,” 
says Bill Vollbrecht, the self-described “Lego nerd” who designed the park. “We don’t have special pieces made; they are standard brick sizes, the stan-dard colors that kids can buy in the kits at the store. We don’t modify, change or 
do anything different. Because we want 
to show what you can do with them. This is the ultimate toy box.”
The new Florida park is the largest of 
the Legolands, covering 150 acres on the site of the old Cypress Gardens, which was the state’s first theme park when it opened in 1936. Florida Legoland opens Oct. 15scott
“Every Lego model you see in 
the park is made with standard 
Lego pieces.”
Bill Vollbrecht
park designerCLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
The Student Senate on Tuesday 
approved transferring $28,800 from 
reserve funds to the vice president’s SG Cabinet for cellphone charging stations.
Senator and Unite Party spokes-
woman Christina Bonarrigo proposed the legislation  and presented the bill at the meeting.
She said the Unite Party put charg-
ing stations on the platform after students proposed them during the party’s platform generation.
“I think it’s time that we actually 
do things for our students,” Bonar -
rigo said. 
Unite Party Senator Matt Mount-
joy said $28,800 spread among about 50,000 students equates to less than 60 cents per student. If a student has to charge his or her phone even once, it is worth the cost to that student.
Minority Senator Carly Wilson pro-
posed using the money to add general electrical outlets instead. 
Senators also voted unanimously 
to finalize seat reapportionment for Spring and Fall 2012.
In the Fall 2012 elections cycle, Dis-
trict A will gain one seat, bringing its total to nine. District B will drop from eight seats to seven. 
Spring elections are based on stu-
dents’ colleges rather than on their addresses. The number of graduate seats will increase from 10 to 11, and the number of business administra-tion seats will decrease from three to two.
Several senators addressed the 
Election Commission’s investigation and the week-long postponing of the elections validation vote.4, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2011
Lyn Kramer / Alligator
Senate President Micah Lewis had to quiet senators several times during 
Tuesday’s Senate meeting. Senators debated whether to transfer reserve funds to SG Cabinet  for cellphone charging stations in six high-traffic campus locations.
STUDENT SENATESG to pay $28,000 for phone chargers
MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writer
The stage was set for a spicy showdown.
Weighing in at 190 pounds, there was Andy Koehler, 
29, a UF electrical engineering Ph.D. candidate who has downed a ghost-chili-covered pizza.
To his left, at 189 pounds, stood Jorge Araujo, 21, a UF 
aerospace engineering senior and spice newcomer.
And last, at 148 pounds, there was Amit Gupta, 27, a 
native of India and an electrical engineering Ph.D. candi-date.
The trio stood in front of a crowd of 30 supporters gath-
ered at Munchies 420 Cafe Tuesday night for the “Fire in Your Hole Challenge.”
Three women wearing latex gloves carried out trays 
of wings for each man. One woman winced at the smell 
when she put the wings down. To the crowd, they smelled 
like burnt chilies.
Andy, Jorge and Amit smelled pain.They stationed their forearms on either side of their 
trays of 10 wings, waiting for the word.
The challenge, which the Munchies 420 Cafe owner 
carried over from the original Sarasota branch, had never been won in Gainesville. Two challengers had tried to eat  their way to victory a few hours before, but they ended up with their heads in trashcans and, to put it mildly, upset 
stomachs.
In Sarasota, about 4,500 people had tried in the history 
of the 9-year-old challenge, but less than 100 had succeed-
ed, owner J.D. Chester said. Most victors are women.
“This is above pepper spray . This is above special forces 
pepper spray,” he said.
Chester said the concoction is made by blending haba-
nero peppers, garlic and Louisiana-style hot sauce. Then crushed Chinese red peppers, cayenne pepper and — the 
piece de resistance — ghost-chili extract imported from In-
dia are added to the mix. 
All of that is coated onto 10 wings and thrown into an 
innocent-looking basket.
The group of friends, co-workers, church members and 
Munchies 420 Cafe employees gathered near the bar where the three men leaned over their trays and dug in.
Andy stripped the first wing clean in seconds and 
moved onto a drumstick.
Jorge tore through his first, looked to his friends and 
raised his eyebrows in a way that said it wasn’t  so bad.
Amit munched steadily with a straight face.Two wings in, Andy started to slow down, and a look 
of dread flooded his face. He stepped back from the bar and took a deep breath. He stepped up to the bar and took a deep sip of water.
He wiped his mouth, shook his head and took another 
bite.
“There’s no way ,” Andy said. “Oh man, that’s it, 
dude.”
He walked away. One down; two left.Jorge gagged, breathed, swallowed.“Take your time!” a supporter shouted.Amit looked from his friends with camcorders to the 
ceiling, gasping between bites.
Five wings in, Jorge stood up and walked away.Amit kept up his rhythm, his face stone cold.
He powered through another wing. And another. And 
another.
It came down to the ninth wing.
Sweat stuck to his forehead. Chili flakes peppered his 
chin.
He gasped and dry heaved.And it was over. He emptied his stomach of Gators-
orange liquid into the trashcan.
Andy said the spice made it so he couldn’t think 
straight. He said it tasted terrible, and the pain didn’t hit until he was invested in the second wing.
“I need to train. I need to come back, and I need to 
win,” he said. “We’re men. We take challenges. It’s what we do.”Ghost chili champ 
hopefuls fall short
 THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIAMI — The Univision television 
network denied allegations Tuesday 
that it told Republican Sen. Marco Rubio it might not broadcast a story about a relative’s decades-old drug 
conviction if he appeared on its news 
programs.
The story about his brother-in-law’s 
late 1980s cocaine trafficking conviction ran in July and Rubio did not appear on the network. The Spanish-language network says it never used the story 
to pressure Rubio to appear. Rubio’s 
spokesman declined comment.
The allegations prompted three 
Hispanic Republican leaders to call for Republican presidential candidates to boycott Univision’s efforts to plan a debate in January . Mitt Romney , Rick Perry and Jon Huntsman said Tuesday they would boycott.
Univision heavily promoted its 
July 11 story on the late 1980s convic-tion of Orlando Cicilia, the husband of Rubio’s sister, during the federal-led “Operation Cobra.” Marco Rubio was 16 at the time and had nothing to do with the case. Cicilia was given early release in 2000. The in-depth story was widely ignored by English-language 
media because of a lack of relevance to 
the senator’s political career.
Univision said it has not announced 
any planned debate or reached out to any candidates.Univision denies it tried to coerce Rubio� A NEW TURN LANE WILL BE ADDED AT 
SOUTHWEST 40TH BOULEVARD.
EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
Drivers going to fill up on gas or grab a late-night 
snack at the McDonald’s on Archer Road should expect 
lane closures starting next week.
Beginning Monday, the outside eastbound and west-
bound lanes at the intersection of Archer Road and South-
west 40th Boulevard will be closed Sundays through Thursdays from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. until Oct. 21. 
During this time, construction crews will be installing new traffic signals at the intersection.
This construction is one of three parts of the South-
west 62nd Boulevard Connector Interim Projects, spon-sored by the Alachua County Public Works department.
In addition to the new traffic signals, an extra turn 
lane will be added on Archer Road at the Southwest 40th 
Boulevard intersection, near the McDonald’s and Exxon 
gas station, as well as sidewalks, bike lanes and street-lights. 
The same additions are being put in place at the inter -
section of Southwest 43rd Street and Southwest 20th Av-enue, near the Forest Park soccer fields and across from the Canopy apartment complex.
The projects are expected to be completed by Janu-
ary.Work on Archer Road to start Monday“This is above pepper spray. This is above 
special forces pepper spray.”
J.D. Chester
owner of Munchies 420 Cafe in Sarasota
GOP candidates boycott debateof corporations and lobbyists on the govern-
ment.
Like its predecessor, Occupy Gainesville is 
leaderless — Tattersall said he isn’t certain who exactly initiated the movement, but it has quick-
ly spread via Facebook, Twitter, UF listservs and 
word of mouth.
“It’s a prairie fire mentality,” he said. “Some-
times all you need is a spark to get the fire go-ing.” 
On Sunday, about 700 protesters were arrest-
ed on the Brooklyn Bridge after blocking traffic by standing in the road. The majority of them have since been released. 
Tattersall said he doesn’t expect any problems 
with the Gainesville Police Department next week.
Organizations like Students for a Democratic 
Society and Fight Back Florida, a coalition rep-resenting working-class interests including orga-nized labor and student groups, will be present at the meeting and next Wednesday’s protest.
About 690 people currently “like” the group’s 
Facebook page, and Tattersall said he expects most of those people to come out to the events. He said a turnout of about 100 next Wednesday would mean organizers did a poor job.
Taglines like “We are the 99 percent,” “They 
got bailed out, we got sold out,” and “We’re from Main Street, not Wall Street” are messages that Tattersall said he thinks the people of Gainesville can relate to.
“They’re all really true here,” he said. “We’re 
just average, working people.” WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
OCCUPY , from page 1Local protests against corporate 
greed will take place on Oct. 12 
“It’s a prairie fire mentality.      
Sometimes all you need is a spark to 
get the fire going.”
Jeremiah Tattersall
Occupy Gainesville organizerally we try to do our best to help 
students know about it so they can save money,” Seemann said. 
The card does not work as insur -
ance. Students with private insur -
ance or student insurance, through the university, are not eligible to use 
the card at the SHCC Pharmacy.
However, students without in-
surance can use the card and re-
deem the discounts as many times as needed. 
The card works for all prescrip-
tion drugs and supplies such as inhalers, antidepressants and birth control.
SHCC Pharmacy manager Laura 
Tipton said she hoped the new card would help students on tight bud-gets.
“A lot of them [students] are struggling financially,” Tipton said, “and some of them don’t get the proper antibiotics they need when they become sick, simply because 
they can’t afford it.” 
Criminology senior Cory List, 21, 
likes the idea of the discount card.
“When you’re in college, you 
always look for the best deal,” List said. 
Students with an Alachua Coun-
ty address can register for the card 
online and print it out from home.
“It’s so easy to get a hold of,” said 
20-year-old Kimberly Navarrete, an economics junior. “I pay for some of my prescriptions myself, so if I could save a few dollars by printing 
a card out, I’d do it.”
For more information on the 
free prescription discount card, or 
to print one out, visit rxprintacard.
biz/naco.Prescription discount card 
does not work as insurance
INSURANCE , from page 1Amanda Cohen / Alligator
Black Student Union dance troupe Finesse performed for the second annual Multicultural 
Dance Night.
mUltICUltURAl
AMANDA COHEN
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The stereo at the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom blared hip-hop and salsa music 
Tuesday evening, but the students pres-ent were swaying to the same tune.
About 50 students gathered for the sec-
ond annual Multicultural Dance Night, which was co-sponsored by the Black Student Union and the Hispanic Student 
Association.
“This night is an opportunity to cel-
ebrate the beauty of cultural differences 
and unite with fellow students,” said BSU president Jesselle English, a 21-year-old accounting senior.
Students of all cultures were welcome 
to attend.
The newly formed BSU dance troupe, 
Finesse, performed followed by hip-hop instruction by HSA’s dance troupe, Sabor Latino, and a step-by-step salsa instruc-tion with Gator Salsa Club.
About 35 students danced to Nicki Mi-
naj’s “SuperBass,” popping and moving 
their bodies to the beat.
Next, about 25 students formed a cir -
cle and swayed their hips to casino-style 
salsa dancing, changing partners every three minutes.
“It’s fun going beyond what you’re fa-
miliar with,” said accounting student and 
Vice President of Gator Salsa Kathleen 
Juezan, 21.  “It’s a refreshing experience.”
The event was held in honor of Na-
tional Hispanic Heritage Month, which began Sept. 15 and runs every day until Oct. 15. 
Each event is co-sponsored by a differ -
ent organization, including the Filipino Student Association and the Pride Stu-
dent Union.
Hispanic Heritage Month Executive 
Director Jacquelyn Fuentes, 21, said any-
one, regardless of heritage, can participate and celebrate the culture. 
Future events planned for Hispanic 
Heritage Month include the “The Gaunt-let, Step Stroll Salute Competition” at 6 p.m. Saturday at the Phillips Center for 
the Performing Arts and a Comedy Night 
at 7 p.m. Tuesday at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. 
“Even if you’re not ethnic by parent, if 
a culture interests you, embrace it,” Eng-lish said.
“It’s what you want to see at the Uni-
versity of Florida: people having fun and embracing each other’s culture.”Dance showcase celebrates National Hispanic Heritage Month
MARY ANNE EADES
Alligator Contributing Writer
When researchers at Cornell 
University discovered that mood 
levels are similar at corresponding 
times across the world, they didn’t 
use conventional sources.
They didn’t collect the data by 
conducting an online poll or dis-
tributing a survey by mail — they gathered the data by using Twit-
ter. 
Cornell graduate sociology 
student Scott Golder, 30, gathered 
about 530 million tweets from 84 countries and plugged them into a text-analysis program called Lin-guistic Inquiry and Word Count. 
The program tracks key words 
from any text format such as email, 
poems or transcribed speeches, ac-
cording to the program’s website.
Researchers studied what per -
centage of people tweeted positive 
mood words such as “happy” and 
“excited” and what percentage of people tweeted words like “de-
pressed” and “angry” at certain 
times of the day and week.
“People criticize Twitter for be-ing inconsequential but … social scientists have always wanted to study large numbers of people in 
their everyday lives,” Golder said.
More people tweeted the word 
“relaxed” on the weekends, but the 
beginning of the workweek report-
ed the highest percentage of tweets 
about being “depressed.”
Ruth Michel, 22, a recent UF 
public relations alumna, said that, to her, Twitter is more of a profes-
sional opportunity to follow cur -
rent trends than it is a personal site.But her tweet on Tuesday, 
“Don’t be annoying. Background music on a website is an immedi -
ate turnoff,” still gives insight to 
her mood at 12:59 p.m.
Public relations junior Haley 
English, 20, said when she thought 
about it, she definitely can see a 
pattern from her friends’ tweets.
“On Sundays there is always 
someone who posts something about feeling terrible and being 
hungover and wishing Chick-fil-A 
was open,” she said.
UF Area Director for Social Psy-
chology James Shepperd said he 
was not completely familiar with 
the study but said the main ques-
tion to consider when generalizing social research data is the group 
generating the messages. 
“That determines how far you 
can generalize the facts,” Shepperd said.
Researchers in this study knew 
few specifics about the ages and 
lifestyles of people who use Twit-
ter, Golder said. 
It was not a random sample, 
but by collecting key words from tweets all across the world, it is di-
verse, he said.
“Even though there will always 
be a place for traditional research 
methods, there’s now an oppor -
tunity to do really groundbreak-ing work through the Internet,” 
Golder said.Social scientists use Twitter to gauge moods across time zones
People are more depressed on MondaysReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR37 TOTAL VOTES65% YES
35% NOMonday’s question: Do you ever find 
yourself so busy that you cannot do your job? Today’s question: Would you ever eat food with ghost 
chili pepper sauce?Corporate Cronyism
Government should 
keep away from banks
If you have not already , some of you might start getting 
charged a monthly fee for debit-card usage. 
One bank instituting this charge is Bank of America, which 
plans to charge $5 a month. Other banks such as Wells Fargo and Chase will be implementing fees in some states around the 
country . 
As we have seen in the last few days, those involved with 
the Occupy Wall Street movement are quite upset with corpora-
tions. 
In this instance, however, anger should be directed at the 
government for causing banks to charge this fee. 
Previously, banks charged businesses (or those “evil” corpo-
rations) a fee of about 44 cents every time someone used a debit card for a purchase. 
The financial regulatory reform law, also known as Dodd-
Frank, capped the fee that banks could charge at 24 cents per swipe. This new regulation is expected to cost banks billions of dollars in losses. To make up this loss, banks have now taken the burden off of business and placed it on consumers with new fees. 
Recently , Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., told Americans frustrated 
with this fee to “vote with their feet” and leave Bank of America for this outrageous action. 
This is ironic considering that the very amendment Durbin 
sponsored when this bill was in Congress was the one that capped the debit card fee at 24 cents. 
So, the government meddles in an area which only really af-
fects businesses and ends up unintentionally hurting consumers in the end. Then, members of the government and sponsors of the very laws that hurt consumers have the nerve to blame this action on banks?
The unintended consequences of government regulation are 
boundless. 
Unfortunately, it is easy to predict the possible responses to 
this editorial. 
“Bankers make billions of dollars every year. They wouldn’t 
have to charge consumers if they gave up some of their outra-geous salaries.” 
What right do you have to determine how much the bankers 
make? They are providing you with a convenient way to store, transfer and save your money . 
If you don’t like bankers’ salaries, take out all of your money 
and put it in your mattress. Otherwise, shut up. 
The current anti-corporate movement should direct its atten-
tion not at corporations, but at the cronyism that occurs when government officials give favors to businesses. 
Do you really think it was consumers who advocated for a 
cap on debit-card fees? No, it was businesses who thought they could use the force of government to pay less to the banks. 
Maybe a few protestors should leave Wall Street and head to 
Washington, D.C., to protest the corporatist policies of our fed-
eral government. 
And maybe someone should look into who funds Dick 
Durbin’s campaigns.
Obama blew it with Solyndra business
Republicans: Your prayers for victory in 2012 just 
might have been answered. 
Recently, Solyndra, a solar panel manufacturing 
company based in California, filed bankruptcy after read-ily accepting a loan from the Department of Energy for 
$535 million. 
Malinvestments do happen, and they are often unavoid-
able. However, the incident that occurred in this situation 
was egregious. 
President Barack Obama and his staffers used Solyndra 
as the poster child for green jobs. Last year, the president toured the newly constructed factory subsidized by the federal government. He promoted Solyndra as the hall-mark of the reusable energy industry. 
A year later, the company filed bankruptcy, leaving its 
workers unemployed and without severance packages, and leaving taxpayers demanding retribution.
Earlier this month, the FBI raided the offices of Solyn-
dra in search of accounts of fraudulence against the federal government. 
Even if evidence is found, who will be footing the bill? 
Certainly not the the heads of Solyndra; they will all be pleading the Fifth or pointing their fingers at the other 
guy.
In the era of bailouts and corporate welfare, compa-
nies are rewarded for poor investments or lousy busi-
ness. “Wrong,” does not do justice to the proper sense of anguish felt by the small, independent business, who has been screwed over by cronies who guise themselves in the facade of laissez faire.
This current mess is not capitalism.Another telltale sign of trouble occurred when billion-
aire George Kaiser intensively fundraised for President Obama’s campaign back in 2008. The George Kaiser Fam-ily Foundation has 36.7 percent stake in the bankrupted company. 
However, a spokesperson wrote in an email “George 
Kaiser is not an investor in Solyndra and did not partici-pate in any discussions with the U.S. government regard-ing the loan.”The smell of rotten fish is in 
the air because Mr. Kaiser met with aides four different times before the loans were approved. It is too suggestive to scoff as co-
incidence. 
Two weeks prior to the Bush 
administration leaving office, an 
application for a loan by Solyn-dra was considered, but the En-
ergy Department’s credit committee rejected the proposal. 
The Office of Management and Budget, pressured by 
the White House, reluctantly allowed the loans even after suggesting that the “deal is not ready for prime time,” writ-
ten in an email by an OMB analyst back in March 2009.
People often bash the bureaucracy in Washington for its 
red tape, but maybe there could be a reason it’s there. 
According to the Atlantic, “an Energy official wrote 
of ‘a major outstanding issue’ — namely, that Solyndra’s 
numbers showed it would run out of cash in September 2011.”
Honestly, why pay analysts and accountants to comb 
through the numbers if you jettison all their recommenda-
tions? A bank would go bottoms up if it acted on superflu-
ous reasons rather than on calculations of profit and loss. Capitalist markets should allow them to fail. 
Solyndra’s business strategy was questionable as well. 
Peter Lynch, a solar industry analyst, told ABC, “It’s very difficult to perceive a company with a model that says, well, I can build something for $6 and sell it for $3.”
Solyndra made use of brand new technology that did 
not require the silicon used by various competitors, but 
with the bad economy, the price of silicon plummeted, af-
fecting the status quo. 
There are only two options that might explain why these 
loans were initially approved: cronyism or incompetence. 
Either way, Mr. President, do not let the door smack 
your butt on the way out. 
Nicholas Butler is a journalism sophomore at UF. His col-
umn appears on Wednesdays.
Nicholas Butler
nbutler@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
After reading his opinion piece on Social Security 
Monday, I was baffled when I saw that Travis Hornsby was a senior majoring in statistics and 
economics. 
First, his point that the life expectancy has risen from 
66 to 77.8 since Social Security started is irrelevant. Much of that increase has come from a lowered infant mortality 
rate, which skews the statistic in a way that doesn’t affect 
Social Security payouts. 
The figure worth looking at is remaining life expectancy 
after reaching 65, which for males has gone from 13 to 15 years. The difference is not nearly as drastic as Hornsby 
portrayed.
Hornsby’s point about the difference between white 
females and black males is clearly a case of him pushing 
the race button (as ham-handedly as possible). Women as 
a whole have longer life expectancies than men as a whole, 
with the difference between genders larger than between races. Hornsby doesn’t portray it as a wealth redistribution issue based on gender. 
If you compared black women to white women and 
looked at life expectancy after age 65, the difference is only 11 percent, not 300 percent like the comparison in the ar -
ticle.It’s nice to know that Hornsby 
did his research when it comes to So-cial Security disability payments: By 
his own admission, it involved the 
show “Divorce Court” and a guy in line at Walgreens. Ap-
parently, this is what passes for an acceptable argument in the economics department, although this lack of standards 
might explain the great success economists have had in the 
world lately.
Hornsby’s discussion of the national debt in an article 
about Social Security is nothing but a red herring. They are completely separate issues. Social Security is funded solely 
by a dedicated tax: Surpluses don’t go back into the rest of 
the federal budget, and shortfalls aren’t made up by bor -
rowing money and accruing debt. 
If the Social Security Trust Fund runs out of money, 
the deficit won’t change in the least; payouts will simply decrease. Hornsby is  hitting the scary-issue-of-the-day to mislead you.
Furthermore, Hornsby’s assertion that Social Security 
won’t exist when we college students retire is self-fulfilling 
fear-mongering put forward by conservatives who have 
wanted to kill Social Security since it began. Social Security doesn’t die when the Social Security Trust Fund runs out. Remember that, because Republicans will always try to im-ply as such, just like Hornsby did. 
When the fund runs out, the benefits will simply be re-
duced. There will always be Social Security taxes collected, so there will always be money paid out.
Finally, we can keep the Social Security Trust Fund from 
running out and prevent the benefit levels from decreasing 
with a minor, simple fix. Currently, the Social Security tax 
is only levied on the first about $100,000 of a person’s an-nual income. Hornsby was right when he said that the tax was regressive, but making it less regressive doesn’t mean taking it away, it means removing the cap. Make $1 million 
a year? You get taxed on all of your income, just like the 
guy making $30,000 a year.
I’m sure Hornsby will have a talking point to explain 
to everyone why this is a terrible idea, but if one rule of 
thumb has never failed for me, it’s this: Never trust a Young 
Republican who grew up with rich parents and who will never have to truly worry about money in his life. 
He cannot relate to you, he does not sympathize with 
you and he’s proud of the fact that he’ll step on you to get 
ahead. He’s more of a burden on society than anyone re-
ceiving Social Security.
Matt Schneider is a physics senior at UF.Columnist’s Social Security argument used for fear-mongeringGuest column
Matt Schneider
Speaking Out
This is in response to Sami Main’s edi-
torial “Vegetarian Options Should Not Be Feared.” While applauding 
Sami’s address to an often overlooked issue, I’d like to take it a step further and say that vegetarian options should be revered.
With rising costs of health care, a climate 
change crisis and a growing intolerance for those who lack human compassion around the globe, the idea of taking to a vegetarian diet is a thought process that more and more conscientious young people are consider -
ing.
I became a vegetarian more than 30 years 
ago. Now, at age 47, I consider it the best de-cision I’ve ever made in my life.  Not only do I feel like I’m not contributing to the harm of defenseless creatures, but I also have an abundance of energy. People often mistake 
me for being in my early- to mid-30s.
As far as people’s reaction to being a veg-
etarian, we have come a long way over the 
last 30 years. When I first went anti-meat, 
I was often given the “are you from planet 
Weirdo?” look when I ordered out. 
Now, I find that most restaurants have 
many vegetarian options and are quite con-scientious about cross-contaminating with 
meat products. 
Just the other day, I was in Barnes & No-
ble and noticed an entire section devoted to 
vegetarian cooking. Now, if someone, 
on a rare occasion, gives me some flack, 
others look at him or 
her as if he or she is from the dark ages.
These days, in college towns and metro-
politan areas, going veggie has become not only vogue but it also has become the ideal 
diet for people who consider themselves sensitive and artistic.
As a music writer, I find that a surpris-
ingly large percentage of the musicians I in-
terview are vegetarian.
In 2010, the U.N. recommended a global 
shift to a vegan diet in order to help save 
the world from hunger, poverty and climate change. As a matter of fact, a U.N. report from just three years before cited factory farming as the No. 1 cause of global warm-
ing. Therefore, it just seems   logical for any-
one who is really serious about reducing his or her carbon footprint to go veggie.
It is not a stretch to imagine more people 
turning to vegetarianism 30 years from now as the evidence of its benefits mount.  
And if the consciousness of human be-
ings continues to evolve, perhaps 150 years from now we will look back on raising ani-
mals for slaughter and consumption with 
the same disdain we now look back on the issue of human slavery.
Greg Allard is a journalism senior at UF.Thirty years later, becoming vegetarian ‘best decision’ of lifeGuest column
Greg Allard
Speaking OutJULIA GLUM
Alligator Contributing Writer
Six times a week, the Walking 
Gators lace up their sneakers and 
walk together on campus. 
This Thursday , from 11:30 a.m. 
to 1 p.m., participants in the exer -
cise program will distribute infor -
mation on the Reitz Union Colon-nade.
The program started in partner -
ship with UF first lady Chris Ma-chen’s Healthy Gators initiative in 2008. Its goal is to encourage UF faculty, staff and students to de-stress and exercise during their lunch breaks, said Jane Emmeree, chairwoman of Healthy Gators programming and communica-tions work group.
During Thursday’s event, team 
members will hand out Walking Gators Dri-Fit T-shirts and pedom-eters to people who show their Gator 1 IDs. 
Starting Tuesday, this semes-
ter’s Walking Gators program will debut a more flexible format. In ad-dition to offering scheduled walks, the program will allow participants to walk whenever they are avail-able.  
This semester, the Healthy 
Gators hope to feature walkers’ sto-ries and pictures on  its Facebook page.
“We’re going to focus on the sto-
ries behind the walking,” Emmeree said.
The Walking Gators will hold 
two scheduled walks on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays.  Each route is about a mile and takes 15 to 20 minutes to complete. The Pony Field Express route, which leaves from the Cancer and Genetics Re-search Building, starts at 11:30 a.m. The Uphill Challenge route, which leaves from the Housing Office, starts at 12:15 p.m.
Public relations freshman Britt-
ny Perez, 18, will be a new Walking Gator this semester. She will take on the Uphill Challenge next week.
“I love how this program makes 
exercise fun,” she said.UF backs  
lunch-hour 
walkingALEXANDRA RIVERA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Indie band Ra Ra Riot is coming to UF for a 
free concert at 8 p.m. Oct. 13 at the Reitz Union 
Rion Ballroom.
The event is free and open to the public. No 
student identification is required.
Wristbands for the event will be provided 
at the door beginning at 5:30 p.m. Due to lim-ited space, they will be distributed on a first-come, first-served basis. 
Reitz Union Board Entertainment is fund-
ing the event, but organizers declined to com-ment on how much Ra Ra Riot is being paid for its performance.
Kelly Richard, journalism senior, and Rachel 
Ring, management sophomore, are the co-direc-tors of RUB Entertainment’s band committee.  
Richard said she thought the band would be a great fit for an on-campus concert. Also, the band’s debut album was ranked on Rolling Stone’s Top 50 Greatest Album’s list in 2008, she said. 
“We heard that they were really good live,” 
Richard said.
Ra Ra Riot formed at Syracuse University in 
2006. Since then, the group has released three studio albums. 
The UF show marks the group’s last perfor -
mance before appearing at the DeLuna Festi-val in Pensacola Beach.
Richard said RUB Entertainment holds free 
concerts each week on campus at Orange & Brew that feature local talent. 
Local groups Morningbell and Rex or Re-
gina will open for Ra Ra Riot. 
According to the event’s Facebook page, 
backpacks and cameras are prohibited at the concert. 
Also, security guards will check bags at en-
try.
Jessie Blohm, international relations fresh-
man and a Ra Ra Riot fan, plans to attend the show.
“Each band member contributes something 
unique, whether it’s an instrument or their vo-
cals, making them one of my favorite bands,” 
Blohm said. “When I first heard about Ra Ra Riot coming to UF, I was beyond excited.”8, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2011
Courtesy to the Alligator
Indie band Ra Ra Riot will be playing a free concert Oct. 13 at 8 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Rion Ballroom
ON CAMPUS
PUBLIC HEALTH Ra Ra Riot to perform on campus on Oct. 13
VICKI KARR
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
A campus environmental 
group is giving the public a chance to help the community one pair of jeans at a time. 
UF GreenLaw, a student-run 
organization, is collecting jean pants and jackets until Oct. 31. 
The organization is participat-
ing in Volcom’s Give Jeans A Chance campaign, and all do-
nations will go to the St. Francis 
House, said Chelsea Sims, the organization’s president.The campaign, which kicked 
off Sept. 1, is part of Volcom’s 
Give Back Series, and its mis-
sion is to raise awareness and funds for people-based issues, 
said Floris Gierman, Volcom’s 
senior director for retail mar -
keting.
Volcom is an American 
clothing manufacturer that targets youth who surf, snow-
board and skateboard, accord-
ing to the brand’s website. It’s distinguished by its logo — the 
Volcom stone.GreenLaw has the opportu-
nity to win a $1,500 grant from Volcom, and if it were to win 
the money, the 
funds would 
be given to a 
charity of the 
organization’s 
choice, Gier -
man said.
The cam-
paign is in its 
third consecu-
tive year. The first year it col-
lected about 5,000 pairs of jeans worldwide, and about 20,000 pairs were collected the second 
year, Gierman said.
Because previous years were 
successful, the campaign is raising this year’s international goal to 50,000 pairs. The pro-
gram is running in more than 
300 stores worldwide, and it has designated Friday as the 
“International Give Jeans a 
Chance Day,” in order to raise awareness, Gierman said. The 
official drop-off site is located at 
250 Bruton-Geer Hall in the law school. Individuals can contact 
Sims at c.sims925@gmail.com 
to arrange a drop-off.Students seeking denim for clothing driveMARIA GALINDO
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF Honors Program will host award-winning medical 
journalist and author Harriet A. Washington at 7:30 p.m. Mon-
day in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom.
Washington wrote the critically appraised book “Medical Apartheid: The Dark History of Medical Experimentation on Black Americans from Colonial Times to the Present,” a winner 
of the National Book Critics Circle Award for Nonfiction. 
The lecture will focus on the ethical questions around medi-
cal research, according to UF Honors Program Director Kevin 
Knudson. 
The presentation further expands on the topic of medical ethics discussed in the Honors Program Common Reading book “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks,” which was as-signed to incoming Honors students.
The book, written by Rebecca Skloot, chronicles the story 
of Henrietta Lacks, an African-American woman whose cells were taken without permission and later used to develop vac-cines and other important medical applications. 
“We were thinking about other ways to talk about [medical 
ethics] since a lot of our students in the Honors Program and at UF are pre-med,” Knudson said.Author to speak at Reitz about ethics in medical research
Jeans will be donated to the St. Francis House
Gierman
Harriet A. Washington will appear Mon dayWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
$379 3/3 All-Inclusive
$349 4/4 All-Inclusive
VISA Gift Cards Available
Call us today at 352-336-3838!
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld
352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $339
w/$100 credit!
3/3’s @ $429 with 42” TV
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
1BR/1BA available in 4/4 SW condo
$375/mo. Close to everything, bus line.
All utilities included. Furnished.Call Nalini at (352) 514-3398           10-14-11-2-1
SIGN & DESIGN OPEN HOUSE!
Take a tour Oct 7th from 12-6
*Food*Prizes*Music*Specials
Rates $339  and up $0 app.
Now signing! 352.379.9300
10-7-11-12-1
Professional/Grad Student.
All amenities. Must be studious & quiet,
safe & secure. $390/mo.Leave message 333-8300 or 514-3320    10-17-11-10-1Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        
12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
12-7-11-74-2
A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.
Great pools • Fitness • Tennis
Call for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’s
BivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2011
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com
12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Roommates a Hassle?
Move into your own downtown apt!www.ArlingtonSquare.orgStudios and 1Bdrms starting at $599!Check availability now! 338-000212-7-11-74-2
3BR, 2BA, Condo Unit, Ground Floor, Kitchen 
& living area; Swimming pool & tennis courts; The Sparrow; $700.00 per month.Call Cristen at 352-514-6222    10-17-11-40-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House
Historic spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1800/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    10-10-11-35-22BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home.  
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to 
$400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 
1st month half price! Vacant lots alsoavailable. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-588710-31-46-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
GIGANTIC 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority/Norman/Shands area. Dining rm, 
remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, 
W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Was $2400 re-
duced to $1780 OBO. 352-665-8166 lv msg.   
10-25-11-30-2
1BR/1BA Apt,. Large screened-in porch, 
W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499. 
Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 
3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #2. Please call 352-
371-3473    10-31-11-33-2
Peaceful living, large floorplans, closets 
galore, FREE CABLE, must see upgrades 
1/1 from $550 2/2 from $595
352-372-9913                          10-5-11-14-2
● 2BR2BA HOUSE, w/carport, W/D hk-ups. 
Pet ok. $750/mo
● 1BR/1BA APT Pet ok. $475/mo.
Call 352-332-8481 or 352-359-1644    10-14-
11-20-2
ATTN: UF and Shands Employees  
2 BR 1 Bath homes in Gainesville. 
Spacious fenced-in yards, bring your pets! 
Brand new energy upgrades. $570-$660/mo
Near 6th St. on 39th Ave. 336-9477   
10-17-25-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $650/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    10-12-11-87-2Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
●BED SET TWIN $49
●FULL $69●QUEEN $89●KING $99352-376-0953 4390 SW 20TH AVE   10-6-11-30-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator 
Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
12-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
MUSIC STORE NEAR UF-Buy-Sell-Trade@
Discounts We also offer music classes in all 
instruments & dance. We are the only chari-
table music & dance school. Scholarships 
available. studiopercussion.org 352-338-8302     
10-20-20-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 11
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-
74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups 
available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-
74-12I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
10-31-11-42-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!
PRICES SLASHED!!!!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS
CASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $999
94 FORD TAURUS $999
96 HONDA ACCORD $1499
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $1999
98 FORD F250 $2500
02 CHEVY BLAZER $4999
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $1999
01 DODGE NEON $1999
00 OLDS ALERO $2500
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLES
NO CREDIT CHECK
MOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!
352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!
PRICES SLASHED!!!!
NO CREDIT CHECK!
352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $9999
05 SUZUKI XLT $9999
352-375-9090      12-7-74-12LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
10-6-11-74-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
$$ CASH PAID, UP TO $500 $$
FOR JUNK CARS & TRUCKS
RUNNING OR NOT, ANY CONDITION
SAME DAY PICK UP. FREE TOWING
NO TITLE NEEDED. CALL 352-771-6191
 10-11-11-30-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-
noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF 
Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers 
welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   10-
12-11-35-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
12, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2011
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE
NOW HIRING
Great working environment. PT/FT positions 
available. Apply in person @ 2906 NW 13Tth 
St. 352-372-1226 sandysresale.com    10-5-
11-17-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
10-12-20-14
 The Smartphone Club needs data entry 
workers to help update our membership list. 
Must be able to work at home online with-
out any supervision. Guaranteed pay for 
Guaranteed work.
www.thesmartphoneclub.com/Colleges/FL    
10-25-11-25-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT for real estate office. 
Approx 25 hrs/wk, afternoons and some Sat 
mornings. Tasks include taking rent pay-
ments, answering phone, filing, writing let-
ters. Min 1-yr commitment expected. Starting 
pay $7.50/hr. Good PT job for student. 
Please send resume and cover ltr to
rabell@atlantic.net  No phone calls please.   
12-7-11-50-14
Sanctuary needs a hard working,
dependable person to care for rescued farm 
animals & advocate a plant based diet. Able 
to lift 50lbs, work outside, some computer 
work. www.rooterville.org, emails pls.
10-10-11-7-14
WAITPERSON NEEDED
Sawamura Japanese Steakhouse. Apply 
from 2:30 - 4pm at 1624 SW 13th St. No calls please.   10-7-5-14
PERSONAL ELF WANTED 10-12 hrs/wk! Job 
includes everything from ironing to cleaning toilets. Work independently while listening to iPod. If you are honest, dependable, & hard-working call 352-416-0014. Students only.10-6-11-4-14
MOVIE EXTRAS
To stand in the background for a major film. 
Experience not required. Earn up to $300/day. All looks needed. 877-568-7065    10-31-11-20-14
Website Design Paid Internship
with small publishing company in Alachua. 
$11.00/hr, 8 hrs/wk. Send resume to
biopressinfo@gmail.com.
10-13-11-7-14
Healthy men and women 18 years of age or 
older are needed for a research study evaluat -
ing how genetics and a botanical supplement affect how the body breaks down a drug. You will be paid $10 for an initial screening, which will take about one hour. If accepted into this study, you will have to spend two sepa-rate 2-night stays (two weeks apart) in the Shands Clinical Research Center at Shands Medical Center. Participants will be compen -
sated up to $650.00 upon study completion. Contact Dr. Mohamed, College of Pharmacy at mmohamed@ufl.edu or 352-294-5129.10-5-11-1-14
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) $99 
and Basic Life Support (BLS)$35. Classes 
run continuously to fit your schedule. 
American Heart Association Card issued. 
Call Cardiac One at 352-494-4217.    10-14-
11-30-15
Fiddle, Guitar & Mandolin Lessons
Various styles. Contact Alan Stowell 372-
9248 or 262-0171   10-11-10-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   10-11-10-15 
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696   11-9-11-30-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses 
Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen 
Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   
10-19-11-100-16
THE NATIONAL ALLIANCE
ON MENTAL ILLNESS (NAMI)
Peer-to-Peer Program
A FREE 10-week recovery education course 
for adults living with mental illness who would like to achieve and maintain wellness. NAMI-certified Peer Mentors who are successfully managing their own conditions teach the 
course. We meet once per week for two 
hours, and use a combination of lecture and interactive exercises in a confidential setting. Each participant receives materials related to 
course topics, such as mental illness and the 
brain, coping skills, decision-making tools, 
and relapse prevention. Class size is limited and pre-registration is required. Classes be-gin January 25, 2012.
For more information,
contact the NAMI information line at
(352) 374-5600 ext 8322,
or email info@namigainesville.org
10-14-10-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ADOPTION. Choose a loving & secure family 
waiting to adopt. Living & medical expenses paid. Updates on your child.Call 24hr/7day. 1-800-280-6155. Amy Eichman(Bar#830011)    11-14-11-30-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Short haired black male cat, adorable grin! 
Friendly, loving, easy to get along with. Neutered, tested, vaccines current. Will microchip with placement. Free to a good home! Questions or pics:mandy.e.adams@hotmail.com    10-6-11-5-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
12-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM... A boutique, 
KEY WEST 1970's style. We got it all for you, from all the world, imports you can believe 
in. Clothes, Gifts, Art, Books, Music, Plants... 
Hwy 441S.... 15 min that could change you.   
10-26-31-21
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
The Mailbag
Submit questions for this week’s mailbag column to us 
on Twitter: @alligatorSports. What’s a Honey Badger? Who’s starting against LSU? Find out Thursday.Gators Volleyball Player Honored 
Florida senior outside hitter Kristy Jaeckel was named the AVCA National Player of the Week after totalling 29 kills, 12 blocks, four digs and two service aces during two weekend wins. The Gators have had success 
with a change in strategy on set pieces, scoring two goals last weekend. See Story, Page 15.
� COACHES WILL DECIDE 
AMONG DRISKEL, MURPHY AND BRISSETT BY THURS-DAY.
GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
As Florida prepares for life 
without John Brantley , three other 
quarterbacks are splitting repeti-tions in practice.  
According to offensive coor -
dinator Charlie Weis, freshmen signal-callers Jeff Driskel, Jacoby Brissett and Tyler Murphy have evenly divided this week’s prac-tice snaps, and coach Will Mus-champ has yet to name a starter for Saturday’s game against No. 1 LSU. 
“All the quarterbacks are ex-
cited at getting a chance to play,” redshirt freshman tackle Chaz Green said. “They’re all compet-ing. We’ll see who they go with.”
Weis was noncommittal Tues-
day but said Driskel has the upper hand due to his playing experi-ence this season.
Weis added that the team will 
likely settle on a starter prior to the team’s Thursday practice, so  one player can take a majority of the reps.
“When we start to get more 
toward tuning everything up and cleaning everything up, you can’t be distributing reps the same way we’re doing it right now,” Weis 
said.
Florida’s approach Saturday 
will reflect the lack of an experi-
enced quarterback, as the offense will be simple enough that any of the three could run it effectively . 
“You cut back. You don’t add 
more,” Weis said. “You get used to doing the things that they feel 
comfortable doing. You don’t ex-
pose them to as much material, which gives them a lot more    con-
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Offensive coordinator Charlie Weis said Tuesday that freshmen Jeff Driskel, Tyler Murphy and Ja -
coby Brissett are sharing snaps in practice. A starter for Saturday will be decided by Thursday. 
Starter for Saturday yet to be determined
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
That line-of-scrimmage whoop-
ing was a fluke. Florida’s offensive 
linemen swear.
By now the numbers have 
been shoved down every Gators fan’s throat: 15 yards rushing, three sacks allowed, nine first 
downs. Those stats were well 
south of Florida’s earlier perfor -
mances; but, of course, last week-end’s game was the only time the Gators have faced a respected 
defense.
To hear Florida’s offensive 
linemen describe it, Saturday’s 
shortcomings had little to do with Alabama. The Gators’ message Tuesday afternoon was clear: We 
won’t let that happen again.
“We just didn’t have our best 
game,” right tackle Chaz Green 
said. “If we come ready to play and play up to our ability, we 
should be able to hang with 
many teams.”
Green and the rest of the line 
will have a shot at redemption 
Saturday, when Florida travels 
to Death Valley to take on No. 1 LSU. The Tigers’ run defense is just as stout as the Crimson Tide’s, if not tougher.
LSU ranks second in the 
Southeastern Conference in rush-ing defense (60.4 yards allowed per game) and has a reputation 
for clogging the nation’s best 
running lanes. Against Oregon on Sept. 3, the Tigers limited the Ducks to 95 yards on the ground O-line vows 
improved play this weekend
Does it matter who starts at QB against LSU?
Tom: With senior John 
Brantley sidelined with a reported high ankle 
sprain, the Gators are going to rely on the arm (and possibly legs) of a freshman quarterback when they travel to Death Val-
ley this weekend. 
Freshmen Jeff Driskel, Jacoby 
Brissett and Tyler Murphy have all been 
splitting reps in prac -
tice this week, ac-c o rd i n g to offen-sive coordinator Charlie Weis, and a starter won’t be decided until Thursday.Al-
t h o u g h 
the three 
are shar -
ing time 
in prac-tice, the 
question 
remains: Does it matter which 
quarterback starts for Florida against No. 1 LSU?
The answer is simple: Yes. It matters quite a bit, in fact, 
because with Brantley out, Florida’s best chance come Sat-urday is with Driskel taking snaps.
Matt: Lies.
THE RALLY“If we come ready to play 
and play up to our ability, 
we should be able to hang 
with many teams.”
Chaz Green
UF right tackle
SEE FOOTBALL, p AgE 16SEE NOTEBOOK, p AgE 16
Tom green
twitter: @tomas_verde
Matt Watts
twitter: @wattmatts
SEE RALLY, p AgE 15JONATHAN CZUPRYN
Alligator Writer
If it takes 21 days to make 
a habit, Florida’s cross coun-
try teams are trying to do two 
better with 19 days between 
the Gators’ last meet and their next one.
The women and men took 
first and second, respectively, at the Mountain Dew Invita-tional on Sept. 24, giving coach Todd Morgan and his runners a positive outlook going into 
their nearly three-week train-
ing schedule.
“I was definitely pleased 
with where we are starting our 
more competitive phase of rac-
ing,” Morgan said. “We are re-ally looking forward to having this three-week block to train, focus and prepare to make a 
big push toward the end of the 
year.” 
Florida’s push begins Oct. 
14 at the Wisconsin adidas In-
vitational, where both the men 
and women finished seventh last year. 
Morgan said their finishes 
were due to injuries on the 
women’s side and lack of ex-
perience for the men. Both is-sues, Morgan believes, won’t 
be a cause for concern this time 
around.
Instead, the Gators will 
have to face the problem of an 
“astronomically better” field 
of teams than last year. Florida runners will combat this issue the only way they know how: train harder and longer than  before.
Sophomore Matt Mizereck, 
second overall in this year’s home event, said after the race the Gators “have a lot more work to do.”
Florida is 11 days into its crucial preparation, and as the race approaches, the runners grow more anxious to prove 
themselves to the rest of the 
nation. 
The men and women, both 
ranked in the top 30 in the 
country (No. 28 and No. 22, 
respectively), look at the rank-ings as motivation to push fur -
ther.
“We have been given this 
opportunity early in the sea-son to prove ourselves,” senior Genevieve LaCaze said of the team’s early ranking. 
“So why not aim high and 
challenge for a higher spot?” 
To Morgan, the only stand-
ings that matter to him are in November, when the season 
concludes. But Florida’s coach 
is willing to use the current rankings as a motivational tool  during this extended training 
period. 
He enjoys seeing his run-
ners use it as a catalyst to run 
harder, calling them “com-petitive, hard-nosed men and 
women.”
However, they realize a 
higher ranking can only be 
earned through a strong finish 
at the Wisconsin adidas Invita-
tional. 
The Gators are eager to 
show the country that with 19 days of intense workouts 
behind the leadership of an 
award-winning coach, they can make success a matter of routine.
14, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2011
Alligator File Photo
Runner Genevieve LaCaze said the Gators will seek to improve 
their national ranking at the adidas Invitational on Oct. 14.CROSS COUNTRYGators using time off to prepare for next race
� 65 PROSPECTS ATTENDED. 
KELLY PRICE
Alligator Writer
Although Saturday’s Southeastern Con-
ference matchup between the Gators and 
the Crimson Tide resulted in Florida’s first 
loss of the year, the weekend was UF’s most 
important, of the season for the team’s fu-ture.
In the south end zone bleachers of Ben 
Hill Griffin Stadium sat 65 of the nation’s 
top high school prospects — 18 seniors, 46 
juniors and even a freshman quarterback — a turnout typically reserved for the Florida 
State game.
Eight of the visitors were members of 
the 2012 class who have yet to commit. 
Also in attendance were three seniors who 
have pledged elsewhere: outside linebacker 
Noor Davis (Stanford), defensive end Dante 
Fowler, Jr. (FSU) and cornerback Chris 
Bivins (USF).
Among the uncommitted visitors were 
Rivals100 members Nelson Agholor,  run-ning back Keith Marshall, tight end Kent 
Taylor and defensive ends Leonard Wil-
liams and Jordan Jenkins. 
Jenkins, a four-star recruit from Ham-
ilton, Ga., has Florida and Alabama as his 
final two choices. Despite that, he still plans 
on taking official visits to Tennessee, Geor -
gia and Auburn before his decision, which won’t be until after his senior season con-cludes.
Sean Culkin, a three-star tight end from 
Largo, was also in Gainesville this weekend. Culkin claims no offer from UF, but holds 
seven bids elsewhere. 
“It was awesome,” he said. “I love go-
ing to Florida games… One of my favorite (things) is when the team runs out — ridicu-
lous stuff. (It’s) so loud. That’s what college 
football is all about.”
Florida had nine oral commits present 
Saturday night, and some played the role of ambassador to the other visitors, talk-
ing up UF to the 2012 recruits who have yet to make their decisions, as well as the 2013 
prospects.
Austin Hardin, an orally committed 
kicker out of Atlanta, Ga., was one of these 
promoters. Hardin said he talked mostly to 
Texas 2013 tackle prospect Jake Raulerson, 
who has received 19 offers from Big 12, Big East and SEC schools.
“We became pretty good friends,” Har -din said of Raulerson. “It was fun getting to talk to the coaches and other commits, but I’m just excited more than anything. The 
(Swamp) atmosphere was crazy.”
Two prospects out of Jacksonville made 
the road trip to Gainesville this weekend, 
too. Nick Washington, a Trinity Christian  Academy safety, and Ahmad Fulwood, a 
Bishop Kenny High wide receiver, have col-
lected offers from big names in the ACC, Big 
East and SEC.
“(The trip) went pretty good,” said Ful-
wood, who was also in attendance for the 
Florida Atlantic game. “It gets super loud. The fans are pretty loyal, too; even though 
the Gators got edged a little bit, the fans 
stayed there and still made noise. The atmo-
sphere in The Swamp (is my favorite part). 
I always love going, and seeing a lot of peo-
ple there — Gators fans or ‘Bama fans — is 
cool.” 
Another notable visitor was Elijah Dan-
iel, a highly touted 2013 recruit out of Avon, Ind. The 6-foot-4, 253-pound defensive end 
picked up a scholarship offer Saturday from 
Florida — his fifth official — following an 
unofficial visit he took with his high school 
defensive coordinator, Chris Bombei. Dan-
iel has plans to visit Notre Dame later this 
month as well as Alabama and FSU some -
time this fall.
Oral commitments are non-binding until 
a national letter of intent is signed on or after National Signing Day on Feb. 1.Alabama game huge draw for potential recruitsLANDON WATNICK
Alligator Writer
Ever since T.J. Vogel transferred to 
Florida, his game has slowly returned 
to form.  
Through four rounds of tourna-
ment play , the junior transfer from 
Southern California has led Florida in 
stroke average (71.5), birdies (12) and top-20 finishes (two). 
Vogel shot a 1-under 70 at the rain-
shortened Inverness Intercollegiate, and finished tied for second individu-ally.
“It’s on paper, it’s second, it’s just 
one round,” V ogel said. “But it gave 
me confidence that I played well on 
that golf course. I’m starting to see myself back in the top five, which is where I should be and where I want to be. I still have some work to do.”
Success is not new to V ogel. As a 
freshman, he led the Trojans with a 72.12 stroke average and earned nu-merous honors including Pac-10 Co-
Freshman of the Year.
But in his sophomore season, his 
play dipped and he finished third on 
the team in stroke 
average (73.42). 
“I had great 
chemistry with the 
[USC] team. I loved the atmosphere out 
there and loved 
California, but I just knew my golf game progressively got a 
little worse,” Vogel said. “I lost some confidence, so I knew I needed to do something, and I felt like [transferring to Florida] was the right move.”
V ogel, a Cooper City native, said 
he wanted to return home to work on his game with his father, who “knows [his] game better than anyone.”
The transfer also said coach Buddy 
Alexander’s experience and intelli-gence were factors in his decision to play for the Gators. 
“I knew transferring here was go-
ing to do good things for my golf, 
because Buddy’s the best in the busi-
ness,” V ogel said. “He’s helped me tremendously already, and he’s really smart and patient. He’s not going to get on you too much for a mistake be-cause he’s been there.”
V ogel and the Gators, who have 
not played since Sept. 27, still have more than a week until taking part in 
the Kiawah Invitational in Kiawah Is-
land, S.C. beginning Oct. 17. Vogel has been practicing his short game to pre-pare for the par-72, 7,356-yard Ocean Course, which played host to the 1991 Ryder Cup and is the scheduled site of the 2012 PGA Championship.
“I’m just working on the things 
that have hindered me the last few 
tournaments,” he said. “I’m hitting 
the ball well,  but I’m just working on my chipping and putting right now. 
“It’s a great venue, and it’s re-
ally tough, but those are the courses where I normally step up and play my best.”Transfer to 
UF working 
out for Vogel
“It gets super loud. The fans are 
pretty loyal, too; even though the 
Gators got edged a little bit, the 
fans stayed there and still made 
noise. The atmosphere in the 
Swamp (is my favorite part).”
Ahmad Fulwood
2013 wide receiver prospectVogel
Facing arguably a tougher defense than 
the unit that held Driskel to 2-of-6 passing 
for 14 yards, which Florida quarterback 
makes the start doesn’t matter nearly as 
much as the execution of the gameplan.
Weis said Tuesday that no matter who 
takes the snaps, the plan against LSU will 
remain largely the same. 
And that’s how it should be, because 
to have a chance against the Tigers, the 
Gators have to establish the dominant run game it displayed in four wins to start the 
season.
Averaging 259 yards coming into Sat-
urday’s shellacking, Florida ran for just 15 
yards against Alabama. 
Chris Rainey and Jeff Demps combined 
for 8 yards, and if that happens again, Driskel — or Murphy, or Brissett, or who-ever — will likely suffer the same fate as Brantley.
Tom: Look, Matt, the chances of Florida 
establishing a dominant run game aren’t great. 
Alabama’s run defense is the best in the 
nation, but LSU’s third-ranked unit isn’t far behind. 
Of course, Rainey and Demps will 
do better than they did against the Tide, but the most likely way Florida is going 
to inflate those rushing numbers is with 
Driskel.
Driskel came to UF as the top-rated pro-
style quarterback, but his knack for using his legs has become well known around 
these parts. 
Those who saw him in high school can 
attest to it. 
Alabama’s defense, which gave up its 
longest run of the season to Driskel, knows 
it. 
The rest of the Gators know it, too.Weis and the offensive linemen all 
praised Driskel’s ability to keep plays alive 
with his mobility and stretch the field with 
his legs when necessary.Against the Tigers, it will be necessary.
Matt: Murphy and Brissett aren’t ex-
actly couch potatoes, Tommy boy.
Both quarterbacks are above-average 
athletes who can extend a play with their 
legs, or scramble and create positive yards through improvisation when a play breaks 
down. 
Just because they have not had the op-
portunity to display that ability in a game 
doesn’t mean they aren’t just as elusive as 
Driskel.
Also, let’s not forget that Murphy was 
the best passer in the spring game, com-
pleting 7 of 11 passes for 68 yards and a touchdown.
The difference between the three avail-
able options just isn’t that big. 
Sure, you could argue Driskel has the 
better skill set as a passer, but he hasn’t 
shown it yet.Driskel has looked every bit the fresh-
man he is. He was abysmal against Ala-
bama on Saturday, and he did not fare 
much better in extended playing time 
against Kentucky. 
Two weeks ago in Lexington, Ky., after 
Brantley left that game just before half-time, Driskel promptly turned the ball 
over twice, leading to the Wildcats’ only 
touchdown.
If I’m Muschamp or Weis, I’d feel just 
as comfortable letting Murphy run the of-
fense on Saturday.
Tom: Oh, don’t get me wrong. All three 
know how to use their legs, especially 
more than Brantley does.
Still, Driskel gives Florida the best shot 
in Death Valley.
You can hardly blame Driskel for ei-
ther turnover against Kentucky. On one, 
he was hung out to dry by Matt Patchan and the other was a fluky bounce for an 
interception.
Besides, if Driskel looked “abysmal” 
against ‘Bama, how do you think Murphy and Brissett will fare against LSU’s de-fense? 
As Muschamp put it on Monday, 
Driskel has been through the fire already. 
That shock of facing a top-tier defense 
won’t be nearly as prevalent as it was against the Tide. 
Murphy has never seen the field at 
Florida, and Brissett likely isn’t ready to handle the game just yet.
Driskel enrolled early and had the 
chance to learn the offense and practice with it since the spring. 
Brissett was still in high school down in 
Palm Beach Gardens. 
Sure, this would be a different story 
had they all started on even footing, but as 
of now, Driskel is clearly the most game-
ready.
Matt: Make excuses for Driskel all you 
want, Tom. 
We all know you have a man-crush on 
the freshman, anyway.
This back-and-forth is pointless because 
it really doesn’t matter if Florida starts walk-on Christian Provancha against 
LSU. 
(Hey, he didn’t look half-bad in the 
spring game, either.)
Tyrann “The Honey Badger” Mathieu 
and the Tigers’ dominant ‘D’ will punish 
whichever Florida quarterback starts, es-pecially if Patchan and the rest of the o-line continues its shoddy play.
Plus, Florida can win the Southeastern 
Conference East division and go to Atlan-ta  even after losing the next two games to West division opponents.
Unless Les Miles goes all Les Miles, the 
Gators aren’t going to win Saturday. Heck, they don’t even need the win. 
Free Provancha!Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.
org and Matt Watts at mwatts@alligator.org. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 15
� TEAM CHANGED THE WAY IT PLAYS 
CORNER KICKS DURING THE WEEKEND.
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
With a Southeastern Conference-best 16 players 
recording a point  this season, it was only natural 
for Florida to find a new way to generate goals last 
weekend.
Through 52 corner-kick opportunities, the 
Gators relied heavily on playing short passes off set pieces. But for the top offensive attack in the 
SEC, the results were mixed, with just two goals 
in 11 games.
So after using a Thursday practice to work on its 
execution, the team came out with a new look  in matches with Vanderbilt and Kentucky last week-
end and, for the first time, began to regularly fire 
long balls into the box.
“We’ve spent some time on corners and worked 
on our set pieces in a little bit different way [last] 
week,” UF coach Becky Burleigh said. “We worked in the run of play , opposed to just having a day 
where we work on set pieces. It helps them see it in 
a little more realistic way.”
The switch was effective last Friday against 
a surprised Commodores’ defense that allowed junior Erika Tymrak and fellow midfielder Holly 
King to score both of the Gators’ goals on plays 
started by aerial services. Of the four times the 
team has scored on corner kicks, three have come from long passes.
“We usually do short corners, but we thought 
we’d mix it up because we have really good people 
who can finish in the air,” Tymrak said. 
In either method of playing the corner kick, UF’s 
personnel taking the kick rarely changes. Nearly 
every time, the Gators have their two creative lead-
ers in Tymrak, who has a team-high nine goals and 
four assists, or freshman midfielder Annie Speese 
(five goals and four assists) take the set piece.
“Annie Speese serves a great ball in, so we’re 
lucky to have that, and Holly King had an amazing 
goal,” Tymrak said.
On the long corners, Florida has also flourished 
when it targeted senior Lindsay Thompson, a 
5-foot-8 midfielder, at the near post for a low-risk, line-drive pass. In a three-pass setup in the 36th 
minute, Thompson controlled the Tymrak service 
and found freshman Havana Solaun at the top of 
the box. Solaun then assisted King’s goal. 
Florida found the back of the net on a similar 
corner-kick opportunity when it was trailing and desperate for a goal in the 68th minute of a 4-3 loss 
to FSU on Sept. 9. In that instance, Thompson in-
tentionally let a long ball from Speese roll past her, 
leaving King open in the middle of the goal line for the score.
“We call it the garbage area,” Tymrak said. “We 
just have to clean it up. If the ball goes in, take a 
quick touch and look up, slip somebody (a pass) or 
shoot it. It’s pretty successful.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alligator.org.
RALLY , from page 13
Freshman Quarterbacks on the Road
In the last 20 years, only two freshman quarterbacks have started a 
game for the Gators. Here’s a look at how they did in their first starts on the road.
Jesse Palmer, 1997
Palmer got his first road start in a 24-10 win against South -
eastern Conference foe Auburn. Not only was it his first 
start in a hostile environment, it was the first start of his career. He completed 8 of 14 passes for 92 yards and failed to throw a touchdown while tossing a pair of interceptions.
Chris Leak, 2003
Leak made his first road start against Kentucky and had a solid 
outing. He was 20-of-35 passing for 268 yards while connect -
ing on a pair of fourth-quarter touchdowns to wide receiver Carlos Perez. The two late scores, combined with a Ran Carthon rushing touchdown, helped Florida erase an 18-point fourth-quarter deficit and come away with a 24-21 win in Lex -
ington. Later that season, Leak guided Florida to a win against 
then-undefeated LSU in Death Valley. It was the only loss all season for the Tigers, who went on to win the BCS national championship.
Tom Green and Maegan Dennis / Alligator StaffBrett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida midfielder Erika Tymrak scored a goal off a corner kick against Van -
derbilt, one of four goals scored on set pieces this season for the Gators. 
Gators’ revised strategy on set pieces paying dividends fidence.”
Weis doubts the Gators will use all three quar -
terbacks Saturday , but he said the injury to Brantley 
puts to an end any thoughts of intentionally saving Brissett for a redshirt. 
Debose progressing: Sophomore wide receiver 
Andre Debose believes he has finally developed the practice habits necessary to be a productive piece of Florida’s offense. 
After what Weis called a poor training camp, De-
bose has started to flash his ability. 
“The arrow has been pointing up on Andre for 
about a month,” Weis said. 
Debose came to UF in 2009 as a five-star prospect 
and the No. 2 wide receiver in the nation, accord-ing Rivals.com, but took a redshirt to recover from a lingering hamstring injury. When he returned in 2010 he was used sparingly , catching 10 passes for 96 yards. But his performance Saturday against Ala-bama — two receptions, 90 yards and a touchdown — has the potential to be a turning point.
But potential and high-school accolades mean 
nothing to Muschamp, and Debose must continue to 
play well to get more time on the field.
“You don’t just go by reputation,” Weis said. 
“They have to show you evidence.”  
Debose said his route-running and blocking have 
improved. 
“I feel like I can be consistent,” Debose said. “I 
definitely will be getting my opportunities, and 
that’s all I’ve been asking for.”
Injury revealed: Debose said Tuesday that an an-
kle sprain caused him to leave the game early against Tennessee and miss the Kentucky game the follow-ing week.
Debose said the injury forced him to use crutches 
following the Tennessee game and wear a walking boot for a few days. He added that he now feels “100 percent.”  
“It was pretty bad,” Debose said. “I couldn’t walk 
for a while. … But I was just determined to get back, and it worked out.”
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org.— 272.7 yards less than Oregon’s av-
erage in its other three games. Missis-sippi State squeaked out just 52 yards on the ground against LSU on Sept. 
15; the Bulldogs have averaged 218.5 
rushing yards in their four other con-tests.
“We can’t lose the line of scrim-
mage,” offensive coordinator Charlie 
Weis said. “We lose the line of scrim-
mage Saturday afternoon, we’ll be in for a long day.”
Reflecting on the Alabama game, 
Green said Florida’s offensive line-men didn’t play with proper tech-nique, and he added that he and his teammates need to “get in the play-books.” 
For his part, right guard Jon Hala-
pio said Alabama’s defensive linemen didn’t run any special plays; Florida’s offensive line just missed its assign-
ments too often.
Halapio did admit, however, that 
the size of the Tide’s linemen and 
linebackers made life difficult.
“There were times when it was 
hard to move them,” he said.
While just as effective against the 
run, LSU’s defense is not as big as 
Alabama’s. 
The Tigers rely more on speed 
and confusion, something the Gators’ 
front five will try its best to prepare 
for.
The linemen had not started 
watching film prior to Tuesday, but 
Green said he would be paying close attention to the type of stunts LSU’s defensive line uses.
Establishing the run will be even 
more important this week, with Florida’s quarterback situation in flux. Freshman Jeff Driskel suffered a sprained ankle against Alabama, and Weis said the starter won’t be decided until later this week.
Regardless of who is taking snaps 
Saturday, Florida’s offensive line will 
have its hands full in pass protection. 
LSU has applied plenty of heat to op-posing passers this year, ranking sec-ond in the SEC with 12 sacks, and on Saturday the Gators’ offensive line will need to keep the floodgates closed if their quarterback has a chance.
And if they don’t, those line-of-
scrimmage struggles won’t just be a fluke anymore.
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.
org16, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida right tackle Chaz Green said the offensive line didn’t play with proper 
technique against Alabama, leading to a poor performance on the ground. 
Missed assignments costly against ‘Bama
FOOTBALL , from page 13
NOTEBOOK , from page 13Debose striving 
for consistency 