We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 84 THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgpage 8
n A runner on UF’s 
cross country and 
track and field 
teams was 
arrested Tuesday 
and charged with 
sexual assualt. Turn 
to page 18 to read 
the full story. n  Florida was 
swept by South 
Carolina in the Col -
lege World Series 
Finals, losing 5-2 
on Tuesday. But UF 
returns the bulk 
of its team and is 
already eyeing a 
return to Omaha.
See Story, Page 18.Atheist billboard removed from church land in Ohio
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — A billboard supporting 
atheism has been taken down from property owned by an 
Ohio church after the pastor complained.
The ad put up in Columbus by the Freedom From Reli-
gion Foundation featured the beaming face of a local non-believer and the man’s message: “I can be good without God.”
The sign had upset Rev. Waymon Malone of Christ Ca-
thedral Church. The church owns the land where the bill-board went up. 
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Thunder
storms
84/71FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
THE AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD 17
SPORTS 18
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Monkey Business
Mojo, a common marmoset, sticks out his tongue while inside a runway that connects him 
and 25 other marmosets to their outside-inside habitats at the Jungle Friends Primate Sanc -
tuary. See story, page 4.
By KIMBERLY LINTON 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A new study center could create com-
petition for TutoringZone. 
Nine tutors from TutoringZone in 
Gainesville have left the company to 
form a new academic study service called 
StudyEdge.
The decision to split was announced at 
the beginning of the break between Sum-
mers A and B, said Margaret Kelsey, direc-
tor of communications for TutoringZone. 
While the permanent location is under 
construction, StudyEdge will be offering live review sessions for Summer B at UF 
Hillel, located at 2020 W University Ave.
The tutors held their first review ses-
sion Tuesday.
The new location is anticipated to open 
Sept. 1 at the former Goerings Book Store 
location, 1717 NW First Ave., behind Ti-juana Flats and Jimmy John’s.
StudyEdge will offer free review ses-
sions on Monday, Tuesday and Wednes-day from 4:30 to 7 p.m. at Hillel during Summer B. 
StudyEdge tutors are trying to be more 
accessible to students, said Graham Rees, co-founder of StudyEdge. He said they want students to be well-acquainted with the tutors so they will feel comfortable 
asking questions.
StudyEdge tutors started a new com-
pany because they were tired of Tutor -
ingZone repeatedly ignoring student concerns, Rees said. They wanted to offer 
quality reviews with proficient tutors. 
TutoringZone would “plug holes” with 
unqualified tutors to make money, he said. 
TutoringZone is being affected by the 
loss of its seasoned tutors. When its phys-ics 1 with calculus  tutor left, the company was left without anyone else to teach the 
summer review sessions. Preregistered 
students have to get their money refunded and take their business elsewhere.
“For students, we would have loved to 
have been training someone for physics,” Kelsey said. “We refuse to throw anyone 
who we haven’t trained into the mix.”
Jess Bodzo, 19, a sophomore computer 
science engineering major, said he didn’t know this course was no longer being of-
fered until he went to TutoringZone this week.
 He was told he will get his money back 
but was not given an explanation.  After contacting his physics tutor on Facebook, he learned about StudyEdge. 
Kelsey wants to squash rumors that the 
new company is a switchover. There are two different companies now, she said. 
Francesca Dickhaus, a 19-year-old 
sophomore biology major, was a regular at TutoringZone her freshman year. 
She took reviews for organic chemis-
try 1 at TutoringZone the first half of this summer. Now, she said, her tutor works at StudyEdge. 
Like many of her classmates, she has a 
tough decision to make — deciding which review service is better for her. 
As a student, the most important thing 
is who is teaching the material, she said. 
“I don’t care about being loyal to one 
company,” Dickhaus said.New company splinters from TutoringZone
n THE MONEY WILL FINANCE 
EDUCATION RESEARCH
By ERIN JESTER
Alligator Writer
UF education researchers have 
received two federal grants totaling 
$5.5 million for studies focused on 
reducing behavioral problems that 
disrupt the learning environment. 
One $4 million grant will fund 
a study on behavioral intervention techniques in preschool-aged chil-dren, headed by Maureen Conroy of UF and Kevin Sutherland of Vir -
ginia Commonwealth University. 
Another $1.5 million grant will 
support the research of UF special 
education faculty members Ste-
phen Smith and Ann Daunic into 
developing curricula to help con-trol behavioral issues in grades six through eight.  
Conroy and Sutherland’s re-
search will examine their BEST in CLASS intervention program’s ef-fect on preschoolers in the class-room. 
The program teaches teachers 
behavioral intervention strategies, such as using rules and routines, providing specific praise and en-couragement and keeping children engaged, Conroy said. 
Next year, she will be collabora-
tively working with Alachua Coun-ty Head Start. 
“We want to prevent those be-
haviors so that when they go to 
school, they can be successful,” she said. 
Conroy noted 
that preliminary research has shown 
that BEST in CLASS techniques are 
both successful at increasing en-gagement in children while decreas-ing disruption and aggression. 
Smith’s research, on the other 
hand, will lead to the development of an entire curriculum for middle school students in specific programs with emotional and behavioral dis-orders.UF obtains $5.5 
million in grants
UFResearc hStudyEdge wiil offer free reviews during Summer B
“For students, we would have 
loved to have been training 
someone for Physics. We refuse 
to throw anyone who we haven’t 
trained into the mix.”
Margaret Kelsey
director of communications for Tutoring-
ZoneNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 84 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2011
TODAYFORECAST
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 University Editor Alex Klausner,
  aklausner@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Editorial Board C.J. Pruner, Joey Flechas, Josh Isom
 Photo Editor Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Thomas Nassiff,
  tnassiff@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Corey McCall
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Rachel Rowan, 
  Kelli Folse, Bryan Holt,
  Lily Parkinson 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Johal Baez, Serina Braddock,
  Allison Klempert, Clare Grady,
  Alex Schultz, Justin Scott
  Brandon Stern, Lauren Tami
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Gainesville Roller Rebels Roller 
Derby Game
July 9, 9 p.m.
Skate Station Funworks1311 NW 76th Blvd.The Gainesville Roller Rebels women’s flat track roller derby  team plays the Atlanta 
Rollergirls’ Sake Tuyas team Saturday , July 9.  Doors open 
at 8:15 p.m. and the bout be-
gins at  9 p.m. at Skate Station 
Funworks.  As part of the 
league’s pledge to give back to 
the community , the LifeSouth Bloodmobile opens at  8 p.m. 
The first 10 on-site donors get into the bout free. Tickets are $8 in advance from Sweet Dreams Ice Cream or brownpapertick-
ets.com; $12 at the door; and 
12-and-under are always free. For more event details, visit http://gainesvillerollerrebels.com.
The Career Resource Center Part-
Time Job FairJune 30, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.The Reitz Union ColonnadeEmployers will be recruiting for their part-time and seasonal hir -
ing needs. Professional attire is not required.  Students should 
bring their schedule, hours of 
availability and a UF work-study permit if they qualify . For more information, go to crc.ufl.edu/ptjobfair.
STATE
Man pays $1 Orlando park -
ing fine 35 years late 
ORLANDO, Fla. — A Michigan 
man has paid a $1 Florida parking 
ticket more than 35 years overdue.
Orlando police say they re-
ceived Stanley Baker’s payment for a Nov . 7, 1975, parking ticket Tuesday . 
The 89-year-old Pentwater, 
Mich., man included a note read-ing, “Better late than never!”
Baker’s son, Fritz Baker, says 
his father found the ticket in a book bought at an Orlando garage sale in 1995. 
He says his father decided to 
pay the fine as a lark, even though it wasn’t issued to him.
Baker sent the $1 payment in 
the ticket’s original envelope. 
That got it delivered to a police 
department auditorium that was Pa. couple hitched in hospi-tal after groom fall 
ERIE, Pa. — A love-sick Penn-
sylvania couple ended up getting 
hitched in a hospital chapel after the groom tumbled down a set of stairs on their wedding day.
The Erie Times-News reports 
Derek and Cassy McBride were married Saturday at Saint Vincent Health Center because Derek took the wrong kind of plunge a few hours earlier.
The wedding appeared 
doomed when tests showed Derek McBride had three broken ribs and 
a punctured, collapsed lung.
But family and Saint Vincent 
nurses stepped up, decorating the 
chapel with medical glove balloons and bows made of gauze. Guests were told the beach wedding was scrapped.
Cassy McBride, whose maiden 
name was Messenger, wore her 
gown. Derek had one too — a hos-
pital one, under his tuxedo.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Doctors pull stubborn moth 
from Colo. boy’s ear 
PARKER, Colo. — Doctors 
have removed a stubborn moth 
from a 12-year-old Colorado boy’s ear after trying in vain to kill it.
In the end, the moth was re-
moved with tweezers.
Wade Scholte of Parker, south-
east of Denver, says the moth 
crawled into his ear Sunday night 
after he fell asleep. He awoke screaming and crying. 
The doctors numbed Wade’s 
ear and then tried drowning the moth to kill it. Finally they used tweezers and pulled it out alive.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSa night and traffic court in 1975. 
Orlando’s parking violations from 1975 have been destroyed.
A police spokesman says the 
department thought Baker’s pay-ment was funny.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NATIONAL
Maine homeless man charged for charging phone 
BANGOR, Maine — Police 
have brought charges against 
a homeless man in Maine who helped himself to an outdoor electrical outlet to charge a pair 
of cellphones.
A Bangor police officer 
checking downtown businesses 
discovered 23-year-old Shaun Fawster charging his cellphones in an outlet hidden behind some flowers.
Fawster was charged last 
weekend with theft of services, 
as well as carrying a concealed 
weapon after the officer found a folding knife tucked underneath his shirt.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Colo. man spends 15 hours 
in air-conditioning vent 
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. — A 
28-year-old Colorado man was 
rescued dusty but alive after he was trapped nearly 15 hours in an air-conditioning vent.
Englewood police say they 
responded to calls for help Tues-day from the roof of an elemen-tary school, where they discov-ered a man trapped 30 feet down the vent.
Firefighters had to cut open 
the vent to pull the man out.
The Denver Post reports that 
the man, who wasn’t identified, told police he stole a friend’s purse Monday night and threw it on the roof. 
When he climbed onto the 
roof to get the purse, he fell into the vent and became stuck.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
92/74THUNDER
STORMS
92/74THUNDER
STORMS
89/71THUNDER
STORMS
88/71THUNDER
STORMS
84/71
THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By KELLI FOLSE 
Alligator Contributing Writer
For a battle that hopes to 
claim 150 units of blood, the 
scene is ironically tranquil. 
The only visible aggression is the violent pumping of stress balls as the donors attempt to 
enlarge their veins for easy 
penetration. 
LifeSouth Community 
Blood Center’s 18-hour Bat-tle of the Sexes Blood Drive 
began at 6 a.m. Wednesday 
at the LifeSouth Community Blood Center, Gainesville Health and Fitness Main Cen-ter and Gainesville Health and Fitness for Women. 
By 3:45 p.m. LifeSouth had 
practically reached its goal of 150 donors with 76 women and 50 men. By 5:30 p.m., it had surpassed its goal at 160 
donors with 93 women and 67 
men. 
Clay Gibbons, the District 
Community Development Co-
ordinator for LifeSouth, said 
events like this are extremely important for recruiting first-time and returning donors, 
especially with the Fourth of July around the corner. 
“We have to collect blood 
every single day,” Gibbons said, “and close to the holi-
days, people 
aren’t think-ing about do-nating.”
G i b b o n s 
said Life-South has to collect about 
1,000 units of 
blood a week in order to keep 
the local hospitals stocked. 
The winning sex, along 
with the winning raffle par -ticipants, will be announced today on LifeSouth’s Face-book page.4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2011
Courtesy Photo 
Benny Benassi will perform for an 18-and-up event at Florida Theatre of 
Gainesville on Friday. Limited tickets will be available at the door.
MUSIC
By GABRIELA ROSIAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
The electronic-music scene in Gainesville continues 
to boom. 
On Friday, techno fans at the Florida Theatre of 
Gainesville, 233 W University Ave., will welcome 
world-renowned artist Benny Benassi.
The 18-and-up event is scheduled to begin at 9 p.m. 
and will feature opening acts Adrian Villaverde and 
David Solano.
General admission tickets priced from $25 to $45 
sold out within two weeks, said Antonio Mercado of 
The Dynasty Group, which is putting on the show.
However, Mercado said, the group is in talks with 
authorities in an effort to expand the number of tickets 
for sale available at the door.
The Dynasty Group has also been working with 
UF’s Student Government Productions to get the word out. 
SGP Vice Chairman Jeff Schnier said the organiza-
tion wants to help create awareness of local entertain-
ment and is looking to show incoming freshmen what Gainesville nightlife is all about. 
The Italian-born Benassi reached worldwide suc-
cess in 2003 with his solo album “Hypnotica,” featur -
ing the widely known song “Satisfaction.”
Benassi has headlined at music festivals such as 
Coachella, Ultra Music Festival and most recently at 
Electric Daisy Carnival.Electronic musician to play Friday
 SANCTUARY SEEKS VOLUNTEERS
By VICTORIA COLSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
The volunteers at the Jungle Friends 
Primate Sanctuary don’t come to monkey 
around.
The 12-acre sanctuary, located north 
of Gainesville at 13915 N. State Road 121, has been open since 1999 and is home to 120 monkeys, including white-faced ca-
puchins, brown-faced capuchins, spider 
monkeys, squirrel monkeys, marmosets and tamarin monkeys. 
 “We are looking for dedicated, com-
mitted volunteers,” said Mimi Sanada, the apprentice caregiver since July. 
There are several open positions for 
volunteers, ranging from office work to caring for the monkeys, according to 
Ashlei Martin, a former apprentice and 
employee at the Jacksonville Zoo. 
A couple months before Sanada ar -rived at Jungle Friends, the sanctuary 
rescued a group of monkeys from an-
other sanctuary, which was basically a roadside zoo. 
Three infant monkeys that were re-
jected from their mothers were able to be 
saved.
“I had the opportunity to nurse them 
back to health and socialize them with 
other monkeys,” Sanada said. “That is definitely one of the most fulfilling expe-riences I been able to be a part of.”
Most of the monkeys at Jungle Friends 
were obtained from owners who were 
illegally keeping monkeys, from medi-
cal research facilities or from the enter -
tainment industry, according to jungle-friends.org.
Jungle Friends provides a natural en-
vironment for the monkeys, giving them the same surroundings as if they were living in the wild. 
The sanctuary was originally started 
in Las Vegas, but the climate was too dry for the “New World” monkeys, or monkeys originating from the Americas, said Kari Bagnall, the founder of Jungle 
Friends. 
The Gainesville weather, along with 
the presence of UF’s veterinary school, 
was the perfect new home for the sanc-tuary.  
“Just being able to wake up every day 
and being able to give these monkeys a second chance to live in a natural envi-ronment is completely worth the effort,” 
Martin said.
People interested in volunteering for 
Jungle Friends can call 386-462-7779 or 
email the staff at info@junglefriends.org.Volunteers make primates feel at home  
Gibbons
Blood drive pushes to meet local needsBy CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
Unlike the Florida afternoon sky, 
Santa Fe College students will not 
be making it rain any time soon.
Tuition at Santa Fe will increase 
by 10 percent this year as part of the 
budget President Jackson Sasser re-
cently presented.
Sasser said the increase would 
amount to a little more than $200 per year for a student taking 30 credit 
hours. 
Santa Fe sophomore Kyle McKay 
said he won’t complain about the 
tuition increase, but he acknowl-
edged that he does not pay his own 
tuition.
Sasser thinks Santa Fe students 
will still pay less than most state college and university students be-
cause most institutions are increas-
ing tuition as much as possible. Sasser could have raised the tuition by up to 13 percent, according to 
state legislation signed by Gov. Rick 
Scott June 1.
The tuition raise 
comes as the school 
continues to take bud-
get cuts that have hit since 2007. 
McKay said he understands the 
school is in a tough place.
“We’re going to have to start suf-
fering the consequences, basically, of the economy we’re in right now,” 
he said.
The economy is partly what 
prompted Sasser to increase employ-
ees’ salaries. He wanted to respect 
the needs of current employees and 
be able to recruit in the future.
Sasser said Santa Fe has already 
missed out on top candidates be-cause of salaries.
“And that’s tragic,” he said.The 2011-2012 budget featured a 
different kind of financial change for the school’s employees. 
All employees will get a raise 
and an additional 2.5 percent cost of living increase. The cost of living 
increase will be applied to the post-
raise salary. 
Sasser emphasized that the tu-
ition increase is not directly related to raises.
David Price, president of the San-
ta Fe College Senate and professor of history and political science, esti-mated that his raise will be around 
$3,000. Price will have to put about 
$1,500 towards the Florida Retire-ment System.
Employees who have been at 
the school longer will receive larger 
raises.Santa Fe 
students get tuition hike
Santa F e
College
“We are looking for dedicated, 
committed volunteers.”
Mimi Sanada
apprentice caregiver
Organizers met goal of 150 donors 
LifeSouth Information
Today’s LifeSouth Blood 
Mobile locations:
Shands at UF Cancer Hos -
pita, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.Century Tower, Turlington 
Plaza, 10 a.m to 4 p.m.
University Police Depart-
ment,  2 p.m. to 7 p.m.THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
C.J. Pruner 
EDITORJoey FlechasJosh IsomMANAGING EDITORS
Today’s question: Is Casey 
Anthony guilty?
159 TOTAL VOTES67% YES33% NOTuesday’s question: Do you support same sex marriage?Still Shining:
She may have her faults, 
but America still kicks ass
This Monday, millions of Americans will gather in back-
yards, ballparks, churches and parade routes all across the country to celebrate the 235th birthday of the United 
States. For many of us, the Fourth acts as just another excuse to jet-stream unholy amounts of ethanol into our systems as 
we butcher another Lee Greenwood song and blow shit up. 
And why shouldn’t we? It’s American.
But for some, the holiday serves as a bittersweet reminder 
of a country “that once was.” For them, the songs of glory and the tales of patriots gone before serve as a guidepost showing the distance traveled from that great day in 1776 to the cold and dark forest of uncertainty where we now aim-lessly wander.
Make no mistake, it has been difficult to be an American 
these past few years. Men and women now go home to their families with less money and more concerns than they did years before. The house that holds them, a structure built on the visions of Jefferson and Lincoln, now shakes violently from the winds of ideological division. Enemies cheer as our light, which for decades has shone forth as a beacon of hope for millions across the world, flickers. For us, they argue, to-morrow will not come. 
But we know better. Our pocketbooks may be lighter than 
before, our steps may not have as great of a bounce they once did and our bellies may be bigger than others would like, but we still have the knowledge, the ability and the desire to make our country great. We have it in our power, as Thomas Paine once said and President Reagan once reminded us, to begin the world over again. This Fourth of July, take the time to remember the things that have built our country into that shining city upon the hill. It’s a light that no firework can out-dazzle. 
Why capital punishment needs to die
If Americans smelled the burning flesh of someone be-
ing burnt at the stake or saw a squirming decapitated head after it was guillotined, would they still be in 
favor of the death penalty? I find the death penalty to be too great of a power for the government to wield, and for that reason, I am staunchly against it.
Recall that our Declaration of Independence states 
that all men are endowed by God with certain rights: life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. The Declaration of Independence is in stark contrast with the convoluted thinking that those rights are derived from the author -
ity of a government. The Declaration argues that life, lib-
erty and the pursuit of happiness are inherent in all men. 
Moreover, it uses the specific word “unalienable,” mean-ing those rights cannot be forfeited, even if you wanted to forfeit them.
The death penalty clearly goes against the logic of the 
Declaration of Independence. We have ceded our “un-alienable” right to life to the government that can — and will — kill you for heinous crimes. Since we’ve ceded life, it implies that we’ll also allow the government to take our 
liberty and pursuit of happiness, even though the found-
ers said those rights come from God.
Additionally, there is a huge cost difference between 
the death penalty and life in prison. According to a 
George Mason University study, the average cost of capi-
tal punishment in Indiana is about $120,000 more than life in prison. In North Carolina, that difference jumps to more than $160,000! The contributors to this phenom-enon are mostly huge upfront trial costs: grand juries, 
sequestration, additional security, requiring experienced 
lawyers (in some states), hiring the best experts and the list goes on. These upfront costs are even more expen-sive than a long-term stay at Alca-traz. Moreover, the average capital punishment trial lasts longer than a 
year, after a year of preparation. The 
whopping costs and time delays are an attempt to be meticulous and not wrongly convict someone to death.
Recent advances in technology, 
especially DNA evidence, have ex-
onerated hundreds of people from death row. Think of how you would feel if you were wrongfully convicted and sentenced to death. It has happened before. Justice is 
flawed because it is administered by humans. Death can-
not be taken back. Is satiating the lust for revenge truly worth the risk of murdering an innocent life?
Many death penalty advocates claim capital punish-
ment serves as a deterrent for violent crimes. This is a generalization based on false logic. A murderer isn’t afraid of death, and the death penalty isn’t going to stop him. In fact, the FBI’s annual “Crime in the United States” report in 2008 suggested the exact opposite. The report 
found states with the death penalty on the books had 
higher homicide rates than states without the death pen-alty. If it were me, I’d choose to commit a crime where I’d get death instead of being locked in a cage indefinitely.
Most of the world no longer applies the death pen-
alty. We stand with fewer countries by the year on this is-sue. Should we be content in the company of China, Iran and Cuba? To thosewho still subscribes to Hammurabi’s Code, Gandhi said, “An eye for an eye makes the whole 
world blind.”
Chris Ceresa is a chemistry sophomore. His column ap-
pears on Thursdays.Flawless Victory 
Newspapers have had 
a centuries-long love affair with the First 
Amendment. Exercising our freedom of speech, after all, is 
our bread and butter. When-
ever our favorite section of the Bill of Rights gets a shout-out in the news, we’d be stupid not to throw our two cents in.
Earlier this week, the U.S. 
Supreme Court, in a 7-2 vote, ruled that states cannot ban the sale or rental of violent 
video games to children, 
deeming such a ban as a viola-tion of the First Amendment. 
In his majority opinion, 
Justice Antonin Scalia wrote that just like books and mov-ies, video games fall into a category of entertainment that deserves free-speech pro-
tection.
We feel this is a good 
message to send to people 
who are up in arms about these kinds of games. Parents should know what kinds of video games their kids play . If they feel the violence inappro-priately influences their kids, they should talk to their kids about just that. 
Now, we aren’t against the 
protection of children from harmful influences. We under -
stand that these games could feed into a culture of violence that is perpetuated by similar movies, and even by the very real wars and violence that are but a click away on the 
Internet. But is it the govern-
ment’s responsibility to make sure little Johnny doesn’t see Sub-Zero rip Scorpion’s spine out? Shouldn’t that fall to the parents?
Besides, if a government 
ban did exist, little Johnny would only want to get his 
hands on the latest Call of 
Duty even more. 
Instead of creating a cul-
ture of restrictions, let’s make it open and have a conversa-tion about it.
Chris Ceresa
letters@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
It’s 6 p.m., and I’m on my way to 
the gym on a typical weeknight (I had tanned and done laundry 
earlier). I know there is nothing too peculiar about this, but there is one 
minor detail I should mention: My 
car had been on its reserve gasoline for a bit.  By “a bit,” I mean two days. Forgive me, but I hadn’t time to stop for gas. Such is the life of a college student. And — I swear to you — the fuel gauge wasn’t that low.
So picture me at a red light at the 
intersection of 34th Street and Archer 
Road during rush hour. As the light 
turned green, during the most inop-portune time, at the busiest intersec-tion in Gainesville, my car ran out of gas for the first time in my life.
There are certain intricacies associ-
ated with such a situation that are un-apparent to those who haven’t expe-rienced it themselves: the nauseating 
unresponsiveness of your gas pedal; 
the suicide-inducing horns of angry commuters that drown out your ste-reo system; the sinking realization that you are “that guy” stopping the flow of traffic.
Fortunately for yours truly , one 
thing salvaged this pathetic situa-tion: My friend was in the car. To the 
amusement of the unaffected drivers 
watching at the adjacent red lights, my friend hopped out of the car and began pushing while I did the only logical thing I could do: I opened my car door, stuck my left foot out and began pushing my car like a skate-board as I tried to steer through the increasingly hostile surrounding traf-
fic.
Although the drivers were most-
ly unpleasant, there are some nice 
people in Gainesville. Two upstand-ing citizens stopped their cars and offered help. One kind soul seemed particularly worried. “Has your transmission blown? Has your car overheated? Do you need a ride 
somewhere?”
Nope, I answered, I just ran out of 
gas.
That day was particularly unfor -
tunate. I need furniture, as my guests currently have 
two options: stand or sit on the floor. Only after driving 
to a couple 
of furniture stores did I learn that fur -
niture stores 
close early . 
The gym’s weight room — the 
same gym I went through my near-death experience to get to — was 
also closed.  The other gym I went 
to instead was inhabited by a stocky Asian man who dropped his weights so hard that I believed the building was due to collapse at any moment. My fellow gym-goers must have thought the same because the gym rapidly emptied, and judging by the course of my day, my friend and I 
soon followed.
Now that I’ve publicized it for the 
world to ridicule (or at least for the 
three of you lovely folks who choose to read my pitiful ramblings), I can glean some lifelong lessons hidden throughout my day. One: Don’t pro-crastinate. Two: Don’t procrastinate. Three: Don’t cry over spilled milk 
—and really , most things are not 
much more significant than spilled milk — but learn from that spilled milk.
Although one might argue that 
it’s incompatible with a science back-ground, I can’t help but feel that our days are teeming with instances of divine intervention that are bursting 
with meaning and hopelessly wait-
ing to be discovered. 
Or perhaps they are not. Perhaps 
my day was nothing more than a “facepalm”-inducing story . 
But if it has the potential to better 
our lives, we should find that mean-ing — even if that means stretch-ing and distorting interpretation so 
greatly that it would put an English 
professor to shame.
Abdul Zalikha is an microbiology 
junior at UF. His column appears on 
Thursdays.Life lessons from a bad 
day and empty gas tankColumn
Abdul Zalikha
letters@alligator.orgUnite Party uses ‘‘system” to rule
In summer of 2008, I walked into my first Sen-
ate meeting. Fresh out of high school, I thought I had found a good place to get involved. What I found instead was a disaster.
I entered a room where I saw a huge majority 
repeatedly ignore logic and common sense. In the years since, Student Government has wasted thousands of dollars of our money, and at every opportunity , the majority party sided with the administration — not with the average student.
The problem with SG is not the massive dif-
ference between majority and minority size, and it’s not that the two parties can’t “work together.” The problem is not an abstraction, it’s an actual 
physical thing — “The System.”
With a name like that, you probably think I’ve 
gone off the conspiracy theory deep end. But I 
didn’t invent that moniker; they did. The System is a method of control, using patronage, biased rules and pure threats to get a few resume lines and SG salaries at the expense of every other UF student. 
The patronage system run by the Unite Party 
is something that would make Rod Blagojevich  jealous. Grouping student organizations into so-called “blocks,” the system uses both carrot and stick to ensure members are brought in line for the purpose of getting votes for Unite. Organiza-tions are told to guarantee the “cooperation” of their members, because refusing to participate in the effort has social consequences, in addition to the denial of positions in SG.
The Unite Party accomplishes this through 
the use of “voter boards,” which allow organiza-tions to keep track of which members voted and reward/punish them accordingly. This is why there is a unique rule in SG allowing only the Unite-appointed Supervisor of Elections to hand out stickers saying the magic words: “I Voted.”
All of this was revealed in depth on last year’s 
so-called “Unite Tapes,” which, of course, the Al-
ligator lacked the spine to adequately report on. 
Some choice words from the recording of Unite leaders:  “...you guys had that incentive of get-ting your girls a bottle, not too many [groups] do that, that’s awesome.” Or, “I know you told your baby pledge class that they couldn’t eat un-til they went and voted. That’s amazing, that’s what you need to do. So I applaud you all for doing that.” 
The Unite Party knows that just a few hun-
dred people voting against them could wipe out their super-majority . That’s why every year they pay lip service to increasing voter turnout, but every year they vote against the legislation that would actually do it. Instead, they’ve rammed through election “laws” designed with one thing in mind: limit the number of voters to the 18 per -
cent who do now, while making it increasingly 
difficult for the opposition to campaign.
They do this because they are afraid of losing 
their power, which is exactly why they comply 
with every request the administration has for them. After all, without a real minority party, the administration is the only group left that can stop them. Whether it’s the University Police incident last year, the new Reitz Union fee pro-posal, or most recently , a massive tuition increase 
not covered by Bright Futures, the Unite Party 
sided with the administration and not with stu-dents. The system isn’t only spending students’ money; they are claiming to speak for students while working against us again and again.
All in all, this System-Administration love 
fest has worked out great for the Unite Party . When emails were leaked in 2008 revealing that senate seats were given away by organizational 
affiliation, the Student Body President was given 
a “stern talking to” by administrators. When more emails surfaced revealing that applicants to the supposedly nonpartisan Elections Com-mission were told to hide their Unite Party af-filiation, the administration told me they were “working on it.” Finally , when a member of The System leaked an unedited tape of one of their own meetings, which described in-depth and in 
their own words the patronage and corruption 
that currently has a choke hold on student gov-ernment at UF, administrators told me they had spoken with the people on the tapes and that “there was nothing else to be done.” One of the people on the tapes is now Student Body Trea-surer.
 Changing their name every few years to pre-
vent you from catching on — they need to win 
it all — because they’ve already promised it all 
away . 
Let me be absolutely clear: I reject the Prog-
ress Party’s idea that we can work with these people. Their policies are not the problem; their corruption is. And until there is an opposition party that will truly fight to end The System and give Student Government back to the students, these people will control millions of dollars of 
student money and will continue to speak on be-
half of people they don’t represent.
But it’s easy to be apathetic. It’s easy to not 
vote. And yes, it’s easy for you, Alligator, to refuse to report on these facts and claim you’re afraid of lawsuits. It may be easy, but it isn’t right.
Jonathan Ossip is the former minority leader of 
the UF Student Senate.
Letter to the EditortheAvenue         thursday, june 30, 2011
THE FEST UPDATE:PG 9: Check out our short and 
sweet guide to must-watch sum-mer TV shows, and learn about an impressive antimatter study with Carter Lyles’ latest Tech Ef-fect column.PG 10: Andy Maroon delves into the wondrous world of “Lord of the Rings” in his weekly movie column.PG 11: Editor Thomas Nassiff introduces you to Google Plus in his Off The Record column. Also, discover a new place to grub at B.F.D., opened by the owners of Boca Fiesta.INSIDE:
Common Grounds, which closed 
its doors this month, has new ownership and will be renamed Double Down Live. The venue will be hosting Fest 10 shows, and as a result the Gainesville festival will be selling 500 more weekend passes. Although pre-viously announced to be sold out, 500 passes will be put up for sale at 12:01 p.m. EST on July 6th at thefestfl.com/fest10/tickets.
Zombie Vinyls finds a new art medium in old records
By KATHLEEN BOYLE
avenue writer
Everything old is new again, or so the saying goes. If one 
were to anticipate a sweeping statement that applies to the 20-somethings of today, it would be safe to assume 
our generation has taken a cue from our hippie forefathers with expressions like “going green” hitting a defining, socially accept-able cool.
Well-stocked secondhand stores prove Americans’ addiction 
to consumption, a reflection of cultural interest in the next best 
thing. But embedded in this discarded materialism is a source of 
artistic inspiration, of reinvention, of newness. 
Zombie Vinyls, a fresh visual-art business based in Gainesville, 
creatively implements a take on the theory of reduce, re-use, 
recycle as a foundation for its handcrafted, re-purposed vinyl 
records. 
Officially establishing its business roots in the spring of 2011, 
Zombie Vinyls is the brainchild of longtime friends and UF gradu -
ates Tony Feria and Matt Teper. 
The idea for their business model is relatively simple and 
seemingly obvious, yet naturally channels a concept of reformu -
lation that no longer necessitates a grain of salt: turn stacks of 
used, scratched, unwanted and outwardly obsolete vinyl records 
into an art medium. As the name suggests and as their website claims, Zombie 
Vinyls “brings dead music back to life.” The company trades in a studio for a stencil, adorns coats of spray paint and ditches the phonograph as a testament to what once fell silent, now given new breath of life.
Understanding that an immediate association of music is in-
herent in the medium, Zombie Vinyls orchestrates imagery of various musical acts on the surfaces of their records. From Jimi Hendrix to Jay-Z, The Clash to Tiesto, each record stands as an homage to those who have aurally entertained, inspired and em-
bodied the conventions of various points in history. 
Swirls of tangled hue gradations set the stage for the head-
lining portraits, a foundation of spray paint affixed to the pits 
and grooves that formerly sourced hissing transitions between 
songs. 
Taking a cue from street art, the subjects of each record are depicted via flat layers of solid color planes, intelligently sten-
ciled to trick the mind into believing shadows articulate the fac-
es of the voices we love. Unlike a standard painting base such 
as canvas, which typically provides a neutral playing field, the LP as a picture plane allows the imagery to resonate beyond its face value.  
Tony Feria is the founding artistic mind behind Zombie Vinyls, 
which he began about a year ago. He claims inspirations for his work stem equally from his love of diverse musical tastes and visual arts. Feria’s first piece, a profoundly arcane yet strong de -
lineation of John Lennon that resides on a wall in his apartment, 
retains sentimental value as it marks the start of the Zombie 
Vinyls endeavor.  
“(After the John Lennon record) I just kept going with this type 
of artwork, and it naturally progressed into something more,” Fe -
ria said. “I began discovering different ways to incorporate vari-ous designs into the work and put more and more time into the creative development of the images. I could spend six hours on one piece, mess it up, go back and ask myself, ‘OK, how do I fix this?’ The work is always progressing.”
Initially, the decision to turn Zombie Vinyls into an LLC busi-
ness enterprise was not Feria’s intent. Yet much like the devel-opment of his artistic technique, the decision to take this collec-tion into the market evolved organically.  
With the help of his supportive friend Matt Teper, the two 
decided to take Feria’s portfolio to the next level. Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Tony Feria, owner of Zombie Vinyls, poses with a stenciled vinyl in front of a mural painted in the tunnel 
under 13th Street. Feria began designing art on vinyl about a year ago, when he painted an image of John 
Lennon on a 12-inch record. He says his inspiration for starting the project came from his love of diverse mu-
sical tastes and visual arts. Zombie Vinyls officially became a business in the spring, when Feria’s friend and 
fellow UF graduate Matt Teper pushed Feria to take the project to a higher level.
dead format brought back to life
see VINYL, page 10The company spray paints famed artists on vinyl
“I began discovering different ways to incorporate 
various designs into the work and put more and more 
time into the creative development of the images.”  
TONY FERIA 
founder of Zombie Vinylsthursday, june 30, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 9
By DIANA LOPEZ
avenue contributing writer
As usual, there is a lull in awesome TV 
during the summer. But we’ve put together 
a list of summer shows that will hold you over until Thursday nights on NBC return!
Wilfred
This Australian-adapted comedy, much 
like “The Office,” centers on a depressed ex-lawyer named Ryan, played by Elijah Wood, who seems to be the only one who can see one thing others cannot: a man dressed in a large gray dog costume. 
To the world, this middle-aged, cos-
tumed man is seen as an average dog who 
receives general greetings of, “Who’s my 
little man?” while Ryan only sees a grumpy smoker who utters a cheerful “piss off” in response. However crude Wilfred seems to be, he teaches Ryan how to be a man again, and they embark on a hilariously un-fortunate journey through life’s woes. 
Wilfred premiered June 23 and broad -
casts on Thursdays at 10 p.m. on FX.Misfits
This show epitomizes British teenage 
drama with a twist. A freak lightning storm hits a community center where five teen-agers are fulfilling community service sen-tences, giving them superpowers. 
As cliché as it sounds, the TV series 
offers more to the imagination than you might think. Many have called it a blend of “Skins” and “Heroes.”  
The highly appraised dramedy is now 
available for U.S. viewers on hulu.com.
Falling Skies
With “Super 8” exceeding 
expectations, Steven Spielberg 
plans on dropping another creative project for America’s viewing pleasure. Set in a 
post-alien invasion time period, a group of 
survivors band together to battle the invad-ing predators. Led by an ex-military history professor, the group faces the hardships of the human fight for existence. 
“Falling Skies” premiered on June 19 
and broadcasts on Sundays at 10 p.m. on TNT.2011 Summer TV guidethe tech effect
Company traps antimatter
By CARTER LYLES
avenue columnist
For those of you familiar with the works of au -
thor Dan Brown, the name CERN should pop 
off the page instantly.
The company, whose acronym stands for the 
European Organization for Nuclear Research 
and which was made famous through its literary 
depiction in Brown’s novel “Angels & Demons,” uses its laboratory on the Franco-Swiss border to conduct research of fundamental physics and the mechanics of the physical universe.
The ALPHA experiment, one of the company’s 
more ambitious endeavors, may be the closest to actually achieving this goal. 
Earlier this month, researchers involved with 
the ALPHA experiment succeeded in trapping an-timatter for more than 16 minutes using an anti-proton decelerator.
“We can keep the antihydrogen atoms trapped 
for 1,000 seconds,” explained ALPHA spokesper -
son Jeffrey Hangst in a press release. “This is long enough to begin to study them, even with the small number that we can catch so far.”
Antimatter, as science fiction geeks and Tom 
Hanks fans will recall, is a highly unstable energy that exists in direct opposition to matter (i.e., ev -erything), and therefore is extremely destructive if 
brought into contact with matter.
Ever see what happens when you get a hori-
zontal line of connecting tiles in Tetris? The same 
principle applies here.
Using magnetic fields to trap and suspend the 
antimatter, the researchers were able to begin studying the “anti-atoms” within it, which may pro-vide clues as to why antimatter is so rare.
It also may illuminate the truth behind the 
long-held CPT theory, which concerns the funda-mental symmetry of the universe according to change, parity and time.
According to the theory as stated in a press 
release, “a particle moving forward through time in our universe should be indistinguishable from an antiparticle moving backwards through time in a mirror universe.”
“Any hint of CPT symmetry breaking would 
require a serious rethink of our understanding of nature,” Hangst said. 
So while CERN might not yet be able to cre -
ate the magnificent doomsday device envisioned by one of the most commercialized authors of recent memory, the company has still managed to contain the material just long enough to begin collecting the puzzle pieces for one more crack at the mysteries of the universe.
OnTV
“I’ve been following Tony’s work 
for the last year, always thought that 
it was great, but didn’t think he had 
an interest in it as anything more 
than a hobby,” Teper said. “Tony consistently kept creating some really, really great work that made 
me think I could help him turn this 
into something more if he wanted to pursue it at a higher level.”  Teper, who handles most of the 
managerial aspects of Zombie Vi-
nyls, invested his graduation gift 
money in Feria and his artwork with the ambition of expanding this proj-ect into a larger market.
In a short period of time, Zom-
bie Vinyls has already received substantial recognition.  
This summer Feria, Teper and 
their devoted intern Jon Senterfitt will be participating as vendors in national summer music festivals 
such as Electric Forest in Rothbury, 
Mich., and the Identity Festival, which tours more than 20 North American cities. 
Senterfitt has even taken his 
dedication to the company a step further, getting a full-color tattoo of the Zombie Vinyls logo stretched across his entire forearm after only 
five days on the job.
But even as Zombie Vinyls 
gains momentum, both Feria and 
Teper stress the artistic integrity of the work itself does not falter. 
Each record continues to be hand-
designed by at least one of the Zombie Vinyls creators, allowing divergence to naturally occur with every piece. 
Zombie Vinyls also retires each 
stencil after a short-run number of pressings, preventing the records from becoming exhaustive and ge -
neric. 
Even during a quick visit to the 
downtown studio, the air saturat-ed with the stench of spray-paint fumes, one can immediately sense 
a tone of optimism.  
“There really is a good vibe right 
now,” Feria said. “Everyone has a 
key role that they play, and they do 
it really well. We’re all just really 
excited.”  
Visit the Zombie Vinyls catalog 
online at zombievinyls.com.10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, june 30, 2011
Sophie Denardo / Alligator
Intern Jon Senterfitt poses for a picture, holding a Bob Marley vinyl.
Company traveling to sell nationwide
VINYL , from page 8
Tuesday marked the day nerds 
all around the planet had been waiting for. The legend-
ary “Lord of the Rings” trilogy finally became available on Blu-ray in ex-tended directors cut. 
For many fans, the extended 
edition is the “true” film, while the theatrical release is a more watered-down product aimed at a wider audience. Each extended edi-tion contains about 30 additional 
minutes of film as well as a load of 
special features. 
The movies were originally re -
leased on DVD in 2006, but fans 
have been clamoring for a proper 
Blu-ray release. The theatrical ver -
sions saw a Blu-ray release back in April of 2010, much to the dismay of diehard fanatics. 
Before the theatrical versions on 
Blu-ray even hit shelves, 2,500 frus-trated fans gave the release a one-star rating on Amazon.com. Fans 
felt the extended editions were a 
priority and should be released along with the theatrical versions. 
Many felt Warner Bros. was try -
ing to double-dip the market, getting 
consumers to not only buy one ver -
sion, but the extended editions at a 
later date as well. From a business 
perspective, why wouldn’t Warner 
Bros. do that? It proved profitable when the films were released on DVD, so it would only be logical to repeat the process. 
The studio was smart enough to 
notice the niche of fans who wanted the extended cuts on Blu-ray, however, 
and decided 
to finance the project. In response, 
the “Lord of 
the Rings” nation decid-
ed to attack the theatrical release online.
As a fan of the films myself, I 
was disappointed in the way other fans handled this situation. Obvi-ously we all wanted to get the Blu-
ray extended cuts sooner rather 
than later, but in the digital age with all the piracy that goes on, you can’t blame a company for trying to squeeze as much out of the films 
as it can, especially with a series 
like “Lord of the Rings,” which saw over $1 billion in profit for each movie. 
But instead of voting with our 
wallets by not buying the theatrical versions, fans decided they’d rather whine like children and e-vandalize an Amazon product. But alas, what 
can you expect from a bunch of 
nerds on the Internet?
Regardless, the excruciating 
wait is over, fellow LOTR nerds. Open the blinds, don your fanciest mithril vest, grab eight of your clos-est friends and make your journey to Best Buy to pick up your precious copy of the “Lord Of The Rings” tril-
ogy on Blu-ray.“Lord of the Rings” 
comes to Blu-ray
Andy Maroon
Columnist
“There really is a  good vibe 
right now. Everyone has a key 
role that they play, and they do it really well. We’re all just really 
excited.”  
TONY FERIA 
founder of Zombie Vinylsof Google’s latest attempt to invade 
the social networking market. Google+ is the web giant’s latest attempt to topple Facebook, and while that might not be possible right now, it definitely 
provides cool and interesting features.
One of the tag lines Google seems 
to be using is making online sharing 
more like real-life sharing. People don’t actually get pictures developed and show them to their friends in person anymore, but Google+ transitions that to an online platform more effectively than Facebook or Twitter.
The cornerstone of that is what Google calls “Circles.” It works a lot like Facebook, where you 
make a profile 
first.
But instead 
of adding peo -
ple as a friend, you add them to a Circle. You 
can create however many circles you want, so you can put family members 
in a “Family” circle, coworkers in a “Co-workers” circle, and random people 
you met at a party in a “Random Peo-ple I Met at Parties” circle.
The best part about it is people just 
get notified that you added them to a 
circle — they don’t see the name of the 
circle you added them into.
After you have your circles orga-
nized, everything you upload — every status, picture, video, link, whatever — is only viewable by the group or groups you select. So your “College Friends” circle sees pictures of you on the cruise you went on over summer, but 
your “Family” circle doesn’t.It’s simple, but it’s genius. I’ve 
been playing around with the trial of 
Google+ for a couple of days, and it seems like the only possible competi-tor to Facebook in today’s market. I 
wholeheartedly recommend signing 
up for it when it becomes available to the general public.
Add in what else Google offers 
— the best email platform, obviously the best search engine and the super-convenient Google Docs — and you’re seeing the constant evolution of the only truly dominant force in cyber net-
working.thursday, june 30, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 11
ff the RecordGoogle Plus emerges as heavyweight competitor to Facebook
Thomas Nassiff
Avenue Editor
Twitter: @ThomasNassiffSummer B provides a lot of stu -
dents with their first impres-
sions of college. A few friends 
of mine just moved into on-campus dorms to start their first semesters as 
UF students.
For those of us who have been 
there before, one thing we can prob-
ably all agree on is how drastically your social life can change when you first walk onto campus. 
That’s why I thought it was interest-
ing that I just received a trial version 
Owners of Boca Fiesta open new diner downtownnew in town
By AMY STUART
avenue contributing writer
B.F.D.? Boca Fiesta Diner? Best Friends 
Dude? Burgers for Days?
Really, it can mean whatever the imagination 
can conjure up.
This interchangeable acronym belongs to 
a new diner located inside the Sun Center in 
downtown Gainesville opened by the owners of legendary Tex-Mex restaurant Boca Fiesta.
Jacob Inde, Warren Oakes and Geoff Hum-
phreys opened Boca Fiesta on June 1, 2009. While celebrating the two-year anniversary of Boca Fiesta, the group decided to try a new 
challenge and opened B.F.D., a diner-style res-
taurant serving breakfast and lunch, on June 1 this year.
Unsure of the name, the diner owners kept 
quiet about its opening for about two weeks. Inde said they wanted a name that could stand for anything.
“It’s like LL Cool J,” Inde said, “when he goes 
on for 20 minutes about what LL means.”
He said employees didn’t even know what to 
say when answering the phone. Someone would just pick up and ask, “Are you hungry?”
New plans to renovate the diner are also un-derway. Inde said he is hoping to install a new 
beer tap once they get a beer and liquor license. 
“We think it’ll be funny to just have one tap that says ‘beer,’” Inde said. “The actual beer will be a secret.”
Oakes, former drummer of legendary 
Gainesville punk band Against Me!, has many visions for the new hangout, including some dé -
cor renovations, like covering every inch of the diner with bamboo.
Working at B.F.D. by day and Boca Fiesta 
by night, Oakes spends his time meeting his customers and learning more about what they would like to see at the restaurant. “A new place doesn’t even know what it is 
yet,” Oakes said. “The menu will change as the customers describe their needs.”
When it came to advertising the diner, he 
wanted to use an organic-growth appeal, mean-ing letting people find the place on their own. 
“It’s hard to trust a spot if someone is hand-
ing fliers into your hand, but if someone recom-mends it, you trust them more,” Oakes said.
“No one is ever going to drive by and see us 
since there is no curb advertising. So we kind of want to enclose it more so you’ll have to come into the mall and the bamboo to know there is awesome food hidden inside.”
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
8-15-11-25-1
The Landings
All-Inclusive 4/4’s
ONLY $409
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
8-15-25-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
8-15-25-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
8-15-25-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409***
Ask about our Apple TV special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
8-15-11-25-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
8-15-11-25-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-1The Polos
All Inclusive Roommate Matching
2/2 only $538/month per person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    8-15-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
8-15-11-25-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
8-15-11-25-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC!
Great Specials & New Amenities
New 3/3’s w/42” TV @ $429
Cut this out for $45 app. fee
4/4’s @ $349  352.379.9300
8-15-11-25-1
1 BR 1 BA furn apt on horse farm in Williston. 
Includes util, garb, water, pest, cable, park-ing, cent H/A, W/D, tile. NS. Refs checked. $800/mo. Avail 1st/2nd week in May. Call Cindy 352-443-2016.    8-15-11-25-1
Furnished,4bedroom,4bath,W/D,1st 
floor,$350/room, 3800 SW 20th Univ Terrace West, includes utilities Steve 352-586-6468; room-mate matching    7-5-11-10-1$375-Well-maintained 4/4 SW Gville condo 
avail. starting summer or fall. Less than 10 
mins. from UF/Shands/Butler Plaza! RMM 
match, indiv. leases, private bath, walk-in 
closets, W/D, on 2 bus routes. Internet/cable 
included. Call 352.514.3398.   8-26-11-25-1
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse.
Walk to UF. Avail. 8/15
$850/mo. call 877-833-2865    7-14-11-12-1
1/1-$600/month(39th St NW and University 
Ave). Spacious, carpet with tile flooring. Fully 
renovated with new appliances. Furnished, 
Washer/Dryer included. Min. to UF and 
Oaks Mall.Contact Maria @ 786-389-9718  
7-5-11-8-1
Furn.small efficiency,immaculate,wash/dry 
on premises,wat/sew incl,NS,NO PETS,1/2m 
South UF/SHANDS,2 bus routes,$415/m 
352-262-2871 Owner/agent    7-7-11-7-1
4BR/4BA available in 4/4, Beautiful gated 
Countryside complex. $385/mo incl all utils, 
cable, internet, etc. Big Screen tv in living 
room! Looking for female for full year lease. 
Shahrouz.ebadian@gmail.com, 754-281- 5023.   
7-26-11-10-1
4BD/4BA condo available on 7/31. 
$275 per person.1.5 miles from UF; on bus line. 
All appliances & some furniture included. Call J. Erney at 352-328-1266.   7-7-11-10-1
$550 room avail. in 2 bed. condo. Furn'd and 
fully equipped kitchen. New washer/dryer/dishwasher. Dedicated parking. Utilities in-cluded. On bus route <1 m. to UF/Shands. Quiet, laid back neighborhood and room-mate is friendly 24 y/o fem. professional. 352.275.1513    6-30-11-1-1
PROFFESSIONAL/GRAD STUDENT.
All amenities. Must be studious & quiet, safe & secure. $350/mo. Leave message 333-8300 or 514-3320     7-12-11-4-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. 2br $400 372-6881, 213-3901        8-15-11-25-2  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
8-15-11-25-2 
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    8-15-10-25-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $579
3br  for $729.
Limited Availability. 352-376-4002
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   8-15-10-25-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
8-15-11-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
8-15-11-25-2Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
8-15-11-25-2 
3bedroom/3bath
Starting @$954 ($318/person!)
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
8-15-11-25-2
Immediate Availability!
1/1 $549 • 4/2.5 TH $899
Waived move-in fees • Waived pet fee
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
8-15-25-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
8-15-11-25-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
8-15-11-25-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
8-15-11-25-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
8-15-11-25-2
Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
8-15-11-25-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          8-15-11-25-2    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
8-15-11-25-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
8-15-11-25-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    8-15-11-25-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 4752.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
8-15-11-25-2Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
8-15-11-25-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 $449
2/1 $569
No Rent Until Aug 1st
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
8-15-11-25-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
8-15-11-25-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    8-15-11-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
7-14-11-73-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 $579
No Rent Until Aug 1st
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2Homestead Apartments
2/1 $579
2/2 $699
No Rent Until Aug 1st
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
6-30-11-47-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     6-30-11-39-2
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. 
Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-
376-5887    8-15-25-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/1.5BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/1.5BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $590-625. Gated patio, trees, flood 
lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-3937
7-7-42-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   8-15-11-25-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
8-15-10-25-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3 house fireplace W/D 630 nw 36 st $1500
6-30-11-39-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    8-15-11-25-2
STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
8-15-25-25
★WALK2UF.COM★
Location, Location, Affordable
352-375-8256
8-15-25-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin-ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   8-15-11-25-2GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    8-15-11-25-2
WWW.BELLAPROPERTIES.NET
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
8-15-11-25-2.
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    
7-28-11-22-2
CONDOS.JACKSONSQUARE.US
Luxury condos 3 blocks North of UF
352-870-9453
8-15-25-2
Walk or Bike to Campus!
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR houses & condos available. 
Campus Realty 352-692-3800rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    7-28-11-34-2
Clean small efficiency Quiet.Wash/dry on 
prem.Wat/Sew incl NS No Pets.1/2m south 
UF/Shands,2 bus routes.$399/m.Same fur-
nished $410/m 352-262-2871 Owner/agent    
8-2-11-30-2
Post Apartments – 352 376 0080.  352 284 
3873. postj@bellsouth.net
Clean, spacious, private apts. for calm, quiet, 
stable, mature persons.
●Duckpond duplex - 920 NE 6th Ave. $700 
Carport, large yard, big trees, burglar bars, 
WDH, CHA, carpet. 
●1808 - 1830 NW 10th St.- 1 and 2 bed-
rooms. $500-$650. Private patio with lock 
gate, large yard, big trees, carpet.●1700 SW 16th Ct.- 1 and 2 br Condos $550 
- $650 1 block from Shands   8-15-11-25-2
Pinnacle Point large 2 bedroom townhouse 
just minutes from UF & Butler Plaza. All of our units are newly refurbished with all new ap-pliances, tile, carpet, paint, light fixtures and more! Call today for specials 352-373-7578    8-15-11-25-2
LUXURY 3/2 CREEK'S EDGE CONDO
Quiet upstairs condo. 1300 sf. Like New, lg. rooms, hardwood floors, upgraded kitchen and appl. W/D. Mins to campus on direct bus rt. $975 727-463-0560    6-30-11-14-2
LUXURY DOWNTOWN CONDO!
Stylish City living in Regent’s Park
Beautiful, huge and quiet!
Two story, 3BR/2.5 bath, w/garage
Avail in Aug @ $1500/mo.
Call Union Properties at 373-7578.
8-15-11-25-2
3BR/1BA house available August in SW 
Gainesville. Central heat/AC, hardwood/tile floors, washer/dryer, carport, Florida room, private fenced backyard with patio, pet-friendly. $900/month. ph. 352-318-5453    7-14-11-18-2
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
2 large rooms w/private baths. 10 min to UF. Large home, quiet neighborhood. $550/mo + utils per room. Cable, W/D, hardwood floors. 5 mins to busline. Call 352-284-0979    6-30-11-13-2
1/1 w/ private gated court yard in small quiet 
complex. Prefect for the serious student or quiet proffesional small pets ok. $450 mnth call: 352 377-2150    7-21-11-18-2
1/1 Campus Edge
3rd floor, very calm. Washer, dryer, dish-washer, stove, fridge, microwave, overlook-ing the pool, gym. $699/m, Avail July 352-262-2871 Owner Agent    7-14-11-16-2THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 13
●Charming 2BR 1 BA Cottage Blocks to UF
2703 NW 2nd Ave. Central h/a, laundry 
with w/d, large private screened porch. No 
Pets, Avail August. Grandaddy oaks. $875/
mo. 1st last $500 security. 352-332-5836
7-28-11-20-2
3BR/3BA Apartment
Internet & Cable Included
Available August 4th
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838!
8-15-21-2
Very nice Rockwood Villas Townhouse
3/3 for only $900.00/month-Great deal!
Large bedrooms, updated appliances, 
Washer/dryer, 2 pools, lots of parking
Call Jared at (941) 737-6997    7-28-11-18-2
Great 3/2 House w/crpt & w/d (1100sqft)
Rent $1050/month with lease
Pets allowed  :)  Available June 1st
Contact Kathryn: kesamai@gmail.com
4102 NW 21st Terrace Gville, FL 32608    
7-14-14-2
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7129 SW 45th Place. $525/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-11146-30-11-10-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/ 
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-
ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd 
flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail 
Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2175 352-665-8166 lv mssg
8-15-11-21-2
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice,
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dishwash-
er, ice, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. 
No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. $1590/mo. 
352-665-8166 lv mssg          8-15-11-21-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm floor plans starting
at $635. Washer/Dryer, Fitness Center,
Tennis Court, Swimming Pool, Sauna etc.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat. 10-5, Sun 12-4
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvillas.com
text (Lakewood)@65586
8-15-11-20-2
SPYGLASS
Individual Leases. Furniture Pkgs. incl.
Washer/Dryer, FREE Hi-Speed internet.
Rates start at $399. Every unit an end unit.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 26nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass) 65586
8-15-11-20-2
UPPER WESTSIDE /
NANTUCKET
1 & 2 bdrm  Luxury Apts. Granite counters.
Parking avail. Walk to campus & stadium.
For info. call 352-872-4644
upperwestside@cmcapt.com
text: upperwestside@65374
8-15-11-20-2
2/2 ROCKWOOD VILLAS, $750, NEAR 
MALL & UF. LOTS OF PARKING, CORNER UNIT, HAS OWN W+D D.AGUIRRE.AZOCAR@GMAIL.COM OR 347.878.9072   AVAILABLE JULY 1.    7-5-11-10-2
***FALL RENTAL***
4,5,6+ Bdrm Houses for Rent
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Ask abt Family Discounts
Immediate Move-In Available
8-15-11-17-2
3240 NW 41st Ave. On bus rte. 3BR/1BA 
house. Quiet neighborhood, W/D, DW, cent A/C, screened porch, fenced yard, pet friend-ly. Avail 8/1. $1000/mo. 1st + security. 407-509-4574    6-30-11-6-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   8-31-11-24-2GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420    8-31-
11-24-2
Quiet spacious 2 bed 1 bath house on large  
lot, glassed porch, washer/dryer hookup,pet 
fee, lease $750 available Aug 1
1301 NW 8th St call 352 475 1586    7-5-4-2
BEAT THE HEAT WITH OUR COOL RATES!
HUGE 2&3 BRs less than 1 mi to UF.
H2O, gas, full sz W/D included.
Call for prices on leases signed by Jul 8
COUNTRY VILLAGE 373.2700
7-7-11-4-2
THE COURTYARDS
Steps to UF. Fully furnished.
All inclusive individual leases.
Now leasing for Fall enrollment.
Parking avail.  M-F 9-6, Sat 10-5
1231 SW 3rd Ave., #125
352-372-3557/thecourtyardsuf.com
8-15-11-13-2
2 bed/1.5 bath condo with walk-in closet, 
in unit W/D, screened in porch, and pool on property. RTS buses 9, 35, 36, later gator B, and 1 game day bus pick up directly in front. pets are allowed. neighborhood is quiet and neighbors are friendly. (904) 553-82257-28-11-10-2
2BR/2B $700. Sparrow Condominiums. 
Spacious home-like condo. Fenced-in mini 
backyard. Peaceful. Nice Amenities. 1 Mile 
from Oaks Mall, 5-miles from UF, on bus line 
75. Call Jason 352-283-0240   7-28-11-10-2
UPGRADED 2 BDRM w/ 1BA. Eat in kit w/
peninsula & like new kit appliances, laundry 
rm w/W/D, bath w/custom vanity, lighting, 
large liv.rm. One master bdrm w/ceiling fan, 2nd bdrm also w/ceiling fan. Within 1 1/2 mi. of Shands,UF, Butler Plaza on bus rt. Within 
4 unit complex. $650/mo. Sorry no pets. Call 
1-727-423-9463    7-14-11-5-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances, W/D, DW, central heat/air, large bds, pet friendly! Incl lawn svc & inside pest control. Avail. Aug 1, $1200 - 333-9874 or 317-7346   7-28-11-7-2
Beautiful 2/2.5 Townhouse near campus. 
Pickwick Park off SW 34th street. $800/month includes water, washer, & dryer. pri-vate front patio,upstairs balcony,wood fur-nished closets, and pedestal sinks. Pets ok. call 9044033146.    7-26-8-2
●HOUSE 4BR/3BA 2816 W University Ave 
1 mi to UF. Pool, fenced-in nice backyard. W/D, DW. $1600/mo Negotiable.●3BR2BA 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo.327-2931, 376-6183       8-15-11-12-2
MILL POND CONDO
3BR/2BA, garage, tennis courts, pool, 
across from GHFC. On bus line to UF law school and campus. Newly renovated, tile, granite, etc. $1200/mo. No pets. 331-68727-19-11-6-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       8-15-11-12-2Available Now. 4BR/2BA very nice house. 
Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game 
room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets 
ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-
339-2342 Other houses available  7-14-11-
5-2
MUST SEE ● VERY NICE ● QUIET 1BR
Custom built in-law suite.
Close to all. Has it all. W/D, all utils incl + 
cable. $750/mo. Please call 278-8381   7-28-
11-9-2
UPGRADED 2/2 CONDO ON UF BUS 
ROUTE 16 to UF or easy 4.5mi bike ride to 
Norman Hall area; Includes tile throughout w/ new washer/dryer, refrigerator & dishwasher. Located in cozy community w/ 2 swimming 
pools & 24hr Fitness Ctr!! $700/mo + util. 
Contact stephaniemarie1103@gmail.com
7-14-4-2
50$ WalMart card if you Sublease at the 
Polos 2BR/2Bath outside porch washer-dryer
3 pools, 1 hot tub, free cable/internet 8/1/11, 
available 7/1/11 call Katie 352-283-9723 
$859 monthly                             7-14-11-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
8-15-25-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house. Male 
or female. No pets/smoking. Free off-street 
parking $450/mo. Includes all utilities, wifi, 
security system, Available 8/1 yearly lease. 
727-726-2915    6-30-11-40-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus 
route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-
729-1561   6-30-11-27-4
350/mo 2 blocks from campus
Close to downtown
814-440-3325 or jfidorra@hotmail.com   6-30-11-14-4
$350 moves you in! No deposit or last months 
rent. Mature male student to share furnished 
4/2. FR, LR, W/D, maid service, yrd man, 5 
min from UF, new kitchen, big yard. No pets, 
non-smoker. (813) 362-7729 or 362-7881    
7-12-11-13-4
Male college student wanted for gated 
4BR/4BA Countryside condo, poolside, own 
BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed internet, ear-
ly stop on UF bus rte. Utils incl. $400/mo. No 
deposit  863-634-1893     6-30-11-10-4
3BR/3BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Countryside 
condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl.
Direct bus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless.Flo 352-357-9656, or 352-636-48147-28-11-18-4
Grad student looking for female students 
in fully furnished 4/4 condo at Countryside. 
$425/month. Includes cable/internet, utilities, 
W/D. On 2 bus routes. Contact Megan 727-
542-8155.    7-14-11-11-4
Looking for 4 UF students to rent furnished 
4/4 student condo at Countryside at the University. W/D, pool, no pets, on bus rt, 1.5 mi from UF. 1st floor. Ready Aug 1st. $400/mo/rm. Call 386-295-7929 or 386-672-6969   7-14-11-11-4Grad student looking for female roommate 
who is clean and studious. Windsor Park 
furnished condo - 3/3, own bed/bath, on 
bus stop close to UF. Pool, hot tub, tennis, 
gym, $375/mo + 1/3 utilities. 407-361-1154.
6-30-11-6-4
I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking 
$300/mo which includes util & Dish Network 
TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-
682-9412      7-7-7-4
wanted; female roommate for 2BD 2BA 
furnished w/ own laundry. close to Shands 
& campus. $500/mo + utilities. big clos-
ets, 2 pools, cable & internet included. call 
Christine: 352.870.3806    6-30-11-3-4
LARGE 3/2 POOL HOUSE
Master Bedroom, suite, PRIVATE bath and walk in closet. 5 min to UF. W/D and all utilities included $560. Call 352-332-5030 or 352-541-6180    8-15-11-14-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  GraniteCounters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-514, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2011
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28798-15-25-5
THINK YOU CAN’T BUY?
Credit score of 600
qualifies you to apply now.
Homes as low as $500/ month.
Oak Park MHC
4000 SW 47th Street
Gainesville, Fl 32608
Call Tessie 888-486-1607       7-14-11-8-5
New homes, 3.2 miles north of UF
3BD/2BA 2-car garages. Starting at 148,900
1659 NW 34th Ave - Model home
ForestCreek.me
Schackow Realty 352-514-5060       6-30-
11-4-5
INVESTOR ALERT!
2/2 in Campus Edge only $115k
Debra Oberlin, REALTOR 352-514-6715ERA Preferred Propertes    7-7-11-5-5
Updated NW Vintage Charm
2br/1ba, corner lot, 1 car garage, near UF & downtown $95k Jeff Dautel, REALTOR 352-331-5374 ERA Preferred Properties    6-30-11-3-5$177,500 - 4BR/3BA w/in-law apt, 1 blk off 
Newberry, corner SW 2nd Ave & 38th ~1 mi 
to UF. 2500 hsf, 2 car carport, Owner will sell 
subject to owner mortgage with good down 
payment 407-363-7198 or 407-234-1380    
7-7-11-5-5
3BR/2BA near Millhopper 
shops. Screen pch, workshop.
$152,500. Realtor Carol 352-262-4546. 7-28-11-9-5
North Carolina Mountain Lakefront lots. New 
gated waterfront community. Dockable lots 
with up to 300' of shoreline, Low insurance, 
Low property tax. Call Now (800)709-5253    
6-30-1-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      8-15-11-25-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        8-15-11-25-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        8-15-11-25-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   8-15-25-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      8-15-25-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    8-15-25-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      8-15-25-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still 
in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
8-15-25-6 Investors - Outstanding and immediate re-
turns in equipment leasing for frac industry. 
Immediate lease out. Tax benefits and high 
returns. We need more equipment! (800)491-
9029     6-30-1-10
JUST GRADUATE? Play in Vegas, Hang in 
LA, Jet to New York! Hiring 18-24 girls/guys. 
$400-$800 wkly. Paid expenses. Signing 
Bonus. Call (877)259-6983     6-30-1-10
SAWMILLS -Band/Chainsaw -SPRING 
SALE - Cut lumber any dimension, anytime. 
MAKE MONEY and SAVE MONEY In stock 
ready to ship. Starting at $995.00. www.
NorwoodSawmills.com/300N (800)578-1363 
Ext.300N     6-30-1-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    8-15-
25-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
8-15-11-25-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
8-15-11-25-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  8-15-
11-25-11
STAND OR SIT ● POWERFUL MOBILITY
15-20 mile range, 15-20 mph. Easy to take apart. 300 lb capacity, 500 watt - battery op-erated  Excellent for Campus & Fun $975 & 
up. Call today J&S Assoicates 352-339-5158    
7-28-11-17-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr 
Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-
6275 RoadRatMotors.com   8-15-11-20-11BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  8-15-25-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     8-15-11-25-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
8-15-11-25-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-15-11-95-7
A+ Mobile PC Repair
Our technicians provide fast and thorough
computer repairs, at an affordable price.
We come to you. (352) 212-1220 
APlusMobile@rocketmail.com
9-2-11-30-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 8-15-10-25-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03708-15-10-25-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       8-15-25-10THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 15
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups 
available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
8-15-11-20-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
8-15-25-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    8-15-11-
25-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
8-15-25-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
7-28-11-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 DAY PAYOFF
ON CASH VEHICLES
PAY OFF TIME NEGOTIABLE
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK
CASH VEHICLES $1000 AND UP!
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
92 EAGLE TALON $1499
89 FORD BRONCO $129994 FORD TAURUS $129994 TOYOTA CAMRY $2999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
00 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250096 BMW 318TI $3999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
02 CHEVY BLAZER $4999
01 CHEVY SILVERADO $599998 DODGE DURANGO $699902 CHEVY SILVERADO $6999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLE $500 & UP!352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK, BUY HERE PAY HERECARS, SUVS, TRUCKS & VANS30 DAY WARRANTY352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
04 FORD TAURUS $5999
02 CHEVY CAMERO $699903 GMC SONOMA $699905 CHEVY MONTE CARLO $6999352-375-9090       8-15-95-1205 SATURN ION $7999
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
05 CHEVY TRAILBLAZER $9999
05 TOYOTA CAMRY $10,999
352-375-9090      8-15-95-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
8-15-25-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      6-30-11-25-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Denise Fanning at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
Receive $250 for helping us
identify and locate this person. Visit http://
downtownparkinggarage.com/wanted.html for pictures.                              7-7-11-3-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            8-15-10-25-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-15-10-25-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  8-15-11-25-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
6-3-79-14
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonal
recreation and aquatics positions
Competitive pay in great work
environment! Apply online today
at www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617    8-15-11-25-14
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial 
Production department is now accepting 
applications from students only. 
Applicants should be available evenings 
between the hours of 6:00 pm and 1:00 am. 
Production duties include page layout and 
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is 
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected. 
Fill out an application at the front desk of 
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule 
and references. No phone calls or e-mails, 
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to 
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Artist needs model. I have examples of my 
work and local personal references for you to review. decent pay. must have own transpor-tation.352 246 3157    7-9-11-3-14
Nanny needed. Overnights.Newborn twins.8pm-8am Mon -Th
exp/ refs req Sharyn@jaxnanny.com            6-30-11-6-14RGIS INVENTORY SPECIALISTS
Part-time hourly work
Flexible schedules
$8 an hour to start
Apply online at RGIS.COM    6-30-11-3-14
Rowing Coaches Needed!
Local club, HS & MS afterschool programs 
Enjoy the outdoors 2-6 days/wk depending on your schedule- amyrt524@yahoo.com    7-6-11-3-14
OCCASIONAL YARD WORK
$7.50/hr. Call 373-0489
7-28-1-14
Full and part time positions available
SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS
TECH SUPPORT
LINUX ADMINISTRATOR
AVIATION RESEARCH ASST
SHIPPING TECH
ADMIN ASST
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com/employment.     7-7-
11-8-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working 
environment. PT/FT positions available. 
$7.50/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 
NW 13th St    7-12-11-4-14
 SUMMER WORK
GREAT PAY. $14.50 base/appt
PT/FT opening avail, students welcome
Customer Sales/Service,
Will train, conditions apply
all ages 17+ CALL NOW
(352)505-9241
7-21-11-7-14FT prof NANNY needed NOW $14/hr;
3 kids under 5;M-F 48hrs;+OT/ wkds; grads
welcomed; refs/bkkg ch; biling. Span/Eng;
long term; Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail
resume, pix, to gnv@nanoneone.com
7-7-11-3-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
SUMMER AND FALL 2011
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
7-5-11-2-14
PT work home and office. Lawn work exp. 
preferred. Students only. Non-smoking. 
Starting salary $10/hr. 
Call Sebastian (352)591-3000.  
7-26-11-8-14
MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN
TEMPORARY position. Apply in person.
Contemporary Management Concepts
2770 NW 43rd Street, Ste. B     DFWP
8-15-11-12-14
Are you a team player...capable of building 
teams nationwide, while earning a full time 
residual income with NO time restrictions? 
Then we need to talk to you!
www.danielg.info (305)282-1839   7-28-9-14
Crime Prevention Security Systems is hold -
ing a career fair on July 13th. Seeking highly 
motivated individuals who have a passion for 
life safety and technology. Call Bobby today 
at 352-376-1499 to RSVP.     7-12-11-4-1416, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2011
Part time for Psychology Office
Duites include anwering phones, scheduling, 
checking patients in and out, maintaining re-
cords, General office duties. Must be orga-
nized and able to multi task. References and 
backgroung check required. Please email re-
sume to: hmtjob5@yahoo.com   7-7-11-3-14
Female with Parkinsons needs someone to 
spend the night Thursday,Friday & Saturday, 
Assist with medication and check on during 
weekend days, could actually move in if this 
will help student with housing. Background 
check is required. Email name and phone # 
to lisa@fratmgmt.com    7-14-11-5-14
Driver- Great Miles! Great Pay! $1000 Sign-
on for experienced CO's & $1500 Incentives 
for O/O's. Driver Academy Refresher Course 
available. recruit@ffex.net. (855)356-7121    
6-30-1-1417 DRIVERS NEEDED! Top 5% Pay! 
Excellent Benefits New Trucks Ordered! 
Need 2 months CDL-A Driving Exp. (877)258-
8782 www.meltontruck.com   6-30-1-14
CDL-A DRIVERS. Central Florida company 
seeks Solo & Team Drivers. Tank and Dry 
Van positions offering some regional. 1yr 
OTR/ Good MVR required. (877)882-6537 or 
www.oakleytransport.com      6-30-1-14
Driver Start a New Career! 100% Paid CDL 
Training! No Experience Required. Recent 
Grads or Exp Drivers: Sign On Bonus!CRST 
EXPEDITED (800)326-2778 www.JoinCRST.
com      6-30-1-14
Drivers- 100% OWNER OPERATORS. 
Paid Weekly. Practical Miles. Unique Fuel 
Surcharge Program. Own Truck or Lease Purchase. CDL-A with Hazmat required. Call (800)496-4696. www.drivefaf.com      6-30-
1-14CYPRESS TRUCK LINES Home Weekends! 
Southeast Regional, Top Pay & Great 
Benefits! 6 Months TT exp CDL with clean 
MVR. Call (800)545-1351 www.cypres-
struck.com      6-30-1-14
Drivers - CDL-A Start up to 45¢ per mile!! 
SIGN-ON BONUS!! GREAT HOME TIME!!! Lease purchase available. 
Experience Req'd. (800)441-4271 x FL-100 
HornadyTransportation.com      6-30-1-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   8-15-25-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  8-15-11-25-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
8-15-25-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
8-15-11-31-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
CPR, First Aid, Basic Life Support,
Advanced Cardiac Life Support Classes
Offered at your schedule. Best prices in town. 
Call Cardiac One today (352)494-4217
7-5-11-10-15Need Moving Help?
I'll help you load or unload your truck.
Save $$$$. Call 352-328-6215      7-14-11-5-15
Bankruptcy, Foreclosure Defense, Consumer 
Rights. Peter Kelegian, Attorney at Law, 
Gainesville, Florida. Free no obligation con-
sultation. Serving counties throughout North 
Florida. (352)672-6444. peter@kelegianlaw.
com #702706     6-30-1-15
ALLIED HEALTH career training-Attend col-
lege 100% online. Job placement assistance. 
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. 
SCHEV certified. Call (800)481-9409 www.
CenturaOnline.com     6-30-1-15
Movie Extras Earn up to $250 per day To 
stand in the backgrounds for a major film 
production experience not required. All looks 
needed. Call NOW. (877)435-5877     6-30-
1-15
$$$ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? 
Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low 
rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! 
Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.
com     6-30-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Career. FAA approved pro-
gram. Financial aid if qualified - Job place -
ment assistance. CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (877)741-9260.     6-30-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting, 
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. 
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. 
Call (888)203-3179, www.CenturaOnline.
com     6-30-1-15
Heat & Air JOBS - Ready to work? 3 week 
accelerated program. Hands on environ -
ment. Nationwide certifications and Local 
Job Placement Assistance! (877)994-9904     
6-30-1-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
8-15-25-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
8-15-25-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
8-15-11-25-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses 
Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen 
Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   
7-22-11-100-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
8-15-25-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   8-15-11-25-18
Peace begins with you.
Award-winning 'Words of Peace'Cox CH 21: Sun 7pm; Thurs & Sun1:30am; Sat 1am or www.wopg.org352-373-5578  floridaconnect.net       8-15-11-25-20
CPR/ FIRST AID/ WILDERNESS FIRST 
AID/ LIFEGUARDINGMeets internship and health majorrequirementsFloridaheartsaver.org 575-0119    7-28-11-15-20
Advertise in Over 100 Papers through-
out Florida for One Low Rate. Advertising Networks of Florida, Put us to work for You! (866)742-1373 www.florida-classifieds.com.    6-30-1-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
8-15-11-13-21THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 17
Sports
THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
QUOTABLE O’LEARY HONORED FIFA WOMEN’S WORLD CUP
n The U.S. won its opening game in Germany with an impres -
sive 2-0 victory over North Korea. Former UF standout Abby 
Wambach started at striker and had an assist in the win. The U.S. is the only team with a plus-two goal differential and sit in the driver’s seat of Group C. Its next game is against Colombia at noon Saturday on ESPN.n UF lacrosse coach Amanda 
O’Leary was named the South Region Coach of the Year by the Intercollegiate Women’s Lacrosse Coaches Association on Monday.AP Photo
The Gators were swept by South Carolina in the College World Series Finals. Florida is now 0-4 all-time in the championship 
series, but the team is optimistic about its future with the entire weekend rotation and seven starters returning next year.
UF BASEBALL
By JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org
 
OMAHA, Neb. — Josh Adams’ lips quivered as he 
spoke. With tears streaming down his face, Florida’s 
second baseman was helpless at the podium, unable to 
process where it all went wrong.
After rolling through the first three games at the 
College World Series, the Gators, the preseason and 
postseason favorite to win their first national champi-
onship in school history, were swept by South Caro-lina in the best-of-three finals, losing 5-2 in Game 2 on Tuesday night after an excruciating 2-1 loss in 11 in-nings Monday. 
While the reigning national champions successfully 
defended their title, Florida left Omaha with an even deeper hollow feeling than a season ago. 
“It’s nice to make steps.  But to be honest with you, 
the idea is to win this thing,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “There’s a lot of disappointed players in that locker room right now. … We wanted to finish this thing off.”
After a two-and-out in 2010, the Gators said they 
knew what to expect, knew what heartbreak felt like. 
Now they really do. “It hurts a lot more this year. Making it to the finals 
and making it that much closer and having it ripped 
away from you is heartbreaking,” sophomore ace Season ends in 
disappointment
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
The promising career of a Florida 
track and field athlete came to a disturb-
ing close when he was arrested Tuesday on a charge of sexual assault, stemming from an incident just hours after  com-
peting at the NCAA Outdoor Champi-
onships.
Dumisane Hlaselo, 22, of 7 SW 23rd 
St., told police he entered his room-mate’s bedroom in the early morning 
hours of June 12 with the intention of 
having sex with the semi-conscious vic-tim, according to a Gainesville Police Department report.
Hlaselo originally denied having sex-
ual contact with the woman when inter -
viewed on the day of the incident, but later confessed to having sex with her 
without her permission when questioned again by police on Tuesday, the re-port states.
“We are aware of the 
arrest of Dumisane Hlase-
lo,” the UF athletic association said in a statement. “We find these charges deep-ly disturbing. He is no longer a member 
of the University of Florida track and UF runner booted after 
sexual assault chargeLike the girl of your dreams, 
CWS run not meant to be ... yet
Imagine you’re a sophomore in high 
school. 
Mostly you hang out with your 
friends, watch porn and play way too 
many video games. 
You’re a good-looking dude, but 
you’re an underclassman. People natu-rally ignore you. 
But one day, this smoking-fine se-
nior, someone you’ve secretly crushed 
on since she “matured” faster than other girls in middle school, starts ran-domly chatting it up with you. 
One thing leads to another, and 
three weeks later you and this chick are doing an amateur pas de deux.   
You and red-hot haven’t hooked 
up. 
You haven’t even talked outside of 
school until she drops a bombshell and invites you to prom. 
She makes you some phony invita-tion and teases you with a juicy kiss on your cor -
ner lip, promis-ing an experience you’ll never for -
get.
Stoked, you 
rush and tell all your friends. 
Amazingly, it turns out a bunch of 
your buddies also got prom invites 
from her clan of mean girls.
On Prom Night, you all meet at an 
over-priced restaurant and secretly 
pass booze under the table. 
Everyone’s having a great time. 
Your date starts to whisper sweet-nothings into your ear.
You can’t believe your luck. You 
know everything is happening too fast 
TrackSEE BASE, PAGE 20
SEE TRACK, PAGE 19
Jesse Simonton
Simon Says
jsimonton@alligator.org
SEE JESSE, PAGE 20
 “You know how big that blew up — that was hilarious. I was trying to 
say that if you wanted to make money off your name — why couldn’t 
you make money off your name? And they put it out there like they 
want to have an investigation on the University of Florida now.”
Channing Crowder
Former UF linebacker on his controversial 
comments regarding selling game-worn jerseys . 
THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
Incident only hours after NCAA Outdoors
field team.” 
According to the report, the 
victim woke to find Hlaselo on 
top of her. When Hlaselo ignored 
her pleas to stop, she pushed him 
to the floor.
Hlaselo, a South-African na-
tive, finally fled the room naked when he said the victim began “freaking out” and is now booked in the Alachua County jail under $100,000 bail for a second-degree 
felony charge of sexual assault.
The incident occurred less 
than a day after UF’s third-place 
finish at the NCAA Outdoors on 
June 11. 
During the meet, Hlaselo 
ran to a fifth-place finish in the 
1,500-meter run, scoring four points for the Gators.
Out of his high school in Jo-hannesburg, South Africa, Hlase-lo was heavily recruited by UF 
cross country coach Todd Mor -
gan, who tried to get him in the 
program as a freshman but was 
held up two years by the aca-
demic side of the NCAA transfer process.
As his country’s junior re-
cord holder in 
the 1,500m, the efforts to get 
Hlaselo seemed 
validated ear -
ly on, after he broke the UF re-cord in the mile 
with the first 
sub-four-minute time in school 
history and won a 2011 SEC Indoor Championships in the 
3,000-meter run.
But while he seemingly domi-
nated on the field for the Gators, the 5-foot-7, 125 pound runner 
had difficulties initially adjusting 
to life in a new country.
During his first six days in the 
states, Hlaselo had trouble eat-ing American-style foods and 
ultimately passed out on campus from exhaustion. 
After the incident, Morgan 
said in December he and his staff kept a closer watch on Hlaselo, who also struggled with home-
sickness after leaving his mother 
in South Africa. 
His teammates, who refer to 
him as “Dumi,” tried to fill that void by helping him get in touch 
with her on the phone and taking 
Hlaselo back home with them on holiday breaks.
Hlaselo was, for a time, treated 
like an adoptive brother accord-ing to Morgan and fit in well with everyone around the program.TRACK , from page 18
Slive
The Southeastern Conference is proposing a 
number of changes to NCAA football recruiting bylaws. CBSSports.com obtained a letter from SEC commissioner Mike Slive to NCAA Asso -
ciate Director of Academic and Membership affairs Leeland Zeller sent June 15. Here are some highlights of Slive’s proposed changes.
Coaches are currently not permitted to text message recruits at all 
even though they are permitted to contact them through Facebook and other social media outlets. The SEC would like this rule abol -
ished and replaced with limitations on texting.SEC, SLIVE PROPOSE 
NEW RECRUITING RULES 
Staff members and coaches should be permitted to accept follower 
requests on Twitter and friend requests on Facebook without having to be monitored by compliance offices. Slive called the current rule a 
“significant compliance challenge.”
College campuses should not be permitted to host 7-on-7 high 
school football tournaments or other “non-scholastic” events.
Phone calls between coaches and recruits need to be deregulated. 
Any coach or team staff member should be permitted to receive phone calls from recruits, recruits’ parents or recruits’ coaches.
An earlier date should be determined for when coaches and recruits 
can first contact one another off campus.
Slive also wrote the SEC supports earlier official visits, which include 
allowing summer visits. However, he did not propose a specific date and did admit concerns that allowing summer official visits could be an issue with schools also hosting summer camps.
While there are currently four recruiting periods (Contact, Evaluation, 
Quiet and Dead), the SEC would like to change it to three (Off-campus, On-campus and Dead). The change would allow coaches to freely communicate with recruits who visit during the spring. Itwould likely boost the importance of spring football in recruiting and raise the number of early oral commitments.
Coaches should be banned from involvement in local sports clubs.
Bryan Holt and Rosa Taveras / Alligator StaffHlaselo
Matt Tripp / Alligator 
Tyus Headed to Israel
After not being selected in last week’s NBA Draft, former Gator forward Alex Tyus signed with 
Maccabi Ashdod of the Israeli Loto League. With labor unrest already leading to the cancel -
lation of the NBA’s summer league, many undrafted free agents are jetting overseas.
Hudson Randall said.  
Florida played with an all-or-
nothing mentality for five months, 
but the Gators seemingly ran out of 
gas at the most inopportune time. 
For just the fourth time all sea-
son — and first since May 5 and 
6 at Arkansas — the Gators lost 
back-to-back games. 
“It was definitely an improve-
ment, making it to the finals and all. We understood what it took to 
get this far, but in the end we didn’t have quite enough,” Randall said. 
“We didn’t play well enough as a team. We’ve had a great year and a great season, but we fell short in the end.”
Although Florida had a domi-
nant regular season and NCAA Tournament, winning a school-re-cord 53 games wasn’t enough. 
While UF had Southeastern Con-
ference rival Vanderbilt’s number all season — the Gators won five of six, including eliminating the Commodores in the CWS — Flori-
da labored against South Carolina, 
losing four of five. 
Leading 1-0 in the eighth in-
ning of Monday’s Game 1, Florida 
coughed up the late lead and squan-
dered multiple precious scoring opportunities. The Gators were left wondering what if after the Game-cocks again worked their Houdini 
magic late, escaping a bases loaded 
jam and throwing out the winning run at the plate. 
All season, the Gators were a 
team that relied on pitching, de-fense and timely hitting. But in the CWS Finals, the clutch hitting and 
web gems were largely absent. 
In the brief series, UF went 2 for 
16 with runners in scoring position 
with just three RBIs. 
Florida also committed seven 
errors during the tournament — four in the CWS Finals.  
“All you can really do is say 
what if.  But it doesn’t matter any-more,” Adams said.  “Just got to get back at it.  Got to get back at it next year.”
For seniors like Adams, there 
will be no new season. No chance at reprisal. But many Florida play-ers could have that chance, as the Gators will return arguably the most talented team in the country. “I’m not really looking forward 
to next year yet, but we do have a 
good group of core guys coming 
back,” Randall said. 
“We’ll be all right,” O’Sullivan 
said. “We’ve got the whole rotation coming back. [Austin] Maddox closing full time. [Nolan] Fontana, Zunino. We’ll be back.”20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2011
§ In two tries, the Gators are now 0-4 in the CWS Finals, also 
getting swept by Texas in 2005.
§ Before Monday’s devastating 2-1 loss in 11 innings, Florida 
was 46-0 when leading after seven innings.
§ Gators committed seven errors during the CWS — four 
huge one’s against USC – after booting just two during 
regional action.
§ Florida was 2 for 16 with runners in scoring position with 
just a pair of RBIs.
§ Josh Adams (.323) and Nolan Fontana (.289) combined to 
go 1 for 12 in the finals.
§ Before going 3 for 3 in the Tuesday’s loss, Southeastern 
Conference Player of the Year Mike Zunino was just 3 for 16 and also committed a costly error that led to the deciding run in Game 1.After sweeping through the 
competition en route to the championship series, the Gators were a different team in the College World Series Finals. UF FOLDS IN FINALS
Mike Zunino
 Josh Adams
 Nolan Fontana
 Jesse Simonton and Rosa Taveras / Alligator StaffSeven starters, weekend rotation returning 
BASEBALL , from page 18
but that doesn’t stop you from trying harder.  
After dinner, everyone crams into a tacky, juiced-
up Excursion limo. 
More teasing, more drinking.  
The radio’s blasting some Ke$ha jam and even 
though you hate the song, you aren’t even fazed.  You are winning. 
Slipping into euphoria, you hardly realize you 
have no idea where you are. 
The limo pulls into some unrecognizable lot and 
the girls say they have one last surprise for every-one. 
You’re amped. Overwhelmed and naive, you 
think you’ve closed the deal.  
Everyone gets out of the limo and the ladies tell 
you and your friends to get close for a picture. 
It starts to sink in. As the booze drifts you in and 
out of consciousness, you realize you were in over your head. 
Suddenly, out of no where, a group of eight stag, 
douche bag seniors start chucking eggs and dog s*** 
at you.
Laughing and crying hysterically, the boys and 
your dream dates speed off into the limo and go to 
prom.
Now, imagine going to school Monday, seeing the 
same a-holes who punked you and then having to take the SAT’s. 
Would you even top Tebow’s score? That was the Gators baseball team Monday night: 
stunned, heart-broken, embarrassed, bewildered, humiliated. 
Name a depressing adjective and the Gators prob-
ably felt it, looked it after blowing a one-run lead 
with four outs to go to in the crucial Game 1 of the 
College World Series Finals. 
With SportsCenter highlights on a loop, the 
Gators were forced to relive the Manic Monday like a reoccurring nightmare.  
They never had a chance. The NCAA should’ve handed South Carolina 
the trophy Tuesday night without ever playing the 
game. 
Florida’s body language transformed into a sick 
mixture of Jay Cutler and DeMarcus Cousins, and, 
even when Zunino smacked a homer to cut the def-
icit with five innings to play, the Gators were still 
thinking about the why from the day before. 
They blew it. Some will say they choked. But they’ll be back. Their real Prom will come soon enough.JESSE , from page 18