We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 23 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  UF sophomore 
Kenny Boynton 
(right) stepped up 
to defend Ken-
tucky star Brandon 
Knight on the last 
play of Florida’s 
70-68 win Saturday 
night in front of a 
record crowd.
See Story, Page 13.Runners dash 2 miles, scarf a dozen doughnuts, sprint back
RALEIGH, N.C. — On your marks, get set, 
stuff your face.
About 7,500 people took part in Saturday’s 
annual Krispy Kreme Challenge in Raleigh. 
The rules are simple and stomach-churning: 
run for two miles, eat a dozen Krispy Kreme 
doughnuts and then run back along the same two miles.
That’s four miles of running to burn off 
about 2,400 calories.
It’s for a good cause, though. The race is operated by students at North Carolina State University, and it raises money for the North Carolina Children’s Hospital. 
Last year, the event took in more than 
$55,000.
The race began in 2004 as a dare among 
friends. 
Only a handful of runners took part in the 
beginning, but the race has grown steadily since then.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Rain
62/41FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 13
Alex Orlando / Alligator
David Schade, aka Sir William Dudley, jumps off his horse to clobber his opponent during a post-jousting 
battle Saturday during the 25th annual Hoggetowne Medieval Faire. 
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer
His steed is brushed.
The lances are prepped.And before he puts on his armor, 
Sir William Dudley grabs his iPhone and cranks up the volume of his fa-vorite heavy metal song.
While “The Other Side” by Un-
sun wails over the speaker in his tent, he swings open a case the size of a Buick’s trunk and hauls out the components of his armor. The shoe polish smell of oiled metal fills the 
tent as he pieces his suit together.
Among the helmets, swords and 
spare lances scattered around the 
tent are a Coleman cooler, a bottle of sunscreen and a crumpled up Mc-Donald’s bag.
He’s geared up and ready , but 
he’s not a knight yet.
Inside the tent, he’s David 
Schade, the 34-year-old former UPS employee who ran away with the Renaissance 12 years ago.
It was 1999, and he was work-
ing as a part-time actor in the Great Lakes Medieval Faire and Market-place in Geneva, Ohio, when he met up with some of the jousters. 
Maybe it was the grade-school 
history classes or the Errol Flynn movies. But when they mentioned an open spot, he was in.
“Once I got involved with this, it 
was like ‘I’m never coming back,’” he said.
And he didn’t.He called his roommate at his 
Palm Beach apartment and told her 
to put all his belongings in storage. 
When his next shift with UPS rolled around the following week, he was already on the road to the next fair.
From there, it was horse training, 
46 weekends of shows a year, and all the bumps and bruises he could take.
But most of his injuries aren’t 
from the closet-rod-sized length of oak barreling at his chest at lo-
comotive speeds. He got used to the wrenched ankles, twisted knees and ruptured disc in his back. It’s the small things that get him.
The index finger on his left hand 
lacks its middle knuckle. What start-ed as a nick from a sword during practice became a swollen, infected wound. The infection spread to his bone and had to be removed. He was off the horse for 10 weeks.
Last summer, after a 10-pound Knight fights dirty in Medieval Faire jousting contestn TWO ARRESTS WERE MADE LAST WEEK.
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
Newly released documents from the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office detail the evidence and events leading up to 
the murder of UF student Saleha Huuda and Wednesday’s 
arrests of Antonio Drayton and Cassandra Kimbrough. 
Drayton, 24, is charged with first-degree murder. Kim-
brough, 42, is charged as his accomplice.
Firefighters discovered Huuda’s body Dec. 30 after extin-guishing a small brushfire off County Road 225. 
On Dec. 29, Huuda had exchanged text 
messages with Drayton about going over 
to his apartment located in Pine Rush Vil-
las off Southwest 20th Avenue.
When Huuda did not respond to Dray-
ton’s texts, he believed she was with some-one else.
At 6 p.m. Dec. 29, Huuda stopped at 
her parent’s house to pick up an insurance 
card. 
It was the last time she was seen alive. Drayton next appeared at his brother’s house in Starke 
around 11 p.m. to ask for money. His brother said Drayton 
was “anxious,” according to the report. 
Another witness saw a car that looked like Huuda’s leav-
ing the property. The witness said the car had a cheerleading sticker on the back.
Cell phone records show both Drayton’s and Kimbrough’s 
phones were connecting with a cell phone tower in Starke. 
Surveillance cameras at a Starke gas station show a wom-
an resembling Kimbrough buying $2 worth of gas. She was 
shown moving to and from Huuda’s car. Details released in student murder case
AroundGainesville
SEE JOUST, p AgE 4SEE HUUDA, p AgE 4
Jocelyne Sanchez / Alligator StaffDrayton
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 23 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen, Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,   
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Graduate Christian Fellowship
Today, 7 p.m.
Reitz Union Room 284The speaker for February will be professor B.J. Fregly of the Mechanical and Aerospace 
Engineering Department. All 
are invited. 
Associated with the Past? 
Communist Legacies and Civic Participation in Post-Communist CountriesToday, noonAnderson Hall Room 216
Grigore Pop-Eleches from 
Princeton University will pres-ent a talk about the collapse of communism. Twenty years lat-
er, scholars roughly agree that 
the communist past still mat-ters. Many questions remain, however, about exactly how, when and why the past matters, especially in terms of political values and behavior. Sponsored by the Center for European 
Studies and the Ehrlich Chair in 
Political Science.
Gainesville Comedy Showcase
Today, 10 p.m.Gator CityThis free benefit roast is for Chris Cope, who had open-heart surgery and needs finan-
cial help.
UF Phi Beta Lambda Information 
Session
Tuesday , 6:15 p.m. Matherly Hall Room 118Students interested in develop-ing leadership, communication and team skills should join Phi Beta Lambda, the collegiate division of Future Business Leaders of America. FBLA is 
the premier professional busi-
ness organization in the na-tion. Learn more about the state conference and how you can compete, be recognized or win prizes.
720 Balloon Pop Challenge
Wednesday, 11:30 a.m.
Plaza of the Americas
The UF Bateman Team wants to 
find out if UF students can pop University Gospel Choir Benefit 
ConcertSunday, 6 p.m.Upper Room Ministries, 3575 NE 15th St. This concert will help the University Gospel Choir  al-leviate some costs for its an-nual spring break tour. For 
more information, contact the 
University Gospel Choir at www.universitygospelchoir.com or e-mail  university-gospelchoir@gmail.com. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to ebehrman@alligator.org.Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
In Friday’s Alligator, a quote 
in an article about the closure 
of a dog walking business 
regarding the city’s involve-ment with an appeal was misattributed. A phrase and following quote stated that Michael Bowe said he was not prepared for the city to speak on his behalf. The quote should be attributed to Bruce Baber.720 balloons in 7 minutes and 
20 seconds.
Connecting the Gator Nation 
Wednesday, 5 p.m.
Emerson Alumni HallThis event will provide stu-dents with an opportunity to build their network by connecting with UF alumni. 
It will provide them with 
tips on how to best market themselves and networking experience to build confi-dence in these types of situa-tions. Space is limited to the first 75 students who RSVP through Gator CareerLink. Log in to GCL at crc.ufl.
edu, click on “Events,” se-
lect “Workshops” and select RSVP next to “Connecting The Gator Nation.” 
Harness Your Passion
Thursday , 6:30 p.m. Harn MuseumParticipants will have the op-
portunity to view student art 
as well as the new African tex-tile exhibit. In addition, other activities related to the 2010 CRP selection will take place, and light refreshments will be served. For more information, please call New Student and Family Programs at 352-392-
1261, or e-mail newstudentin-
fo@dso.ufl.edu. 
14th Annual Medical College 
ForumSaturdayReitz UnionStudents can learn about the medical school admissions 
process and meet admissions 
deans and directors from ev-ery school in the state and across the country . Register online at ufpremed.org/mcf or at the event. 
FRIDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
62/35THURSDAY
RAIN
65/42SUNNY
67/51RAIN
62/41SUNNY
62/38TUESDAY WEDNESDAY
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
Museum Nights: 
Under African Skies
February 10, 2011
6 - 9 p.m.
Join us at the Harn Museum of Art 
in celebrating African art and culture.
Engage with art from the African collection, 
including the exhibition Africa Interweave. 
Activities will include art making, drum, choir 
and dance performances, and food.
Zipcar grows more popular
The University of Florida’s Zipcar Pro-
gram recently exceeded 1,000 members.
Students, staff and faculty are invited to 
join this car-sharing program for access to 
vehicles at multiple locations on campus 
available whenever they need them.
Students 18 and older and UF em-
ployees may sign up for memberships at 
a discounted rate at www.zipcar.com/ufl and start driving immediately.
Fundraiser adds Vegas touch
The 22nd annual “A Celebration of 
Wine Event” has gone Vegas. The “Vino Las Vegas” fundraiser will be held from 1 to 4 p.m. Feb. 20 in the University of Florida’s Reitz Student Union Grand Ball-room.  It benefits North Central Florida’s public radio station Florida’s 89.1 WUFT-FM. For more information, visit www.celebrationofwine.org. 
Civil rights pioneers speak
Patricia Stephens Due and her hus-
band, civil rights attorney John Due, will speak about their role in the civil rights movement in “An Evening with the Dues: Pioneers in the U.S. Civil Rights Move-ment,” from 5:30 to 8 p.m. Feb. 16 in the Buddy & Anne MacKay Auditorium in Pugh Hall. There will be free parking next to Pugh Hall the evening of the event. Your 
campus 
news 
sourceView these stories and more at www.insideuf.ufl.edu 
InsideUF is produced by the  University 
Relations Office for faculty, staff and students. 
Editor - Ron Wayne
For a listing of events, or to submit an event to the calendar, click  
“UF Calendar” at www.insideuf.ufl.edu.
UF Calendar of EventsFla. Museum highlights state’s ranching history
The Florida Museum of Natural History 
opens two exhibits exploring the state’s 
ranching and cowboy legacy this weekend.
 “Florida Cattle Ranching: Five Centuries 
of T radition” and “Florida Cowboys: Keepers of the Last Frontier, Photographs by Carlton Ward Jr.,” open at 10 a.m. Saturday with a full slate of activities.
“Visitors can experience the excite-
ment of Florida’s cattle ranching culture through our opening day activities,” said the museum’s education coordinator Kendra Lanza-Kaduce. “The number of groups scheduled to participate make this the largest public opening event the Florida Museum has hosted.”
 “Florida Cattle Ranching” examines 
one of Florida’s oldest and economically significant traditions, from its 16th-century, Spanish origins to Seminoles, Crackers and modern-day ranching. 
“Florida Cowboys” illustrates the role 
ranches play in Florida’s economic wealth and the conservation of nature as well as the raw beauty of Florida’s ranch land. 
Today, more than 1 million cattle graze 
on 5 million acres of pasture and woodland, and Florida is one of the top five beef-pro-ducing states east of the Mississippi River.
Photographer Ward will present three 
“walk and talk” tours of his “Florida Cow-boys” exhibit and discuss the important conservation role of cattle ranches. “The exhibit focuses on Florida ranch lands and culture and the environment it protects,” Ward said. “It’s an unseen and tremendous-ly important part of Florida.”
Outside the museum, visitors will be 
able to interact with Florida Cracker Horse Association members displaying Cracker cattle and horses.
Visitors can also talk to 19th-century Florida cattle ranch re-enactors and learn 
traditional roping techniques from mem-bers of the Florida Cattleman’s Association.
Award-winning whip poppers from Polk 
County are scheduled to present demon-strations at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.
”These activities provide a fun way to 
explore a significant part of Florida’s history that many of our visitors may not be famil-
iar with,” said Darcie MacMahon, Florida 
Museum assistant director for exhibits.
Other planned activities include spur- 
and saddle-making demonstrations and displays of antique tools and ranching equipment collections.
Both exhibits run through May 8, and 
the Florida Museum of Natural History is the last stop on the “Florida Cattle Ranch-ing” tour.
For more information, visit http://www.
flmnh.ufl.edu/cowboys/.
Photo by Carlton Ward Jr.Feb. 9, 1968: Eleven people, includ-
ing six UF students, are arrested by UPD 
during a protest of Dow Chemical Com-
pany’s campus recruitment and charged 
with trespassing.
About 30 demonstrators sat in the 
hall to block UF faculty from returning 
to their offices after giving a speech in 
support of the company, which manu-factured napalm for the American forces in the Vietnam War. 
When the demonstrators refused to 
leave, an argument ensued, and one man was sprayed with Mace.
Feb. 7, 1984: Two women from Miami 
bike through Gainesville on day three of a mega-joy ride from Tallahassee to their hometown. 
The women, Marci Hurait and Dristi 
Pliske, planted a “tree of peace” near the 
Capitol building in Tallahassee and said 
they planned to plant another one, 580 miles away, in downtown Miami at the end of their journey.
Feb. 9, 1998: Gainesville’s City Com-
mission gathers to discuss adding sexual orientation to the city’s anti-discrimina-tion ordinance.
Opponents of the measure say homo-
sexuals are hardly ever discriminated, and they also say being gay is against the Bible.
— KAT BEINON CAMPUS 
By JESSICA KRAMER
Alligator Contributing Writer
For three culture-infused hours, 66 
years of life was celebrated.
As “No Woman, No Cry” blasted from 
speakers on the Reitz Union North Lawn, 
the life of singer and songwriter Bob Mar -
ley was honored by the Jamaican-Ameri-can Student Association.
The program, called “One Love: The 
Bob Marley Celebration,” was held to commemorate Marley and bring together 
people who appreciated his life.
“Bob Marley was an icon in Jamaica,” JAMSA member Anna-Kay Forrester said. “His music and his lyrics impacted Jamai-
ca and all the people that live there.”
People walking to 
and from the Reitz 
Union were drawn to 
the celebration by the 
music from the speakers of Barrington Guthrie Jr. Guthrie is known on the 
radio as Mr. Magnum, a 
disc jockey from WTMG 
Magic 101.3 FM. 
This is the fourth year JAMSA has put 
on this event. Unfortunately, not as large 
of a crowd came out this year, Guthrie said; other members agreed. 
“I expected a bigger turnout,” said 
Brandon Young, the assistant treasurer of JAMSA. “Then there’s the rain, and there’s 
the Super Bowl, but people can celebrate 
Bob Marley’s life wherever they want. In 
their homes or with their friends is good, 
too.”
A poster of a Jamaican flag with a cut-
out of Marley’s face was displayed for stu-
dents to take pictures in.  Next to it was  a 
stack of trivia questions about Marley and 
his music.
Refreshments and a birthday cake cel-
ebrating  Marley’s birthday were also pro-
vided by JAMSA.Life of Jamaican ‘icon’ celebrated
n 13 MENTORS HAVE 
BEEN SELECTED.
By MARISA GOTTESMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
Pride Student Union is 
working on a mentorship 
program in the fall for lesbi-
an, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer students.
The main goal of the pro-
gram is to get students ac-
quainted with Gainesville 
and the LGBTQ community, said Donnie Fields, the PSU president.The concept is twofold. 
The first part involves educa-tional lessons between men-tors and mentees. 
The mentors will be 
trained to inform mentees about the LGBTQ community on campus and in Gainesville and answer any questions 
individuals may have. The 
second part works to create social events and bonding ex-periences.
It is a natural progression 
for students to want to join PSU, Fields said. 
He is hoping to spark in-
terest in about 30 to 45 new students through the mentor -
ship program.
“We are learning how to 
reach out to students earlier, and the mentorship program 
is a huge step in that direc-
tion,” Fields said. 
There is a whole area of 
art, film and drag 
that mentors can 
help mentees find throughout the 
Gainesville community, he said.
Thirteen mentors have al-
ready been selected. 
Annie Horneland, an 
18-year-old exploratory ma-jor, was selected to become a mentor. 
Horneland wants new 
students to understand that being gay in college is differ -
ent from being gay in high 
school.
The mentor program gives 
freshmen a place to turn for 
stability and resources, she said. 
The mentors will be able 
to show mentees where to find other gays, help students who are questioning their 
orientation and provide stu-
dents with someone to talk to about their concerns.Mentor program starting for gay studentsMarley
StudentLifeBy MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
No one slept this year at the Sleep 
Out for the Homeless.
The event, hosted by Alpha Phi 
Alpha Fraternity Inc., ended around 
midnight Saturday due to rain. Be-
fore the shutdown, students danced 
to music on Turlington Plaza, ate free pizza and donated items to the St. Francis House.
Harmardo Sinclair, president of 
the fraternity, said the magnitude of homelessness in Gainesville is “atro-cious.” 
He said the event is one way to 
give back, but he knows not every student would be willing to give up his or her Saturday night to sleep on the ground. That’s where the party comes in.
“That’s what people come out for,” Sinclair said. “People like food, people like music, and people like to dance.”
The organization collected about 
33 bags of clothing, two boxes of toi-
letries, four boxes of food and about 
$70. 
Danica Rodriguez, director of the 
Freshman Leadership Council, said  the collected items will go a long way to help others. 
“It just turns into a full-blown 
party,” she said. “And the more peo-ple that come, the most stuff they 
bring.”4, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2011
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Freshman Leadership Council members Alyssa Nieves, Brad Skene and Alice Rhee sort clothes donated 
for the homeless Saturday night on Turlington Plaza.
ON CAMPUSStudents pass on 
sleep for charity
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
For Rod Smith, last November was not a pretty month.  
A political neophyte with boatloads of money thwarted his 
chance at claiming the Florida lieutenant governor’s seat, and his Democratic colleagues across the state and country were smacked hard at the polls. He jokingly referred to meeting with 
his “political consultants” after the elections — “John Walker, 
Jose Cuervo and Jim Beam.” 
But while speaking Friday at the Hilton University of Flori-
da Conference Center Gainesville alongside many top political insiders, Smith, the current chairman of the Florida Democratic Party , made it clear: 2012 would be a whole new game. 
Every other year, UF’s political science department holds a 
conference where pollsters, professors, political correspondents and everyone in between are invited to discuss the presidential 
and midterm elections from a state and national perspective. 
The conference is split into morning and afternoon ses-
sions, with each handling either the presidential or midterm 
election. 
In the afternoon session, the panel tackled some of the major questions regarding the next presidential election. The questions dealt with topics ranging from potential Republican Party presidential candidates to political issues that could pro-pel or serve as a roadblock for the Obama administration. 
Beth Reinhard, a political correspondent with National 
Journal and a former reporter with the Miami Herald, said 
the two numbers that determine if Obama serves another four years are unemploy-ment and approval rating. 
Another critical factor would be whether 
Obama could capture the same diverse elec-torate he did in 2008. Reinhard said it may be harder this time around, as he cannot run 
as a “candidate of hope and change” from inside the White House. 
While members of the afternoon panel 
differed on the various issues, they agreed on the significance of Florida, traditionally viewed as an election swing state, in this upcoming election. 
“I believe the road to Pennsylvania Avenue starts between 
I-75 and I-95,” Smith said. 
The importance in Florida, Smith said, could be seen in the GOP’s selection of Tampa as a host city for the 2012 Republican National Convention. 
And just who would Republicans nominate in 2012? Mem-
bers of the panel indicated that, as of right now, former Massa-chusetts Gov. Mitt Romney appears to be the front-runner. 
These assertions, however, were immediately met with 
“but...” as panel members emphasized the ever-growing field of candidates and the months between now and November 2012 to show how nothing was etched in stone. 
David Hill, the director of Hill Research Consultants, ex-
pressed some doubts about a Romney campaign holding up, pointing to his performance in the 2008 Republican primaries.
“Romney was like seeing a bad movie trailer,” Hill said. “If 
you see a bad 30 seconds, are you going to sit through two and 
a half hours?” 
Then came the big question: What about Sarah Palin? 
David Wolfson, the president of the Tallahassee-based OSI 
Research & Consulting, a firm that caters to Republican can-didates, said it would be unwise to underestimate the power the outspoken former governor of Alaska could wield in the primaries.
Smith, however, offered a more tongue-in-cheek take on a 
potential Palin run. 
“I’m entirely in favor of her getting in.” he said.Political experts discuss 2012 candidates, issues
After searching Huuda’s car later, 
detectives noticed a strong odor of gas-
oline coming from the back seat and 
floorboard.
Around 1:45 a.m. Dec. 30, one wit-
ness attempted to call Huuda’s cell phone. It went straight to voicemail. 
After a second call, a woman an-
swered and said Huuda was sleeping and that she would call him back to-
morrow. 
Around 2:15 a.m., a witness travel-
ing to work saw a four-door Nissan parked in a ditch near where Huuda’s 
body was discovered. 
Also around that time, Drayton’s 
cell phone was connecting with a tower that placed him at the location where Huuda’s body was discovered. 
At 2:41 a.m., firefighters responded to the fire and found the body wrapped 
in a comforter. 
After authorities located Huuda’s 
car, they were able to find pillow cases 
that matched the pattern of the com-forter that she was wrapped in. Huu-
da’s purse was found in the backseat. 
Kimbrough signed a sworn state-
ment stating she was with Drayton at 
the time of Huuda’s death. She also 
said she had no involvement in or 
knowledge of Huuda’s death. 
On Jan. 24, Kimbrough changed her 
legal name and acquired a new driver’s license with a different date of birth, an 
incomplete address and a 6-inch differ -
ence in height. 
On Feb. 2, it was found that a napkin 
found near the site of Huuda’s burned 
body contained Drayton’s DNA. 
That day, the medical examiner re-
ported that Huuda was murdered, but that it is still unclear how.DNA was found at the scene
HUUDA , from page 1They said Florida will be a major swing state
He is also a professional wrestler
addition to his 130-pound suit of armor, he 
strained his already-present hernia, pulled his groin and threw out his back in a month.
He hides those under bandages and back 
braces when he suits up. 
When he passes through the tent’s door 
flap, on go the helmet, the British accent and superhero demeanor.
Atop  his 16-year-old Clydesdale, Chris-
tine, he’s somewhere between Santa Claus and a firefighter to his waist-high fans.
“The great thing is the magic isn’t dead for 
them,” he says.
Now, he’s trotting around the jousting 
field on Christine. Time to jeer the crowd; give them something to “huzzah!” for.
He faces the stands, full of fans cradling 
turkey legs, swords and bottles of root beer.
“Now, my friends, you wish victory, and 
do you care how?” he asks his audience.
“No,” they chime back.He cocks his head to the side and appears 
to swoon.
“I think I’m in love.”The crowd giggles.And so begins the 30-minute, metal-fisted  slobberknocker. At one point, he jumps off the horse to clobber his enemy — a move straight out of professional wrestling.
Schade is no stranger to that. Under the 
most recent name, Lance Michaels, he’s been competing in independent pro wrestling 
matches around the country almost as long 
as he’s been jousting.
That’s where he learned to play the char -
acter of Sir William. He describes him as “a guy with a chip on his shoulder, and he wants 
everyone to know it.”
By the end of the show, 
the crowd is still scream-ing for Sir William, who 
has gone from the losing jouster, to the venge-ful cheater, to the show’s champion.
Still in his battle gear, he takes off his 
helmet and lumbers toward the stands. The crowd circles him, plopping one- and five-dollar bills into his waiting helmet.
Some corral him for pictures. Others con-
duct post-fight interviews.
A boy walks up — a tin-foil sword in one 
hand, his mommy’s hand in the other.
“Why do you fight so dirty?” he asks.Sir William looks down at the boy.“So I can win, duh.”JOUST , from page 1
AroundGainesvilleSmith
“It just turns into a full-
blown party.”
Danica Rodriguez
director of the Freshman Leader -
ship Council THE STATE PLANS TO 
REMOVE SOME HORSES AND BISON FROM PAYNES PRAIRIE.
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
Lisa Grossman drove all 
the way from Jacksonville 
with a few of her friends to 
stand under an overcast sky and hold signs for the cars whizzing by on Northwest 43rd Street. 
She did this because she 
feels it’s her responsibil-ity to speak out against the removal of animals from 
Paynes Prairie.  
“Animals can’t speak for 
themselves,” Grossman, 49, 
said. “They have a certain trust in where they live and their freedom, and such the 
opposite is about to hap-
pen.”
Grossman organized 
Saturday’s protest to raise 
awareness about the Flori-da Department of Environ-
mental Protection’s plan to remove some of the Paynes 
Prairie animals, includ-
ing all males, to prevent inbreeding and keep them from getting into nearby properties.
But opponents of the 
plan fear the horses and bison on the prairie would be handed over to compa-
nies who would have the 
animals treated unfairly or killed.“I call them pony pimps,” 
Grossman said. “[The ani-mals] will be whipped and broken, while for decades they’ve been free, free, 
free.”
Melinda Eckert also 
drove from Jacksonville to 
take part in the demonstra-
tion.
Eckert held a sign out to 
passing cars that read “sale 
= slaughter.”
“I hate to see an animal 
taken off of its natural habi-tat and disposed of,” she said. “I think it’s an act of injustice.”
Olivia Martin, a UF ju-
nior studying wildlife con-
servation, joined the group 
and bent down to finish her homemade sign, coloring in the words “share our prai-
rie.” 
“Just from an ethical 
standpoint, the bison don’t 
deserve to be removed from their homeland,” Martin 
said.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Jordan Streetzel / Alligator 
UF students Olivia Martin and Matt Binder hold signs Saturday on Northwest 43rd Street 
in protest of the sale of Paynes Prairie animals for profit.
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
Naquel Hall, 19, could have gotten away 
with it, but he forgot to do one important 
thing — wait.
On Monday, Jan. 31, Hall pawned a 
yellow, black and gray Gary Fisher Super -
caliber mountain bike at City Commission 
candidate Richard Selwach’s Best Jewelry 
& Loan Pawnbroker, located at 523 NW 
Third Ave.
Hall signed papers promising the items 
were his to sell, according to the Gainesville 
police report.
An hour later, Amy Horstmeyer would 
come home to find her laundry door kicked 
in and her shed broken into. The thief 
had taken more than $20,000 
worth of household items, 
including the mountain bike, the report stated.
Horstmeyer reported the break-in and 
the stolen items to the police. 
On Friday, Hall returned to Selwach’s 
shop to pawn another one of her bikes, the report stated.
By Saturday night, the police caught 
up with Hall and arrested him for six felo-nies: burglary, grand theft, two charges of dealing in stolen property and two charges of providing false information on a pawn 
form.Man pawns 
stolen goodsProtesters want animals to stay 
“I hate to see an 
animal taken off of it’s 
natural habitat and 
disposed of. I think its 
an act of injustice.”
Melinda Eckert
protesterNewsLocalThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Did you think 
the Super Bowl ads were funny?
52 TOTAL VOTES37% YES63% NOFriday’s question: Do you agree with the City Commission’s  deci -
sion on dogwalking?State Sen. Nancy Detert should avoid walking past an 
unemployment office anytime soon. 
She filed a bill on Jan. 31 aimed to tighten Florida’s 
restrictions on unemployment benefits, and it’s in commit-tee now. 
With the state’s jobless rate sitting at 11 percent, Florida 
needs solutions to keep from borrowing money to fund 
unemployment benefits. The bill proposes several solu-
tions to cut spending, including tying weekly payments to the unemployment rate and forcing people receiving benefits to take any job that pays more than their unem-ployment checks if they’ve been out of work for more than 
three months.
We’ve got a few problems with the legislation. While 
we agree something has to be done about Floridians be-
ing out of work, we don’t think forcing people into taking 
minimum wage jobs is the way to do it. 
The fear that people may be taking advantage of the 
system to just sit at home and collect checks isn’t unfound-
ed, but we’re inclined to think most unemployed people would rather find a decent job than haul in less than mini-
mum wage week after week. There are people who are us-
ing the system how it was intended — as a way to tide them over during hard times — and this bill would punish them along with the moochers. 
Keep in mind that even with voluntary couchsitters, 
jobs are scarce to come by.
 Where are people supposed to go after their 12 weeks 
are up? 
Even if there were jobs to be had, having another job 
to receive benefits would cut down the amount of time a person has to look for work more suited for their abilities and closer to their old salaries.
Another issue crops up with eliminating the edge em-
ployees have in disputes with former employers. The bill would shift the benefit of the doubt to businesses, leaving the unemployed facing tough legal battles many of them couldn’t afford. 
We question the need for leaning to one side or the oth-
er because the abuses made possible for either side would hurt the state’s entire economy.
If the newly jobless are favored, the state will see the 
problems we have now, including people who stole from 
or acted disrespectfully at their workplaces receiving un-
deserved money. 
On the other hand, giving employers the advantage 
would leave them open to denying nearly everyone ben-efits if they can point to misdeeds or mistakes the employ-
ees have made.
Sen. Detert said she knows her proposal will be unpop-
ular, but she should consider why. 
With at least one of every 10 people out of a job, it 
stands to reason the problems are rooted less in the need 
to cut unemployment benefits and more in the lack of op-portunity afforded the unemployed. Most of them want to start bringing home a check from someone other than the government.
Faced with these dilemmas, we’re reminded of our new 
governor’s campaign slogan. Unfortunately, there doesn’t seem to be an easy way to get back to work.Work it out
Minimum wage jobs 
aren’t the answer
Teachers’ unions need schooling
Teachers are one of America’s most valuable re-sources. Unfortunately, many believe this re-source has been diluted with impurities and im-
perfections to such an extent that the profession is often derided as one for the least among us. 
We all know this characterization is not true, and yet 
it persists. 
Why? One clear answer is teacher unions. There is no doubt these unions superficially benefit 
the teachers they purport to represent. 
Collective bargaining has led to higher salaries, lon-
ger employment and better job security for these teach-
ers. 
So, it seems a non sequitur that teacher unions would 
actually be bad for teachers, but they are.
The teacher unions have taken political positions 
that have become increasingly unpopular with both the 
public and politicians in recent years. 
While many pay lip service to the idea that teachers 
are good but teacher unions are bad, the two are incred-ibly difficult to separate. 
After all, who are members of teacher unions? Who pays dues to teacher unions? Who are the pub-
lic faces of teacher unions? 
At the end of the day, teachers are inseparable from 
teacher unions. 
Thus, the backlash against unions also has been 
translated as a backlash against teachers.
This is why those unionized teachers who are more 
concerned with promoting their own union than with 
the welfare of their students should stand up to their 
unions and take back the educational system by again placing their focus on the best interests of their students. This undoubtedly will mean self-sacrifice by these teachers. 
Instead of maintaining the gov-
ernment monopoly, these teach-ers must push for increased edu-cational opportunities and school choice for their students. 
By advocating this free-market 
approach to education and the 
abolition of arcane actions such as tenure, teachers will certainly face less job security in the short-term, but in the long-term they will again gain the public trust and 
elevate the educational standards of their students.
While less job security probably strikes fear in the 
heart of most teachers, it should not. 
Open markets mean increased competition among 
teachers which, in turn, leads to the elimination of 
teachers who are not achieving adequate results, and thus, more openings for high-achieving, highly quali-fied teachers.
So, rather than marginalizing and ostracizing their 
colleagues who choose not to join them, radical union-ized teachers should instead look to these colleagues as the future. 
Instead of going along with the status quo, these 
non-unionized teachers have seen the handwriting on the wall and seek to restore the higher calling of their profession by putting the needs of their students ahead of their own short-sighted need to be insulated against the everyday ebb and flow of a market-based system of 
education.
Zack Smith is a first-year law student. His column appears 
on Mondays.
Zack Smith
letters@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
When shots rang out at a North Side party early Sunday 
morning, Youngstown State freshman Jordon Wag-ner fell to the ground 2 inches from fellow student 
Jamail Johnson. While Wagner escaped the house, which was filled with the smell of gunpowder smoke and riddled with 
bullets, Johnson did not.
“Once I get back up to my feet, all I see is this young man 
laying on his face, with smoke coming out of his body,” Wagner 
said. “I don’t even think he saw it coming.”
Johnson was killed in the shooting, and 11 others, including 
Wagner and five more YSU students, were injured, according to a statement released by YSU.
Wagner had never seen a man killed. In the moments after 
Johnson fell in the doorway, a fleeing crowd of 35 to 40 people 
trampled Wagner. What he had hoped were merely warning 
shots had taken Johnson’s life and left Wagner bleeding.
“I didn’t know I was shot till I got to the car,” Wagner said.Wagner exited the house through a back door, entering the 
bloodstained backyard where he lost his car keys.
Wagner waited in the cold with others, some YSU students.YSU freshman DeShaun McDonald arrived at the party 
around 2:30 a.m. and described the atmosphere as calm and relaxed until a physical altercation ensued.
“A bunch of people just started pushing each other,” Mc-
Donald said.
As the fight began to escalate, 
McDonald and his friend decid-ed it was time to leave. But before they could leave, the shooter was pushed out of the house, only to immediately charge back in.
That’s when the gunshots started.
“As soon as we begin to move, all I hear, it’s just like pow, 
pow, pow, pow, pow, like at least 12 or more times,” McDon-
ald said.
McDonald said he was patted down before entering the 
party, and he did not understand how the shooter was able to bring a gun.
As McDonald made his way to the exit, he and his friend 
ran into what they believe was the body of Johnson.
“We both end up looking down, and then we see the dude 
right there, and he is just laying there, just bleeding,” McDon-ald said, adding that a crowd formed around the body . “They just wanted him to live.”
Jared Buker, a YSU student and president of the Alpha Phi 
Delta fraternity had also attended the party and expressed his grief about the tragedy.
“This is such an unbelievable tragedy . Our hearts go out to 
the family and fraternity brothers,” Buker said. “This is really a wake-up call for the entire Greek system to realize how much we need to stick together and to keep everyone safe.”
Witnesses said the altercation began when a woman pushed 
a bystander, inciting a group of eight partygoers to retaliate. 
The woman left at the request of a friend but returned roughly 
10 minutes later with increased numbers.
“Everyone saw the gun,” Wagner said.A man wearing a red skullcap and a green jacket brandished 
the gun in the house. After being forced outside, Johnson went to the door to defuse the situation.
Johnson’s efforts to maintain the peace cost him his life.
“It took a lot of bravery to break up a fight when a man got 
a gun,” Wagner said of Johnson’s last moments.
Two minutes after the man left the party, he turned to the 
doorway and fired at least a dozen shots into the house.
Wagner and others were taken from the scene to St. Eliza-
beth Health Center.
At St. Elizabeth Health Center, Ezra Woodberry was texting 
Johnson. She had become ominously sick to her stomach, a witness at the hospital said. That witness was Darlene Wagner, 
there to check on the condition of her son, Jordon Wagner.
Darlene Wagner told Woodberry that Johnson would not 
be responding to her texts. She told Woodberry that Johnson — a friend she had spoken with just an hour ago — had passed away.
Lamar Salter and Doug Livingston, The Jambar, Youngstown 
State U. via UWIREGay and bisexual men have 
routinely been subjected to various forms of condemna-
tion, prejudice, stereotyping, hate and physical brutality . 
It is an uncomfortable truth that 
this unique constituency continues to endure varying degrees of intol-erance and violent bigotry in an as-sortment of contexts.
There are a myriad of dogmatic, 
narrow-minded and parochial rea-sons why homosexual men have absorbed such a disadvantaged 
reputation in American culture, but 
it cannot be ignored that one of the principal reasons pertains to their identification with the transmis-sion of HIV/AIDS and other sexu-ally transmitted infections through blood donations.
UF’s LGBT Concerns Committee 
is on record for staunchly espous-
ing the dismissal of the Food and 
Drug Administration’s “umbrella ban on all gay men from giving the gift of [life].” The committee has lambasted the ban as “[dehu-manizing] discrimination” fueled by “homosexism.” A representa-tive from the LGBT committee has even taken the presumptuous lib-
erty to be “ashamed for all of us.”  
The LGBT’s portrayal of the FDA 
ban is attractive and inspiring, while simultaneously being misleading and purposefully — otherwise, ig-norantly — inaccurate.
The FDA policy is more correctly 
identified as a ban on men who have 
sex with men (MSM). The purpose 
of the MSM question on prospec-tive blood donor applications is two pronged. Its objective is to identify those who have engaged in behavior that has significantly increased their opportunity of contracting HIV/
AIDS and other blood-borne patho-
gens and to exclude their blood from 
the blood-supply system.
Sure, it may be tempting to label 
the FDA ban as a donor-screening 
scheme to prevent some from giving blood “for no other reason than for being gay,” as the LGBT committee has erroneously concluded.But cat-
e g o r i z i n g a man on the basis of 
whether he has had sex with another 
man is distinctive from categorizing 
him on the basis of his orientation. 
The first classification con-
siders behavior, and the second classification considers identity.  
The mere act of having sex with an-other man does not necessitate that a man self-identifies as a homosexual. 
Applying the same logic, some 
men who identify themselves as gay or bisexual may not have nec-essarily had sex with another man.  
Based on data extracted from the National Health and Nutrition Ex-amination Survey and National Survey of Family Growth, Dr. Greta Bauer detected that 7 percent of men had at least one episode of sex with 
another man since age 17, but of 
those only 44 percent self-identified as gay or bisexual, whereas 49 per -
cent identified themselves as hetero-sexual. Therefore, the FDA’s MSM classification is demonstratively heterogeneous. A self-identifying straight male who had one event of sex with another male in the distant 
past and a male with a long-term 
actively gay lifestyle would both be captured under the MSM category.
To stymie the UF LGBT Concerns 
Committee’s allegation that there is no substance behind the FDA’s MSM policy, much of the follow-ing was discerned from a superior 
court judge’s meticulously inquired 
judicial opinion in Canadian Blood Services v. Freeman, a cohort study conducted by a team of doctors  and noted behavioral science surveys.
The very nature of homosexual 
intercourse makes those who en-
gage in such behavior extremely 
vulnerable to infection.  It has been  
evidenced that HIV/AIDS and oth-
er blood-borne pathogens are more 
easily transmitted by anal sex than by vaginal sex. 
According to a 2007 survey, MSM 
were responsible for 69 percent of total AIDS cases reported to date.  In the 2002 Ontario Men’s Survey , over 5,000 self-indentified gay and bisexual men were asked to pro-vide a saliva sample, but 72 percent participated. Of them, 10 percent 
were HIV positive, and 27 percent 
were not even cognizant of their infection. In addition, 27 percent reported having 10 or more sexual partners within the last 12 months.  
William Cameron, an infectious disease expert, opined that despite stringent quality control mecha-nisms, less than 5 percent of viral 
infections are recognized.  
In light of such alarming uncer -
tainty , is it unreasonable to maintain 
a precautionary policy of caution so as not to expose blood recipients to such uncharted risks?
Even the Canadian courts, which 
have championed the civil liberties of the homosexual community with 
endowments such as the right to 
marry, have re-emphasized the ab-solute need for a ban on blood dona-tions from MSM.
Because the risk of transmitting 
an infection through sexual activity is dependent on the specific type of sexual contact, the prevalence of the illness in the specific pool of 
partners, and the promiscuity of the 
respective pool, the FDA’s ban on MSM blood donors is fair, non-dis-criminatory and wholly warranted.
We indict our government as be-
ing carelessly irresponsible for not providing a sufficiently protective apparatus to safeguard our econo-
my, while we simultaneously criti-
cize them for being too prudent and restrictive when it comes to protect-ing the integrity of something as del-icate as our nation’s blood supply.
I am proud at least one govern-
ment agency has taken such pains-
taking precautionary measures. The 
only party who should be ashamed 
is the UF LGBT Concerns Commit-
tee for deliberately misrepresenting 
an important and necessary protec-tion for the sake of propagandizing its own special interest and political agenda.
Brett Wager, 4LS
FDA’s ban is for nation’s own goodGuest column
Brett Wager
Speaking Out
Lamar Salter
and Doug Livingston
UWireStudents recount 
shooting at party at 
Youngstown StateUWire8, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2011
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Meihua Student Association of Martial Arts perform a lion dance at the Vietnamese Student Organiza -
tion’s Tet Show on Saturday night in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
By REBECCA DANTA
Alligator Contributing Writer
People gathered to watch a yel-
low and purple lion puppet dance 
on stage to the beat of a drum and cymbal Saturday night, symbolizing good fortune in Vietnamese culture. 
Smells of fried rice and sounds 
of flute music filled the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom as the Vietnamese Student Organization and about 300 guests celebrated the annual Tet Lu-nar New Year program in honor of the Vietnamese New Year.
This year, a modern American 
fashion show was added to the line-
up, featuring designs by one of the 
organization’s officers. 
The show also featured tradi-
tional and modern dances, skits and a traditional Vietnamese gown fash-ion show.
Guests received a free meal of 
fried rice, Vietnamese chicken salad and egg rolls while waiting for the 
show to begin. 
“We were really excited to show-
case our culture even more,” said Ann Hoang, the organization’s pres-
ident. “The most important thing is to spread our culture to those who are unaware of what it is like.”
Amanda Le, an interior design 
graduate student, said the celebra-tion deepened her connection to her roots. 
“As a Vietnamese-American, 
tonight helped me to go back and learn about my culture,” she said. “It’s really important we keep up the tradition.”
Part of the show 
featured “Choostyle,” designs made by one of the organization’s 
members, Chieu Ho. The UF sopho-more designed and sewed each of the nine outfits worn by the models.
Freshman William Yang said this 
was his first year not celebrating with his family because they are overseas. 
He said celebrating the holiday at 
the event instead of with family was not necessarily a bad thing.
 “I’m used to celebrating with my 
family , but the people I’ve met here are my family , Yang said.” Vietnamese students celebrate lunar new year
AROUND GAINESVILLE
By KAITLYNN FLOYD
Alligator Contributing Writer
The only wires at the Dudley Farm Historic State Park are 
used for the turkey and chicken fencing.
The authentic, 19th-century working farm hosted its annual 
Plow Days, bringing in about 350 people Friday and almost 430 
people Saturday. Visitors were able to visualize the farm’s orig-inal use through demonstrations of horse plowing, crocheting, hand-washing linen and several other traditional skills.
Once visitors entered the park, they walked a muddy trail 
alongside cattle to enter life in the 1800s with the Dudley fam-ily. They could tour the Dudley farmhouse, which smells of an-tique wood and is filled with remnants of the Dudleys’ past.
V olunteers shared stories of what life was like in the house. 
Three-year-old Jane Nelson held onto a corn husk volunteers gave her to craft dolls or flowers out of as she explored the front yard.
Her mother, Cami Nelson, leaned down to ask her daughter 
what part of the tour had been her favorite. After thinking for a few moments, she yelled, “The horses!”
This year was Nelson’s first time participating in Plow 
Days. She said it was something fun for her and her friend to take their kids to on a Saturday afternoon. 
Nelson and her children watched horse-drawn wagons till the field, then visited with Vada Horner, 68, at the washing sta-tion.
Horner, a volunteer at the park for nine years, thinks it’s im-
portant for children to see their heritage. 
One of Horner’s main concerns is Florida’s budget cuts on 
state parks. 
Out of Florida’s 160 state parks, 53 have the potential to 
close. She said they will have to wait to hear from the governor 
about where they stand on the issue.
“It’s amazing how many people show up when they think 
it’s about to close,” Horner said.
The Plow Days’ blacksmith is the last stop for most visitors 
on the self-guided tour. Raymond Macatee, 70, has been weld-ing for more than 60 years. He also told his audience about the 
possibility of the park closing.
“We need to preserve our history,” Macatee said.State park program preserves 19th century farm life
“It’s amazing how many people show up when 
they think it’s about to close.”
Vada Horner
volunteer at Dudley Farm Historic State ParkOnCampu sClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2011
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Now Leasing for 2011-2012!
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
Call today 352-271-3131
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $399***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
42” TV included in every apt
$439 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. 
Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus 
Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-
205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-22-
11-25-1
**6 Bedroom House**
Walk to class. Pool. 2 Living Rooms.
Game Room. 3 Bathrooms.
Lease begins August 5.
Please call 561-866-8234 for further info.
2-11-5-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe-NW 23rd Blvd
1s-$699 2s-$789 3s $859.
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400  madisonpointe.org4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
Starting at $409 per person!
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR  n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2011
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 10-2  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet Friendly
Prem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld
352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-16-10-40-2
CALL TODAY!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
4-20-10-70-2$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$439
2/1 *$558
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/
shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-
closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year 
lease, $700/mo
●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr lease
●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida 
rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and 
tennis courts. $1000●Downtown 2 BR at the Lofts at W. University.  This modern designed unit in-
cludes cable, internet, washer/dryer, and 2 
onsite parking spaces. Minutes from UF and 
Shands, $1050/mo●Mallorca Square,Large 2br,2.5 ba town-house convenient to Oaks Mall and UF/hos-pitals, many extras,$895/mo●Treehouse Village- 2/2  New Carpet,D/W, W/D incl.,on covered bus line close to down -
town, UF/Shands. $595●BIG 3/3 in SW, Ceramic/Carpet, D/W, W/D includes clubhouse, pool, comp lab, volley -
ball, tennis, basketball, MUST SEE $900★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    2-28-11-36-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●3/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         929 nw 22 street     $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1400
●2/1  apt     2nd floor 204 nw 18  st    $1200
●2/1  apt     1st  floor 204  nw 18 st    $1100
●2/2   apt     2515  sw  35 place          $1200
2-18-11-20-2The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2s with vaulted ceilings $999
3/3 Townhomes w/Private Baths $1089
Garage included, Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
www.madisonpointe.org          4-20-66-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA very nice house. 
Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game 
room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets 
ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-8-11-19-2
AVAILABLE  AUG 1st. 4BR/3BA beautiful 
4-year-old house, washer/dryer provided. 
Open floor plan, vaulted ceilings, fireplace, 
large rooms. 2108 NW 8th Ct. $1575/mo 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-8-11-14-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-8-11-14-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $625/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    2-17-11-20-2
****  HOUSE 4BR/2BA  ****
Avail 8/1. Remodeled, W/D, bike to UF. 
NO Pets. Drive by 3532 NW 7th Ave, pick up flyer. $1200/mo. 373-1558 or 246-8645    2-18-11-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $410, 2 BR $500. 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $450, 2BR $550 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-
11-42-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for 
Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd 
at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
1BR/1BA NW. $475/mo.
Available now. Pets ok.
Call 352-359-1644 or 352-332-8481     2-28-11-20-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living 
room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 
15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-
yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-8-11-4-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 5BR/2BA BIG, big 
yard for dogs, bonfires, etc. W/D provided. 
Fireplace in living room & game room w/ bar 
area. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1650/mo. 352-
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2--8-11-4-2
Immaculate small efficiency Quiet.Wash/
dry on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No 
pets.1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus 
routes.$399/m.352-262-2871. Owner agent.   
2-21-11-14-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Summer Place
One Bedroom *$439
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-49-2
Condominiums 2 & 4 Bedrooms now or 
summer and fall. Popular locations such as CountrySide, Southwest and Shands area. Call for details Bristol Park Realty 352 367 2669 Bristolparkrealty.com   3-14-11-21-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net   2-18-11-10-23/2 Available Fall!
4 Blocks to UF
***48 Hour Special***
352-371-7777                      3-4-11-20-2
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, 
W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & 
pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $395/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79292-28-10-82-4
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 or
jfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-
cluded. $350/mo. No deposit required. 863-
634-1893. Available immediately.   2-14-10-
4
Roommate wanted to share nice furnished 
home in NW neighborhood 2 mi from UF.  
4 BR 2BA w/ W/D, all wood floors & large 
fenced backyard.  $450 inclds util, cable, HS 
internet.  No pets, N/S. 352-284-0771.   2-7-
11-5-4
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 11
2 male roommates needed. 2BRs avail in 
3BR/2BA house. Close to UF campus, on 
bus route, large fenced-in backyard. Cent H/
AC, pets welcome. $400/mo + elec. Call 561-
706-5378    2-8-11-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
2-28-10-98-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit checkMove  vehicles $500 & up!352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay hereCars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans30 day warranty352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $590002 Chevy Camero $699903 Ford Taurus $6999352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $899903 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESBring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
2-11-11-70-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Summer availability is a 
MUST. Please submit resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org AND
dkradolfer@alligator.org,
or Fax: 352-376-3015.
No phone calls please.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   2-15-10-35-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-ning & overnight shifts currently available email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-3617   2-28-10-39-14
12, ALLIGATOR  n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2011
An awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have 
fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, 
then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-
dren’s summer camp, has positions available 
in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, 
softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront 
(sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, 
WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, 
H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, 
Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-
ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call 
us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at 
www.campmataponi.com.   2-11-10-26-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
2-9-20-14
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available 
Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.25/hr, experience 
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 
for more info and interview.    2-16-25-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
Lot person, Polaris of Gainesville. Clean 
machines,load, and unload for customers, clean building, very minor mechanical, hours1p-6p M-F apply in person[students prefered]12556 NW US HWY 441 Alachua Fl 32615   11-20-11-5-14
MEDICAL RECEPTIONIST:
Full time.   Responsible for scheduling, phone calls, verifying insurance and coordi -
nating office activities.  E-mail resumeafn22025@bellsouth.net    2-17-20-14
CNAs who believe in compassionate care & 
uncompromising services are encouraged to apply on-line at http://ck546.ersp.biz/employ -
ment. Strict background checks/drug screen. 12hr shifts, days, nights & wkends avail.2-8-11-7-14
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Experienced full/part time.
Some weekends & holidays.
Apply in person at Jonesville Animal 
Hospital 14145 W Newberry Rd. Newberry
2-9-11-7-14.
Web Programmer (P/T)
Programming websites and applications using Classic ASP and SQL Server. Small company in G’ville, great work environment. About 20 hrs/wk. www.oandp.com/careers   2-25-11-17-14P/T Administrator for Non-Profit
Local nursing home outreach program seeks 
P/T admin coordinator to handle inquiries, 
monitor volunteers, coordinate projects, etc. 
About 10 hrs/wk, www.acrosstheages.org/job   
2-25-11-17-14
NANNY NEEDED   25-30hrs/wk; $12/hr
3 kids:  infant to 7yrs;   M-F 2-8pm
clean bkkg; exp + refs; long term commit;
email resume, sched, pix, + hello to
NOAH'S ARK NANNY: gnv@nanoneone.com    
2-10-11-5-14
ATTENTION SMOKERS!!!
Smokers are needed to participate in a study
assessing the effects of various activities
on smoking. Compensation provided.
336-406-3706 or uflsmokelab@gmail.com
2-15-7-14
Summer Camp Counselors Needed
Trail's End & Chestnut Lake Camps - PA
Guaranteed Experience of a Lifetime; Limited 
openings for Sports Specialists, Crafts 
Specialists, Lifeguards & Bunk Counselors; 
June 17th - August 14th 
Gain experience working with kids. 
SUBMIT AN ONLINE APPLICATION NOW! 
www.trailsendcampjobs.com   2-18-11-10-
14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working 
environment. PT/FT positions available. 
$7.50/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 
NW 13th St   2-18-11-10-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
INSURANCE WE REPRESENT
OVER 100 COMPANIESHOME, AUTO AND LIABILITYWHY PAY MORE? 371 9696www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-27-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNGThe time is now to have your lawn & shrubs look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-0069 to schedule an appointment todayprogreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
GLAUCOMA in your family? FREE 
SCREENING available for all. Participants 
who qualify & wish to participate in research 
will receive financial reimbursement. Call Dr. 
Levy or Cathleen Courtney 352-331-2020.   
2-16-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18McintoshWorld.com. Your Boutique in a barn. 
Gifts-Reggae-Music-Drums-Shoes-Sandals-
Boots-Stickers-Posters-Paintings-Cards-
Books-Counter culture-Greatful Dead-LP's- 
HWY:441. 15 min. South. Spend some time...
Formerly Environmental Circus - Key West.
2-7-11-1-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
3 Year Old Female Black Lab, Weimaraner mix. Spade and chipped. Great hunting in-
stinct. Free to good home. Evenings 352-
376-7353.   2-8-11-5-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
CHOW NOW FOOD TRUCK
Tuesdays 11am till 1:30pm
Behind Emerson Hall2-8-11-2-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
WANTED: Singers/Rappers. Win $100,000 
Production Deal from YOUNG JEEZY'S DJ. 
Win FREE AUDITION: SAT FEB 12th @ 
Paramount Plaza 2900 SW 13th St 10am. 
Bring a demo. Info: 305-814-0247   2-11-11-
5-21
Sports
ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org monday
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2011
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
After 39 minutes spent mostly 
as an onlooker, Kenny Boynton 
decided it was his time to step up 
and guard Kentucky freshman Brandon Knight. 
The Wildcats’ superstar had 
racked up a game-high 24 points working against Erving Walker and Scottie Wilbekin, and Boyn-ton knew Knight would have the ball for the final possession. 
With the Gators leading by 
two and 12.7 seconds remaining, Knight dribbled the length of the floor, came off a screen and took a 
three that fell just short, wrapping 
up a 70-68 win for Florida (18-5, 7-2 Southeastern Conference) in front of an O’Connell Center-re-cord 12,633 fans Saturday.
“[UF coaches] tried to switch 
us, but I said, ‘I’m going to just guard him,’” Boynton said. “I just 
wanted to stay on him. I didn’t 
want him to get an easy foul. … I just wanted to stay on my feet.”
Boynton spent the majority of 
the game guarding junior DeAn-
dre Liggins, who finished with 
only four points. 
While Liggins was hampered 
by foul trouble, Knight was tak-
ing control with 17 second-half 
points, and Boynton understood he had to stop his former AAU teammate and high school rival.
“I knew the type of player he 
is,” Boynton said. “We just want-ed to disrupt him, disrupt what he had going on.”
Knight spent most of the sec-
ond half playing two-on-two of-fense with freshman teammate Terrence Jones, and the duo com-bined to score 42 points for Ken-tucky (16-6, 4-4 SEC). 
The pairing sparked a 17-3 
run that gave the Wildcats a one-point lead and set up the dramat-ic finish. 
“They just tried to isolate their 
best two players, and they made some plays,” Walker said. “We made some defensive stops. All in all, I think both teams played a great game, and we were lucky to come out with the win.”
The victory capped an excel-
lent week for Florida, as it defeat-ed both Vanderbilt and Kentucky —  a pair of teams UF went 0-4 
against a year ago. 
The week was especially stel-
lar for senior forward Chandler 
QUOTABLE POLL RESULTS alligatorSports Video Show ONLINE
n The No. 2 Gators women’s 
tennis team easily swept No. 56 
Florida International at home Sunday. Make sure to check out alligatorSports.org for a full story.n What do Chandler Parsons, Billy 
Donovan and ESPN’s Rece Davis have in common with our writers? They’re all in this week’s show. Check it out on alligatorSports.org.Previous question:  Who do you think is the best player on the UF men’s basketball team?
 Percent (Votes)
Parsons 47% (36)
Walker 29% (22)
Boynton 9% (7)
Macklin 8% (6)
Tyus 4% (3)
77 TOTAL VOTESMatt Watts / Alligator
Sophomore guard Kenny Boynton shoots during Florida’s 70-68 win over Kentucky on Saturday night in the O’Connell Center.
UF tops UK as Knight falls short
Record crowd fills O’Dome
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
The Gators have had a season chock full of heartbreak — 
and it continued Sunday.
Down by double digits multiple times, including an 11-point 
deficit at halftime, the Gators rallied to tie the game at the end 
of regulation before eventually falling 103-97 to Vanderbilt (16-7, 7-3 Southeastern Conference) in double overtime.
The loss, Florida’s fifth in its last seven, marks the 11th game 
this season decided by six points or less.
“It’s not an option to hang your head,” Florida coach Aman-
da Butler said. “Does it make it tougher when you (have) another loss, instead of another win, that you know one possession …  could have made it go the other way? Absolutely.”
UF (14-11, 4-7 SEC) suffered a similar 
defeat three days ago against Ole Miss, and again it was freshman point guard Jaterra 
Bonds with the ball in her hands and the game on the line.
Coming out of a timeout with less than a minute to play, the 
Gators could not generate an open look. Nearing the end of the shot clock, Bonds put up an erratic driving layup that was eas-ily blocked by Commodores forward Tiffany Clarke. 
Butler continuously alternated between Bonds and fresh-
man guard Brittany Shine on nearly every possession down the stretch — Bonds on defense, Shine on offense. However, Butler defended the decision to leave Bonds in for the final minutes. 
“She saw a lane and she went to the rim,” Butler said. “That’s Florida suffers yet 
another close loss
Women's
Bask etball
After Florida wrapped up a 
big week with a 70-68 win 
over Kentucky on Satur -
day, reality set in for Billy Dono-van.
A reporter was asking if the 
Gators felt like they had some 
breathing room in the Southeast-ern Conference East with only 
seven games left in the regular 
season, when Donovan inter -
rupted, “How many more games left?”
Seven.“Jeez,” Donovan sighed.
With more than half the confer -
ence schedule in the books, all signs are pointing the Gators toward 
a better fate than the past three years of late-season collapses, dis-
appointing losses and a complete inability to 
play with 
the elite 
teams in 
their own 
division.
UF is 7-2 
in SEC play this season, 
a game and 
a half ahead 
of second-place Tennessee, a half-game behind Alabama for the best 
record in the conference and very 
much in control of its own post-
season destiny.
Florida could sweep Vander -
bilt and Kentucky this year — 
something it hasn’t done since 2005-06. Gators boost Tournament 
résumé with strong week  
Adam Berry
Bad News Berry
aberry@alligator.org
Twitter: @adamdberrySEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 14
SEE ADAM, PAGE 15SEE HOOPS, PAGE 14
“They just tried to isolate 
their best two players and 
they made some plays. 
We made some defensive 
stops. All in all, I think both 
teams played a great game 
and we were lucky to come 
out with the win.”
Erving Walker
Florida junior guard
 “Good win Last night Gators -see if 
they put this in the paper, I doubt it”
Ray Shipman
Former Florida guard, on Twitter, 
referencing his previously printed 
derogatory remarks about UF
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer
Just seconds before she made her 
all-around debut for the Gators, con-
fusion rushed over freshman Mack-enzie Caquatto.
Standing in her bejeweled black 
leotard, she waited patiently at the tip of the vault’s runway.
The judges had paused, no gym-
nasts were performing and the meet was at a standstill.
Alabama gymnast, Becca Alexin, 
had gone onto bars before the sig-nal, causing confusion amongst the judges and incurring a slight delay 
on the meet.
“I really didn’t know what was 
going on,” Caquatto said. “I didn’t 
know if she finished her routine, if she fell, if someone got hurt be-cause I didn’t want to turn around and watch. I was just focused on my vault. [Assistant Coach] Adrian [Burde] told me, ‘Just relax for a 
second,’ but it was more than a sec-
ond.” 
With the added time, it would’ve 
been easy for Caquatto’s nerves to build. But they didn’t — not one bit.
The freshman then flowed into 
vault, finishing with a solid 9.850, and she continued her breakout per -
formances throughout the evening.
Caquatto moved on to bars and 
posted a 9.900, winning her first event title in college.
She didn’t stop there. After 
sweeping balance beam and racking up another victory , Caquatto won the all-around competition in her 
first attempt.
Out of the five all-around par -
ticipants in the meet, the freshman 
snagged first place with a final point tally at 39.575, the highest ever for a Gator making her all-around debut.
“I’m speechless,” Caquatto said. 
“I really didn’t even know what my scores were. I wasn’t really paying 
attention. I was just trying to stay 
focused on competing and cheering on the team. The team made a huge 
score as well, and it was just awe-
some.”
Collectively , the Gators posted 
a 197.550, reeling in a victory over No. 6 Alabama. The Crimson Tide scored a 195.450 and was said to be the Gators’ toughest competition of the season, but the meet paved the way for a slew of personal victories 
for No. 1 Florida.
Maranda Smith’s parents travel from California to watch her per -
form, and Friday she served them 
up something extra special.
After a rough performance in her 
last competition, Smith stepped out against the Tide and matched her collegiate best on vault with a 9.950.
“I was so happy for Maranda,” 
coach Rhonda Faehn said. “That was just probably one of the best 
vaults I’ve seen her do and just the 
enthusiasm that came through after she knew she really stuck that land-ing, it really energized the team.”
When it came to floor, Smith was 
stumble-free, performing her rou-tine with ease. She earned a 9.925, 
far superior to last week’s 9.300.
But Smith wasn’t the only Gator 
who nailed her vault and floor rou-
tines.
After Marissa King stuck her 
blind landing on vault, her team-mates rushed up to her and started chanting, “Ten! Ten! Ten!”
“I dreamt about it a lot,” King 
said. “Every time I have done it, I’ve always done the half or something that just didn’t really kick it. But [to-day], I stuck it dead. I finally got it, I stuck it.”
Though King didn’t grasp that 
perfect ten, she earned a 9.925, a col-legiate best for the English gymnast. 
But on floor, King did see a 10 
from one judge.
“I couldn’t breathe for a second,” 
she said. “I was like, “Wow, really?”
King’s total ended up being a 
9.975, a score she said she deserved because she lifted her foot up, which may have pushed her back that last couple of hundredths.
But King was noticeably ecstatic, 
thrilled to have been the cherry on top for Florida’s stellar performance against Alabama. 
“It was great going last up, just to 
leave our team on that final note that we are awesome and that we got an awesome team score this week,” she said. “It just proves how great we are.”14, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2011
n THE FOUR-STAR QB MADE THE DE -
CISION AT HIS BASKETBALL GAME.
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
PALM BEACH GARDENS — Jacoby Bris-
sett stood at midcourt Friday night, hugging his mom, Lisa Brown, as he tried to fight back tears.
The four-star Palm Beach Gardens Dwyer 
High quarterback was moments removed from announcing the biggest decision of his life — a decision his mom didn’t agree with.
In front of a packed Dwyer gymnasium, 
Brissett made known his long-anticipated col-lege choice and announced he would attend Florida.
Brissett, the No. 3 dual-threat quarterback 
in the nation according to Rivals.com, picked Florida over Miami, Wisconsin and Washing-
ton. It wasn’t an easy choice, as Brissett said 
he wrestled back and forth between UF and UM at least 25 times in the days leading up to Friday.
“I just had to follow my heart, and my 
heart lied at Florida,” Brissett said.
Although Brissett made up his mind, he 
has not signed his national letter of intent with the Gators, but he plans on doing so today.
If his mom has anything to do with it, he 
will not be signing with Florida at all. Brown was pushing for her son to choose Miami and said she will continue to try to sway him until the national letter of intent is signed and sent in.
“It was not my choice,” Brown said. “I 
didn’t like the way Florida handled the pro-cess. I was never able to meet the head coach. 
All the other coaches took the time to come and meet me. Will (Muschamp) never did. I never met him face to face. And I find that very disrespectful.”
Brissett made his deci-
sion Thursday during school after he met with his coaches. But he didn’t inform his mom un-
til two hours before the announcement — in a 
text message.
Brown said Brissett informed her by text 
because he knew she would be hurt by the decision.
“I love her no matter what,” Brissett said. 
“But it came down to making the decision I felt was best for me. I can’t please everybody . I’m hurt that I hurt my mom. … I was cry-
ing with her before the game. She means the 
world to me.”
Brissett’s commitment to Florida gives the 
Gators 19 players in Muschamp’s inaugural recruiting class, including two of the nation’s top five quarterbacks.
Having Jeff Driskel, the nation’s No. 1 
overall quarterback, in the same class doesn’t bother Brissett, who thrives on competition.
“[Driskel] will have to prove to me every 
day , every year that he’s going to be better than me for him to win that starting spot,” Brissett said.
Brissett commits to Gators despite mother’s wishes
Recruiting
UF GYMNASTICS
Caquatto joins all-arounders as Florida beats Alabama
Saj Guevara / Alligator Staff
Florida freshman Mackenzie Caquatto made her collegiate all-around debut Friday night with a first-
place score of 39.575 as the Gators beat the Crimson Tide 197.550-195.450 in the O’Connell Center. 
what we needed at that time.” 
Bonds, who played only eight min-
utes in the first half, finished with sev-
en points on 2-of-12 shooting. 
For the second straight game, it was 
Shine’s scoring that paced the Gators. She had nine of her 19 points in a three-minute span in the second half, and Butler said she is one of the team’s most dynamic players on offense.
“There is a look that Shine gets in 
her eye, and it’s inspiring” Butler said. 
The progression of Shine and fel-low guards Lanita Bartley and Deana Allen, who were both instrumental in 
Florida’s charge, is indicative of the 
Gators’ efforts of continued improve-ment, Butler said. 
Allen scored a career-high 18 points 
and hit a three-pointer with 20 seconds remaining to give the Gators a chance in overtime. Bartley also notched a career-high 16 points with five steals, three assists and only one turnover.
“We’re showing great signs of what 
we can be — and who we’re going to become,” Butler said. “We’re just kind of ready for (the latter) to show itself.” Shine’s 19 pace team in loss
W-HOOPS , from page 13Parsons leads UF with double-double
Parsons, who recorded double-doubles 
in both wins. After scoring 18 points and grabbing 11 rebounds against the Commo-
dores, he scored 17 points and recorded 12 
rebounds Saturday.
Parsons also contributed a thunderous 
block and five assists without a turnover in 
a team-high 37 minutes, including all 20 of 
the second half. 
“He had an incredible game,” coach 
Billy Donovan said. “I don’t know since I’ve been here if I’ve ever played a guy 20 
minutes in the second half. … I wanted to 
rest him, wanted to try to get him out of the game, but he was doing too many things.”
Free-throw shooting was key in the win, as neither team led by more than three in the final seven minutes. 
After struggling from the charity stripe 
for much of the year, Florida hit 18 of its 22 attempts on Saturday, including a pair by 
Walker with 1:51 remain-ing that gave the Gators 
a lead they would never 
relinquish. 
“That was huge for 
us,” Walker said. “I know we’ve been struggling at 
the line for weeks and weeks, but the one thing about competition is it changes each day. 
“One day we could be up, one day we 
could be down, so we just got to keep fo-cusing and take advantage of free points.”HOOPS , from page 13
Men's
Bask etballMONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
Rosa Taveras / Alligator Staff
The Gators once again followed a qual-
ity victory with an even bigger win. They 
will be back in the AP Top 25 next week af-
ter spending the week at No. 23 in the USA 
Today/ESPN poll. (Which seemed a little too 
convenient, what with ESPN putting them in 
primetime twice last week.)
  And analysts are already starting to pencil 
Florida’s name on their early NCAA Tourna-ment brackets. ESPN “  Bracketology” expert 
Joe Lunardi had UF as a No. 5 seed even be-
fore it beat No. 10 Kentucky. 
ESPN.com’s Eamonn Brennan wrote after Saturday’s win, “Florida now appears to be 
an NCAA Tournament lock.”
  With six wins over top-50 RPI teams, it’s 
hard to argue against Brennan’s claim. 
The Gators snuck into the Big Dance last 
year with a far less impressive ré sumé , and 
they are on track to add a regular-season con-ference title to the list — something they have 
only done once since 2001.
  After Donovan paused to realize how little 
time is left in the season, he replied that he 
had no reason to feel comfortable with his 
team’s standing, even with only seven games 
left.
  For Donovan, last week wasn’t the Gators’ biggest test. It’s what they do now, with a slightly higher proﬁ  le following some time in the national spotlight and a sense of entitle-
ment after two important victories.
  “Do we have the maturity level, as a team, 
to handle going forward from here?” Dono-
van said. “That has been our No. 1 problem, is these situations. We have not handled them 
well.”
  Donovan called Saturday’s win a micro-
cosm of the team’s season: inconsistent, but 
resilient. 
  But this coming week isn’t about resil-
iency, and that’s what concerns Donovan. 
Florida could easily lose some of its momen-tum by dropping a trap game Wednesday at 
South Carolina, the only SEC East team UF has not beaten. 
  “We can not do that right now. That’s the 
worst thing that we can do, and I talked to 
them about it in the locker room after the 
game was over,” Donovan said. “We have a great opportunity to make incredible growth 
and steps as a team.”
  The Gators have turned fumbling away 
late-season trap games into an art form the 
past few years, so Donovan has plenty of rea-
sons to be concerned. 
  And he knows it’s never too late for a sea-
son to fall apart. Even in seven games. ADAM , from page 1316, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2011
$8 OFF
No Coupon Needed! No expiration date to remember! 
Just bring in a valid student ID to any Gainesville Jiffy Lube.
5 area locations.  
For the Jiffy Lube nearest you please visit jiffylubesoutheast.comJiffy Lube 
Signature Service®
Oil Change
See store for more details. Not valid with any other offer. Restrictions may apply.  Jiffy Lube, the Jiffy Lube design mark and 
Jiffy Lube Signature Service® are registered trademarks of Jiffy Lube International, Inc. 
©2011 Jiffy Lube International, Inc. All rights reserved.
1
1312111098765432Gator sports don’t end with 
the football season...Why 
should your advertising?
Get a 15% discount
when you show your Gator spirit 
by advertising in at least five 
sports themed issues.
Deadline for each section is 2 business days before 
publication by 4pm
Contact Your Sales Rep Today!
352-376-4482
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
sports themed issues.
February
Fri. 2/11
Fri. 2/18March
Fri. 3/4
Th. 3/17* April
Fri. 4/1
Fri.  4/8
 Wed. 4/20
*If invited to the NCAA basketball tournamentGator sports don’t end with 
the football season...Why 
should your advertising?
Deadline for each section is 2 business days before 
publication by 4pm
Contact Your Sales Rep Today!
352-376-4482February
Fri. 2/11
Fri. 2/18March
Fri. 3/4
Th. 3/17* April
Fri. 4/1
Fri.  4/8
 Wed. 4/20
*If invited to the NCAA basketball tournamentGet a 15% discount
when you show your Gator spirit 
by advertising in at least five 
sports themed issues.UF ROUNDUP
 By THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
 
  With the No. 7 Florida men’s tennis team 
in danger of losing its ﬁ  rst match of the sea-
son Sunday at No. 27 FSU, the Gators got a 
lift from an unsung hero.
  After losing the doubles point and trad-
ing singles wins with the Seminoles (5-3), the 
match was tied 3-3 as junior Nassim Slilam 
battled FSU’s Blake Davis on Court 4.
  With the team result in his hands, Slilam’s 
superior strength and conditioning proved 
to be the difference. He posted a 4-6, 7-5, 6-2 victory while Davis struggled with cramps 
late in the match.
  Slilam’s heroics propelled Florida to a 
6-0 record for the second time under coach 
Andy Jackson and gave the Gators a gutsy 
4-3 win at the Scott Speicher Tennis Center 
in Tallahassee.
  “I’m proud of Nassim. He worked very 
hard to prepare for this spring,” Jackson 
said. “He made his guy tired, and across the 
board we all fought hard today.”
  Slilam, who often gets overshadowed 
by his doubles partner, senior Alexandre Lacroix, has yet to lose a singles match this year.However, it was a day of many ﬁ  rsts for 
the Gators.
  Things started on the wrong foot as Slil-
am and Lacroix failed to clinch the doubles point, falling 8-5 on Court 1. It was the ﬁ  rst time Florida didn’t claim the doubles point 
in the dual match season.
  “To be a good team, sometimes you have 
to be able to win without getting the doubles 
point,” Jackson said.
  Lacroix, ranked No. 4 in singles, was up-
set by No. 42 Vahid Mirzadeh in three sets, 
while No. 52 Bob van Overbeek, riding an 
11-game win streak, moved up to Court 2 and lost in three sets to No. 37 Clint Bowles.
  “It was difﬁ  cult for Alex. He might have 
gotten a little too caught up in getting the point for the team,”  Jackson said. “He al-
most wanted to win too much.”
  The Gators overcame those losses as 
sophomore Sekou Bangoura Jr. and Spen-cer Newman both posted straight-sets wins. 
Billy Federhofer won in three sets to set up Slilam’s match-clinching victory.
    “We took FSU’s best shot,” Jackson said, 
“and I’m very pleased to get through it with 
a victory.”
The Gators also swept in-state rival Cen-
tral Florida on Friday.DEMPS, TAYLOR CLINCH NCAA SPOTS AT 
ELITE MEET:   The Florida men’s track and ﬁ  eld team won the indoor national champi-
onship last season, but that doesn’t concern 
Gators coach Mike Holloway anymore.
  “We’re not really trying to defend the 
2010 title. We’re trying to win the 2011 title,” Holloway said. “If we worry about what happened in 2010, then we’ll get lost in that shufﬂ  e. Our focus is not on what we did last year.”
  Three events into the 
season, Florida is well on its way, with ﬁ  ve athletes already qualiﬁ  ed for the national meet.
  Sprinter Jeff Demps and 
jumper Christian Taylor 
were the latest to clinch spots at the NCAA meet in March, posting their quali-
fying marks at the Virginia Tech Elite Meet.
  “This was a solid weekend for the Gators,” 
Holloway said. “I am very pleased with our progress. We continue to take steps in the right direction, and that is something that is very important to me.”
  Demps, who was returning to action from 
a foot injury suffered during the football sea-son, nearly recorded a personal-best time in 
the 60-meter dash, winning the event in 6.57 
seconds.
  Demps won the indoor national champi-
onship in the 60-meter dash last season.
  “Nothing Jeff does surprises us anymore,” 
Holloway said.
  Taylor, who won the triple jump with a 
16.61m/54-6 mark, has been equally impres-sive, dominating his events for quite some 
time.
  The last triple jump event Taylor lost 
came before the 2009 Tyson Invitational.
  “If you look at where Christian was this 
time last year, he is way ahead of the curve 
this year,” Holloway said. “Christian has always been a very talented guy, but he has much better focus and drive this year.”
  In addition to Demps and Taylor, sprinters 
Tony McQuay (400-meter dash) and Leon-ardo Seymore (200-meter dash) won. Lanie Whitaker, who won the 400-meter dash last year at the Elite Meet, once again took ﬁ  rst place in the event for the UF women’s team.
  Demps and Taylor join heptathlete Gray 
Horn and jumpers Omar Craddock and Will Claye as UF’s other automatic qualiﬁ  ers so far this season.
  — STAFF REPORT  Slilam’s three-set victory sends UF to win over FSU
Demps
