We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 80 THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgpage 8
n  Florida left field -
er Kelsey Bruder, 
one of five depart-
ing seniors,  said 
she remains proud 
of her team despite 
UF’s loss to ASU in 
the Women’s Col -
lege World Series 
on Tuesday.  
See Story, Page 18.n State funding 
for restoration and 
protection of local 
natural attractions, 
like Ginnie Springs 
and the Ichetuck -
nee River, has been 
cut. See story, page 
4.  Wash. troopers escort geese family off freeway
SEATTLE (AP) — Seattle-bound commuters got some 
unexpected company when a Canada goose and her gos-
lings decided to walk across a section of highway that links the city to its suburbs.
State troopers in three cruisers escorted the flock to 
an off-ramp after motorists became concerned about the geese’s safety during the Wednesday morning rush hour.
Washington State Patrol spokeswoman trooper Julie 
Startup says it took troopers about 20 minutes “to get the little guys cleared.”
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Partly 
cloudy
92/69FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
THE AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD 17
SPORTS 18
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Robomower
Andres Vargas, a mechanical engineer, left, and Camilo Buscaron, a electri-
cal engineer and programmer for the project, right, stand behind a robotic lawn mower named InstiGator. The InstiGator won $2,500 and the first place award at the Institute of Navigation Robotic Lawn Mower Competi-tion. See page 5 for story.
n DATA AFFECTED RANKING.
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF business college reported inac-
curate data about 2009 graduates of its mas-
ters of business administration program to U.S. News and World Report, according to a university internal investigation.
Last August, an anonymous caller to 
the university’s ethics hotline alleged that officials from the Warrington College of Business Administration manipulated data on job placement of program graduates in 
order to boost the program’s ranking. The 
call was followed by the submission of doc-uments supporting the allegations.
An investigation headed by Associ-
ate Provost for Academic Affairs Angel 
Kwolek-Folland fol-lowed.
According to the in-
vestigation report, com-
pleted in September, college officials “ap-pear to have used a looser interpretation of the data than would a reasonable person” UF officials: MBA 
grad data wrong   
UF STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
Election reform has turned a Student 
Government platform point into a reality. 
The Senate unanimously voted Tuesday 
night to approve a bill that will do away 
with paper ballots and move to a computer-
based voting system.
Students would still have to go to an 
on-campus polling location, but instead of 
receiving a paper ballot, they would swipe their Gator 1 cards and be ushered to a se-cure booth with a computer to cast votes.
The system is expected to be ready by 
the fall SG election.
The legislation, written by Senate Presi-
dent Micah Lewis, was widely supported and endorsed. Minority leader Gillian Leytham was the one to motion for unani-mous approval. 
The system has been tried once before in 
2005, Lewis said. However, poorly trained poll workers caused problems with the election, prompting a return to paper and pens.
This time, he said, SG intends to ensure 
the poll workers know the system, and the technology has improved drastically since.
Treasurer T.J. Villamil said SG expects to 
save $25,000 by implementing the new sys-tem. He will propose today to decrease the election budget from $50,000 to $25,000, 
Unite Party Senator Severin Walstad, who worked closely with Lewis on the fi-nancial aspects of the bill, said he estimates the savings to be $32,000 as opposed to $25,000.
However, Walstad said, first-year soft-
ware upgrades would cost between $16,000 and $22,000.
The bill comes after a Spring 2011 elec-
tion that was marred by controversy . Three students, including two ex-senators, came forward claiming to have voted twice. In-stead of voting for a candidate, they wrote 
in the name of a historical 
figure.
Lewis said he 
wouldn’t condone the action, but he said it did alert him to weaknesses in the system.
Students will now be 
able to cast votes at any polling location on cam-
pus.
Under previous rules, any kind of elec-
tronic voting was illegal. The new rules will still disallow online voting, a system used for SG elections at Santa Fe College. 
Lewis said an interview last week he 
didn’t push for online voting because he was aiming to ensure the integrity of the voting process. He said he didn’t want a 
system candidates could exploit by reward-
ing favorable votes or through pressuring peers into voting their way.SG voting moving to 
electronic stationsSEE INTERNAL, p AGE 4
Lewis
UFAcademic sNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 80 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 University Editor Alex Klausner,
  aklausner@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Editorial Board C.J. Pruner, Joey Flechas, Josh Isom
 Photo Editor Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Thomas Nassiff,
  tnassiff@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Corey McCall, 
  Briana Seymour
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Brittany Fink, 
  Kelli Folse, Bryan Holt,
  Lily Parkinson 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Johal Baez, Serina Braddock,
  Allison Klempert, Clare Grady,
  Alex Schultz, Justin Scott
  Brandon Stern, Lauren Tami
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
THUNDER
STORMS
95/72THUNDER
STORMS
94/72THUNDER
STORMS
93/70THUNDER
STORMS
92/69PARTLY
CLOUDY
92/69
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Gator Aid Disaster Response 
Drive: Helping Our Neighbors in T uscaloosa, Ala.
Saturday, June 11, 8 a.m. to 5 
p.m.
CH2M Hill Gainesville Office3011 SW Williston Road
This donation drive will ben-
efit victims of the tornadoes in Tuscaloosa, Ala. Personal hygiene products, baby products, cleaning products, 
non-perishable food and sup-
plies, personal products, pet care items and plastic storage containers of all sizes are be-
ing collected. No used cloth-
ing or toys can be accepted. Only new items can be do-nated. Monetary donations will also be accepted. an for the plant pathology de-
partment was selected. He was 
named to the position less than a week after the chairwoman was named.CORRECTIONS
In Tuesday’s edition of The 
Alligator, an article about new hires at the Institute of Food 
and Agricultural Sciences in-
correctly listed the college as the Institute of Agriculture and Life Science.
The same article also re-
ported that John Hayes would take over as the interim re-search dean at IFAS less than 
a week after a new chairwom-SUNDAY MONDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
More than 700 springs are sprinkled 
across Florida’s landscape, providing an 
ecosystem for gators and fish, an escape for visitors and about 90 percent of north Flori-da’s water supply.
But like many things across the 
state, they too face the budget ax. On June 1, the Florida Department of Envi-ronmental Protection announced the end of all funding for the Florida Springs Initiative and the Springs Basin Working Groups, or -
ganizations dedicated to restoring and pro-tecting Florida’s springs.
“It’s just a real hard blow,” said Bob 
Knight, coordinator of the Wakulla Springs working group. “We’re seeing the springs degrading, and then we hear the state no longer values them enough to fund their restoration.”
The Florida Springs Initiative was start-
ed in 2001 by the DEP . Its purpose was to identify problems the springs were having through scientific research, educate the pub-
lic about these issues and work on projects 
to protect and restore the springs.
Last year the Initiative received $514,000 
in state funding.
The DEP also directed $276,000 toward 
four Springs Basin Working Groups. The groups were charged with creating restora-tion plans for the four springs — Ichetuck-nee, Silver, Rainbow and Wakulla.
Peter Colverson, coordinator of the work-
ing groups for Rainbow Springs and Silver Springs, said his plans included six catego-ries of necessary improvements: water qual-ity, quantity of spring flow, recreation, land use and development, biodiversity, and edu-cation and outreach.The groups were two weeks away from 
presenting these plans to the DEP when the funding cut was announced.
The funds were not intended to cover 
implementation of the plans, only to main-
tain the working groups as representative 
agencies.
Colverson said these groups were the 
motivating forces that would have worked to garner public support and guide the springs’ restorations.
“It’s sort of like taking the engine out of 
a car,” he said. 
This foreseeable stall in progress was 
what led Knight to found the Howard T. Odum Florida Springs Institute, a private, non-profit organization seeking to pick up the slack from other agencies’ losses of state funding.
“We spent a lot of money understanding 
the problems in the springs, but we haven’t done a lot to fix it,” Knight  said. “The need hasn’t gone away, just the state’s support.”
Christie Goss, a spokeswoman for the 
DEP , wrote in an email that the DEP is look-ing for ways to continue the work of the springs groups. 
“DEP’s commitment to restoring these 
springs has not diminished, but it does mean we will have to explore other avenues to ful-fill this commitment,” she wrote.4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2011
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
About 20 Florida red-bellied turtles line a fallen log on the Ichetucknee River. Two 
state agencies will no longer receive funding to preserve freshwater springs.
AROUND GAINESVILLELocal springs can’t avoid stroke of the budget pen  
By LISA GALLO
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The UF School of Theatre and Dance is leaving the local 
scene and going international.
Two amphitheaters in Greece offered to host the theater 
program’s productions of Sophocles’ “Oedipus the King” and 
Shakespeare’s “Romeo and Juliet.”
Judith Williams, the founder of the International Production 
Program and director of “Romeo and Juliet,” said the plays were chosen because the directors have a lot of passion for the pieces.
Each play has two separate casts that rehearse simultane-
ously, said Russell Schultz, the assistant director for “Oedipus the King.” One cast will perform in Gainesville and the other will perform in Greece. 
The group is set to leave for Greece Saturday and stay for 
about two weeks.
The UF theater students have performed in about 10 dif-
ferent countries including England, Scotland and Russia. Last year, the students performed “A Streetcar Named Desire” in Germany and the Czech Republic.
To Wayne Willinger, who will play Oedipus, the experience 
of performing Sophocles’ masterpiece in its home country will 
be the best part. 
“When Oedipus says ‘I was at the great park of Delphi,’ I 
will be really pointing to Delphi,” Willinger said. “When Oedi-
pus yells that he is going to blind his eyes, my voice will echo 
through those hills just like it did thousands of years ago.”UF thespians to 
perform in Greece 
in coming weeks   PROGRAM AIRS SATURDAYS AT 9 P.M.
By MARIA CASTILLO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Shane Reynolds might hail from the Swamp, but 
that didn’t exactly get him ready to face some real-
life reptiles in the Everglades. 
Reynolds, a UF alumnus, said he is terrified of 
snakes and alligators. But that’s not stopping him from staring them down on national television.
He is the star of “Shane Untamed,” an adventure 
show airing Saturdays at 9 p.m. on Nat Geo Wild. His audience members will know him as Shane O, a nickname his mother gave him growing up. Reyn-olds will be a one-man band, in charge of every ele-ment that makes his show, from shooting to edit-
ing. 
While studying at UF, he traveled and always 
had dreams of one day having his own TV show.
“I think it’s something that everyone hopes to do 
at some point, just to travel,” he said. “The fact that 
I get to document it for the world to see is a dream come true.”The travel show will stand out from others since 
it is not guided by a wildlife expert, Reynolds said. 
He is an everyday person in situations that would 
normally call for an expert.
Nat Geo Wild is trying to attract a younger audi-
ence, an age demographic from 18 to 25, with this 
show, said Janet Han Vissering, se-nior vice president of development for the network. 
She said that Reynolds has a 
contemporary appeal and will help 
attract that age group.
“He puts across a very vulner -
able side, but it could be incredibly 
funny too,” she said. 
In some of the clips from his 
show found on National Geographic’s website, Reynolds can be found kayaking in Alaska looking for whales and hiking through a jungle in Guyana in search of 1,500-pound bears. He wants to prove 
that fear shouldn’t stop anyone from adventure.
“I’m hoping that people will learn that traveling 
to the unknown and remote places are not as dan-
gerous as they think,” he said.UF alum featured on travel show
Complaint came from anonymous caller
using standards used by profession-als in the MBA career services field.
UF’s MBA program ranked 39th 
in the U.S. News and World Report ranking based on 2009 data. Data on 
job placement figures highly in the 
publication’s methodology.
Data the college reported about 
the 2010 graduating class led the school to slide to 47th place.
Officials from the college have 
denied claims that they intentionally manipulated the data. 
The allegations state that Craig 
Petrus, director of graduate business career services, was pressured by Selcuk Erenguc, the associate dean for graduate programs, to manipu-late the data in order to maintain a higher ranking.
The complaint alleged that Petrus spoke of the pressure to colleagues during a July 2009 staff luncheon at a local restaurant. Two staffers sup-ported the claim. 
According to the investigation, 
Petrus could not recall the luncheon, and both he and Erenguc denied any pressure. Erenguc attributed 
the change from 2009 to 2010 to a 
slumping economy.
According to 
the ranking of the 2009 class in U.S. News and World 
Report, the MBA program’s 2009 graduating class had 53 percent job placement at graduation and about 79 percent placement three months 
after graduation. 
The complaint alleged that the 
accurate numbers  paint a different 
picture, with 37 percent of the stu-dents having jobs at graduation and 53 percent having jobs three months after graduation.
The investigation found no evi-
dence of collusion to create a more positive set of data.
“Whether this was the result of 
poor judgment or inexperience, the end result is an inaccurate portrait of 
the employment profile” of the 2009 
graduates of the MBA program, ac-cording to the investigation.
In an October memorandum 
sent in response to the investigation, College of Business Administration Dean John Kraft said the 2009 set of data accurately portrayed graduate placement and the college adhered to appropriate reporting standards.
He said there was unrest in the 
office of career services after Petrus was selected for his position last summer, and he attributed the alle-gations to this negativity.
INTERNAL , from page 1Reynolds
“When Oedipus yells that he is going to blind 
his eyes, my voice will echo through those hills 
just like it did thousands of years ago.”
Wayne Willinger
actor playing Oedipus
UFAcademic sTHURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
By CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer 
What could be considered as nothing 
more than a rudimentary Saturday chore 
served as a pinnacle of glory for a group of UF engineering students last week as their 
autonomous robot, InstiGator, won first 
place in the basic division at the ION Ro-botic Lawn Mower Competition. 
The robot, which cuts grass without 
any human direction, mowed 76 percent of the grass in a roughly 20-square-foot rect-angle without hitting a trashcan that was randomly placed in the grass. The second-
place team only cut 51 percent of the grass.
Eric Schwartz, a UF engineering pro-
fessor and project adviser, said the team’s 
experience made the difference this year as 
the team members were able to anticipate 
what might go wrong and try to prevent them.
“Some of them we figured out the night 
before,” Schwartz said.The team, however, did encounter some 
last-minute difficulties as the motor blew up a few days before the competition.
Instead of folding up shop, the team 
found a wheelchair at Goodwill, bought it and replaced the motor.
This year’s team in-
cluded senior computer engineering major Camilo Buscaron, senior computer engi-neering major Colin Watson, senior elec-trical engineering major Mike Franks and mechanical engineering graduate student 
Andres Vargas.
Schwartz said the team built everything 
on InstiGator except for the lawn mower 
engine, batteries and the motor and wheels 
taken from a wheelchair.
The robot has sonar, a compass and a 
lever to adjust the height according to the 
grass.
Next year, the team plans to move up to 
the advanced division.
Instead of mowing around a static trash-
can, advanced-team robots have to mow around a picket fence, a flowerbed and a 
moving mechanical dog.UF robotic lawn mower takes top prize at competition
Machine has sonar, compass and wheelchair wheels
UFAcademic sThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
C.J. Pruner 
EDITORJoey FlechasJosh IsomMANAGING EDITORS
80 TOTAL VOTES24% YES76% NOToday’s question: Will you come out to vote in SG elections if there’s electronic voting?Tuesday’s question: Do you want to go to a party in Anthony Weiner’s pants?If at first you don’t secede, get historical
He felt adrenaline coursing through his veins as he 
charged toward the mass of men in red, his tat-tered uniform fluttered behind him as thunderous 
orchestra of death played on. 
He saw a spark, felt a jolt in his chest and smelled 
smoldering skin. It forced him to his knees. He realized a warm liquid was spewing from his chest. The young man thought of his mother. “Revolution!” he shouted. The last sight he saw was the flag he fought and died for. 
Today, the idea of secession is considered radical and 
forbidden. People either raise eyebrows or sneer, but we ought not to be so closed-minded. 
In fact, secession should not be taboo because it is ex-
tremely American. After all, those “radical” founders 
seceded from England, and those radical confederates 
attempted to secede from the Union. The thought of inde-pendence seems to be passed down from our parents. 
The legality of secession is cryptic. Although secession 
is not explicitly mentioned in the U.S. Constitution, the founders did address the issue. Some colonies expressed the right to secede from the Union in their ratification of the Constitution. In his “Farewell Address,” George Wash-ington asked the new country to sustain cordial relations 
to maintain the Constitution, implying secession was a 
very real threat. At one point, Thomas Jefferson even said that if any state wanted to separate, it could separate and indeed should separate.
The principle of secession was supposed to offset an 
encroaching unitary government. If the government walked all over the states or failed to live up to its end of the bargain, then the state, in theory, had the right to retract its full sovereignty. Unfortunately, in a recent Ras-
mussen Poll, only 21 percent of those polled believe states 
have the right to secede. I guess the other 79 percent think Lincoln settled the issue once and for all, but I vehemently disagree. In fact, moving the political discussion to this topic would be beneficial to our country’s health.There are scores of reasons why 
a state may secede from the Union: distinct culture, irreconcilable poli-tics or a runaway central govern-ment. For states in our union, the 
best reason would be the latter. 
Federalism, the fine balance be-
tween states’ rights and the power 
of Washington, is dead. The U.S. Supreme Court has used the Com-
merce Clause and the doctrine of incorporation to rubber stamp almost anything Washington wishes to impose on the states. The organs of government have not met their constitutional mandates. 
Washington ought to realize that it came into being 
when states banded together. It is the states that created Washington, not the other way around. Washington is there to serve the states and the people. Secession is death-ly consequential, and it should not be on the table because of heat-of-the-moment politics. 
Instead, it should be examined when the alternative, 
continuing membership in the Union is unsustainable. For instance, a health care law that puts a state on the path to 
bankruptcy many be an appropriate pretext. 
Our politicians can cheer for Tibet and Taiwan, but why 
not Texas? 
To the mavericks, I say secession may be an option. In 
the future, secession may become more attractive as the 
reach of government dramatically mushrooms.
In regards of keeping to the Constitution, the United 
States has gone astray. The government has turned into what it sought not to become. Washington has become an 
unbeatable player instead of a referee. The Republic needs 
to be restored. The question now becomes whether one’s loyalties are with values or with a flag.
Chris Ceresa is a chemistry sophomore. His column appears 
on Thursdays.UF’s Board of Trustees will meet today for the first of 
two days of meetings at Emerson Alumni Hall to do 
one thing.
They are going to talk about you.
Your tuition. Your classes. Your university.
And as we wonder how the university will grapple with 
the governor’s budget vetoes, Bernie Machen’s strategic dis-
cussion Friday morning should give us some more specifics.
Trustees often find it puzzling that few students take an 
active interest in these meetings. This is the place where uni-versity regulations, tuition hikes and changes to academic 
programs are discussed. Some trustees have openly spoken 
about their desire to engage more students directly, outside of the Student Body President Ben Meyers, who gets to sit on 
the board.
These meetings are free and open to the public.
Even if attending the meetings is out of the question 
(classes, work and hangovers can obviously get in the way), reaching out to your state-appointed leaders is a good way to make your voice heard. Even giving Meyers your thoughts 
wouldn’t be a bad idea.
The whole reason why UF exists is because of its mission 
to educate. So you, the students, the professors and the ad-ministrators, are the stakeholders.
So from 12:30 p.m. to about 5 p.m. today and starting at  
9:30 a.m. Friday, see if you can stop by to witness the discus -
sion about the future of your university.
The meeting agenda is online at trustees.ufl.edu.Hey You!
Guess what? Your future 
is being discussed today
Big Deal?
About 40 years ago, 
a herd of reporters gathered in a Demo-
cratic politician’s office for a casual, off-the-record Q&A 
session. However, the only 
“Q” the reporters were con-cerned with that day was the war in Vietnam and why the United States was still in-volved. They kept pressing the politician for a definitive answer, something they had tried to do repeatedly in the 
past to little avail. The mem-
bers of the press would final-ly get their answer when the politician whipped out his whoopee stick, pointed to it and proclaimed  “This is why we’re in the Vietnam!” 
For President Lyndon 
Baines Johnson, the man who 
stood before the shocked/
disturbed/amused reporters, his johnson (which he chris-tened as “Jumbo”) was more than just another appendage. It was a symbol of power that he wielded quite frequently. He would often show it to fel-low politicians and congres-sional aides to show them that he was in charge. 
Now, we have a congress-
man who has been thrown into the blender of media scrutiny over photos he sent via Twitter that focused on his personal stimulus pack-
age (for those morally op-
posed to penile puns, sorry we’re not sorry.) 
You would figure we 
Americans would have learned by now how to deal with politician’s tricky dicks, but since it’s on the Internet and the man’s last name is 
manna from the irony gods, 
everyone just cannot help but feel the need to unload. 
The jokes have been fun, 
but we have more important things to worry about, such as the debt ceiling, a handful of wars and an economy that just refuses to get healthy.
But like most of y’all, we 
can’t wait until the story breaks when Sen. Bigtits is caught trading arms with Terry Jones and Ambassador Threeway.
Chris Ceresa
letters@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
In 1946, George Orwell said that political 
language “is designed to make lies sound truthful and murder respectable, and to 
give an appearance of solidity to pure wind.” 
Although he declared this decades ago, Or -
well might still be on to something. To be sure, I will examine his thesis to see if it holds true today , using evidence straight from the mouths of today’s most prominent politicians.
Exhibit A —   President Barack Obama on 
Osama bin Laden: “The United States has conducted an operation that killed Osama bin Laden, the leader of al-Qaida.”
I wonder how Orwell himself would have 
perceived President Obama’s late-night ad-dress and the crowds celebrating outside the White House that were gravely similar to the deranged foreigners cheering the 9/11 at-tacks.  
Regardless, my own reasoning along with 
the government’s — and specifically Obama’s — words have led me to hold the killing of bin Laden in the highest regard. Right or wrong, this sole constituent deems this murder re-spectable.
Exhibit B — Mitt Romney on the economy: 
“Government under President Obama has 
grown to consume almost 40 percent of our 
economy. We are only inches away from ceas-ing to be a free market economy.”
Romney’s statement is doubly impressive, 
combining attempts to elicit fear in his sup-porters through the portrayal of a socialist Obama regime and to overwhelm them with deceptive statistics. 
Government spending as a percentage of 
GDP is indeed close to Romney’s figure, sit-ting just below 38 percent according to Politi-Fact. But in the past fifteen years, also accord-ing to PolitiFact, government spending as a percentage of GDP has always been within 7.6 percent of the current level. 
In addition, the recession has played a piv-
otal role in the slight increase of that figure in recent years. 
Romney’s caveat of 
our looming descent into a communist mar -
ket is a bit off base. In 
reality , the U.S. ranked 
ninth on the economic freedom index of 179 countries according to the Heritage Founda-
tion. His dishonest fear-mongering leads me to classify his quote as pure wind. 
Exhibit C — Sarah Palin on Paul Revere: 
“He who warned the British that they weren’t 
gonna be takin’ away our arms by ringing 
those bells, and makin’ sure as he’s riding his horse through town to send those warning shots and bells that we were going to be sure and we were going to be free, and we were go-ing to be armed.”
Palin’s yarn is intrinsically more challeng-
ing to assess due to its incoherence. It seems the former governor was describing Revere’s legendary 1775 ride as a warning to the Brit-ish against taking American arms, using those shots and bells as cautionary tools.
Although I appreciate Gov. Palin’s story-
telling ability and believe her when she says, “I know my American history,” her story paints an inaccurate representation of Revere’s ride. 
Due to this lack of sense and distortion of his-
tory, I will again accept Orwell’s thesis and classify Palin’s quote as a pure wind lie.
Conclusion — After careful examination 
of the evidence and thoughtful deliberation, one can reach the sobering conclusion that contemporary politicians are much like their predecessors: imperfect, mendacious and hu-man. 
Toward the end of his life, Socrates reflect-
ed that he “was really too honest a man to be a politician.” So who is left to fill those shoes?
Abdul Zalikha is an microbiology junior at UF . 
His column appears on Thursdays. 
As politicians open their mouths, Orwell backflips in his graveColumn
That smell like a concoction of incense, fruits and cigars wafted to my nose as I entered Hideaway Head Shop, a Dinkytown hookah store. About a dozen eager college-
aged customers hungrily stared with anticipation as a salesman reached behind the counter to reveal an assortment of brightly 
colored hookah pipes.
Hookah — a tobacco-smoking device which originated in 
India 400 years ago — is a hip new trend among college stu-
dents, popular because of the perception that it’s a safer, less addictive alternative to smoking cigarettes. But emerging re-search is beginning to disprove this.
Recent studies by the American Lung Association, the 
World Health Organization and international researchers show that hookah may pose the same — even some unique — health risks as cigarette smoking.
In a typical one-hour session of hookah smoking, the user is 
exposed to at least 100 times the volume of smoke inhaled from one cigarette, according to a 2007 WHO advisory note. One ses-sion produces as much tar as 20 low-tar cigarettes. The smoke is also dangerous because it contains high levels of toxic com-pounds like carbon monoxide, heavy metals and carcinogens.
Despite the risks, hookah is an increasingly mainstream lei-
sure activity. Since 2000, an estimated 300 hookah bars have opened in the U.S., and the phenomenon is catching on.A clinical study of hookah smokers found high nicotine 
levels in smokers’ blood and saliva, debunking the myth that hookah cannot be addictive.For example, a 2006 study examin-ing the emerging trend in tobacco use among teens found that out of 411 college freshmen, those teens who had ever smoked 
hookah were about eight times more likely to experiment with 
cigarettes. This is dangerous because tobacco use is the leading preventable cause of premature death in the U.S. and is respon-sible for 435,000 deaths annually.
It’s true that research about hookah’s risks is still emerging, 
but that’s all the more reason to remain cautious.
Lolla Mohammed Nur is a student at the University of Min -
nesota. Going up in smoke: the dangers of getting hooked on hookahUWire
Lolla Mohammed Nur
UWire
Abdul Zalikha
letters@alligator.orgtheAvenue         thursday, june 9, 2011
THIS WEEK: 
PG 9: Check out what styles we 
caught this week in Lens Flair, learn about Apple’s new iTunes Match program and indulge in a guide to Gainesville’s inde-pendent coffee houses.
PG 10: Get the scoop on Morn-
ingbell’s last performance at Common Grounds and read a preview on an upcoming local wine tasting.
PG 11 : Thomas Nassiff’s newest 
Off The Record column gives an 
in-depth look at the upcoming Wonder Years record.
ONLINE: Carter Lyles’s latest 
Tech Effect column shifts online this week as Carter discusses nothing other than 2012 apoc -
alypse shelters.
NEXT WEEK: 
Be sure to pick up next Thurs-
day’s edition of The Avenue for our Man Issue! Our Brodition will feature plenty of manly content ranging from a piece on pro wrestling to a guide of Gaines-ville’s eating challenges.
w JUNE 14
Emily’s Army - Don’t Be A Dick
The Swellers  - Good For Me
The Wonder Years - Suburbia 
I’ve Given You All And Now I’m Nothing
w JUNE 21
August Burns Red - LevelerBon Iver - Bon IverSimple Plan  - Get Your Heart 
On!
w JUNE 28
Junior Battles  - Idle Ages
Taking Back Sunday  - Taking 
Back SundayThere For Tomorrow - The VergeSet Your Goals  - Burning At 
Both Ends Surf club taking Gainesville one wave at a time
By DIANA LOPEZ
avenue contributing writer
Despite many raised eyebrows, UF officially 
has a new surf club in the making.  
UF junior Sophia Akhiyat and some fellow 
classmates have created something of their 
own with Sisters of the Sea, a girl-powered surf 
club teaching other ladies how to surf, skate -
board and wakeboard. 
A St. Augustine native, Akhiyat usually trav -
eled home on the weekends to keep in touch with her surfing roots. With every trip she began 
to give friends complementary lessons.
“My friends always asked if they could come 
along and if I could teach them,” said Akhiyat. “The number got overwhelming at one point. 
Akhiyat decided to take her passion a step 
further, creating Sisters of the Sea to help other female students become rising stars in a field 
where men receive most of the attention.
According to Akhiyat, president of Sisters of 
the Sea, they begin by teaching members the basics.
“We first teach skateboarding, which cre -
ates the foundation necessary for surfing,” she said. “The same movements are applied in both sports and skateboarding is much more acces-sible for our land-locked group.”
According to Akhiyat, not many existing clubs 
specifically focus on teaching female members how to surf. Akhiyat wanted to create an organi-zation where she could teach girls how to surf 
in her own way.
“I’ve experienced that guys just move and 
work differently, so it’s kind of difficult teaching 
the mechanisms [to girls],” Akhiyat said.
Whether it is a battle of the sexes or a battle 
of the boards, these girls mean business and they’re set on redefining stereotypes that are 
associated with being a female surfer. 
“Although we are built differently, we have 
the same capability to shred on water and ce-ment,” Akhiyat said. “Gender is arbitrary.”
Fernanda Ponce, a UF senior and vice presi-
dent of Sisters of the Sea, said she hopes the club will help others let go of any predisposi-
tions. 
“We don’t need guys to be better surfers,” 
Ponce said.
With upcoming wakeboarding trips to Lake 
Wauburg and weekend surf lessons in St. Au -
gustine, Sisters of the Sea also strives to ar -
range many volunteer opportunities for its members. They hope to participate in Surfers 
for Autism this year.
Sisters of the Sea will be holding indo board -
ing practices later on in the year, where the girls will teach others how to improve their balance 
on a board.
The club is still in its infancy, encouraging 
others to join and enjoy what the club has to offer. Sisters of the Sea will begin to meet ev -
ery other week in front of the pond at the Reitz 
Union.
“Any girls are welcome, it doesn’t matter if 
you’ve never stepped on a board before, we’ll teach you,” Ponce said. “This is definitely an ex-
perience worth going through.”uf clubsBrett Le Blanc / Alligator
Drummer Dave Lebleu of The Mercury Program during the band’s final show at Common Grounds Friday 
night. The Gainesville-based group played at Common Grounds countless of times, dating back to the ven-
ue’s original location. The group didn’t disappoint during its highly anticipated set, delivering an emotional 
performance. “Almost every time we’ve played in Gainesville it’s been at Common Grounds,” bassist Sander 
Travisano said. “But I’m glad to know [it’s] going out with style.”
keeping time
NEW RELEASES: 
“Any girls are welcome, it doesn’t matter 
if you’ve never stepped on a board before, we’ll teach you. This is definitely an experience worth going through.”
FERNANDA PONCE
vice president of Sisters of the Seathursday, june 9, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 9
Lens
   Flair
Maria Navas, third-
year public relations 
major, keeps cool 
in a breezy striped 
jumper. She pairs 
her outfit with a pearl 
necklace and Steve 
Madden leather 
sandals but gives 
her outfit a pop with 
sunshine yellow nail 
polish.
UF junior Rokeshia 
Ashley shows off this 
summer’s trending 
color palette by 
wearing a rose pink 
one-shouldered tee 
with a straight white 
skirt. This public 
relations major loves 
her metallic flats, 
which complement 
this soft summer 
look.For the latest frills, flair and every-
thing fashion, check out what our 
lens caught this week. 
Apple moves to forefront of cloud industry for digital music
By THOMAS NASSIFF
avenue editor
The future of digital music is slow -
ly taking form, and with it an unlikely 
group seems to be finding major ad -
vantages.
Apple announced Monday at its 
annual Worldwide Developers Con-ference one of its most anticipated new products – the iCloud. Apple is marketing the new prod -
uct as “iTunes in the Cloud,” and while the technology may be over the heads of many, it’s really not that complicated.
The free iCloud program on its 
own is fairly underwhelming, but iTunes Match is what should inter -
est us.
“Here’s how it works: iTunes de -termines which songs in your col -
lection are available in the iTunes Store,” reads the advertisement for iTunes Match. “Any music with a match is automatically added to your iCloud library for you to listen to any -
time, on any device.”
So yes, poor college student: that 
means you are granted amnesty for all your pirated songs. Apple is the first to monetize the pirating mar -
ket, charging $25 a year for iTunes Match – a small price to pay for up to 25,000 songs in your iCloud.
The major advantage aside from 
legalizing your mostly illegal music collection is saving space. Once my 11,000-song library is matched into the iCloud, I can instantly stream any song from there on my iPhone with-out using any of its limited 16 GB of 
storage space.
To say that iTunes Match domi-
nates Amazon and Google’s cloud 
services would be an understate -
ment. And by gaining the army of music pirates on his side, Apple CEO Steve Jobs has once again made his company the frontrunner in digital music.Indie coffeehouses take many forms
By KATHLEEN BOYLE
avenue writer
Since the national onslaught of mega-chain coffee stores, 
Americans have reached their caffeine-hype crest. We now find 
our tech-savvy, social networking selves wired in more ways than one as we buzz through multi-tasking days. The taste for the bit-ter roast of coffee beans is one that is usually and conveniently 
acquired amidst the juggling acts that characterize college years. 
Fortunately for students, Gainesville is home to a plethora of independent coffee houses that satiate the craving for a swift wake-me-up. Here’s our guideline.
Coffee Culture (2020 NW 13th St.)
Located in the shell of a former Dairy Queen, Coffee Culture 
has been serving Gainesvillians for the past eight years. This July, the café will expand beyond its original location and open 
a second store in the recently closed Starbucks located in the 
Plaza Royale shopping center at 3822 Newberry Rd. The original location will also be establishing an in-house bakery, providing customers with a variety of food choices including vegan-friendly options.
Recommended As: A place to study. There are a number of 
individual tables provided that allow for one to spread out read -
ing and writing materials. Also provided are printing and scanning services, as well as public computers with Internet access.The 8th Avenue Bike & Coffee House (235 NW Eighth Ave.)
An interesting concept, The 8th Avenue Bike and Coffee Shop 
is exactly what its name suggests. The coffee counter is small, 
but provides an adequate beverage and food menu for any cof-fee connoisseur. Directly across from the café section is a bike service and retail store. Whether one is looking for a new set of wheels or in need of a tune-up, this spot offers friendly, quality assistance for cyclists.
Recommended As: A place to refuel. This 
is the perfect spot for bikers to grab a bite 
and caffeine perk while having their spokes 
checked out before a long ride.     
The Bull (18 SW First Ave.)
The newest coffee house addition to 
Gainesville, The Bull opened its doors this 
past New Years Eve. Providing refinement but lacking in preten-sion, this coffee house transitions into a beer and wine bar every night around 9 p.m. Exposed brick and hardwood floors create 
a fresh, cool atmosphere that simultaneously romances con-
temporary and vintage aesthetics, while rotating artwork subtly brightens the café’s walls. 
Recommended As: A date spot. Upon entering The Bull, cus-
tomers are instantly soothed by the seemingly effortless ambi-ance established by the interior’s high ceilings, flattering light and stoic music.
Cast, music entertain in “Suds”
By AMANDA HILL
avenue contributing writer
The Hippodrome State Theatre’s latest 
production will make you want to shout. It 
may also incite a sudden urge to do “The Loco-Motion” and leave you singing “Do Wah Diddy Diddy.” 
“Suds — The Rockin’ ‘60s Musical 
Soap Opera,” is now showing eight times per week through June 26. Directed by Lauren Caldwell, the play centers around Cindy (Wendi Stoltzfus), a teenage Wash-O-Rama employee who has a laundry list of reasons why she should make this birth-day her last.
Through a series of letters delivered by the postman (Billy Sharpe), Cindy is in-
formed of a plethora of terrible occurances 
that make her depressed.
Devastated by the news, Cindy decides 
to take matters into her own hands with a pair of pedal pushers, tying one leg around her neck and the other to a washing ma-chine agitator.
Enter Marge (Kelly Atkins) and Dee 
Dee (Lia Sumerano), a pair of bickering 
guardian angels who arrive just in time to 
prevent Cindy from committing suicide by washing machine. The two are faced with restoring Cindy’s will to live, working in song and dance numbers the whole way. 
Death, taxes and heartbreak may 
seem like no laughing matter, but “Suds” does not fall short of laugh-out-loud mo-
ments. Everything about this production is 
fun, from the retro turquoise and salmon-colored set, to the puffy skirts and Aqua-Net-induced hairdos.
Although the cast does not fail to enter -
tain, the star of “Suds” is the music. It’s no coincidence that it takes place in a laundry mat, as the pop music is light-hearted and squeaky clean. The musical features hits 
from the 1960s, including “Secret Agent 
Man” and “You Can’t Hurry Love.”
Tickets for “Suds” can be purchased 
at thehipp.org or by calling 352-375-4477 . Regular tickets cost $25, senior tickets are $20 and student tickets are $12 with proper identification.
theater by Diana Lopez10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, june 9, 2011
Morningbell set to play Common Grounds for last time
By KELLY RICHARD
avenue writer
Tunes like “Marching Off to War” 
and “Helter Skelter” will escape from 
the confines of Common Grounds and into the humid summer night one final time this Friday. 
Gainesville crowd-pleaser Morning-
bell will take the stage for the last time at the venue after returning home from a west coast tour. The Shitty Beatles and Devon Stuart’s new band, Snake -
healers, will also be playing.The show provided a good oppor -
tunity for both The Shitty Beatles and Morningbell to each play a set.
“We knew we just had to do both,” 
Eric Atria, bassist for the two bands, said.
Morningbell will be firing on all cyl-
inders to send Common Grounds off right. Atria said the band always sounds tighter after a tour since they’ve been 
playing so consistently.
Over the years, they’ve played at 
Common Grounds around 30 times. 
Seven or eight of those shows have sold out the venue, which has a capac-
ity of 350-400. 
“That’s our home base,” Atria said.
Many great memories for the 
band have occurred within Common Grounds as the group established a solid relationship with the venue. Atria’s favorite show he played there was a sold-out homecoming show af-ter a tour.
Recent UF graduate Tyler Fran-
cischine is planning on making the three-hour drive back to Gainesville to attend the concert.“Morningbell is my favorite 
Gainesville band, and I’ve seen them at Common Grounds at least a dozen times over the past four years,” Fran-cischine said. “I want to be a part of their last show there.”
She lived about four blocks from 
the venue her senior year and said she always expected it to be there, espe -
cially since it has been a great way for 
UF students to see a variety of artists.
UF senior and The Boswellians 
singer Amy Lobasso is also planning 
on attending the farewell show. The bands are her friends, and she enjoys 
supporting local music.
Lobasso, who frequents Common 
Grounds, said she thinks a lot of peo-
ple will also come out in support since it is The Shitty Beatles and Morning-bell’s final time playing there.
“It’s going to be a sad moment, this 
occasion,” she said.
While the show may be bittersweet, 
Morningbell and The Shitty Beatles will be sure to “come together” to cel-ebrate their great times at Common Grounds.
Wine and Cheese Gallery tasting blends grapes, styles
By BENJAMIN BRASCH
avenue contributing writer
To integrate two of the same things but with 
different colors has brought about such changed 
beauty in history, and the same can be said about blended wines. 
The Wine and Cheese Gallery, 113 N. Main 
St., will host the “Blending Red Grapes (it’s not just for Meritage) Tasting,” covering the world of blended wines on Friday from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m.
The educational tasting featuring six different 
blended wines will cost $20 per person unless you bring in a LivingSocial.com coupon, which al-lows two people to attend the tasting for the price of one.
“The purpose of the tasting is to show dif-
ferent styles of blended reds from all over the world,” said Bunky Mastin, co-owner of the Wine and Cheese Gallery. Mastin, eating a vegetarian sandwich with a 
Chardonnay because of the “light taste and light flavor,” said the tastings have been a major component of the gal-lery’s success since the cre -
ation of the business in 1973.
The gallery has hosted a 
variety of tastings, including 
one that highlighted California winemakers and the truest test of wine knowledge — a blind tast-
ing.
The blended wine tasting will feature all sorts 
of grapes from the last five years, according to 
the Wine and Cheese Gallery website. 
The tasting will run for two hours, but happy 
hour goes until 8 p.m. All the wines featured dur -
ing the tasting will be on sale after learning how to drink them, what to look for and what to pair them with.
F
musicthursday, june 9, 2011 uALLIGATOR, 11
ff the RecordThe Wonder Years craft timeless record with “Suburbia”
Thomas Nassiff
Avenue Editor
Twitter: @ThomasNassiffThe Wonder Years know some -
thing that a lot of bands seem 
to miss out on.
The record lasts forever. Above 
anything else a band does in its career, the albums it releases are what will be left behind to define its 
legacy.
With the release of their third 
full-length, “Suburbia I’ve Given You 
All And Now I’m Nothing,” it’s obvi-ous The Wonder Years know the re -
cord lasts forever. And they made it count.
Comprised of vocalist Daniel 
“Soupy” Campbell, bassist Joshua Martin, guitarists Matthew Brasch 
and Casey Cavaliere, drummer Mi-
chael Kennedy and guitarist/key -
boardist Nicholas Steinborn, the band’s follow-up to the adored “The Upsides” is a joint release on Hope -
less and No Sleep Records due out on June 14.
“Suburbia I’ve Given You All And 
Now I’m Nothing” is as timeless as records come. Its 13 tracks are un-
doubtedly the Philadelphia-based 
group’s best musicianship, matched 
pound-for-pound by a great lyrical 
output from Campbell. 
Influenced by Allen Ginsberg’s “America” (1956), the concept of “Suburbia” is outlined by the inter -
lude-interlude-closer trio of songs that make up the album’s title. “Sub-
urbia,” “I’ve Given You All” and “And 
Now I’m Nothing” provide the frame -
work for the record, with the other 
10 songs falling into place chrono -
logically according to when Camp-
bell wrote them throughout 2010.
Opener “Came Out Swinging” 
starts the record off with an electric 
30-second introduction that builds 
upon itself, similar to “You Know How I Do” from Taking Back Sun-
day’s “Tell All Your Friends.” First a 
steady guitar riff overrides some 
feedback, then a 50-year-old clip of 
Ginsberg reading “My mind is made up, there’s going to be trouble,” from 
“America” comes in before Kennedy 
bursts in with a drum fill. 
It all stops for a split-second be -
fore the whole band gets into gear and Campbell belts out, “Moved all 
my shit into my parent’s basement 
/ And out of our old apartment / I 
know things changed but I’m not 
sure when / I guess you’d call this 
a regression / I left a “real” job and 
a girlfriend / I convinced myself that 
I’m brave enough for all of this / I 
spent this whole year in airports and 
the floor feels like home.” Before the 
first interlude, 
listeners get 
two more blis-
tering tracks 
with “Woke Up Older” 
and “Local 
Man Ruins Everything.” 
The former is 
the more impressive number, with 
the catchiest chorus on the record. 
References to “The Upsides” start to pop up as well, and although “Sub-
urbia” can be enjoyed by a first-time 
listener, long-time fans will be more 
pleased with the album. 
“Suburbia” and “I’ve Given You 
All” serve as the “setting” for the 
record, and the first interlude is 
fittingly a song about the band’s 
hometown. The first two interludes 
connect to “And Now I’m Nothing” in several ways. These three tracks 
are the only ones on the album writ-
ten in 6/8 time and the finale takes 
some lyrics from the songs that pre -
cede it.
“My Life As A Pigeon” and “Sum-
mers in PA” are two essential cuts 
from the record, with the latter be -
ing most noteworthy for its bridge, 
featuring guest vocals from Dan O’Connor and Alan Day of Four Year 
Strong.
The intensity seems to be taken 
down a notch with the anti-blind reli-
gion, half-tempo jammer “I Won’t Say 
The Lord’s Prayer,” but the scathing lyrical content might actually make 
the track the most intense one on 
the album. 
“Coffee Eyes” and “Don’t Let 
Me Cave In” sandwich the second interlude, two equally impressive 
numbers that show off The Wonder 
Years’ versatility a bit. Martin’s bass and Kennedy’s drums are highlight-
ed in the build-up of “Coffee Eyes,” 
while the guitars take more of the 
focus in “Don’t Let Me Cave In.” 
The most important characteris-
tic of the new sound on “Suburbia” 
is the nearly perfect production. 
Campbell’s vocals have almost no 
editing on them, making for a rawer 
sound comparable to his voice at live shows. That raw sound comple -
ments musicianship that is simul-taneously more blunt and intricate 
than we have grown accustomed to 
with the band. 
Recording with Steve Evetts was 
the most important part of the mak -
ing of this album, as Evetts made all 
the right calls behind the boards. It’s 
the production of “Suburbia” that gives it the boost up in lasting value 
so many albums in the genre lack 
these days. 
Closer “And Now I’m Nothing” 
is the best song The Wonder Years 
have written. From several instantly accessible lines to the epic minute-
and-48-second outro, this song is 
everything The Wonder Years know how to do, executed as best as they 
possibly can. It’s almost paralleled 
by the emotional “Hoodie Weather,” 
which features brilliant one-liners 
like, “Growing up means watching my heroes turn human in front of 
me.”
When a teenager picks up a 
10-year-old copy of “Suburbia I’ve 
Given You All And Now I’m Nothing” in a decade (or more likely just wish-
es for it before technology swoops it 
into his iPod UberNano), it might be 
“that” record for him. “That” record, 
the one that makes you fall in love with an entire genre. The one that 
makes a kid pick up a guitar or a mi-
crophone. 
No one knows what the pop punk 
scene will be like in a decade, but I 
can say one thing with confidence – 
“Suburbia I’ve Given You All And Now 
I’m Nothing,” The Wonder Years’ 
best record to date, will still matter 
then.
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
8-15-11-25-1
The Landings
All-Inclusive 4/4’s
ONLY $419
$49 Signing Fees
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
8-15-25-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
8-15-25-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
8-15-25-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409***
Ask about our Apple TV special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
8-15-11-25-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
8-15-11-25-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-1The Polos
Roommate Matching Available
2/2 only $538/month per person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    8-15-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld
352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
8-15-11-25-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
8-15-11-25-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
Leasing 4 Summer & Fall
Great Specials & New Amenities!
All Inclusive & steps from SFC
Starting @ $359  352.379.9300
8-15-11-25-1
1 BR 1 BA furn apt on horse farm in Williston. 
Includes util, garb, water, pest, cable, park-ing, cent H/A, W/D, tile. NS. Refs checked. $800/mo. Avail 1st/2nd week in May. Call Cindy 352-443-2016.    6-9-11-10-1
GREAT OPPORTUNITY FOR REDUCED 
RENT. Fully furnished or unfunished up-
graded 2 Bdrm apt w/ W/D Need mature, 
handy adult to occasionally show apts (other 
3 currently occupied) and do minor chores. Requires less than 4 hours/mo. Normally 
rents for $735/mo. Negotiable Sorry no pets. 
Call 727-423-9463.    6-9-11-9-1Furnished,4bedroom,4bath,W/D,1st 
floor,$350/room, 3800 SW 20th Univ Terrace 
West, includes utilities Steve 352-586-6468; 
room-mate matching    7-5-11-10-1
$375-Well-maintained 4/4 SW Gville condo 
avail. starting summer or fall. Less than 10 
mins. from UF/Shands/Butler Plaza! RMM 
match, indiv. leases, private bath, walk-in 
closets, W/D, on 2 bus routes. Internet/cable 
included. Call 352.514.3398.   8-26-11-25-1
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse.
Walk to UF. Avail. 8/15
$850/mo. call 877-833-2865    6-14-11-5-1
1/1-$600/month(39th St NW and University 
Ave). Spacious, carpet with tile flooring. Fully 
renovated with new appliances. Furnished, 
Washer/Dryer included. Min. to UF and 
Oaks Mall.Contact Maria @ 786-389-9718  
7-5-11-8-1
Furn.small efficiency,immaculate,wash/dry 
on premises,wat/sew incl,NS,NO PETS,1/2m South UF/SHANDS,2 bus routes,$415/m 
352-262-2871 Owner/agent    7-7-11-7-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. 2br $400 372-6881, 213-3901        8-15-11-25-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
8-15-11-25-2 
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
8-15-11-25-2
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
8-15-11-25-2Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    8-15-10-25-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $579
3br  for $729.
Limited Availability. 352-376-4002
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   8-15-10-25-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
8-15-11-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
8-15-11-25-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
8-15-11-25-2 
2 BR starts at $1029
3 BR starts at $1219Amazing townhome, includes:Cable w/ HBO and ShowtimeCobblestone Apts. Call Now!352.377.2801   8-15-25-2   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
8-15-11-25-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!8-15-25-2
One Month FREE!
Move In by June 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
8-15-11-25-2
Immediate Availability!
1/1 $549 • 4/2.5 TH $899
Waived move-in fees • Waived pet fee
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
8-15-25-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
8-15-11-25-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
8-15-11-25-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
8-15-11-25-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495 ● 3BRs $630
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          8-15-11-25-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
8-15-11-25-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!
●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!
●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis
●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * biketouf.com8-15-11-25-2 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
8-15-11-25-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 475
2.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
8-15-11-25-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
8-15-11-25-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!352.371.7777                    8-15-11-25-2Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
8-15-11-25-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$559 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
Pine Rush Villas
Sign a lease by 4/30 and enter to
win a FREE YEAR OF RENT!!
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
352-375-1519
8-15-11-25-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
8-15-11-25-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
8-15-11-25-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    8-15-11-25-2The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
8-15-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
7-14-11-73-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
6-9-11-43-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     6-30-11-39-2
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. 
Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-
376-5887    8-15-25-2****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, 
close to campus, all appliances, W/D,
hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1350 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2
****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, 
W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OK Avail Aug.1, $1295 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,
W/D, central heat/air, large bds, pet friendly!
Avail. Aug 1, $1250 - 333-9874 or 317-7346
6-9-11-36-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/1.5BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/1.5BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $590-625. Gated patio, trees, flood 
lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-3937
6-16-38-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   8-15-11-25-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
8-15-10-25-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
6-30-11-39-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    8-15-11-25-2
STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
8-15-25-25
★WALK2UF.COM★
Location, Location, Affordable
352-375-8256
8-15-25-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**
Near GHFC vaulted ceilings, all appliances, 
W/D, garage, small pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1195 333-9874,  317-7346    6-9-11-31-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   8-15-11-25-2THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 13
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    8-15-11-25-2
WWW.BELLAPROPERTIES.NET
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
8-15-11-25-2.
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    
7-28-11-22-2
CONDOS.JACKSONSQUARE.US
Luxury condos 3 blocks North of UF
352-870-9453
8-15-25-2
Walk or Bike to Campus!
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR houses & condos available. 
Campus Realty 352-692-3800rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    7-28-11-34-2
Clean small efficiency Quiet.Wash/dry on 
prem.Wat/Sew incl NS No Pets.1/2m south 
UF/Shands,2 bus routes.$399/m.Same fur-
nished $410/m 352-262-2871 Owner/agent    
8-2-11-30-2
Post Apartments – 352 376 0080.  352 284 
3873. postj@bellsouth.net
Clean, spacious, private apts. for calm, quiet, 
stable, mature persons.
●Duckpond duplex - 920 NE 6th Ave. $700 
Carport, large yard, big trees, burglar bars, 
WDH, CHA, carpet. 
●1808 - 1830 NW 10th St.- 1 and 2 bed-
rooms. $500-$650. Private patio with lock 
gate, large yard, big trees, carpet.
●1700 SW 16th Ct.- 1 and 2 br Condos $550 
- $650 1 block from Shands   8-15-11-25-2
Pinnacle Point large 2 bedroom townhouse 
just minutes from UF & Butler Plaza. All of our units are newly refurbished with all new ap-pliances, tile, carpet, paint, light fixtures and more! Call today for specials 352-373-7578    8-15-11-25-2
LUXURY 3/2 CREEK'S EDGE CONDO
Quiet upstairs condo. 1300 sf. Like New, lg. rooms, hardwood floors, upgraded kitchen and appl. W/D. Mins to campus on direct bus rt. $975 727-463-0560    6-30-11-14-2
LUXURY DOWNTOWN CONDO!
Stylish City living in Regent’s Park
Beautiful, huge and quiet!
Two story, 3BR/2.5 bath, w/garage
Avail in Aug @ $1600/mo.
Call Union Properties at 373-7578.
8-15-11-25-2
507 NW 39th Rd 1/1 $725-hardwood floors, 
porch, w/d, pets-Y!, no pet fees, walk in closets, fence, close to everything Newberry & 39th rd, Avil now. MUST SEE beautiful unit. 305-586-8255 smwhite14@yahoo.com  
6-9-11-9-2
3BR/1BA house available August in SW 
Gainesville. Central heat/AC, hardwood/tile floors, washer/dryer, carport, Florida room, private fenced backyard with patio, 
pet-friendly. $900/month. ph. 352-318-1053  
6-16-11-12-2AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
2 large rooms w/private baths. 10 min to UF. 
Large home, quiet neighborhood. $550/mo + 
utils per room. Cable, W/D, hardwood floors. 
5 mins to busline. Call 352-284-0979    6-30-
11-13-2
1 MONTH FREE ★ NO APPLICATION FEE
★ Apts Starting at $350 ★ Pets OK! ★
Call Today. 
Meadowcrest Apts. 352-378-3988
meadowcrest@wbsproperties.com
6-14-11-10-2
1/1 w/ private gated court yard in small quiet 
complex. Prefect for the serious student or 
quiet proffesional small pets ok. $450 mnth 
call: 352 377-2150    6-16-11-10-2
1/1 Campus Edge
3rd floor, very calm. Washer, dryer, dish-washer, stove, fridge, microwave, overlook -
ing the pool, gym. $699/m, Avail July 352-262-2871 Owner Agent    7-14-11-16-2
●Charming 2BR 1 BA Cottage Blocks to UF
2703 NW 2nd Ave. Central h/a, laundry 
with w/d, large private screened porch. No 
Pets, Avail August. Grandaddy oaks. $875/
mo. 1st last $500 security. 352-332-5836  
6-16-11-10-2
POOL HOUSE
4BR/3BA 2816 W Univ Ave 1 mi to UF. 
Fenced-in nice backyard. W/D, DW. Avail now.
$1500/mo summer, $1600/mo fall NEG.327-2931, 376-6183              6-16-11-10-2
2/2.5 Townhome
ONLY $940
Internet & Cable
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
8-15-21-2
Very nice Rockwood Villas Townhouse
3/3 for only $900.00/month-Great deal!Large bedrooms, updated appliances, Washer/dryer, 2 pools, lots of parkingCall Jared at (941) 737-6997    6-30-11-10-2
1st mo $100 off. Near UF. Beautiful 4BR/2BA 
home. FL rm w/inground jacuzzi. W/D. Tile flr. 2-car attached garage, storage shed. 
Walk to grocery/shops. Avail 8/9. $1399/mo  
904-534-6982, kencarmgravs@comcast.net    
6-16-11-8-2Great 3/2 House w/crpt & w/d (1100sqft)
Rent $1050/month with lease
Pets allowed  :)  Available June 1st
Contact Kathryn: kesamai@gmail.com
4102 NW 21st Terrace Gville, FL 32608    
7-14-14-2
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7129 SW 45th Place. $525/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-11146-30-11-10-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/ 
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-
ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd 
flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail 
Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2175 352-665-8166 lv mssg 
8-15-11-21-2
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice,
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dishwash -
er, ice, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. $1590/mo. 
352-665-8166 lv mssg          8-15-11-21-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm floor plans starting
at $635. Washer/Dryer, Fitness Center,
Tennis Court, Swimming Pool, Sauna etc.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat. 10-5, Sun 12-4
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvillas.com
text (Lakewood)@65586
8-15-11-20-2
SPYGLASS
Individual Leases. Furniture Pkgs. incl.
Washer/Dryer, FREE Hi-Speed internet.
Rates start at $399. Every unit an end unit.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 26nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass) 65586
8-15-11-20-2
UPPER WESTSIDE /
NANTUCKET
1 & 2 bdrm  Luxury Apts. Granite counters.
Parking avail. Walk to campus & stadium.
For info. call 352-872-4644
upperwestside@cmcapt.com
text: upperwestside@65374
8-15-11-20-22/2 ROCKWOOD VILLAS, $750, NEAR 
MALL & UF. LOTS OF PARKING, CORNER 
UNIT, HAS OWN W+D D.AGUIRRE.
AZOCAR@GMAIL.COM OR 347.878.9072   
AVAILABLE JULY 1.    7-5-11-10-2
DOWNTOWN STUDIO/GARAGE APT
416 SE 2nd St. Off-street parking, privacy. 
Near main bus station. H2O/sewage provid -
ed, window A/C, space heat. $420/mo. 1st, last, sec.  Call 373-6551    7-5-10-2
2BR HOUSE
Private yard. Small dog OK. $650/mo 6200 
SW 13th St. 352-372-6881 or 352-213-3901   6-28-11-8-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE PERFECT FOR 
PROFESSIONALS/GRAD. 2BR/2BA pris-
tine Bivens Arm condo. Large den/3rd BR, 
hdwd flrs, W/D, pool, canoe. Walk/bike to 
Shands/UF, bus stop. $1190/mo. 407-832-
1458    6-28-11-8-2
Quiet spacious 2 bed 1 bath house on large 
fenced corner lot,screen porch, washer/dryer 
hookup,pet fee,lease $750 available june 1
1123 NW 31st ave call 352 475 1586    6-9-
4-2
4bed/4 bath condo available on
7/31. $275 per person.1.5 miles
from UF; on bus line. All appli-
ances &some furniture included.
Call J. Erney at 352-328-1266.   7-7-11-10-2
LARGE 1 Bedrooom Condo in
HAILE PLANTATION
on GOLFCOURSE next to
POOL & CLUBHOUSE.
Beautiful Tranquil location just minutes from 
U.F. 2nd Floor Unit $750 per month.
MCHENRYSCOTT@HOTMAIL.COM
407-493-4748
6-16-11-5-2
NOW LEASING FOR FALL!!!
1 Bedrooms Apts. starting at $425.00
2 Bedroom Apts starting at $495.
www.associatesrealty.com  352-372-7755
6-14-11-4-2***FALL RENTAL***
4,5,6+ Bdrm Houses for Rent
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Ask abt Family Discounts
Immediate Move-In Available
8-15-11-17-2
3240 NW 41st Ave. On bus rte. 3BR/1BA 
house. Quiet neighborhood, W/D, DW, cent 
A/C, screened porch, fenced yard, pet friend-
ly. Avail 8/1. $1000/mo. 1st + security. 407-
509-4574    6-30-11-6-2
NOW LEASING FOR FALL!!
3 and 4 bedroom houses, Close to Campus!
Starting at $1095.00
www.associatesrealty.com
352-372-7755
6-16-11-4-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   8-31-11-24-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420    8-31-11-24-2
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
8-15-25-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-414, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2011
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house. Male 
or female. No pets/smoking. Free off-street 
parking $450/mo. Includes all utilities, wifi, 
security system, Available 8/1 yearly lease. 
727-726-2915    6-16-11-38-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus 
route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-
729-1561   6-30-11-27-4
350/mo 2 blocks from campus
Close to downtown
814-440-3325 or jfidorra@hotmail.com   6-30-11-14-4
MATURE PROFESSIONAL Share 3BR/3BA 
pool home near UF. Safe area across from 
Plaza Royale. Bus rte. No alcohol or drugs. 
$325 + 1/3 util. 2 rms available 5/13. No pets. 371-3837                                 6-28-11-13-4
$350 moves you in! No deposit or last months 
rent. Mature male student to share furnished 
4/2. FR, LR, W/D, maid service, yrd man, 5 min from UF, new kitchen, big yard. No pets, non-smoker. (813) 362-7729 or 362-7881    
6-28-11-9-4Male college student wanted for gated 
4BR/4BA Countryside condo, poolside, own 
BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed internet, ear-
ly stop on UF bus rte. Utils incl. $400/mo. No 
deposit  863-634-1893     6-30-11-10-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Countryside 
condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl.
Direct bus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless.Flo 352-357-9656, or 352-636-48146-30-11-10-4
Grad student looking for female students 
in fully furnished 4/4 condo at Countryside. 
$425/month. Includes cable/internet, utilities, 
W/D. On 2 bus routes. Contact Megan 727-
542-8155.    6-16-11-6-4
Looking for 4 UF students to rent furnished 
4/4 student condo at Countryside at the University. W/D, pool, no pets, on bus rt, 1.5 mi from UF. 1st floor. Ready Aug 1st. $400/mo/rm. Call 386-295-7929 or 386-672-6969   7-14-11-11-4Grad student looking for female roommate 
who is clean and studious. Windsor Park 
furnished condo - 3/3, own bed/bath, on 
bus stop close to UF. Pool, hot tub, tennis, 
gym, $375/mo + 1/3 utilities. 407-361-1154. 
6-30-11-6-4
Roommate wanted for summer B and/or fall:  
College house; 4/3: lg rooms, lg yard, fp & 
lg pool, walk/bike to UF or 4.5 mi to SFC, 
nice/safe neighborhood! Join the good life! 
$375/mo +1/4 util. Call Justin 813-748-6042
6-28-11-5-4
I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking $300/mo which includes util & Dish Network TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-682-9412      7-7-7-4
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        8-15-11-25-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   8-15-25-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      8-15-25-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    8-15-25-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      8-15-25-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
8-15-25-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  8-15-25-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     8-15-11-25-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
8-15-11-25-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-15-11-95-7
A+ Mobile PC Repair
Our technicians provide fast and thorough
computer repairs, at an affordable price.
We come to you. (352) 212-1220 
APlusMobile@rocketmail.com
9-2-11-30-7
*Quality computer Diagnostics, repairs,
software upgrades, virus removal and PC tuneups for internal computer errors.Hard drive replacements and upgrades allat affordable prices.*
Renzo
386-237-1930qualitypcrepairs@yahoo.comInformation Technology Major         6-9-1-7
CASH FOR ELECTRONICS WORKING OR 
NOT!SMARTPHONES, IPADS, LAPTOPS, 
GAMING SYSTEMS & MORE. WE DO 
REPAIRS WE ARE LOCATED BY BEEF`O` 
BRADY`S ON ARCHER RD (352) 872 5881
6450 SW ARCHER RD
WWW.TECHMODO.CO
6-16-4-8
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 8-15-10-25-2AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-25-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28798-15-25-5
Perfect 2/2 Townhouse 3.5 miles UF 
$135,500. Master bdrm upstairs. New A/C, 
kitchen appliances, siding, and much more. 
Pictures, ect at Realtor.com MLS #319897. 
352-376-9756    6-16-11-9-5
LAND SALE STEINHATCHEE, FL 10 
Acres $39,900 $900 Down, $326/Mo. Great 
Hunting/Fishing. Near Gulf and River. Call 
(352)542-7835 cell: (352)356-1099    6-9-
1-5
NC mountain property must go. 4.5 acres 
with outstanding views and privacy. $25,000 
OBO, great for home or cabin. (828)394-
9298. Ask for Richard    6-9-1-5
DEVELOPER FORCED LIQUIDATION 
Smoky Mtn. Lake Property Priced @ 
Foreclosure/Short sale. Up to 100% 
Financing/5% interest. Hurry-Only 30 
Reservations available! (877)551-0550 ext 
100    6-9-1-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will 
deliver.      8-15-11-25-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        8-15-11-25-6THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 15
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03708-15-10-25-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       8-15-25-10
● Fresh Local Blackberries ●
Thornless ● Big & Sweet
U-pick $3/lb ● We pick $3.75/lb
Interlochen  386-972-17706-28-11-5-10
Investors - Outstanding and immediate re-
turns in equipment leasing for frac industry. 
Immediate lease out. Tax benefits and high 
returns. We need more equipment! (800)491-
9029    6-9-1-10
SAWMILLS -Band/Chainsaw -SPRING 
SALE - Cut lumber any dimension, anytime. 
MAKE MONEY and SAVE MONEY In stock 
ready to ship. Starting at $995.00. www.
NorwoodSawmills.com/300N (800)578-1363 
Ext.300N     6-9-1-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    8-15-
25-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
8-15-11-25-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  8-15-11-25-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  8-15-11-25-11
STAND OR SIT ● POWERFUL MOBILITY
15-20 mile range, 15-20 mph. Easy to take apart. 300 lb capacity, 500 watt - battery op-erated  Excellent for Campus & Fun $975 & 
up. Call today J&S Assoicates 352-339-5158    
6-30-11-9-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   8-15-11-20-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    8-15-11-20-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
8-15-25-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    8-15-11-25-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
8-15-25-12I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
6-30-11-65-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
92 Eagle Talon $1499
89 Ford Bronco II $1299
94 Ford Taurus $1299  
01 Mits Montero $2999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $1999
98 Ford F250 $2500
96 BMW 318TI $3999 
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
99 Ford F150 $3999  
02 Chevy Blazer $4999  
01 Chevy Silverado $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit checks
Move vehicle $500 & up!
352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
04 Ford Taurus $5999  
02 Chevy Camero $6999  
03 GMC Sonoma $6999
05 Chevy Monte Carlo $6999352-375-9090       8-15-95-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
02 Nissan Xterra $899905 Chevy Trailblazer $999905 Toyota Camry $10,999  
352-375-9090      8-15-95-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  8-15-25-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
6-16-11-25-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Denise Fanning at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            8-15-10-25-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and 
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more 
at www.gleim.com/employment    8-15-10-
25-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  8-15-11-25-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   6-3-79-14
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonalrecreation and aquatics positionsCompetitive pay in great workenvironment! Apply online todayat www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
Net Enforcers is looking for a FT Junior 
Applications Developer. ExcellentBenefits. Please email resume toahjobs@intersections.com. EOE.www.netenforcers.com    6-28-11-14-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-ning & overnight shifts currently available email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-3617    8-15-11-25-14Exp. PRESSURE WASHING person w/ truck 
to pull trailer, pc, internet, cell; flexible hrs, 
part or full-time 'as needed', good pay. Only 
serious/dependable candidates, please. 352-
870-6017 / shaneman@symo.com    6-16-11-
12-14
LaFiesta Restaurant
Now hiring hostesses, servers, cooks & dish-
washers. Apply after 2pm 7038 NW 10th Pl    6-9-11-8-14
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available 
Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.50/hr, experience 
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 
for more info and interview.    6-16-8-14
PT Assistant Manager position for non-profit 
organization's Thrift Shop. Some retail ex-
perience reqd. Must be able to work flexible 
days/hours. Refs reqd.  Please email resume 
to  office@gainesvillejrleague.org    6-9-11-
5-14
CLERICAL/TECHNICIAN POSITION
Full Time
Please apply in person
Institute of Veterinary Specialists
3603 NW 98th St. Suite A        6-16-5-14
Take Free Coupon Application
Better than Groupon Program
Paid $100.00 per approved App
view www.myqnanza.com/bschiefer
Call for info after site visit!     6-9-11-3-14
Artist needs model. I have examples of my 
work and local personal references for you to 
review. decent pay. must have own transpor-
tation.352 246 3157    7-9-11-3-14
Full and part time positions available -
PERSONAL COUNSELOR
TECH SUPPORT
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
LINUX ADMINISTRATOR
ADMIN ASSTSHIPPING TECH
AVIATION EDITOR
ACCOUNTING EDITOR
Please complete an online application at 
http://www.gleim.com/employment.    6-16-
11-4-14
Bench scientist: BA/BS or equivalent. Strong 
background in immunology and biochemis -
try. ELISA experience or related methods preferred. Attention to detail; ability to record and maintain accurate notes. Submit resume to info@elisa-tek.com    6-16-11-4-14
PROGRAMMERS
A 25-year-old software company in Gainesville is seeking entry and senior level programmers. Full time positions available for work on desktop application. Programming experience required; familiarity with VB.NET and SQL Server a plus. Seeking dynamic and hard-working individuals. Resumes to employment@elitesoftware.com or call 352-335-3800 ext 831   6-16-11-4-14Administrative Office Assistant, Haile Village, 
$10 - $12.50 hr plus benefits. M-F, 30 hr wk.   
Individual must have an outgoing personal -
ity,  good writing, communication and phone skills. Thorough knowledge of windows, 
Microsoft office outlook, word, and excel.   
Experience working with insurance contract-
ing and licensing a plus.   Some phone mar-
keting may be requested.  Own transporta-
tion is required. Please email your resume to 
rmorrowinsurance@aol.com    6-17-11-4-14
Nanny needed. Overnights.
Newborn twins.8pm-8am Mon -Th
exp/ refs req Sharyn@jaxnanny.com            6-30-11-6-14
Quality child caring center is looking for 
dedicated people who love working with 
children. FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, 
AA or BA in education. Benefits avail -
able with FT. Call 377-2290 or 373-1481  
6-28-11-5-14
ASAP! New Pay Increase! 34-46 cpm. 300 
Newer Trucks. Need 2 months CDL-A Driving 
Exp (877)258-8782 www.meltontruck.com    
6-9-1-14
Driver-Drivers choose from Weekly or Daily 
Pay. Regional, OTR or Express Lanes, Full 
or Part-time, CDL-A, 3 months recent experi -
ence required. (800)414-9569 www.drivek-night.com    6-9-1-14
Drivers Earn Up to 39¢/mi HOME SEVERAL 
NIGHTS & WEEKENDS 1 yr OTR Flatbed 
exp. Call: (800)572-5489 Joy ext. 238 Susan 
ext. 227 SUNBELT TRANSPORT, LLC     
6-9-1-14
Drivers - CDL-A GREAT HOME TIME! 
START UP TO 43¢ PER MILE SIGN-ON BONUS!! Lease purchase available. Experience Req’d. (800)441-4271 X FL-100 HornadyTransportation.com    6-9-1-1416, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2011
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
8-15-11-31-15
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   8-15-25-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  8-15-11-25-15PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
8-15-25-15
CASH NOW! Cash for your structured 
settlement or annuity payments. Call J.G. 
Wentworth. (866)494-9115. Rated A+ by the 
Better Business Bureau.      6-9-1-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15●●ADVANCED CLEANING & JANITORIAL●●
30 years exp. ● Prompt ● DependableDetailed cleaning at low rates. Call thepeople who really do care. 352-682-0800     AdvancedCleaningGainesville.com6-9-11-10-15
Med School Entrance Consulting
Resident Physician offering 
advice for PreMed Students!
Call: 248-762-0712
Email:gatormedconsulting@gmail.com    
6-14-10-15
CPR, First Aid, Basic Life Support,
Advanced Cardiac Life Support Classes
Offered at your schedule. Best prices in town. 
Call Cardiac One today (352)494-4217
7-5-11-10-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? 
Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low 
rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! 
Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.
com      6-9-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting, 
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. 
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. 
Call (888)203-3179, www.CenturaOnline.
com      6-9-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Career. FAA approved pro-
gram. Financial aid if qualified - Job place-
ment assistance. CALL Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance (877)741-9260.      6-9-1-15
Access Reverse Mortgage! Florida-
based: Application & closing in your home. Experience: almost 1,000 reverse mortgag-es funded. Award-winning customer service. BBB A rating. NMLS #4566. 1(800)806-7126      6-9-1-15Medical Management Careers start here-
Get connected online. Attend college on 
your own time. Job placement assistance. 
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. 
Call (800)481-9409 www.CenturaOnline.
com      6-9-1-15
Heat & Air JOBS - Ready to work? 3 week 
accelerated program. Hands on environ-ment. Nationwide certifications and Local 
Job Placement Assistance! (877)994-9904      
6-9-1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
8-15-25-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
8-15-25-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
8-15-11-25-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen 
Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   
7-22-11-100-16THE SMOKELESS CIGARETTE,
E-Cig is popular and may be just the product 
to help a friend or loved one stop smoking.
www.dnobles.myinlife.com    6-16-4-16
PREGNANT? CONSIDERING ADOPTION? 
A childless energetic, spiritual, committed couple seeks to adopt. Financially secure. Healthcare professionals. Expenses paid. Gil & Dave (888)580-ADOPT (2367). FL Bar#0150789    6-9-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
8-15-25-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
8-15-11-25-18
LOCAL IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage Green Cards, H1B's, Employment 
Green Cards, & Natz
www.RuthImmigrationLaw.com
6-28-10-18
Peace begins with you.
Award-winning 'Words of Peace'Cox CH 21: Sun 7pm; Thurs & Sun1:30am; Sat 1am or www.wopg.org352-373-5578  floridaconnect.net       8-15-11-25-20
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
CPR/ FIRST AID/ WILDERNESS FIRST 
AID/ LIFEGUARDING
Meets internship and health major
requirements
Floridaheartsaver.org 575-0119    7-28-11-15-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Finders Keepers? If you ﬁ  nd something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 17
free
movie ticket with 
blood donation!*
*while supplies last Donate on the Uf campus  
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Donate during LifeSouth’s 
free movie ticket weekend.  
friday, June 10 through Sunday, June 12 
Call LifeSouth at 352-334-1000
 for other times and locations.
free movie ticket 
friday, June 10  for LifeSouth blood donors*
Connecting our donors to our patients*while supplies last
Sports
THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
TEAM USA BASKETBALL alligatorSports.org GATORS ATTEMPT TO QUALIFY FOR U.S. OPEN By BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
OKLAHOMA CITY — The two 
scenes couldn’t have looked more 
different.
In front of the ASA Hall of Fame 
Stadium pitching circle, Arizona 
State players jubilantly mobbed freshman phenom and first-team 
All-American Dallas Escobedo in 
celebration of a national champion-ship.
A handful of paces away, Kelsey 
Bruder walked away from a game, season and college career-ending strikeout. First, she walked into the arms of UF coach Tim Walton. Then she was swarmed by a contingent of 
Gators players gazing through teary 
eyes, watered with disbelief at wit-nessing another triumphant Pac-10 team.
For five seniors — who went 
238-33 during their Florida careers — this was the end.“Obviously, losing again here is 
heartbreaking,“ Bruder said. “But I’m definitely proud of what we’ve 
achieved over the last four years 
and this team, in particular.”
Before the seniors arrived, the 
Gators had never made a Women’s 
College World Series appearance. 
They’ve been to Oklahoma City four straight times but have yet to win  the Southeastern Conference’s 
first softball national 
title. 
The seniors are 0-4 
in two appearances 
in the best-of-three 
WCWS finals.
Walton said he hopes this group 
isn’t remembered simply as a team 
that didn’t win a national champi-onship.
Four of the seniors (Bruder, 
Stephanie Brombacher, Megan Bush and Aja Paculba) have been named All-Americans during their time at 
AP Photo
Florida freshman Hannah Rogers, center, is one of a handful of Gators returnees who senior pitch-
er Stephanie Brombacher said will eventually lead the program to its first national championship.  
UF BASEBALLSeason, career ends 
for heralded seniors
By JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org
 
For the past six months, Tyler Thomp-
son has coped with more injuries than a 
Spanish bullfighter. 
But finally, as the No. 1 Gators are just 
two wins away from a second straight Col-
lege World Series appearance, the junior 
outfielder is completely healthy.
“It’s nice to be back,” Thompson said. 
“I’ve just had some bad luck this year.”
During Florida’s 2011 campaign, 
Thompson has been plagued by a torn hamstring, a hand infection, a groin injury 
and back spasms. After starting 39 games as a sophomore, Florida’s junior has strug-gled to stay on the field this season. 
Yet just like a year ago, Thompson has 
gotten hot — but mainly healthy — at the right time. 
“I’m coming off a [string] of minor inju-
ries, and I’m trying to get into a flow, just 
get my timing back,” he said. “Sitting on the bench and not seeing live pitching is 
tough.” 
During UF’s NCAA Tournament run 
in 2010, Thompson was a force. The free-swinging lefty knocked four homers — 
three in a single regional contest — and 
led the team with a .529 average as Florida sprinted to the CWS. 
After sitting out most 
of UF’s dominating sea-son this year, Thompson has had a renaissance postseason again. For -
tunately for the No. 2 
national seed, his resur -
gence has coincided with 
injuries to stalwarts Bri-
an Johnson and Austin Maddox. 
The platoon outfielder said he didn’t 
feel totally healthy until just two weeks 
ago, but the junior has returned to the dia-mond as a valuable commodity in Johnson and Maddox’s absence. Thompson healthy, set to 
boost Gators’ run to CWS 
Joe Schad’s wet dream has become 
Ohio State’s nightmare. 
It seems every day brings a new 
set of rampant allegations. At this point, all that’s missing are rumors of eight balls 
and hookers. 
The question was when, not if, Ter -
relle Pryor would leave school. After bra-
zenly breaking multiple NCAA rules, the shamed quarterback exited as loudly as he entered. “All eyes on me.” 
As I’ve stated before, the NCAA has 
a deep hand these sagas, but this par -
ticular situation is getting ugly, quick. 
Which stain lasts longer, tattoo ink or the 
removal of championships, records and accolades? 
It may take so long for the dust to set-
tle in Columbus that the Joads could be stuck there forever while Urban is tend-ing to greener pastures.  
Lastly , the lost irony of the whole 
OSU Cover-up Gate is ole’ scallywag 
Bobby Petrino must be fuming that the even older shyster 
Jim Tressell was allowed to saddle up the boys for one last rodeo to 
finally trump an 
SEC school. 
 
n n n
Before the 
season, God must have wagered heavy money on the No. 1 Gators baseball team getting back to the College World Series, 
because damn, Florida has received some 
downright fortunate draws. 
No doubt, the Gators have a great 
team, but Florida rolled through the SEC Tournament after avoiding South Caro-lina and playing Vandy just once. Then, the NCAA elected to put UF’s latest whipping boy in the Gainesville Region-al. While Florida was dismantling Miami Pryor, Panda & other musings 
from a Mouth From the South SEE SOFTBALL, PAGE 19
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 20SEE JESSE, PAGE 20
n  On Wednesday Florida coach Billy 
Donovan was named as a court coach for the U-19 national team that will compete for a FIBA World Champion -
ship in Latvia in July.  n  Be sure to check out alligatorSports.
org this weekend for updates on the track and field teams at the NCAA Championships and the baseball team’s Super Regional against MSU.n Senior Andres Echavarria is a first alternate at next week’s U.S. Open at Con -
gressional after losing in a playoff at the sectional in Vero Beach, Fla. Sophomore Phillip Choi missed the cutoff by one shot in Rockville, Md. Senior All-American Bank Vongvanij failed to qualify, finishing T-10th in Summit, N.J.  Also playing in Rockville, former Gator Bubba Dickerson qualified for his first major since 2001. 
Jesse Simonton
Simon Says
jsimonton@alligator.org
Thompson
SoftballTHURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
Departing Brombacher said current group will win a championship
Florida. The All-Americans and Tiffany 
DeFelice built a winning tradition and na-tional respect.
“Arguably one of the best [senior class-
es] in NCAA history if you go down and look at all the awards they’ve won,” UF’s 
head coach said. “The only thing they didn’t win was the big one, so of course 
that’s what everybody talks about.”
But positives are momentarily hard to 
recognize when another team is hoisting the bigger trophy. 
The most visually devastated was Pac-
ulba, who started all 271 games in her UF career. Bush and Brombacher embraced the second baseman as tears flowed down 
her face. The mothers of Bush and Paculba 
looked on in the stands with their arms around one another.
“No one wants to end their career on a 
loss,” Brombacher said. “It’s tough to swal-
low, but I’m so proud of my teammates.”
The senior righty specifically referred 
to freshman counterpart Hannah Rogers, 
who became a breakout star in 2011 and 
a second-team All-American due in large 
part to Brombacher’s midseason bicep in-jury.
Rogers is part of an underclassmen core 
that will try to take Gators softball to the 
only level it has yet to reach.
In addition to Rogers, Florida returns 
Michelle Moultrie, Cheyenne Coyle, Brit-
tany Schutte and Kasey Fagan, while also 
touting the nation’s No. 1 recruiting class. 
“This program is going to do big 
things,” said Brombacher, who will stay 
in Gainesville next year and work with the team. “We’ve been [to the finals] twice now, 
and the next time, we’re going to get it.” 
But Tuesday night was mainly about re-
flection, not the future. Bruder, the unoffi-cial team spokesman all season, put her last night in a Gators uniform into perspective.“They’ve probably been the best four 
years of my life,” the left fielder said. “I don’t think I’ve seen a team work harder, fight harder, have more passion for the game than us. … I just feel lucky to be a 
part of this team. It was a great experi-ence.”
WCWS All-Tournament Team: Bruder, 
Coyle, Schutte and Moultrie were all named to the 2011 All-Tournament Team. Moultrie was also named co-WCWS Most Outstand-ing Player, along with Escobedo.
SOFTBALL , from page 18
Not closing: In both finals appearances, the Gators have allowed more 
runs in two games than they had in each entire WCWS leading up to that point. Florida had given up 13 runs entering the final, but Arizona State scored 18 in just two games. In the 2009 championship against Washing-ton, the Huskies scored 11 times on a UF team that had allowed just five runs before the championship series. WCWS Woe S
Trouble in the finals: The Gators have played four games in the best-of-three national championship 
final of the Women’s College World Series. They have lost all four contests by a total score of 32-8 and been out-hit by a combined 35-18. UF’s other appearance in WCWS finals was in 2009. Florida strolled to a 63-3 record and the nation’s No. 1 ranking but was promptly swept by Washington.
Early problems: Florida rode early offense to its four wins at the WCWS, outscoring opponents 29-3 
in the first three innings of four victories. But in three games against the Sun Devils, the Gators were outscored 19-1 in the first three frames. ASU jumped on UF in the second inning each game of the final series, scoring six in Game 1 and three in Game 2 — enough offense to win both games.
Senior struggles: The senior combo of Megan Bush, Aja Paculba, Kelsey Bruder and Tiffany DeFelice 
disappeared in the championship series, hitting a combined .166 (4 for 24) with only two RBIs. As a group, the four hit .332 with 238 RBIs on the year.
Bryan Holt and Rosa Taveras / Alligator Staff20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2011
Rosa Taveras / Alligator Staff 
*Eight signees from Florida’s top-rated re-
cruiting class were also drafted.*All players selected have until August 15 at midnight to sign with their respective team.Gators in the 
MLB Draft
After three days and 50 rounds of the Major League Baseball Draft, a school-record 11 Florida players were selected. 
LHP Nick Maronde, junior, 3rd round 
Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim
RHP Greg Larson, junior, 29th round
Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim  RHP Anthony DeSclafani , junior, 6th round
Toronto Blue Jays
LHP Alex Panteliodis, junior, 9th round
New York Mets
RHP Tommy Toledo, r.s.junior, 11th round
Milwaukee Brewers
C Ben McMahan, junior, 23rd round
Milwaukee BrewersINF Josh Adams, senior, 13th round
Florida Marlins
1B/OF Preston Tucker, junior, 16th round
Colorado Rockies
RHP Matt Campbel l, senior, 24th round
Philadelphia Phillies
OF Bryson Smith, senior, 34th round
Cincinnati Reds
OF Tyler Thompson, junior, 46th round
Washington NationalsUF plays Mississippi State at noon Friday
In four postseason starts — three 
during Florida’s weekend sweep of 
the Gainesville Regional — Thompson 
is hitting .438 with a pair of doubles 
and four RBIs. Thompson, along with 
Daniel Pigott and Vickash Ramjit, is 
wreaking havoc at the bottom of the lineup. 
“It just gives us more depth,” catch-
er Mike Zunino said. “The bottom of 
the order has been doing great since the SEC Tournament, and they’ve 
picked up some slack for some guys 
that hadn’t been swinging too good at the top of the order.”
Although Thompson didn’t start his 
first game until March 8 and later went 
a month between starts, the streaky 
hitter said he is finally ready to make an impact.
“I’m doing what I can,” Thompson 
said. “My dad [former major leaguer 
Robby Thompson] said, ‘Your swing 
looks good, but try and stay healthy.’”
Florida hosts Mississippi State 
on Friday at noon in Game 1 of the 
Gainesville Super Regional. 
 
Johnson and Maddox update:
Zunino said Johnson participated 
in the team workout on Monday and 
looked good. 
The sophomore left-hander is listed 
as one of two possible starting options for Sunday’s “if necessary” Game 3 against the Bulldogs. 
“To see him back on the field defi-
nitely helps,” Zunino said.  “It made everyone else relax.” 
Maddox, who strained his foot at-
tempting to catch a foul popup in Friday’s blowout over Manhattan, is still listed as day-to-day.  Zunino was non-committal when asked if Maddox practiced Monday.BASEBALL , from page 18
—  again — Mississippi State was upsetting Georgia Tech. 
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan couldn’t have scripted a better 
first three acts.  The only potential drama this weekend will 
be what happens if UF and MSU split the first two Super Regional games and Sully has to decide whether to pitch 
Brian Johnson or Alex Panteliodis.
My take: Panda, by a dozen bamboo sticks. While John-
son has been a horse all season, Panteliodis is actually hit-
ting his stride. The lefty has allowed just a single run in 12 postseason innings. Before toeing the company line and saying he’ll do whatever is best for the team, the junior admitted Wednesday he’s much more suited to start and pitch on a set routine. Thing is, Sully recognizes this too. If Panda doesn’t start, then the Gators effectively eliminate 
one of their hottest arms from the equation, barring injury 
or marathon contest. O’Sullivan knows his players much better than me, but I’d keep Johnson in the ‘pen this week-
end.
n n n
There’s a battle going on right now, and I’m not talk-
ing about the struggle of 10,000 comedians fighting over 100,000 Weiner jokes. 
Media mouthpieces from all sides are lining up to either 
demonize or defend LeBron James. 
It’s sad really . A former alligatorSports alum (Gregg 
Doyel) asks one question too many and boom! A riot across 
the blogosphere nearly breaks out. 
I did love the King’s response in Game 4 though, you 
know, publicly ceding his throne with a single fourth quarter shot. I’m all for team basketball, but neither Magic 
Johnson nor Bill Russell ever turned into Christian Bale 
from “The Prestige.”  Dude better cut the disappearing act tonight or else his shrinkage will elicit more water-cooler jeering than Costanza’s. 
n n n
Kelsey Bruder just inserted another conjunction after 
sort-of, but not really, complementing Arizona State, fol-
lowed immediately by a thrashing of the umpires. 
I watched Game 1 and understand the senior’s post-
game frustration. Home plate ump Chris Drumm shrunk 
on the game’s biggest stage similarly to, well, LeBron on Tuesday night. 
But — a word that can often times be used as a tricky juxta-
position — Arizona State knocked the snot out of Florida. The Gators were nothing more than a doormat the Sun 
Devils wiped their feet on toward a second national title in 
four seasons.  After losing 14-4 — FOURTEEN to FOUR — Monday, Bruder had the audacity to question the umpiring multiple times while imploring the media to not twist her words. This is like being misquoted in an autobiography. Sometimes, I just don’t get it.JESSE , from page 18
“My dad said, ‘Your swing 
looks good, but try and stay 
healthy.’”
Tyler Thompson
UF outfielder