We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 71 TUESDAY,  MAY 10, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgWhen UPD and GPD officers responded Monday to a call 
reporting the sound of gunshots from the East Campus area on 
Waldo road, they found nothing.
That’s because the sound didn’t come from a gun.
Capt. Jeff Holcomb, UPD public information officer, said the 
sound probably came from an impact wrench at a near by city 
construction site.UF sent an emergency notification about the in -
cident to students via email at 2:53 p.m. Another email was sent 
at 3:21 p.m. saying no shots were actually fired and an on-going 
investigation is continuing.
—ALEX ORLANDOUF emergency alert sends false alarm text message n What does 
Osama bin 
Laden’s death 
mean for 
Americans and 
the world? See 
graphics and 
more analysis 
on  pages 7-8.By MORGAN WATKINS
and CJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writers
Thousands of miles away from all the cam -
era flashes, Twitter posts and press conferenc -
es, the corpse of Osama bin Laden aimlessly 
drifts in the Arabian Sea current. 
For a man who spent nearly a decade in the 
limelight as the United States’ public enemy 
No.1, the burial at sea, carried out by the U.S. 
military under decorum procedures sanitized 
of publicity, highlights the obscurity and am -
biguity associated with his legacy. 
Though the narrative of bin Laden’s life 
has come to a brutish conclusion, many ques -
tions, both old and new, remain. Some of these 
questions, local experts say, have endless  pos -
sibilities. Others can only be met with a shrug 
of the shoulders and a “wait and see.” 
Terje Ostebo, an assistant professor in UF’s 
Department of Religion, said that bin Laden’s 
death probably won’t be the blow that ends 
terrorist threats altogether for the United 
States. While it is a major hit for al-Qaida, 
there are other terrorist movements, Ostebo 
said, that will most likely continue to pursue 
their own goals.
It probably won’t lead to a major decline in 
attacks fueled by religious beliefs either, Oste -
bo said, because the tension between Muslims 
in the Middle East and the Western world is 
based on issues that run deeper than bin Lad -
en’s leadership. 
Patricia Woods, an associate professor of political science at UF, shared similar senti -
ments. She acknowledged that while bin Lad -
en commanded the support of several Muslim 
extremists, he was never representative of the 
overall sentiments in the Middle East.
“I think our understanding of the Muslim 
world is getting better and that we understand 
a little better now that he never had anywhere 
close to even a plurality of the Middle East 
supporting him,” Woods said. “He never rep -
resented a big constituency — it’s just that it 
only takes a few people to carry a bomb these 
days.”
The  current rise of protest against authori -
tarian governments in the Middle East, which 
has become known as the “Arab Spring,” il -
lustrates this non- allegiance to bin Laden and 
his methods, Woods said. 
The United States, Ostebo said, should take 
this into consideration. If the West can come 
to the aid of the young demonstrators in the 
Muslim world and others there who are trying 
to find a better life, tensions that have histori -
cally strained both sides might gradually ease, 
he said. 
“I think we would score a number of points 
by acknowledging and supporting their crav -
ings for a better life,” Ostebo said. “I think 
that’s something that could ease the tense re -
lationship that has been between the Muslim 
world and the West.”
One country whose relationship with the 
United States has come under scrutiny follow -
Sunny
95/68FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 14
NOW WHAT?
Photo Illustration by Max Reed/ Alligator Staff
This undated AP file photo shows Osama bin Laden. Americans are ex -
pected to get a glimpse of Osama bin Laden’s daily life with the disclosure of 
home videos showing him strolling around his secret compound...
n ALL THREE APPOINTEES ARE UF ALUMS.
By EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
Three UF graduates are coming back to their 
alma mater to serve on the UF Board of Trustees.  
Gov. Rick Scott appointed William Michael Heekin, Alan 
M. Levine and Juliet M. Roulhac to the Board  on Friday. 
Their appointments are subject to confirmation by the 
Florida Senate.
“These accomplished individuals bring a high level of expertise to our board,” UF President Bernie Machen 
said in a  statement. “No doubt their advice and counsel 
will help well-position the University of Florida for the 
future.” 
The Board, which meets at least 
four times a year, is the governing 
body of UF. The 13 trustees, who 
serve five-year terms, appoint the 
university president and may adopt or change university 
rules and policy.
Six of the Board’s trustees are appointed by the gover -
nor of Florida, and five are appointed by Florida’s state Board of Governors. The Student Government president 
and the chair of the UF Faculty Senate are the final two 
members.
Heekin, from Sandy Springs, Ga., earned an accounting 
degree from UF in 1975 and a law degree in 1978. He was 
the founding chief operating officer of WebMD, chairman 
of former Gov. Jeb Bush’s Health Information Infrastruc -
ture Advisory Board and a former associate dean at the 
Florida State University College of Law.
He also worked as an accountant for the Indepen -
dent Florida Alligator in the 1970s and has served on Gov. Scott taps three for UF Board of Trustees
UFAdministrationSEE OSAMA, PAGE 7
SEE BOARD, PAGE 4Questions lin -
ger after death 
of terrorist
“He never represented a big 
constituency — it’s just that it 
only takes a few people to carry a 
bomb these days.”
Patricia Woods
associate professor of political science at UF
n  Amanda 
O’Leary, UF’s 
women’s lacrosse 
coach, has led her 
No, 3 team to a 
second seed in a 
the NCAA tourna -
ment in just the 
program’s second 
year of existence.
See Story, Page 14.News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub -
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 71 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR  n  TUESDAY, MAY 10, 2011
SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, 
  aorlando@alligator.org
 University Editor Alex Klausner,
  aklausner@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Editorial Board C.J. Pruner, Joey Flechas, Josh Isom
 Photo Editor Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Thomas Nassiff,
  tnassiff@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Corey McCall, 
  Briana Seymour
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Lily Parkinson, 
  Bryan Holt
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,   
   Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras 
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news 
reports and editorials. If you 
find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.NATIONAL
Ill. man who kept alligator 
to woo women charged
FORD HEIGHTS, Ill. — A 
suburban Chicago man thought 
he had the perfect chick magnet 
in his pet alligator. 
Authorities only saw a dan -
gerous animal.
A charge of possession of a 
dangerous animal has been filed 
against 43-year-old Dewayne 
Yarbrough of Ford Heights, who 
claims he kept the four-foot alli -
gator to impress women.
Yarbrough told Cook County 
sheriff’s investigators he kept 
the alligator in a small tank and 
fed it only 10 live mice a month 
to keep it from growing too 
large. 
He said he bought the ga -
tor five years ago in Indiana for 
$200.
Animal control investigators 
did not say how they learned of 
the alligator, which they found 
in Yarbrough’s kitchen.
The alligator was taken 
Thursday to the Animal Welfare 
League and will be given to the 
Chicago Herpetological Society.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Idaho residents report miss -
ing goat; kid-naaaping?
LEWISTON, Idaho — A 
western Idaho couple is con -
cerned there might have been a 
kid-naaaping.
Buzz and Wilma Goertzen, of 
Lewiston, say their young goat 
has been missing for about a 
week and the kid’s mother goat 
has been upset ever since.
Buzz Goertzen tells KLEW-
TV their goats have gotten out 
before but have never been gone 
for such a long time.
He says the animal is friend -
ly and would often play with 
kids — the human kind — as 
they walked past the family’s 
property.
The missing goat is all black 
with white shoulders and has 
small horns.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Kan. boy clawed by leopard 
leaves hospital
WICHITA, Kan. — A 7-year-
old Kansas boy who was clawed 
by a leopard last week during 
a school field trip to a zoo in 
Wichita is out of the hospital.
The first-grader went home 
Monday, three days after his 
run-in with the big cat at the 
Sedgwick County Zoo.
Zoo officials say the boy 
climbed over a 4-foot railing 
around the leopard exhibit, 
crossed an 8-foot safety zone 
and stood next to the metal 
mesh fence. 
The leopard was able to get 
its paws through the mesh and 
clawed the boy on the neck and 
face.
KAKE-TV reports the boy’s prosecutors have agreed not to 
seek prison time. Sentencing is 
set for July 15.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
Panhandle man hits scratch 
off jackpot twice
PANAMA CITY BEACH — 
Months after a 39-year-old man 
won $3 million from a Florida 
Lottery Monopoly scratch-off 
ticket, he won another jackpot.
This time, it was $10 million 
top prize in the lottery’s Bil -
lion Dollar Blockbuster scratch-
off game, lottery officials said 
Monday.
Jody Massengale, a general 
manager at Mellow Mushroom 
on Panama City Beach, chose a 
one-time, lump-sum payment, 
which amounts to $6.5 million 
before taxes.
Massengale says it is “awe -
some” to win twice.
Lottery officials say the Bil -
lion Dollar Blockbuster game, 
which costs $20 per ticket, has 
the highest cash payout of the 
scratch-off games. They say six 
$10 million prizes remain.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Gov. Scott signs Florida 
probation violator bill
FORT MYERS — Gov. Rick 
Scott has signed a bill honoring 
a Fort Myers police officer slain 
by a domestic violence suspect 
wanted for a probation viola -
tion.
Scott went to Fort Myers on 
Monday to sign the bill (SB 844). 
It will let judges order suspects 
arrested for community super -
vision violations when they ap -
pear in court on new charges.
Abel Arrango was freed on 
bond for a drug charge in Lee 
County while still on probation 
for armed robbery and other 
crimes in Collier County about 
a month before he fatally shot 
Officer Andrew Widman. 
Police also killed Arrango 
during a shoot-out.
Under the new law, Arrango 
could have been arrested on 
suspicion of violating commu -
nity supervision although the 
judge was unaware he was on 
probation due to a botched data 
search.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSfamily issued a statement 
Monday thanking bystanders 
who rushed to help after the 
attack.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
STATE
Olive Garden warned for 
serving toddler sangria
LAKELAND — A cen -
tral Florida Olive Garden ac -
cused of accidentally serving 
a 2-year-old boy sangria in -
stead of orange juice has been 
warned but not fined.
Florida’s Department of 
Business and Professional 
Regulation announced Mon -
day that state agents plan to 
train employees at that Lake -
land restaurant and hold in -
spections at other Olive Gar -
dens. 
Officials acknowledged 
that it is illegal to serve alco -
hol to anyone under 21, but 
the agency found no criminal 
intent during its probe.
Orlando-based Darden 
Restaurants says the com -
pany takes the responsibility 
of serving alcohol very seri -
ously.
Olive Garden has said it 
pre-mixed the sangria in con -
tainers, but the drink is now 
made to order.
Jill VanHeest says she took 
her son Nikolai to the hospital 
after the March 31 incident. He 
was given fluids and released 
several hours later.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Fla. man pleads guilty to 
impersonating FBI agent
FORT LAUDERDALE  — 
A Broward County man has 
pleaded guilty to impersonat -
ing an FBI agent using a fake 
badge and phony credentials.
Daniel F. Cleary of Weston 
admitted Monday in federal 
court that he pretended to be 
an FBI agent when sheriff’s 
deputies came to his apart -
ment in January to investigate 
a claim that he had damaged 
the unit. 
The FBI has no record of 
the 48-year-old Cleary ever 
working there.
Court records show that 
Cleary also had a 9mm Glock 
handgun and more than two 
dozen other phony law en -
forcement badges.
Those included fake badg -
es for the U.S. Marshals, Drug 
Enforcement Administration, 
Secret Service and Federal Air 
Marshals.
Cleary could get up to 
three years behind bars but THUNDER
STORMS
91/65PARTLY
CLOUDY
93/68PARTLY
CLOUDY
94/68THUNDER
STORMS
96/69SUNNY
95/68
TUESDAY, MAY 10, 2011 n ALLIGATOR , 3
Dine-in&to-go•Oﬀerexpires5/29/116791W.Newberry Rd.•OaksMallPlaza
352-333-6923•www.jasonsdeli.comRightnowatthenewJason’sDeli
inGainesville
chambaby23@jasonsdeliOfcourse!
anyplacethatoffersunlimitedsoft
serveicecreamafterurmealisgonna
bonthetopofmyfavoriteslist:)Tastewhatthey’re
tweeting up.
Specialty
Sandwiches$6
Saturday ,May 14,
7-11 p.m.
MUSIC BY-
Master Flutist George Tortorelli
EXPERIMENT ALANIMA TION &VIDEO ARTOF-
DavidMontgomer y
Refreshments available.
NOPETS PLEASE!
$10Adults, $5Children 13&Under
($2discount formembers)
Archer Rd.
1Mile WestofI-75
352-372-4981
www .kana paha.org
KANAP AHABOTANICAL GARDENS
SPRING
MOONLIGHT
WALK
Enjoyamoonlight walk through themeado ws,gardens and
lakeside forests ofKana paha onapathlighted byfireflies, 1500 luminaries,
floatingcandles, paperlanterns,and thespring moon. View wonders ofthe
cosmos through telescopes provided bytheAlachua Astronomy Club.
n COUNSELING WILL BE OFFERED.
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Staff Writer
In the event of a drug or alcohol-related 
emergency, UF students can dial 911 a bit 
more confidently thanks to a new univer -
sity policy.
Under the Medical Amnesty Policy,  
students will be referred by the Dean of Students Office to GatorWell Health Pro -
motion Services for assessment and coun -
seling without Student Code of Conduct 
charges.  
For student organizations hosting an 
event where a medical emergency occurs, 
the act of calling for medical attention will 
be taken into consideration during any po -
tential sanction hearings.
“We want students to get help,” said 
Maureen Miller, coordinator for Alcohol and Other Drug Prevention at Gatorwell 
Health Promotion Services. 
The policy, which was first announced 
at the April 25 meeting of the Community 
Alcohol Coalition, was written 
to reassure students it is safe 
to go to regional hospitals, 
including Shands Hospital, 
without fear of punishment from the uni -
versity. 
UF’s Emergency Room Policy, which was announced in 2009, highlighted the 
fact that area hospitals are not allowed to 
notify police or the university in the event 
of an alcohol or drug-related emergency 
due to confidentiality laws.
The purpose of these policies, Miller 
said, is to reiterate that students are al -
lowed to ask for help when they need it. 
“A student’s health and safety is our ul -
timate concern and number one priority,” 
she said.Students get amnesty for reporting drug emergencies
StudentLifeBy JESSICA KEGU
Alligator Contributing Writer
Monday marked the first day 
of Summer A classes at UF and 
the warm, slow-moving air across 
campus matched the sluggish na -
ture of campus when summer rolls 
around.
The Reitz Union lunch-hour 
rush was less than intimidating, 
and the UF Bookstore line that usu -
ally snakes back and forth to ac -
commodate the droves of students 
at the beginning of the fall and 
spring semesters instead formed a 
short straight line. Library West’s 
revolving door was closer to sta -
tionary. 
Lynne Vaughan, director of UF 
Bookstores, said this is the first 
summer the store will be offering 
books for rental. She said the rental 
option may drive book sales down, 
but more books are leaving the 
store.
“Business has been nice and 
steady and what we usually expect 
for Summer A,” Vaughan said.
The bookstore gets much busier when preview sessions start and 
incoming freshmen are constantly 
coming through the store with their 
parents, Vaughan said. Preview 
sessions begin  Thursday. 
Summer A classes in Gainesville 
mean fewer people, higher temper -
atures, and few new faces in sight.
While most students are using 
summer as a time to take a break 
from the fast-paced fall and spring 
semesters, migrating back home for 
the summer, others remain. 
These students are here to focus 
on their hardest coursework, grad -
uate sooner, repair GPAs, or even 
just ride out their apartment leases.
Austin O’Neill, a senior double-
majoring in history and political 
science, will be taking constitution -
al law — a class he said is one of the 
toughest for his major — and acting 
for non-majors, a class he said he 
has wanted to take for a while. 
O’Neill said his summer in 
Gainesville won’t be one filled with 
action.
“Other than [classes],” he said, 
“I’ll be playing Rock Band and get -
ting back into shape.”
n EATERY CLOSED FOR ONE DAY.
By CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
You wouldn’t necessarily call it a full 
house, but for a weeknight with no ma -
jor athletic events, it isn’t a bad crowd at 
Calico Jack’s. Customers cluster around 
the bar with slightly overflowing glass -
es of beer, and employees pause to chat 
over the twangs of “Life is a Highway.”
On April 28, however, the beer was 
not flowing, and the only visitors were 
cockroaches, flies and a health inspec -
tor. 
Calico Jack’s reopened April 29, the 
day after the restaurant failed a routine 
health inspection from the Division of 
Hotels and Restaurants with the Florida 
Department of Business and Profes -
sional Regulation. The inspection infor -
mation cited 27 critical violations and 28 
non-critical violations. 
Violations included the presence of 
cockroaches and flies in the kitchen, 
slime buildup in an ice machine, em -ployees not washing their hands and 
grease buildup on the oven, stove and 
flat grill.
Calico Jack’s was allowed to reopen 
the following day after the health in -
spector’s office approved the restau -
rant’s conditions.
Owner Vinod Bajaj, who took over 
within the past 10 years, said the staff 
cleaned the restaurant the day of the in -
spection, and the staff’s cleaning train -
ing will be reinforced. He has since 
hired a different pest control company 
than the one Calico Jack’s had been pre -
viously using.
“It’s probably the cleanest place now 
to eat,” Bajaj said.
Bajaj said that while it’s hard to pin -
point what went wrong, he thinks the 
building’s age and the restaurant’s lack 
of a kitchen manager contributed to the 
unsatisfactory conditions. 
He said he is in the process of looking 
for a kitchen manager. He is also reno -
vating the restaurant in pieces. The sec -
ond and third floors are currently closed 
for renovations.These changes may not be enough, 
though. Stephen Solorzano, a UF engi -
neering junior who has never been to 
Calico Jack’s, said he would be skepti -
cal about eating there after hearing the 
reports. He would want to see the res -
taurant for himself because even though 
it was just cleaned, the staff might fall 
back into neglecting cleanliness.
“Old habits die hard,” Solorzano 
said.
But those who have been sitting at 
the orange and blue tables for decades 
are still coming back. Jackie Kerr, a life -
long Gainesville resident and UF gradu -
ate, has been eating at Calico Jack’s for 
the past 20 years. She and her husband, 
Bob, go there almost every night. Other 
regulars even save seats for them.
Kerr started going to Calico Jack’s 
because it was in the neighborhood and 
some of her neighbors were regulars. 
Her late neighbor, who encouraged the 
Kerrs to visit Calico Jack’s more often, 
had a gold plaque on the cabinet above 
her designated seat. 
Now, Kerr and her husband come for 
the people and her four favorite dishes: 
wings, oysters, Philly cheesesteaks, and 
the half-pound burger and fries that are 
$3 on Wednesdays.
And they’re going to keep coming.
“One health department report does 
not make an establishment,” Kerr said. 
She thought previous coverage of the 
failed inspection blew the situation out 
of proportion. She said she hasn’t no -
ticed a change in the restaurant’s ap -
pearance, and the staff still works hard.
“I know for a fact these people try 
their damnedest,” Kerr said.
Bajaj said he hasn’t seen his business 
affected by the failed inspection. He sees 
it as a challenge and part of the business. 
He takes responsibility for the violations 
and said he wants people to feel com -
fortable with the restaurant so they can 
enjoy what he calls “the CJ’s hospital -
ity.”
“The buck stops with me,” Bajaj 
said.4, ALLIGATOR  n TUESDAY, MAY 10, 2011
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Students pass in between Martson Library and the Computer Science Engineering building on Monday 
during the first day of summer classes.
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Calico Jack’s remains open at Creekside Mall on Monday. The restaurant 
closed for a day on April 28 after failing a health inspection.
STUDENT LIFEAfter short break, students get back to the grind
Restaurant fails routine inspection
the Board of Trustees for UF’s Levin 
College of Law. He will be succeed -
ing Dianna Morgan on the Board.  
Levine graduated from UF with a bach -
elor’s in health education and community 
health, a master’s in health science and a 
master’s of business administration.
He has served as the chief executive of -
ficer of several hospitals throughout Flor -
ida and worked as a health policy adviser 
for both former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush 
and Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal. Levine 
is currently the senior vice president of 
Health Management Associates based 
out of Naples, Fla., which manages 60 
hospitals in 15 states. He will be succeed -
ing Daniel Ponce.  
Roulhac is cur -
rently a senior at -
torney with Florida 
Power & Light Company in Miami. She 
will succeed Roland Daniels on the Board.  
Roulhac graduated from UF’s law school 
in 1987 and has served on the Board of 
Trustees for the law school as well as the 
Florida Bar’s Board of Governors.
The new Board members will travel to 
Gainesville on Wednesday for a two-day 
retreat at Lake Wauburg for their first in -
troductions.
Heekin said he’ll be doing more listen -
ing than talking as he learns the ropes. 
“I need to understand where the univer -
sity is right now,” he said. “I need to under -
stand, at a granular level, what its strategic 
plan is — then I’ll be in a better position to 
make recommendations for the future.”New trust -
ees will meet 
Wednesday
BOARD , from page 1
UFAdministrationTUESDAY, MAY 10, 2011 n ALLIGATOR , 5
$8 OFF
No Coupon Needed! No expiration date to remember!  
Just bring in a valid student ID to any Gainesville Jiffy Lube.
5 area locations.  
For the Jiffy Lube nearest you please visit jiffylubesoutheast.comJiffy Lube 
Signature Service®
Oil Change
See store for more details. Not valid with any other offer. Restrictions may apply.  Jiffy Lube, the Jiffy Lube design mark and 
Jiffy Lube Signature Service® are registered trademarks of Jiffy Lube International, Inc. 
©2011 Jiffy Lube International, Inc. All rights reserved.
By ALEXANDRA HAMILTON
Alligator Contributing Writer
More women around the nation are 
hearing their names called at graduation 
than men are these days — even at UF. 
Women surpassed men in earning 
bachelor’s degrees nationally for the 
first time in 1996, but women had never 
earned more post-graduate degrees than 
men — until now.
Approximately 10.6 million U.S. 
women have post-graduate degrees 
compared to 10.5 million men.
Among adults 25 years and older, 
women are surpassing men in obtaining 
college degrees of all kinds for the first 
time ever,  according to a recent report 
published by The Associated Press. 
At UF, 8,132 women graduated last 
year, with 3,037 graduating with ad -
vanced degrees. This is in comparison 
with 7,159 male graduates, 2,952 of 
whom graduated with advanced de -
grees. “We’re bringing more women into 
higher education, so it makes sense that 
more women are earning their Ph.D.s,” 
said Jeanna Mastrodicasa, assistant vice 
president for student affairs at UF.
For women, having more advanced 
degrees provides them with greater 
access to jobs and may mean women 
will be better protected against future 
recessions. The AP 
report also showed 
there were 3,479 more 
women enrolled at 
UF than there were 
men as of fall 2010. 
With about a 60 per -
cent female freshman 
enrollment rate this 
year, UF’s gender gap shows little sign 
of closing. 
“Nobody seems to know why this 
is happening because nobody has done 
any research on it,” said UF spokesman 
Steve Orlando. “There’s a lot of theories 
on it.”Women getting more 
degrees than men
By JASMINE EARLS
Alligator Contributing Writer
A wave of heat has washed through 
Gainesville this month, leaving behind a sea 
of sweaty students.
Will Lusher, director of the Florida Au -
tomated Weather Network on campus cited 
the National Weather Service,  saying tem -
peratures in Gainesville are slightly higher 
than May 2010.
Last year’s temperature high for this 
week in May was recorded at 88.6 degrees, 
but temperatures are expected to reach into 
the 90’s every day this week.
And the heat is here to stay.
“Last week I was suffering, but I’m so 
glad the pool is finally open,” said Giovanni 
Arizpe, a 21-year-old political science stu -
dent. “This kind of heat can make you feel 
like you’re melting.”
Others lament about the weather chang -ing throughout the day . 
 “It’s beautiful out,” said Sarah Manesh, 
a 22-year-old UF alumna, “but it’s so hard 
to dress for the weather when it’s cool in the 
morning and sweltering in the afternoon.”
Other students have come up with ways 
to stay cool while saving money.
Craig Noles, a 22-year-old English stu -
dent, said he tries to keep the air condi -
tioning off in his home during the summer 
months.
“I do whatever it takes,” 
Noles said, smiling. “I open 
the windows, sleep naked 
and don’t use a blanket.”
Ren Mortz, a 26-year-old Jimmy John’s 
delivery girl, said the summer heat keeps 
her healthy.
“When it’s hot like this, I flourish,” Mortz 
said. “I can ride my bike 30 to 40 miles a day, 
and it keeps me fit. I can still eat whatever I 
want. The sweating is good.”Students feeling the 
heat; find ways to cope
NewsLocal
Mastrodicasa
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to 
letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR  n  TUESDAY, MAY 10, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Today’s question: Do you ap -
prove of the media’s coverage of  
Osama bin Laden’s death?439 TOTAL VOTES66% YES
34% NOGuest Column
April 20 question: Are you stay -
ing in Gainesville for the sum -
mer? 
Dynamic Duo
Legislature stumbles as 
session closes
It’s only been a little more than a week since the class of 
spring 2011 walked, and the rest of us are back at it in 
Gainesville — well, at least the lucky few of us who get 
to soak in the first dog days of summer during a much-less-
populated Summer A term at UF. 
While you were gone, Florida’s best and the brightest 
convened for a legislative session that left a whole lot to be 
desired.
The state Senate and House of Representatives just fin -
ished a 60-day session. What was slated to be  one of the most 
conservative legislatures in the state’s history unraveled into 
political sissy-slapping, as both houses tried to see who was 
the bigger, badder legislative body. Senate President Mike 
Haridopolos, a Republican from Merritt Island and a faculty 
member at UF’s Bob Graham Center for Public Service, found 
himself in a game of one-upmanship with a man he called his 
“friend” — House Speaker Dean Cannon, a Republican from 
Winter Park. Their chambers rejected each others’ bills in 
what they perceived to be power plays. The bills concerned 
fringe issues like the regulation of interior design and mold 
assessment industries, and the budget debate didn’t begin 
until late in the night. 
Cannon, a UF graduate and former Student Body presi -
dent, postured himself as a champion for reconvening his 
chamber early Saturday morning to pass the budget, forcing 
the Senate to immediately follow suit instead of continuing 
discussion later Saturday.
By the end of it Cannon looked petty for all of his power-
tripping, and Haridopolos looked like a schoolboy who got 
punched in the nose and had his lunch money taken. The 
grandstanding resembled a scene out of UF’s Student Gov -
ernment chambers — with meaningful discussion being re -
placed by ego and displays of power.
In the wake of all the sparring, we’re left with state em -
ployees, including teachers and police, who must contribute 
3 percent of their income to their pensions. We face cuts to 
education and the elimination of thousands of state jobs.
And to top it off, the petty infighting prevented the leg -
islature from compensating Eric Brody, a Broward County 
man who was left brain damaged and paralyzed after a dep -
uty crashed into his car, and William Dillon, a man who was 
wrongly incarcerated for 27 years.
Way to go, boys!
And Gov. Rick Scott sits in the middle of the fray — a 
man who led members of his own party to balk at his quix -
otic requests. Cut the state budget by $5 billion? Sorry, Mr. 
Governor. A $700 million reduction will have to do. An Ar -
izona-style immigration law? Too much disagreement and 
not enough time.
Slick Rick, nevertheless, is calling the session a success. 
For all the theater that permeated throughout our legis -
lature’s chambers this session, it became our elected repre -
sentatives who accomplished very little. Instead, they spent 
their time playing political hardball, teaching a governor that 
too-much-too-fast doesn’t work and passing some legislation 
ripe for late-night talk show mockery.
At least students in this indecent state will stop wearing 
their pants so damn low, and nobody will be having sex with 
animals. 
Because, of course, job creation isn’t as big a deal as those 
things. Right?This is no time to dance in streets  
“Hey man, aren’t you from New York? A plane 
just hit the World Trade Center.”
“What? What kind of plane?” 
“It’s all over the news.”
I put down the bar bells, hustle into the television room 
of my gated Florida community and see wreckage, smoke 
and flames. 
My first counter-intuitive thought is, “Wow, what a job, I 
wish I was working.”
I was lucky.
What followed was the worst day in department history . 
New York City lost 343 firefighters. 
I lost 45 friends. 
Unless, God forbid, a worse disaster befalls us, my career 
will always be defined by Sept. 11. After serving 23 years in 
the busiest houses, I feel like a soldier who missed World 
War II. Whenever I say I was a New York City firefighter, in -
variably the next question is,  “Were you at the World Trade 
Center?”
Now, Osama bin Laden is dead.“Justice has been served,” 
President Obama says.  I hope so. 
My heart screams, “You sonofabitch, rest in pieces.”  But 
as a Vietnam vet and a man who has seen suffering and 
death firsthand, I was troubled at the sight of hairless faces 
swelling in the streets chanting,  “USA, USA.” 
If you wear the other man’s caftan, one man’s terrorist 
becomes another man’s patriot.  
What if an Iraqi assassinated George W. Bush and then 
screamed “justice” while Arabs danced in the streets? 
When Muslims dance over our misfortune, we’re re -
pulsed. Similar reactions by Americans send the wrong mes -
sage throughout the Arab world. 
This isn’t a sporting event. These inappropriate celebra -
tions violate human dignity and the inherent sanctity of 
human life.  Celebrating death, even the deaths of enemies, reminds me of the anger I felt when 
I saw Afghans dancing in the streets 
the day the Twin Towers fell.
V eterans and firefighters have 
no monopoly on graphic, agonizing 
memories, but men in uniform are 
painfully aware that casualties have 
faces, lives and stories.
Numbers can be adjusted or cor -
rected; people can’t. Bones shatter, 
blood spills and limbs detach.  
The words “rescue worker dead” flow easy from a com -
mentator’s well-paid lips, but someone who compresses his 
comrade’s head to prevent his brain from sliding into the 
desert sand won’t describe death so casually.
The uninitiated can’t conceive what effect fire or explo -
sives have on human flesh or the human psyche. We live in 
“The United States of Amnesia.” Unless tragedy affects us 
personally, images of unknown heroes helping faceless vic -
tims won’t last.   
I encourage you to celebrate our humanity .  Bin Laden’s 
assassination might bring closure to  victims’ families whose 
experience with the Sept. 11 attacks was personal. One vic -
tim’s brother had tears streaming down his face, but he 
wasn’t dancing. We shouldn’t either. 
This is no game, no time to rejoice and no time for parti -
sanship. 
History’s most expensive manhunt is over. I pray bin Lad -
en’s death brings the victims’ families peace. Bush’s mission 
completed, our boys should come home from Afghanistan. 
But as a former bookie, I’ll lay odds against it. 
Bill O’Connor is a Vietnam veteran, former Bronx firefighter 
and pub and restaurant owner. He is a stand-up comic and 
a recent UF journalism graduate. The irreverent and acerbic 
O’Connor performs free stand-up in Gainesville.
Bill O’Connor
letters@alligator.org
C.J. Pruner 
EDITORJoey Flechas
Josh Isom
MANAGING EDITORSTUESDAY, MAY 10, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR , 7
AP Photo
In this May 2, 2011 file photo, crowds gathers outside the White House in Washington to celebrate after 
President Barack Obama announced the death of Osama bin Laden. 
By C.J. PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
Frank Santiago is not a vengeful man. As 
a child, he was taught to never take pride 
in another person’s misfortune.  All life, the 
nuns and the priests at the parochial schools 
would say, is a gift from God. When man 
suffers, God suffers. Who were you to dance 
while the angels cried?
In his 33 years as a police officer and a fire -
fighter for the city of New York, Santiago had 
heard these voices often. They urged him on 
when he trudged through the infernos and 
rejoiced when he found life. They hummed 
whenever he drew his gun from his holster 
during duty and moaned whenever he put it 
back with fewer bullets than before.
But in the presence of poetic justice, they 
stay silent. 
As the newsman’s voice on the television 
announced to the world last Sunday that 
Osama bin Laden was no more, a tidal wave of emotions hit Santiago. 
Skepticism came first.  It was hard enough 
to find something good on television on a 
Sunday night, let alone a well-financed fugi -
tive in a region chock-full of mountaintops, 
pitfalls and all sorts of geographical trap -
doors buried between rocks and more rocks. 
How could they be sure?
Reserved anticipation followed with ev -
ery channel telling the same narrative. “Se -
cret mission … sources confirm … top lead -
ers briefed … president to address nation … 
” 
Then came the relief. 
“It’s a release,” he said. “It will never take 
away the pain.” 
That pain comes whenever he thinks back 
to that Tuesday morning when he showed 
up to find one of the United States’ greatest 
symbols of power reduced to a burning heap 
of rubble.
Everything had been pulverized into 
dust. Pockets of fire flickered as Santiago and the men he calls his brothers dug. They used 
buckets, their hands and whatever else they 
could find to uncover those trapped beneath.  
The stench of decomposing bodies, crystal -
lized glass and asbestos caused some to spit 
up blood.  Many grown men couldn’t stop 
crying.
Some didn’t have time for feelings.
“You’re pretty much numb,” said Billy 
Rendino, a battalion chief who spent a month 
digging. “But you did the job.”
For weeks they tried to find signs of life. 
When they couldn’t find bodies, desperation  crept in. Santiago recalled finding a woman’s 
left arm, a wedding band still attached to the 
hand. That stuck with him. 
Battalion Commander Richard Picciotto  
was one of those trapped underneath the 
rubble. For five hours,  he lay there, the dust 
and debris gnawing on his lungs with every 
breath.  He didn’t count on getting out alive.
But somehow he did. 
Now, he gets to live in a world where 
there is no bin Laden.
That thought, however, leaves him with 
mixed emotions. 
“I don’t think the word ‘happy’ is appro -
priate,” Picciotto said. “[Bin Laden’s death] 
will help with the closure.  At least he can’t 
hurt anyone anymore.” 
Yet the hurt caused nearly a decade ago 
from thousands of miles away, the firefight -
ers say, is still there. 
“So many kids lost their fathers, parents 
lost their kids,” Rendino said. “Just so much 
misery.” Closure, not celebration, for three NYC firefighters
Experts: death to mean little in election
ing bin Laden’s death is Pakistan. 
Though considered a U.S. ally, re -
ports have suggested that Pakistani 
intelligence has dragged their feet 
in trying to fight terrorist operations 
within their own country. The Unit -
ed States’ failure, or unwillingness, 
to notify the Pakistani government 
of their operation against bin Lad -
en’s compound illustrated a sense of 
distrust shared by the United States 
toward Pakistan. 
Woods said it would be unwise 
for American politicians to point to 
Pakistan and argue that they knew 
about bin Laden’s and whereabouts 
and should have done something 
differently.
In all likelihood, both the U.S. 
and Pakistan probably knew where 
bin Laden was, although the com -
plete truth of the situation won’t be 
fully clear for years, she said. 
“I think it’s a shame if we have 
our politicians pointing fingers at 
Pakistan saying Pakistan must have 
known,” Woods said. “Because we 
both knew.” Then there’s the issue with 2012. 
Almost immediately after President 
Obama announced bin Laden’s 
death, political pundits and strate -
gists began weighing in on how 
such a development would play out 
at the polls come next November.  
Mitchell Norton, President of 
Alachua County Young Democrats, 
said it will be tough to attack Obama 
on terrorism issues following bin 
Laden’s death, 
but that he may 
be vulnerable on 
economic issues 
and the ongo -
ing divisions be -
tween Democrats 
and Republicans 
on taxation. 
“[Republicans 
are] still going to want to talk about 
taxes and the economy ,” Norton 
said. “I think that’s where the presi -
dent is going to be most vulnerable, 
if he’s vulnerable at all.”
Justin York, vice president of 
Law School Republicans, acknowl -
edged the fact that despite this vic -
tory for the Obama administration, 
critics would still take their shot at the president. 
“I think you’re always going to 
have the implacables,” York said. 
“Even if Barack Obama were to cure 
poverty and disease and everything 
bad about the human condition…
someone would find something bad 
to say . If manna were to fall from 
the sky , it would hit somebody on 
the head and they’d say he had bad 
aim.”
For the Obama administration, 
bin Laden’s death represents a sig -
nificant foreign policy trophy, if not 
the only one, said Michael Bowen, 
a visiting professor in the history 
department at UF. Other instances, 
such as the Nuclear Arms Reduc -
tion Pact signed by the United States 
and Russia in April 2010 and prom -
ises to lessen troop presence in Iraq, 
have been muddled in controversy. 
This episode, he said, represents a 
unequivocal win. 
Bowen agrees that jobs, not a 
dead body , will dominate election 
discussion.
“We can kill 100 al-Qaida mem -
bers, but if our employment is still 
above 9 percent, then it’s still going 
to be about the economy,” he said.OSAMA , from page 1
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Staff Writer
Scott Foss was browsing Facebook when a familiar name 
began trickling into his newsfeed.
The 22-year-old recent graduate of UF’s building  con -
struction program flipped on the TV and saw it there, too. In 
the bottom half of the screen was the same name he remem -
bers from that September morning when he was in middle 
school.
Like millions his age, Foss had just caught wind of the 
news regarding the person some called the “boogeyman” of 
his generation.
In the 1940s, details of the Pearl Harbor attack crackled 
over radios. In 1986, Americans watched the aftermath of the 
Challenger explosion on their TV sets. News was broadcast 
the same way on Sept. 11.
But at more than 4,000 tweets per second, according to 
Twitter.com, social media was the lead courier for news on 
May 1.
“That’s pretty freakin’ amazing,” said Gary Ritzenthaler, 
a UF Ph.D. student whose research focuses on the effects of 
technology on society.
With a global membership of 145 million, Twitter became 
a worldwide game of “telephone.” 
Some tweeted that the Air Force had made an 
air strike in Pakistan. Others questioned whether 
public enemy No. 1 had even been killed. A mis -
quote attributed to Martin Luther King, Jr. cycled 
through statuses.
David Carlson, executive director of the Center for Media 
Innovation and Research at UF, said spotting false informa -
tion online isn’t as easy as doing so in the concrete world.
He compared finding an issue of the New York Times next 
to a National Enquirer, saying that the more valid of the two 
would be easy to tell.
“Let’s face it,” Carlson said, “there have always been good 
information and bad information. The Internet didn’t invent 
those things.”
Carlson said the social media explosion may also mean a 
new era for how the world gets its news.
He remembers standing in the Interactive Media Lab on 
the third floor of Weimer Hall at UF on Sept. 11, watching four 
monitors that showed a map of 250 news sources around the 
world broadcasting updates. He said it took about an hour 
for news of the planes flying into the towers to spread across 
the world. 
This paled in comparison to May 1, when news, Carlson 
said, circled the globe multiple times in a matter of minutes.
“Regardless of the quality [of information],” he said, “dis -
semination is quicker.”Tweets announce 
news to worldOSAMA BIN LADEN
On the
Web“I don’t think the word ‘happy’ is 
appropriate.[Bin Laden’s death] 
will help with the closure.  At least 
he can’t hurt anyone anymore.” 
Richard Picciotto
Battalion Commander
Obama
8, ALLIGATOR  n TUESDAY, MAY 10, 2011
n CELEBRATIONS WERE CRITICIZED.
BY ERIN JESTER
Alligator Writer
 
NOTTINGHAM, ENGLAND — Nearly 
4,000 miles away from Washington, D.C., as 
people gathered outside the White House to 
celebrate the death of Osama bin Laden on 
May 1, there were no loud cries of relief or 
retribution. 
Reactions ranged from fear to disap -
pointment, according to students in foreign 
countries. One UF student understood the 
emotions, but didn’t understand the celebra -
tory tone. 
“It’s a way of get -
ting closure for the pain 
that was caused in 9/11, 
but in the end, it’s still an eye for an eye,” 
said Sixtine Gurrey, a third-year journal -
ism student studying in Paris at L’Institut 
d’Études Politiques. “And I don’t think any -
one wins.”
Gurrey, 21, said it was already May 2 in 
Paris as the news of bin Laden’s death broke 
in the U.S. Her day began with a news alert 
via email from The New York Times. As images of elated Americans in Wash -
ington, D.C., and New York City flashed on 
the news, she became anxious about pos -sible retaliatory attacks, both in the United 
States and France. The security increase in 
Paris was immediate, she said. Just a few blocks from where she lives, Gurrey saw 
more guards on patrol around national 
monuments like the Arc du Triomphe and 
the Champs Elysees. 
“Maybe I would’ve been celebrating in 
the States, but here they try to analyze more 
things,” she said. “I saw more of the ques -
tioning side.”
For one UF alumnus now living in China, 
the news that Americans were celebrating 
bin Laden’s death in the streets was down -
right disturbing.
“We need only celebrate justice, not mur -
der, and if this brings peace to his victims 
and their families, then that is justice to cel -
ebrate,” Nate Stein, 23, of Orlando, said in 
an e-mail. 
Ed Pitcher, 21, a student of history and 
politics at the University of Nottingham in 
England, said cultural differences between 
England and the United States account for 
different reactions in the two countries. 
While a more emotional brand of patriotism 
is ingrained into American society, the Eng -
lish, he said, are more reserved. 
“Even if we’d had 9/11 in this country, 
even if 100,000 people had died, we wouldn’t 
have had that,” Pitcher said of the celebra -
tions outside the White House.Students across the world react to terrorist’s death
 Afghan Northern Alliance fighters, along with 
British and U.S. Special Forces, launch a major 
assault in the Tora Bora region  after reports of a bin Laden sighting on Nov. 27 by the security com -
mander for the city of Jalalabad, Hazarat Ali.  The Pakistan Observer publishes information on Dec.  U.S. officials receive 
reports that bin Laden survived bombings conducted in Febru -
ary of his suspected hideout.  In Spain, Muslim cler -
ics issue the first Islamic edict, or fatwa, denounc -
ing bin Laden. The fatwa is released by the Islamic Commission of Spain, which is the primary body that represents the na -
tion’s Muslims. U.S. Defense 
Secretary Robert Gates concedes there has been little good intelligence for years on bin Laden’s location. U.S. officials brief 
President Barack Obama on a potential lead on bin Laden’s location.  Obama believes there’s enough  intelligence about 
bin Laden’s location to support a military operation.
 Bin Laden is killed in a firefight with U.S. Navy SEALs 
at his compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan. U.S. officials 
say bin Laden was not armed but resisted being taken into captivity.  Osama bin Laden 
establishes al-Qaida.  Terrorists set off 
a bomb at the World Trade Center, killing six people and wounding hundreds. Six individu -
als suspected to have 
connections to bin 
Laden convicted. Two truck bombs go 
off in front of U.S. embas-sies located in Tanzania and Kenya, killing 224 people. Al-Qaida later takes responsibility for 
the attacks. U.S. authorities indict bin Laden for his involvement 
in assisting those involved in a 1993 attack in Somalia 
that killed 18 members of the U.S. military. Seventeen American 
sailors are killed when suicide bombers attack the USS Cole, a navy destroyer stationed in Yemen.  Al-Qaida later 
takes responsibility the 
the attack. Bin Laden calls for a declaration of jihad against 
U.S. forces in the Middle East. “It is a duty now on 
every tribe in the Arab Peninsula,” bin Laden states, 
“to fight, jihad, in the cause of Allah and to cleanse the land from those occupiers.” Terrorists hijack com-
mercial airplanes and fly them into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, killing close to 3,000 people. A fourth plane, 
intended for either the 
White House or the Capitol 
building, crashes in a field 
 The United States commences military opera -
tions in Afghanistan. 
1988 1993 1996 1998 2000 2001
2002 2005 2009 2010 2011THE ROAD TOJUSTICE
2001
SOURCE: CNN
REFLECTIONS
“About time. 
It’s been a long-ass time. 2001?”
Tuan Vo
UF Fourth-Year Civil Engineering Major“F—k him.
He killed 
a bunch of innocent people.”“It’s a tragic end to a tragic life.
 It’s a life that’s so centered around hate.”
The Rev. Jose MesaSt. Augustine Catholic Church
“It’s come full circle.”
Allison McCoyStay-At-Home Mom “That was kind of interesting to watch on Twitter.”
Bruce FloydUF Social Media Manager and Web Manager“Quite frankly, finally.”
Austin BrinzaFormer Santa Fe College 
Student Government President“I’m glad they found him
and we can put that to rest. But,
we shouldn’t be
having parties over it.
Should we be glad that
justice was done?
 I think yeah, we should be.”
The Rev. Gregory Magruder
Senior pastor at Parkview Baptist Church
“I just couldn’t believe it.”
Rob ZellerRestaurant Owner and Former City Commission Candidate“We didn’t just get bin Laden,
we got a treasure trove
of information about al-Qaida.”
Alan Beck
Santa Fe College Political Science Professor“I’m pretty glad 
Chip RatliffOwner of Athletic Cutsabout it. It’s like he’s 
the boogey man.”
“Wow. I wondered if we were ever going to catch him.
This was the first time in a long time that we got something right.”
Jeff KaplanProgram Director at UF HillelCharlie BurgHomeless ManJocelyne Sanchez and Morgan Watkins / Alligator Staff
Alexander Silva / Alligator StaffAP Photo
Supporters of Pakistan’s Muslim League burn a representation of the U.S flag, during 
an anti American demonstration in Multan, Pakistan on Monday.
NewsInternationalClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, MAY 10, 2011
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
8-15-11-25-1
All-Inclusive 4/4’s
The Landings Apts.
½ OFF One Month’s Rent
$425/person
352-336-3838
8-15-25-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
8-15-25-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
8-15-25-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409***
Ask about our Apple TV special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
8-15-11-25-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
8-15-11-25-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-1The Polos
ALL-INCLUSIVE LIVING*
3/3: From $444/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    8-15-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
8-15-11-25-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
8-15-11-25-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
Leasing 4 Summer & Fall
Great Specials & New Amenities!
All Inclusive & steps from SFC
Starting @ $359  352.379.9300
8-15-11-25-1
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse.  
Walk to UF. Avail. 8/15
$850/mo. call 877-833-2865
5-10-11-3-1
1 BR 1 BA furn apt on horse farm in Williston. 
Includes util, garb, water, pest, cable, park-ing, cent H/A, W/D, tile. NS. Refs checked. $800/mo. Avail 1st/2nd week in May. Call Cindy 352-443-2016.    6-9-11-10-13/2,util inclded,w/d in unit,1st flr,2 bedrms 
avlbl,cats ok, large rms, common pool across 
courtyard, quite area, mostly families, 4 min 
to Oaks Mall bus service. Call 772-589-1870 
to get pic or set up visit.  $450/mo  6-16-11-
12-1
4/4 @$375 - CountrySide at UF
Utilities included, fully furnished w/private bed/bath & walk-in closet. All the amenities. Cindy 352-339-3763.    5-19-11-4-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        
8-15-11-25-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
8-15-11-25-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
8-15-11-25-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    8-15-10-25-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $599
3br  for $729.
Limited Time Only. 352-376-4002
8-15-11-25-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   8-15-10-25-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
8-15-11-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
8-15-11-25-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
8-15-11-25-2 
3bedroom Starting @ $1019
Amazing townhome with everything included! 
Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/
dryer. Cobblestone Apts. Call now: 352-377-
2801   8-15-25-2   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
8-15-11-25-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!8-15-25-2
Now Including Internet !
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-2
UNBELIEVABLE!!
1 br-ONLY $449
Immed M/I
Only 5 left!!
Call today!
352-376-1248
8-15-11-25-2
2/2.5 TH • $699
4/2.5 TH • 1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • thegardensuf.com
8-15-25-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
8-15-11-25-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
8-15-11-25-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
8-15-11-25-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
8-15-11-25-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
8-15-11-25-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495 ● 3BRs $630
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          8-15-11-25-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!
●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!
●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * biketouf.com8-15-11-25-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
8-15-11-25-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    8-15-11-25-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 475
2.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
8-15-11-25-2
Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
8-15-11-25-2
Pine Rush Villas
Sign a lease by 4/30 and enter to
win a FREE YEAR OF RENT!!
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
352-375-1519
8-15-11-25-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
8-15-11-25-1Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
8-15-11-25-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    8-15-11-25-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
8-15-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
7-14-11-73-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$559 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   6-9-11-43-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 352-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     5-10-11-28-2
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-376-5887    8-15-25-2
****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, close to campus, all appliances, W/D,hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2
****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, 
W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OK Avail Aug.1, $1295 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,
W/D, central heat/airAvail. Aug 1, $1375 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/2BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/2BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $600-635. Gated patio, trees, flood lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-39375-19-30-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   8-15-11-25-2Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
8-15-10-25-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
5-31-11-32-2
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com8-15-25-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 
352-335-4455    8-15-11-25-2
STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
8-15-25-25
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice, 
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dish-washer, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. 
No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. 2806 NW 
16th Ave. $1690/mo. 352-665-8166 lv mssg.   
5-12-11-26-2MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month  2BR 1BA Apts
3  BLKS TO UF & Downtown! 
840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms,  Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. 
Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt  1 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $500/Mo  
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht. 
1216 SW 3rd Avenue 
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA  1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. $500/Mo 
1236 Sw 4th Avenue 
Marcott Apts
1BR 1BA $500/Mo
Central H & Air, 600 Sq. Ft.
Carpet, No Laundry 
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue 
RITZ Apts
2BR 1BA Apts $600-$675/Mo
Carpet or Tile Floors, No Laundry
1234 & 1238 SW 1st Avenue
Central H & Air, Behind Leonardos.
PICKWICK PARK
2BR 1 ½ BA Condo Carpet,
Central  H & Air, Dishwasher
Pool, Clubhouse etc.  $700/Mo
4411 SW 34th Street #1005
5-10-11-15-2 
★WALK2UF.COM★
Location, Location, Affordable
352-375-8256
8-15-25-2
2BR HOUSE 3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, fenced, pets ok, plenty of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $850352-665-8166 lv mssg    5-12-11-25-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/Sorority 
Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/heat, W/D, DW, fenced, pets maybe, plenty of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1335352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-
ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd 
flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail 
Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2350 352-665-8166 lv mssg   
5-12-11-25-2
Large 4BR/2BA HOUSES 2 blks from UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, w/
dining room, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, plen -
ty of parking! . Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1980 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**
Near GHFC vaulted ceilings, all appliances, 
W/D, garage, small pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1195 333-9874,  317-7346    6-9-11-31-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-
pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   8-15-11-25-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    8-15-11-25-2
WWW.BELLAPROPERTIES.NET
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
8-15-11-25-2.10, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, MAY 10, 2011
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    
7-28-11-22-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE PERFECT FOR 
PROFESSIONALS/GRAD. 2BR/2BA pristine 
Bivens Arm condo. Large den/3rd BR, hdwd 
flrs, W/D, pool, canoe. Walk/bike to Shands/
UF, bus stop. $1190/mo. 407-832-1458    
5-10-11-17-2
CONDOS.JACKSONSQUARE.US
Luxury condos 3 blocks North of UF
352-870-9453
8-15-25-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    5-10-11-14-2
Walk or Bike to Campus!
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR houses & condos available. 
Campus Realty 352-692-3800rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    7-28-11-34-2
MILL POND CONDO
3BR/2BA, garage. Across from GHFC.  On bus line to UF law school. $1100/mo. Available January. 331-6872   5-10-11-12-21bed/1bath in 3bed/3bath at the polos. rent 
is $410 incl. utilities, cable and internet. fur-
nished or unfurnished. available May 1st. call 
352 262 7778 or dubroca@ufl.edu   5-10-11-
10-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW 
areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 
per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; 
Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com     
5-12-11-11-2
2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE OVERLOOKING 
A LARGE POND. Located west of Campus 
Credit Union on County Road 20, Millrun 
Subdivision. Clean & neat. $750/mo. Call 
352-871-7801 pfitz100@yahoo.com   5-10-
11-9-2
Clean small efficiency Quiet.Wash/dry on 
prem.Wat/Sew incl NS No Pets.1/2m south 
UF/Shands,2 bus routes.$399/m.Same fur-
nished $410/m 352-262-2871 Owner/agent    
8-2-11-30-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $495, 2BR $585 352-335-0420    5-10-11-7-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $425, 2 BR $535. 352-335-0420    5-10-
11-7-22/1 Downtown Condo. Italian tile floors, 
vaulted ceilings, skylights, huge built in book-
case. Aprx 1000sq'. Close to parks, library, 
and post office. Easy bike to UF.
Month-to-month or longer lease ok. Pets 
ok.$800/mo. OBO. 352-262-1351   5-10-5-2
One & Two bedroom units for rent close to 
Campus! 1403 NW 6th Pl, 617 & 619 SW 
10th Lane, 1123 SW 5th Ave, 924 SW 5th 
Ave, 1015 SW 9th Ave, 111 SE 16th Ave, 
2905 & 2811 SW Archer Road 352-692-3800 
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    5-26-11-8-
2
Great Houses/Condos for rent near Campus 
2021 NW 7th St, 855 NW 20th St, 426 NW 
25th St, 1810 NW 23rd Blvd, 505 NW 34th 
St, 1127 NW 16th Ave, 207 NW 36th Dr, 918 
NW 3rd Ave, 2140 NW 7th Pl. 352-692-3800 
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    5-26-11-
8-2
NICE BIG OLD HOUSE - 4BR, 2-story his-
toric Duckpond neighborhood. Big rooms, 
wood flrs, upstairs porch. Mature quiet ten-
ants only. Not a party house. $1700. Avail 
Aug 395-7569    5-10-11-3-2
Very nice 3BR/2BA House, 2.5 miles to 
UF, Idylwild area. Beautiful large treed 
lot. Hardwood floors, tile, vaulted ceiling in 
kitchen. W/D, ref, stove, DW. Avail Aug 1st, 
2011. $950/mo. Sec dep. Call 727-686-1404    
5-10-11-3-2
4BR/4BA, poolside condo at Countryside. 
Furnished common area, W/D, on UF bus 
rt, walk-in closet, cable internet, utility (w/
cap) $365.unfurn BR, $385 w/furnishing. 
nukken1@aol.com  386-676-9703    5-17-
11-5-2
4/2 great house 1 mile from UF. for rent 
beg. Aug. 1. Large fenced yard, tile floors, fireplace, new appliances. Small dog okay. Close to bus stop. 772-971-9723.   5-19-11-5-2Baxter House Near Campus 1013 SW 4th 
Ave. 4BR/2BA, custom designed, two story 
brick home, W/D, new H A/C, hardwood 
floors & walls. Much more $2,300/mo + util. 
275-1259 ATucker458@aol.com   5-31-11-
8-2
1103 SW 6th Avenue Rear, 2-story brick, 1/2 
block to UF, 4BR + 2/3BA, remodeled open 
design, W/D, Disp, 2 A/C units, DW,MW 
parking, backyard, NPets, NS. Fall $2,100 + 
util. 275-1259, ATucker458@aol.com   5-31-
11-8-2
Walk to Shands & UF.  On bus rte. Spacious 
& private 1BR cono w/tile flrs, lots of cabinets, 
walk-in closet, updated w/DW, disposal, W/D 
combo, small pet ok w/dep. Adequate park-
ing $550/mo 352-371-9520 or 352-317-2642   
5-19-11-5-2 
Post Apartments – 352 376 0080.  352 284 
3873. postj@bellsouth.net
Clean, spacious, private apts. for calm, quiet, 
stable, mature persons.
●Duckpond duplex - 920 NE 6th Ave. $700 
Carport, large yard, big trees, burglar bars, 
WDH, CHA, carpet. 
●1808 - 1830 NW 10th St.- 1 and 2 bed-
rooms. $500-$650. Private patio with lock 
gate, large yard, big trees, carpet.
●1700 SW 16th Ct.- 1 and 2 br Condos $550 - $650 1 block from Shands   8-15-11-25-2
Pinnacle Point large 2 bedroom townhouse 
just minutes from UF & Butler Plaza. All of our 
units are newly refurbished with all new ap-
pliances, tile, carpet, paint, light fixtures and 
more! Call today for specials 352-373-7578    
8-15-11-25-2
Summer $275/month +half utilities 1br-room 
UF students 1ml to UF bus-stop free parking 
swimming pool fitness center free internet 
Cel: 3528715399, dvasquezh@gmail.com   
5-17-11-3-2
Bedroom + office + bathroom in my house 
with a 1-year lease. House is very high-qual -
ity, 1300 sq. foot, in the safe and quiet neigh -
borhood. All-new appliances and the house has been entirely remodeled! If you love to cook this is your house! Common areas are furnished, bedroom unfurnished. Rent is $500 + 1/2 of utilities. Perfect for grad stu-dents. 863-781-2475 (leave msg, NO TXT) or keithaj1981@gmail.com    5-17-3-2
LUXURY 3/2 CREEK'S EDGE CONDO
Quiet upstairs condo. 1300 sf. Like New, lg. rooms, hardwood floors, upgraded kitchen and appl. W/D. Mins to campus on direct bus rt. $975 727-463-0560    6-30-11-14-2
LUXURY DOWNTOWN CONDO!
Stylish City living in Regent’s Park
Beautiful, huge and quiet!
Two story, 3BR/2.5 bath, w/garage
Avail in Aug @ $1600/mo.
Call Union Properties at 373-7578.
8-15-11-25-2
Mins to UF and Santa Fe., 3&4 BR/2BA 
home's, students or families. Fenced back yard. Avail August. Pets allowed! Personal owner, 3320,3321,3331 NW 30th Place,284-5119, $975 & $1200    5-19-11-4-2
507 NW 39th Rd 1/1 $725-hardwood floors, 
porch, w/d, pets-Y!, no pet fees, walk in closets, fence, close to everything Newberry & 39th rd, Avil now. MUST SEE beautiful unit. 305-586-8255 smwhite14@yahoo.com  
6-9-11-9-2
3BR/1BA house available August in SW 
Gainesville. Central heat/AC, hardwood/tile floors, washer/dryer, carport, Florida room, private fenced backyard with patio, pet-friendly. $900/month. ph. 352-318-1053  
6-16-11-12-2
Sublease near UF Sorority Row. Beautiful 
new studio, granite counters, slate shower, w/d. Partially furnished. Available 5/1 through 7/30/11. $699/month Call: Al Raymond (352)494-1805 or email: raydad1@msn.com    5-24-11-5-3FURNISHED 2/2.5 Townhome Walking dis-
tance from UF!! Taylor Square is located 
behind Norman Hall on SW 10th Street. 
Available for Sublease Summer A/C or B! 
Bring your own roommate or live alone! 
Guaranteed Parking! $450/per person, 
OBO!! Email for details: brihuck@gmail.com.   
5-19-11-4-3
1 bdrm 1 bath unfurnished $495
sublease to Aug 7th - 1.5 blocks from UF
305 776-3632                           5-12-11-2-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
8-15-25-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house.Male 
or female.No pets/smoking.Free off-street 
parking$450.00/mo.Includes all utilities, 
wifi,security system, Available 8/1 yearly 
lease. 727-726-2915    5-10-11-27-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus 
route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-
729-1561   5-31-20-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $369/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route, Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871    5-10-11-13-4
Share a 2/1 Downtown Condo. Italian tile 
floors, vaulted ceilings, skylights, huge built in bookcase. Aprx 1000sq'. Close to parks, library, and post office. Easy bike to UF. Month-to-month or longer lease ok. Pets ok.$400/mo. OBO. 352-262-1351   5-10-5-4
I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking $300/mo which includes util & Dish Network TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-682-9412    5-10-11-3-4
Roommate wanted $400. 3/2
Grad student preferred. 
Quiet Lakefront house. 1/2 utilities.  
352-281-2200 or Welchds1@bellsouth.net5-17-11-5-4
350/mo 2 blocks from campus
Close to downtown
814-440-3325 or jfidorra@hotmail.com   6-30-11-14-4
MATURE PROFESSIONAL Share 3BR/3BA 
pool home near UF. Safe area across from Plaza Royale. Bus rte. No alcohol or drugs. $325 + 1/3 util. 2 rms available 5/13. No pets. 371-3837                                 5-24-11-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5TUESDAY, MAY 10, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 11
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-25-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28798-15-25-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      8-15-11-25-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        8-15-11-25-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        8-15-11-25-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   8-15-25-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests 
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      8-15-25-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    8-15-25-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      8-15-25-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  8-15-25-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  8-15-25-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     8-15-11-25-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
8-15-11-25-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-15-11-95-7
Cash For Electronics Working or not! Lap
tops,iPods,Smarphones,iPhones,Gaming 
Systems and More! We Do repairs Too
We are located by the Beef `O` Brady`s on 
Archer RD Techmodo 352-872-5881
6450 SW Archer Rd
5-26-10-8
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 8-15-10-25-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03708-15-10-25-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       8-15-25-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    8-15-
25-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
8-15-11-25-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
8-15-11-25-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  8-15-
11-25-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
8-15-25-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    8-15-11-25-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
8-15-25-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
5-31-11-79-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
92 Eagle Talon $1499
89 Ford Bronco II $129994 Ford Taurus $1299  
01 Mits Montero $2999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $199998 Ford F250 $250096 BMW 318TI $3999 352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
99 Ford F150 $3999  
02 Chevy Blazer $4999  
01 Chevy Silverado $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit checks
Move vehicle $500 & up!
352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
04 Ford Taurus $5999  
02 Chevy Camero $6999  
03 GMC Sonoma $6999
05 Chevy Monte Carlo $6999
352-375-9090       8-15-95-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
02 Nissan Xterra $8999
05 Chevy Trailblazer $9999
05 Toyota Camry $10,999  
352-375-9090      8-15-95-12
CASH for your vehicle today!
All models older and newer
Call Gary at 682-8838              5-24-11-5-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  8-15-25-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      5-19-11-74-13 
Intelligent and Athletic?
Win up to $1,000,000!
for details visit.
www.theintelligentathletecompetition.com   5-12-11-2-13The Village, an upscale retirement
community, is looking for CNAs and
LPNs to join our team. Experience in
Assisted Living is preferred. Part time
and PRN available. Competitive salary
and a great working environment.
For more information or to apply, please visit 
www.thevillageonline.com/jobs The Village 
is an Equal Opportunities Employer and a 
Drug Free Workplace.   5-17-11-27-14
The Village, an upscale retirement com-
munity, is hiring! Multiple part time and full 
time Life Coach positions available in both 
Independent and Assisted Living. Come 
and be a part of our growing team! These 
positions play a support role in planning, or-
ganizing, and implementing our life enrich-
ment program that promotes total health and 
wellness of each resident living here at The 
Village. The ideal candidate will have experi-
ence conducting group programs with strong 
interpersonal skills. Understanding and pas-
sion for working with older adults is a must. In 
addition to experience with social programs, 
individuals with a theology background and/or 
fitness experience are encouraged to apply. 
please visit www.thevillageonline.com/jobs     
5-17-11-27-14
NEED NANNY TO TRAVEL: all expenses paid;
min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs/wk @ $12/hr;
3yr old / 10 mon; bonus hr$; exp; good refs;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    5-10-
11-11-14
FT NANNY NEEDED AUG for 1yr;
2 boys 10&14;$12/hr; ~ 30 hrs/wk;
+ bonus hrs / $$; must be exp/prof/ref/
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    5-10-
11-11-14
TIMBER RIDGE CAMPS
We are a traditional summer camp in West Virginia. We are looking for both male and female counselors. Visit www.trcamps.com or call 410-833-4080 for more information.  5-24-11-14-14Daytime Advertising Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting student applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout. Will
train, but experience with Adobe InDesign,
Photoshop and Illustrator is preferred.
Friendly work environment, flexible sched-
ule, with hours between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave,
M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and refer-
ences. Previous applicants are
welcome to reapply
with current schedule. EOE
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            8-15-10-25-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-15-10-25-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  8-15-11-25-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   5-31-72-14
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonalrecreation and aquatics positionsCompetitive pay in great workenvironment! Apply online todayat www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
Account Director/Project Manager wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web design/marketing experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & CSS experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.    5-24-11-30-1412, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, MAY 10, 2011
Seeking full-time Support Technician to up-
keep and deploy sites built on ASP.NET, 
MSSQL, and IIS. Help maintain Active 
Directory, Windows workstations and serv-
ers. Interacts via phone, e-mail, and ticketing 
system. Email hr@352media.com   5-10-11-
7-14
ATTN SMOKERS!!!!
Need participants for study assessing the
effects of various activities on smoking. 
COMPENSATION provided. Call 336-406-
3706 or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com
5-31-13-14
Group Fitness Instructor wanted - need 
quality instuctor to teach any of the follow-
ing; Zumba, pump, TRX, yoga, Dance and 
spinning. send to resume@baileysgym.com 
or call 352-373-4439    5-10-11-7-14
EASIEST PART TIME JOB IN THE WORLD
Work at your own pace, work your own 
hours, unlimited income potential. Call 352-
875-6451 - Ask for Alan.   5-10-11-7-14
FT prof NANNY needed NOW $13/hr;
3 kids under 5;M-F 48hrs;+OT/ wkds; grads
welcomed; refs/bkkg ch; biling. Span/Eng;
long term; Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail
resume, pix, to gnv@nanoneone.com   5-10-
11-6-14
PT NANNY needed: 2 jobs avail for pms:
18 to 30 hrs/wk; var sched; 2 kids;
start May 1st & cont. thru Fall/Spring;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com
5-10-11-5-14SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working 
environment. PT/FT positions available. 
$7.50/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 
NW 13th St   5-10-11-4-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
SUMMER AND FALL 2011
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
5-19-11-7-14
Female UF student caregiver needed for 
28-year-old disabled girl. Must have personal 
low-profile vehicle (i.e. no SUVs). Duties incl 
toileting & companion services. Saturdays 
9am-8pm. Other work days avail. Luxurious 
work conditions. $8-10/hr depends on exp. 
377-1306    5-12-11-5-14
HANDY, ENERGETIC, SELF-STARTER.
Honest, dependable. Familiar w/tools, driv-
ing, yardwork. Good driving record & ref-
erences. Flex hours. Background check. 
DFWP.  jobopp77@gmail.com    5-10-11-
4-14
YARD WORK $10/HR
References. Flexible hours.
jobopp77@gmail.com   5-10-11-4-14
MWFSat NANNY NEEDED 15hrs/wk;
6:30am; May 2 to Aug 17 min;3 yr old twins + 1yr old; clean dmv;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com   5-10-11-
4-14Looking for musician that can play African 
Methodist hymns for church. Starting $200/
week in Lake City. Call the pastor at 352-
209-8386 or Greg at 386-344-2449    5-19-
11-5-14
Net Enforcers is looking for a FT Junior 
Applications Developer. Excellent
Benefits. Please email resume to
ahjobs@intersections.com. EOE.
www.netenforcers.com    6-28-11-14-14
Seeking Lawyer for medical malpractice 
(negligence) case vs. UF Physicians Group 
Involves statute 766 (Biopsy gone wrong) 
352-450-0512 or Tim@24681.net   5-10-11-
2-14
Female sitter/tutor/driver for 9 & 13 yr old, 
May 2 to Jun 7 & Aug 22 to Jun 6 MTWF 
3:15p to 7:00p. Some later hrs during week & 
Sunday hrs. Strong math skills required. 20-
mile commute. Call 352-332-6465.    5-19-
11-4-14
F/T Legal Secretary/Office Administrator, 
salary negotiable. Call Carrillo & Carrillo @ 
352-371-4000.   6-2-11-8-14
SUMMER WORK
GREAT PAY, $14.50 base/appt 
PT/FT openings avail. 
Customer Sales/Service, 
Will train, conditions apply 
all ages 17+ CALL NOW 
(352) 505-9241
6-2-11-8-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617    8-15-11-25-14
child sitter and math tutor wanted for the 
summer for 2 boysminimal transportation, Must have experience and good drivingrecord   Call 386-365-5313       5-24-11-5-14
Math and science tutor wanted for high 
school kidsmust be enrolled in math or science/engi-neering as undergrad/grad student. Call 386-365-5313             5-24-11-5-14
P/T IT person. Competent to establish re-
mote access through cisco-like systems. Provide resume and salary request topaulsrothstein@gmail.com   5-19-11-4-14
Need ASAP, 30 Fast Typists (65+wpm)
for transcription positions. Production based
pay ranging $7-$13 hourly. Create your
own schedule, must be able to maintain
minimum of 16 hours per week, M-F 7am-
midnight. Easy walk/bike from campus to
office. Ideal for students & those seeking PT
work. This is NOT a summer only position.
Email with interest to: gnvjobs@uigfla.com
5-24-11-5-14
RGIS INVENTORY SPECIALISTS
Part-time hourly workFlexible schedules$8 an hour to startApply online at RGIS.COM     5-24-11-5-14
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES
now hiring  BARTENDERS\Counter Help Applications being accepted 9:00am-11:00am MAY 9th, 10th, 11th at the  2327 N W 13th Street Location. 5-12-11-2-14
Gator Slide Farm horse boarding, $350/mo., 
day stalled, night turned out.  Barns chores done credited against board bill.  Dressage, x-country, stadium. Student recommended. 352-466-3538, gtrslfrm@aol.com5-26-11-6-14
Software Programmer wanted for growing 
software company in Gainesville.
Both entry and senior level full timepositions for work on desktop application.Programming experience required;familiarity with VB.NET and SQL Server a plus. Resumes toemployment@elitesoftware.com.5-19-11-4-14Exp. PRESSURE WASHING person w/ truck 
to pull trailer, pc, internet, cell; flexible hrs, 
part or full-time 'as needed', good pay. Only serious/dependable candidates, please. 352-870-6017 / shaneman@symo.com    6-16-11-
12-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   8-15-25-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  8-15-11-25-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
8-15-25-15
ARC Lifeguard Training
Starts Now!! Don't miss out.
Floridaheartsaver.org 352 575-0119     5-10-24-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
8-15-11-31-15
SERVICE DOGS
Newberry. Autism, PTSD, Companion Dogs. 
Volunteers needed. Non-profit. Puppy-raisers. 330-329-8834 chriswriterbuerki@gmail.com5-24-10-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
NEED A PAINTER/PRESSURE WASHER?
25 Years Experience. Residential and 
Apartment Turn. Local Referencs 352-450-
0512 or 352-375-3181   5-10-11-2-15
★★★Advanced Cleaning & Janitoriall★★★
30 years exp. ● Prompt ● Dependable
Detailed cleaning at low rates. Call thepeople who really do care. 352-682-0800     AdvancedCleaningGainesville.com5-24-11-5-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
8-15-25-16THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
8-15-25-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
8-15-11-25-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses 
Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen 
Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   
7-22-11-100-16
PRIMARY MEDICAL CARE
accept medicare, medicaid, all private insur-
ers, sliding scale fee for uninsuredcall 352 275 8171   5-19-11-5-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
8-15-25-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
8-15-11-25-18
Mature artist looking for a woman to share 
my spacious 2-story 4BR apt on NW side of town. I will pay all the bills in exchange for the master BR/BA w/walk-in closet, help around the house, some cooking & grocery shopping. Apt complex is nice w/2 pools & tennis courts. I don't drive but you will need a car which I will pay for. Object comfortable & fun living. Call Bob 352-226-8449     5-12-2-19
Peace begins with you.
Award-winning 'Words of Peace'Cox CH 21: Sun 7pm; Thurs & Sun1:30am; Sat 1am or www.wopg.org352-373-5578  floridaconnect.net       8-15-11-25-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
McintoshWorld.com. Your Boutique in a barn. 
Gifts-Reggae-Music-Drums-Shoes-Sandals-Boots-Stickers-Posters-Paintings-Cards-Books-Counter culture-Greatful Dead-LP's- HWY:441. 15 min. South. Spend some time...Formerly Environmental Circus - Key West.    5-31-11-7-21TUESDAY, MAY 10, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 13
Sports
TUESDAY,  MAY 10, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
On Sunday, the Gators could 
barely contain their excitement 
when the bracket came up on the 
screen.
In just its second year togeth -
er, a team full of sophomores 
and freshmen earned a bid to the 
NCAA Tournament.
As the fourth overall seed in 
a field of 16 teams, Florida found 
out it will host a first round 
game on May 14 at 1 p.m. against 
13-seeded Stanford.
With a clos -
er look at their 
draw though, 
the players’ ex -
pressions turned 
serious.
Stanford is far from an early 
tournament pushover, going 16-2 
and winning the Mountain Pacific 
Sports Federation championship.
“The unique part about this 
matchup is that they were ranked 
in the top 10 throughout the sea -
son, so I’m sure they probably 
anticipated not having to travel 
all the way to Florida to play this 
game,” coach Amanda O’Leary 
said.
Despite Stanford’s impressive 
résumé, it will have to trek the 2,338 miles from Palo Alto, Calif., 
to Gainesville, a distance farther 
than the other eight road teams 
have to travel combined.Florida (15-3, 5-0 American 
Lacrosse Conference) has been 
perfect at home this year with 
11 wins, while both of Stanford’s losses came on the road. 
“We’re super excited, and the 
fact is that Stanford has to travel 
pretty far for this one,” sopho -more
Caroline Chesterman said. “So 
hopefully, they’re not ready for 
the heat and ready for the type 
of support we get because it’s a 
whole different game down here 
in Gainesville. You never see the 
type of fans or just the excitement 
that lacrosse gets down here.”
While Cardinal coach Amy 
Bokker has publicly displayed 
disappointment in her team’s 
seeding, the Gators felt a sense 
of relief with their placement af -
ter losing two of their last three 
games in regrettable fashion.
Florida had its 14-game win -
ning streak snapped in an upset 
loss to unranked Cornell in the 
regular season finale. 
A week later, UF blew a three-
goal lead late in the second half 
of the ALC Championship.
“The losses obviously didn’t 
help, but we’re right where we 
predicted we were going to be 
at the time,” midfielder Caroline 
Cochran said.
Two of the three teams select -
ed ahead of the Gators — North -
western and No. 3 seed North 
Carolina — have beaten Florida 
this year.
 The No. 1 overall seed is de -
fending NCAA champion
Maryland, who is also in the 
Gators’ half of the bracket.
CHARGES AGAINST UF BASKETBALL PLAYERS REDUCED POLL QUESTION TWO GATORS NAMED TO USA TEAM
n Third-degree felony burglary charges against UF basketball players Erik Mur -
phy and Cody Larson have been dropped to misdemeanor trespassing by a St. 
Johns County state’s attorney. Team manger Josh Adel’s charge of principal to 
burglary has been dropped. Shannon Peters, a spokeswoman for the State At -
torney’s Office, said the crime lacked sophistication.Matt Tripp / Alligator
 Florida coach Amanda O’Leary has led the No. 3 Gators to a second seed in the NCAA Tournament in 
just UF’s second season of exisitence. The Gators host Stanford at 1 p,m. Saturday at Dizney Stadium.
UF earns No. 2 seed in NCAA’s, hosts Stanford
In a month’s time, Titletown U.S.A. 
— or just Gainesville as the rest of 
the country refers to it — could be 
drowning in hardware once again. 
Florida athletics are at an all-time high. 
Any number of teams could bring a 
championship back to The Gator Na -
tion. 
But for my inaugural column, I 
would like to interrupt UF’s anticipa -
tory parade scheduling and tell you 
why I get a tad despondent watching 
all these title runs.  
Look, I enjoy covering winning 
teams. It wouldn’t be much fun cov -
ering coddled cellar-dweller losers. 
But what irks me is watching all these 
successful squads and witnessing their 
fans’ reactions and thinking, “Damn. 
I desperately want to know what that 
feels like.”
See, I was born and raised an Atlan -ta sports fan. 
Always will 
be, always mis -
erably .   
The ATL is a 
legendary sports 
city in a similar 
way Vanilla Ice 
is a notorious 
rapper.  They’re 
a one-hit won -
der tag-team with a bonus track of tor -
ture for the next millennium. 
In 153 MLB, NBA, NFL and NHL 
seasons, the city that launched Sher -
man’s March has won just a single 
championship. A who’s who in the 
sports world including Henry Aaron, 
Dominique Wilkins, Deion Sanders, 
Chipper Jones, Doug Johnson — I 
mean, Michael Vick — Pete Maravich Yearning for that feeling
Jesse Simonton
Simon Says
jsimonton@alligator.orgLacrosse
UF SOFTBALL
By BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
Four years ago, Tim Walton didn’t have 
much to sell to recruits.
The Gators softball team had never been to a 
College World Series, won a Southeastern Con -
ference Tournament or produced a first-team 
All-American. Florida won one regular-season 
SEC crown in 1998, and, according to Walton, 
played “a little bit above average” for 10 years.
Out of necessity , he stressed potential to 
prospective Gators.
“One thing that I tried to sell these players 
on in the recruiting process is that they were 
going to have the opportunity to build a pro -
gram that wasn’t built yet,” Walton said. “We 
had everything you could want here —- except 
the championships.”
Fast-forward to this past Saturday where 
five seniors in orange and blue embraced one 
another in the Pressly Stadium pitching circle 
at the conclusion of the Senior Day ceremony. 
As a sellout crowd gave them a standing 
ovation, the message was clear.“That was pretty chilling,” Walton said.
Since Kelsey Bruder, Aja Paculba, Megan 
Bush, Stephanie Brombacher and Tiffany De -
Felice stepped onto campus, the Gators have 
been to three College World Series, added two 
regular-season SEC titles and, after sweeping 
No. 3 Tennessee this weekend, won the SEC 
East four years in a row.
“Coach Walton promised 
all of us that we were going 
to help build this program,” 
Bush said. 
“I think that we’ve ful -
filled our promise to him, 
and he’s fulfilled his prom -
ise to us.”
Three of the five seniors 
(Bruder, Paculba and Bro -
mbacher) are All-Americans. Walton believes 
Bush should become the fourth this season.
Bruder, Bush and Paculba will continue 
their careers this summer in National Pro Fast -
pitch. For Brombacher and DeFelice, this sea -Seniors pad lasting legacy
Walton
SEE JESSE, p AGE 16
SEE SOFTBALL, p AGE 16
n The US roster for the 2011 FIFA Women’s 
World Cup was announced Monday and it fea -
tures two former Gators. Florida All-Americans 
Heather Mitts and Abby Wambach, members 
of the Gators’ 1998 NCAA championship team, 
were both selected.Today’s question: Which UF 
spring sport is most likely to 
capture an NCAA Title?TUESDAY, MAY 10, 2011 n ALLIGATOR , 15
Since you’ve been gone ...
Zunino, Tucker power Gators: Sophomore Mike Zunino 
and junior Preston Tucker have been red-hot since April 20. Flori-
da’s mashers have combined for 37 RBIs, 27 runs and 40 hits dur-
ing the last 12 games. The No. 8 Gators won seven straight home 
games before dropping two of three to No. 23 Arkansas in Fayette-
ville. UF’s 5-3 win over the Razorbacks on Sunday was the first 
time since 2005 the Gators have won in Baum Stadium.  
Women’s golf qualifies for NCAA’s: Coach Jan Dowling’s team qualified for the NCAA Championships with a seventh place fin
- ish at the NCAA East Regional. UF shot a stellar 3-under round in the 
tournament’s final day , led by sophomore Mia Piccio, who shot a 69 (-3). 
Earlier in the week, Piccio was named to the All-SEC Second Team and 
a member of the SEC Golf Community Service Team.
Both Florida tennis squads win SEC Titles: UF’s men’s and women’s tennis teams won 
Southeastern Conference Tournament Championships. The top-seeded Gators women’s team 
dominated the host Volunteers for their second straight title. Sophomore Allie Will was named 
SEC Player of the Year while five other Gators were named to All-SEC teams. The men’s team 
overcame top-seeded Tennessee in the semifinals before toppling Kentucky for the title. 
Janoris Jenkins dismissed: 
The senior cornerback was kicked off the team 
following his second marijuana arrest. 
Photos by Harrison Diamond, Max Reed, Matt Tripp and UF CommunicationsGators capture SEC East:
 Kelsey Bruder and the No. 4 Florida softball team has won nine-
consecutive games, sweeping No. 3 Tennessee to 
capture the Eastern Division. 
Keeley Medeiros continues roll:  
The junior thrower took home a title in the shot 
put at the Seminole Twilight Invitational.
By JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org
 
Last Tuesday , the Gators’ panda finally 
looked comfortable.
Alex Panteliodis, nicknamed “Panda” by 
fans and teammates alike, reverted to his old 
form against Bethune-Cookman, an 11-0 UF 
win. After laboring through a painful injury 
last season, the junior may have finally turned 
the corner.
A doughy southpaw armed with a deep 
repertoire, Panteliodis was No. 8 Florida’s 
preeminent starter in 2010. He led the team in 
wins, innings pitched and strike outs, but the 
junior pitched most of the season with a frayed 
labrum, requiring offseason hip surgery.
“I had some days where I couldn’t walk,” 
Panteliodis said earlier this season. “It just 
hurt to walk. I took some cortisone shots, had 
a Toradol shot and basically just muscled it up 
and went out there.”
But healthy now in 2011, Panteliodis has 
again dealt with adversity since his return to 
the mound. He was bumped from the week -
end rotation without ever throwing a pitch. 
The junior didn’t make a start until March 9, 
and for much of UF’s dominant season, the 
lefty has been reserved to jockeying for spot 
starts in midweek contests.
The left-hander has particularly struggled 
in relief appearances, getting shelled in back-to-back outings before Tuesday’s start. In 6.2 
innings of relief, Panteliodis has allowed 10 
runs and 14 hits. But in seven sporadic starts, the junior has tossed 27 innings, yielding sev -
en runs.
Against the Wildcats, Panteliodis flaunted his former stuff, commanding the fastball like 
he did so consistently during the 2010 season.
“I felt really good,” he said. “Everything 
was working. I was able to move the fastball 
inside, outside. My slider, breaking ball was 
working well.”
Panteliodis tossed 4.1 scoreless innings and 
scattered three hits while matching a season-
high five punch-outs.
The junior said his start was a major confi -
dence booster going forward, and that hope -
fully he can solidify a spot for the Gators 
stretch run.
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan praised his vet -
eran afterwards, saying, “We’re going to need 
him. It was a really important start for him. I 
don’t think we’re going to win a champion -
ship without him. He’s certainly not the for -
gotten guy.”
Despite rolling along, O’Sullivan relieved 
Panteliodis early because the lefty was on a 
pitch count in case he was needed against No. 
23 Arkansas.
On Wednesday night, UF hosts UNF at 
7, and although it has yet to be announced, 
Panteliodis is likely slated to make his sec -
ond consecutive start. The Gators (36-12, 18-6 
Southeastern Conference) have won seven 
straight games at McKethan Stadium and are 
8-2 in their last 10 games overall. The Ospreys 
(25-21, 13-14 Atlantic Sun) are 4-6 in their last 
10 games, including an extra-innings win at 
home against Bethune-Cookman.16, ALLIGATOR  n TUESDAY, MAY 10, 2011
2011
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
 UF left-hander Alex Panteliodis had a solid start against Bethune-Cookman last Tues -
day, and coach Kevin O’Sullivan said the junior will be a key cog going forward. 
UF BASEBALLPanteliodis’ return to form important for No. 8 Gators
and Tom Glavine, captured one title while in Atlan -
ta. It just makes me sad.  
The city’s infamous postseason choking is so 
depressing it barely fazes people anymore. At this 
point, Atlanta is like an annoying but catchy Black 
Eyed Peas song: Everybody just rolls with it, too ap -
athetic to change the radio.  Every once in a while, a 
faint hope emerges. Unfortunately, in Atlanta, faith 
is quickly swallowed with deafening cynicism. 
For years, the Hawks have been a mismanaged 
group of headcases with more personality disorders 
than the Kardashian clan. So even though they’ve 
won a second round playoff game for the first time 
in nearly 14 years, Philips Arena has been filled with 
Bulls fans. 
The Falcons had the best record in the NFC a sea -son ago, yet they flamed out in the playoffs, getting 
trashed by the eventual Super Bowl champs. 
And that’s the lasting Atlanta sports legacy . It 
literally reads like a bizarro-political ad: Crushing 
dreams, squashing optimism and a guaranteed loss 
to the ultimate title winners. 
The one time it didn’t happen, I wasn’t awake to 
witness it.  When I was seven, the Braves — who are 
my most beloved team — won the World Series. But 
I didn’t get to hear Skip Caray’s famous call because 
I was asleep after a night of trick-or-treating. 
I’ve rewatched Game 6 hundreds of times, but 
not knowing the feeling in the moment forever 
haunts me. 
Every season with every team, I desperately 
hope that this will be the year.
Maybe this will be it. Maybe all the magic down 
here in Gainesville can take a trip up I-75.JESSE , from page 14ESPN Rise rates UF’s 
recruiting class No. 1
son is the end.
“It was a tough weekend,” 
Walton said. “They mean a lot to 
me.”
While the seniors could easily 
rattle off their school and SEC re -
cords for hours, they prefer to talk 
about their teammates, specifically 
the underclassmen.
 After all, helping young play -
ers is part of their job as builders.
“I tell all of the freshmen that 
it gets easier, because freshman 
year is the hardest year,” Bruder said. “I might have weighed more 
than my batting average freshman 
year.”
Walton said generations of 
Gators will reap the benefits of the 
hard work these seniors have put 
in. 
The foundation 
continues next sea -
son with what ESPN 
Rise rated the No. 1 
recruiting class in 
college softball. 
But for the five seniors, a na -
tional championship is still on the 
wish list.SOFTBALL , from page 14
Softball