VOLUME 106 ISSUE 69 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Local charities collect donations for holidays
Some have leftovers from Thanksgiving, pg 3.  
Five Florida cities ranked unluckiest and most unhappy
Tampa, Miami and St. Petersburg made the list, pg 8. 
Hillel can send 40 more on Birthright
Some students who were previously put on 
a waiting list can go on the 10-day trip to Israel this winter, pg. 4. 
63/38
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 9CROSSWORD  11
SPORTS 13 Alex Catalano / Alligator
     Riding Solo
  Animal Sciences freshman Lainie Valasquez unicycles up Stadium Road for enjoyment and in 
preparation for the event “Juggle07,” hosted by Objects In Motion.  
  MEREDITH RUTLAND
 Alligator Staff Writer
 
  Something is missing from Studio 
216.
  There’s a silence that hovers over the 
nearly empty architecture studio. A cer-
tain unreserved laugh isn’t there. Neon 
outﬁ  ts no longer grace one of the desks closest to the studio’s window.
  Some students can’t bear to work in 
the silence — it reminds them Jade Guz-zo isn’t there.
  The 20-year-old architecture ju-
nior died Sunday night when her SUV ﬂ  ipped on Florida’s Turnpike, accord-
ing to a Florida Highway Patrol news 
release. 
  She was driving back to Gainesville 
on Sunday from the Thanksgiving break. The 1995 Isuzu Rodeo she was driving drifted off the road while she was trav-eling through Osceola County around 9 p.m. She turned the wheel but overcor-rected. The SUV ﬂ  ipped several times. 
She was pronounced dead at the scene.
  She and a passenger, who is recover-
ing from her injuries, were both wear-
ing their seatbelts. Alcohol was not in-
volved.
  Her architecture classmates were 
among the ﬁ  rst to hear about her death. 
They went into the hallway , sat down and cried together, said Jessica Elliott, a 20-year-old architecture junior.
  “There’s a special bond that forms 
among architecture students,” Elliott said. Once you spend more time in a stu-
dio than you spend at home, your class-
mates become more than acquaintances.
  “It becomes a second home to most 
people, if not a ﬁ  rst home,” she said.  Architecture students 
mourn death of peer
  MORGAN WATKINS
 Alligator Staff Writer
 
  University Police are investigat-
ing the rape of a UF student early Tuesday morning and searching for the man responsible.
  UPD released a composite sketch 
of the man Tuesday evening. A woman who picked up the student as she was running from the man  helped police develop the sketch, said Maj. Brad Barber, UPD public information ofﬁ  cer. 
  The suspect is black, has a thin 
build and is between 5 feet 10 inch-es and 6 feet tall. He appears to be in his late 20s to early 30s and had a beard when the woman saw him Tuesday morning, according to a UPD news release. He was last seen wearing jean shorts, a red shirt and a baseball cap.
  At about 2:13 a.m. Tuesday, the 
woman called UPD to report that a half-hour earlier she had picked up the female student who had been attacked, according to a UPD news release. The man brieﬂ  y chased 
the woman’s car after they began 
to drive away from the area near Fraternity Row and West Fraternity 
Row. He then left the area on foot.
  Afterward, the woman drove 
the student to the emergency room at Shands at UF. 
  The student told police she had 
accepted a ride from the man chas-
ing her, whom she didn’t know, af-
ter she left 101 Cantina in midtown, 
according to the news release. 
  She said he sexually battered her 
inside the car someplace between 
the bar and Fraternity Row. 
  She then ﬂ  ed from the car. 
  UPD increased patrols in the 
area and searched for the man, but 
police didn’t ﬁ  nd him, Barber said. 
  Anyone with information about 
the man’s identity or the case can 
call UPD at 352-329-1111. To remain anonymous, those with informa-
tion can call Crime Stoppers at 352-
372-STOP .  University police are still 
searching for rape suspect
� PACKAGING ITEMS 
WILL BE REPLACED WITH PAPER-BASED PRODUCTS.
  JAVIER PEÑA
 Alligator Contributing Writer
  In an effort to eliminate 
waste, Gator Dining locations 
on campus will no longer be using foam products.
  Foam food packaging prod-
ucts, which include cups and to-go containers, have been re-placed with paper-based prod-ucts that are compostable or recyclable, Dana Falstad, sus-tainability manager for Gator Dining Services, wrote in an email.
  “By eliminating the number 
of foam containers on campus, we are helping to promote sus-tainability and working togeth-er to help our environment,” she said.
  Falstad declined to disclose 
the cost of removing foam products from campus.
  With more than 40 dining lo-
cations at the university no lon-ger using foam, 24,000 pounds of foam products will be saved, according to a Monday Gator Dining news release.
  Falstad said UF used about 
1.2 million pieces of foam prod-ucts in 2010, and these products don’t break down in landﬁ  lls and can hurt the environment.
  “We are helping to support   Dining halls nix foam productsSEE OBITUARY, PAGE 5
SEE FOAM, PAGE 5“She’s always rambunctious.”
Caleb Generoso
UF architecture juniorTwo more Gators 
left the program 
Tuesday, bringing 
the total number
 to 11 since Will 
Muschamp was hired. 
See story, page 13. News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 69 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tyler Jett, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,   
  Caitlin O’Conner, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Karly Kehres, 
  Jillian Kremer, Kathryn Milstein,   
  Adrianna Paidas, Shayna Posses,   
  Marissa Prieto, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Linzy Monahan   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
SUNNY
63/38SUNNY
69/43SUNNY
72/44PARTLY
CLOUDY
74/52PARTLY
CLOUDY
78/55SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening
Hearts for the Holidays Card 
Making
Today to Friday
9:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.  
Reitz Colonnade and Turlington Plaza
Friends for Life  presents 
the annual Hearts for the 
Holidays event and encour -
ages UF students, faculty and staff to make holiday cards 
for pediatric cancer patients 
who will spend the holidays 
in the hospital.
IMPACT Autism General 
Meeting
Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.
HPNP Building, Room G301Join the group for the final 
general meeting of the year. 
It is not too late to join. Come 
and see how to get involved 
next semester. Visit the Facebook group “IMPACT 
Autism @ UF” for more in-
formation. missions after above events. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CLaRiFi CatiOn
An article in Tuesday’s Alligator stated that Armando Grundy served in Operation Enduring Freedom. He served during the time of Operation Enduring 
Freedom on a U.S. base.Keep a Child Alive Meeting
Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.
Weil Hall, Room 279Come learn about how KCA makes a difference for AIDS victims through fundraisers and spreading awareness. This is a great opportunity to get involved. New members are always welcome. Also “like” the “Keep a Child Alive at UF” group on Facebook.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your sub-
 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIAMI — More than a decade 
after tabloid photo editor Robert 
Stevens became the first victim of the 2001 anthrax attacks, the U.S. government has agreed to pay his 
widow and family $2.5 million to 
settle their lawsuit, according to documents released Tuesday.
Stevens, 63, died on Oct. 5, 2001, 
when a letter containing deadly an-thrax spores was opened in Boca Raton at the then-headquarters on of American Media Inc., publisher of the National Enquirer, Sun and Globe tabloids. Eventually four other people would die and 17 oth-
ers would be sick-
ened in similar 
letter attacks, 
which the FBI blames on a lone government sci-entist who com-mitted suicide.
Stevens’ wid-
ow, Maureen Ste-
vens, sued the government in 2003, claiming its negligence caused her husband’s death by failing to ade-quately safeguard anthrax at the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases at Fort Detrick, Md. The FBI probe concluded that Fort Detrick was the source of the 
spores used in the attacks in New 
York, Washington and Florida.
The government failed to carry 
out its “duty of care, the highest degree of care” in making sure the deadly microbes were kept tightly under lock and key , according to the suit.
Government attorneys said that 
the intent of the deal was “avoiding the expenses and risks of further liti-gation.”
Alex Catalano / Alligator
Put your back into it
UF broke ground today to unveil the new Data Center at the Eastside Campus, located at 2124 NE Waldo 
Road. UF President Bernie Machen emphasized it was the university in cooperation with the mayor and the city that brought this project to life from where it started almost six years ago.
EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
Gainesville’s St. Francis 
House still has Thanksgiving 
leftovers.
Kent Vann, executive di-
rector of the soup kitchen and 
shelter, said last Thursday’s 
dinner was a success. 
About 200 volunteers served 
about 300 meals Thursday , he said, and the shelter had six turkeys leftover. They will be frozen for Christmas.
The St. Francis House was 
one of several charities and food 
banks in the city that collected 
money and food donations to give the hungry a Thanksgiv-ing dinner.
The Gainesville Catholic 
Charities food pantry also col-lected food and money . 
The food bank saw results 
similar to those of the St. Francis 
House, serving about 325 fami-
lies throughout the week, said Cathyann Solomon, Catholic Charities’ associate director.
Solomon said the food bank 
served just about all the food it had and didn’t have to turn anyone away.
But the outlook was dim 
for Gainesville’s Bread of the Mighty Food Bank.
Director Anne V oyles said the food bank didn’t get nearly as many food or monetary do-nations as in years past, some-thing she said she attributes to 
the economy.
“People who were helping 
us last year are now the ones 
asking for food,” she said.
V oyles said she usually sees 
more food donations around Thanksgiving than any other time of year, but she hopes things will pick up in time for 
Christmas. 
Anyone interested in mak-
ing holiday donations to Bread 
of the Mighty can drop off food donations at 325 NW 10th Ave. from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday to Friday . 
Donations for the St. Francis 
House should go to 413 S Main St., and monetary donations should be mailed to P .O. Box 12491 Gainesville, FL 32604. 
The Catholic Charities food 
bank is doing an adopt-a-fam-ily charity for Christmas. To participate, call 352-372-0294.Local charities collect 
donations for holidays
“People who were 
helping us last year are 
now the ones asking for 
food.”
Anne Voyles
director of Gainesville’s Bread 
of the Mighty Food Bank
Stevens
nAtionAlUS to pay $2.5M in man’s anthrax deathMINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
Michelle Amit wanted to meet new 
people while on a trip to Israel. 
She applied for the Birthright trip in 
October, certain she would be accepted, 
but she was wait-listed.
Disappointed, the 20-year-old mi-
crobiology sophomore began to 
make other plans for Winter Break.  
However, Amit now has another chance to 
go to Israel this winter. 
UF Hillel has been offered an extra bus 
and can send 40 more students to Israel 
through the tour operator Israel Experts, 
said Joshua Kahn, the Jewish agency pro-gram director at Hillel. 
Birthright is a 10-day trip that al-
lows people of Jewish heritage to con-
nect with their roots by visiting Israel.  
Israel funds 15 percent of the costs, and 
various organizations and private donors fund the rest.
Sending one person to Israel costs about 
$3,000. The program is free except for a 
$250 security deposit, which is returned at 
the end of the trip. 
The trip includes a round-trip ticket, 
two meals a day and a bus seat while trav-
eling in Israel. 
About 50 percent of applicants are usually wait-listed for winter trips, Kahn said.
With the new winter trip, UF students 
who previously registered, regardless of what trip operator used, can apply.
Twenty of the 40 new spots had al-
ready been filled as of Tuesday night.  
Students interested in attending the trip, which is from Dec. 29 to Jan. 8, should email Kahn at Josh@ufhillel.org. 
Kahn said he must have a final list by 
Wednesday.
UF Hillel has already accepted 40 stu-
dents for the first trip, which is from Dec. 27 to Jan. 7.
While Amit has emailed Kahn, she’s not sure if she or her friend will be able to go on the new trip.
“We both kind of accepted the fact 
that chances were pretty slim to get on a trip that fit both our schedules while we were wait-listed,” Amit said. “As cool as it would be to travel this winter, there’s al-ways next year, worst case scenario.”4, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2011
Courtesy to Alligator
UF students on a Hillel Birthright trip meet the Israeli soldier who will accompany them during their trip.
student lifeBirthright trip to Israel offers more seats to students
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIAMI — Two decades ago, 
the now-ousted director of the 
Florida A&M band warned in a 
letter about the dangers of haz-
ing among the famed “Marching 100” ensemble, saying “it would be very difficult for the universi-
ty and the band should someone 
become killed or hurt.”
In the following years, how-
ever, hazing seemed to become a bigger — if not more public — 
problem. 
Police investigated several 
serious cases, and students were 
arrested. 
Anti-hazing workshops were 
held. 
Dozens of band members were 
suspended. 
University officials and the 
marching band community were keenly aware of the persistent hazing, yet it continued and is be-lieved to have played a role in the 
death this month of a 26-year-old 
drum major Robert Champion.
Champion’s death started a 
blame game of sorts, with the historically black college in Talla-hassee firing its band director, Ju-lian White, accusing him of “mis-
conduct and/or incompetence.” 
In turn, White released more 
than 150 pages of documents 
showing that he warned the uni-
versity for years about what was 
going on.
The chair of the Board of Gov-
ernors, which oversees Florida’s public universities, wrote a letter 
to FAMU trustees Tuesday say-
ing it would investigate whether the university administration took appropriate action to ad-
dress White’s concerns.
A former band member told 
The Associated Press on Tuesday 
that White looked for ways to eradicate a culture of hazing that 
existed in many instrument sec-
tions of the band. 
White invited band members 
to anonymously report hazing and even had police come along 
on some away games, former 
drum major Timothy Barber said.
In 2001, when trumpeter Mar -
cus Parker was paddled so se-verely that he ended up hospital-ized with kidney damage, White had police escort the trumpet sec-tion off the field to be interrogat-ed to show he would not tolerate 
hazing, Barber said.
About a dozen people plead-
ed guilty to a misdemeanor and 
received probation in that case, though it’s not clear what ac-
tions, if any, the university took 
to punish them.
After the arrests, White ap-
proached Barber for help in get-
ting rid of haz-ing. 
One area he 
focused on:  a 
white wall in 
the band’s prac-tice field where 
nicknames for the instrument sections were prominently dis-
played. 
Becoming a member of these 
groups — the clarinets were 
known as “The Clones” and the tubas were the “White Whales” 
— meant becoming part of a tra-
dition and a band that has played Super Bowls, the Grammys and presidential inaugurations.
But some sections had their own violent initiation rituals. White bought buckets of white paint and asked Barber to cover 
up the section nicknames on the 
wall.
“Tim, we have to find a way 
to eradicate these subsections of the band,” Barber said White told 
him. “Cover the names so they 
see this is not something sup-ported by the band staff.”
While White documented his 
efforts to stop the hazing, it’s 
possible he could’ve done more 
on the front lines, according to Richard Sigal, a retired sociol-ogy professor at County College 
of Morris in Randolph, N.J., who 
has studied hazing.
“Maybe he just had a prob-
lem that was beyond his ability to control it,” Sigal said. But in 
general, “If the person at the top 
issued a zero tolerance policy for hazing and oversaw what the people under him were doing, then there was no hazing.”
The details of Champion’s 
death are unclear. 
Authorities, the school and an 
attorney for his family said haz-
ing played a role, but no one has been willing to shed any more 
light on what actually happened Nov. 19 after the football team 
played its rival Bethune-Cook-
man. 
Police have said only that 
Champion started vomiting and 
complained he couldn’t breathe 
before he collapsed on a band bus outside their hotel in Orlando.
The university has announced 
an independent review, and Gov. 
Rick Scott has asked state investi-
gators to join the sheriff’s depart-ment in their investigation.
University officials declined 
interview requests for this story, 
but President James Ammons, 
who earned his bachelor’s and master’s degree from FAMU, is-sued a statement late Tuesday.
“The university has a zero tol-
erance policy toward hazing. Pe-riod. But it is becoming increas-ingly clear that hazing continues to exist — at FAMU and across 
the country at other universi-
ties, colleges and other elements — because hazing survives and thrives in a culture of secrecy and 
a conspiracy of silence. I am com-
mitted to illuminating this dark corner of Florida A&M Universi-ty and the American culture ... il-luminating it and eradicating it.”
FAMU hazing persisted despite student suspensions, arrests“We both kind of accepted the 
fact that chances were pretty slim 
to get on a trip that fit both our 
schedules while we were wait-
listed.”
Michelle Amit
microbiology sophomore
Champion
Death of drum major still under investigation“It’s like losing a member of the 
family.”
Her desk has been left the way 
it was when Guzzo left for the Thanksgiving break. 
The only change is two roses, a 
yellow one and a white one with red edges, that now sit in her cup of pens.
Pull open a drawer, and you’ll 
see a bag of paints and a dishev-eled ball of green and pink rub-ber bands. Pieces of cut cardboard and a sketch on tracing paper 
are scattered on the desktop.  
There was a method to the mess, 
said her friend Caleb Generoso. 
He said she was the type of per -
son to run with an idea as soon as she thought of it.
“She’s always rambunctious,” 
said Generoso, a 20-year-old ar -
chitecture junior. “She just kind of 
goes with it. I think her work says 
that too. … She draws them so quick because it’s whatever she’s thinking right then.”
Her friends put up a memo-
rial with 48 pieces of her work on the second floor of the Fine Arts building, down the hall from her studio.
The sketches, part of a final 
class project, are aerial shots of a research complex. While some 
students favor perfectly straight 
edges and meticulous detail, Guz-zo preferred to draw flowing, in-terconnecting lines of yellow and purple.
“She’s the only person brave 
enough to use pastels in an archi-tecture drawing,” Generoso said.
Elliott said Guzzo’s personality 
was as vibrant as her work.
“She’s always the brightest and 
the loudest, but she was always so big with everything,” she said. “She was amazing.”
Margarita Martins, a 22-year-
old architecture senior, said Guzzo was always upbeat.
“She was one of those people 
that, no matter how hard of a day she had, she would always be smiling,” Martins said.
After Generoso heard about 
her death, he said, he knew tradi-tional mourning colors wouldn’t 
be enough to honor a woman who 
embodied glitter and neon.
“I just looked for the most col-
orful stuff I could find,” he said, clad in a yellow undershirt and a yellow-and-white button-up shirt. “I felt it wouldn’t be appropriate to wear black or gray today because that’s what she left behind, but what she brought in was color.”
In her spare time, which her 
friend Jesse Mantohac said is hard to come by as an architecture stu-dent, Guzzo ran half-marathons. She would sometimes rush to class in her running clothes.
She had dreams of designing 
an art gallery to house the art she painted in her free time, Mantohac said.Generoso said the studio will 
be too quiet without her laugh — one that was always full of life.
He said it could be heard at least 
two doors down, and it became part of the daily studio sounds for every student.
“Everything can be said about 
her personality if you just hear her laugh,” he said. “To continue on this final week knowing she won’t be at her desk, it’s really unreal.”
A memorial in Delray Beach is 
planned for 9:30 a.m. Saturday at St. Vincent Ferrer Catholic Church, 840 George Bush Blvd. WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Courtesy to Alligator
Jade Guzzo, a 20-year-old architecture junior, died Sunday night 
when her SUV flipped on Florida’s Turnpike.
‘It’s like losing a member of the family’
Obitu Ary , from page 1PHiLANtHr OPy
MARY ANNE EADES
Alligator Contributing Writer
Volunteers for the Winter Break 
Food Drive in Alachua County are 
hoping to collect donations to fill 500 boxes of food for needy fami-lies.
During the school year, thou-
sands of children are provided meals through the Free/Reduced-Price Lunch school meal pro-gram. 
When those children are 
home for Christmas break, Dec. 17 through Jan. 2, their families struggle to buy the extra food 
needed, said Kelley Kostamo, co-
ordinator of the food drive.
“Many more kids need the 
food over the holidays than we can provide food for,” she said. 
“We really can’t help as many 
kids as we’d like to.”
The Center for Leadership and 
Service is helping promote the food drive on campus. The center 
does not know the response the 
Student Body will have because this is the first year UF is partici-
pating, said Angela Garcia, the UF 
contact for the food drive.“This drive is a great opportu-
nity for students to get involved in the needs of their community and not just on campus,” she said.
The food will be collected, as-
sembled into balanced food boxes and distributed to most of the schools in the district.
“We need kid-friendly, non-
perishable food,” Kostamo said. “This year, we also want to pro-vide food for holiday meals such as sweet potatoes and stuffing.”
Macaroni and cheese, canned 
food, and peanut butter and jelly are commonly donated foods.“We always have lots of maca-
roni and cheese, so the money 
donated will be used to buy the 
items missing from the boxes, 
such as fruit,” Kostamo said.
The boxes will be as-
sembled by volunteer school children, many of them Key 
Club members, and teachers.  
Dec. 9 is the last day for dona-
tions, and the boxes will be dis-
tributed on the last day of school, 
which is Dec. 16
“I know sometimes, as col-
lege students, you’re hungry too,” Kostamo said, “but when 
you leave to go home for break, 
consider giving the extra food 
you have, and that you can live 
without, to the food drive.”  
Students can bring donations to 
the Center for Leadership and 
Service in 301 Peabody Hall.UF participates in Alachua County schools food drive for first year
� THEY ARE COOLER THAN 
NORMAL FOR THIS TIME.
MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
For some, Florida’s cold tem-
peratures are no reason to bundle 
up.
Saajan Panikar, a 21-year-old 
wildlife ecology and conserva-
tion senior, walked around cam-
pus Tuesday in jeans and a polo T-shirt. 
The 64-degree temperature 
outside didn’t bother him much.
“I’m from Chicago,” Panikar 
said. “This isn’t that cold.”
Temperatures will dip into 
the 30s and not exceed the mid-
60s this week, said Marie Trabert, 
a meteorologist at the National Weather Service in Jacksonville. Wednesday night will be the coldest with a low of 33 degrees, and there may be frost on cars and along the grass Thursday morning, she said.
The temperatures are about 10 degrees cooler than normal for 
this time of year.
Panikar said he thinks people 
who complain about the tem-
peratures or bundle up in heavy winter clothing are “ridiculous.”
“Until you’ve had to wear 
a parka and still feel cold, don’t talk to me,” he said. 
Staci Didner, an 18-year-old 
public relations sophomore and New York native, wore a light jacket and jeans Tuesday . The weather in Florida gets “perfectly cold,” she said.
“I’m so happy we get the cold 
without the snow,” Didner said.
But for native Floridians, cold 
weather means scarves, bubble 
jackets and trench coats. 
Stacey Coonts, a 21-year-old 
anthropology junior from Tam-
pa, prefers layering shirts with sweaters and wearing her hand-made crocheted gloves when it’s cold outside. 
“I absolutely hate the cold,” 
Coonts said. “I’ve always hated 
the cold. It’s a Floridian thing, I 
guess.”Temperatures will dip 
into 30s this week
UF aims to be ‘zero 
waste’ within four years
UF’s goal of being zero waste by 
2015,” she said.
Accounting junior Jason Beck, 
20, said he eats on campus two 
times a day. Usually eating at Pan-
da Express or Burger King, Beck said he noticed both companies using plastic and paper cups.
Beck said he still sees students 
using disposable containers at the residential dining halls.
“It does seem a little more con-
venient for the average student to 
use their container and throw it 
away right after they use it,” he said.Nursing sophomore Lila Dil-
lon, 20, said she hasn’t noticed anything different about the cups or containers used around campus 
but said removing foam products 
shows that UF is becoming more green.
“Why would you choose to 
use Styrofoam when you can use something else that will work just as well?” Dillon said.“This drive is a great 
opportunity for students to 
get involved in the needs 
of their community and not 
just on campus.”
Angela Garcia
UF contact for food drive
“We are helping to      
support UF’s goal of being 
zero waste by 2015.”
Dana Falstad
sustainability manager for Gator 
Dining ServicesFOAM , from page 1Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR104 TOTAL VOTES23% YES
77% NOTuesday’s question: Do you feel the 15 
percent tuition hikes are necessary?Today’s question: Are you already listening to the 
Christmas music on the radio? Wrestling with Rights
  Everyone deserves 
right to fair trial
  On Tuesday , Republican Sens. John McCain, Ariz., and 
Rand Paul, Ky., went head to head about an amendment 
to a proposed defense authorization bill. 
  The amendment in question would potentially deny a civil-
ian trial to American citizens who have been suspected of ter-rorism. 
  According to The Hill, McCain argued that any “individual, 
no matter who they are, if they pose a threat to the security of the United States of America, should not be allowed to continue that threat.” 
  But how does denying a citizen of the U.S. the constitutional 
right to a civilian trial help to ensure that a threat does not con-tinue? 
  In fact, the U.S. Constitution guarantees that anyone, citizen 
or not, has the right to a civilian trial. This was correctly inter-preted by the Supreme Court in Boumediene v. Bush in 2008, ruling that the writ of habeas corpus applies to Guantanamo Bay 
detainees. 
  From a philosophical standpoint, it would be unjust to deny 
rights to non-U.S. citizens. The Bill of Rights is based on the idea 
of natural rights, which apply to every human based upon their 
nature. 
  To deny noncitizens the rights in the Bill of Rights would be 
to deny the existence of natural rights altogether. Instead, rights would not come from man’s nature but from the government 
where that person lived. This would make rights arbitrary and 
subject to the whim of the politicians in power. 
  But this amendment would not only deny civilian trials to 
noncitizens suspected of terrorism but U.S. citizens as well. This 
is intolerable. 
  Sen. Paul countered McCain’s argument, proclaiming, 
“Should we err today and remove some of the most important 
checks on state power in the name of ﬁ  ghting terrorism, well 
then, the terrorists have won.” 
  Hyperbole aside, Paul is absolutely correct. If politicians like 
John McCain believe that terrorists are attacking us because they 
hate our freedom, then the best way to ﬁ  ght terrorism is not to 
destroy our freedom altogether. 
  Of course, that is not why the terrorists are attacking us, but 
McCain should remove his hawkish lens and think of the long-term consequences of this amendment. 
  One of the other foundational parts of our justice system is 
the idea that all suspects are innocent until proven guilty. For 
McCain, this does not apply to terrorist suspects. 
  If someone is suspected of plotting a terrorist act, he or she 
can still be detained just like anyone else. But under the Con-
stitution, law enforcement should still have to show just cause 
to detain someone, and that person must be afforded all of the 
protections (such as Miranda rights and a right to a trial) that 
any suspect would receive. 
  McCain said repeatedly on the ﬂ  oor, “Facts are stubborn 
things.” He’s right, and the facts are against him.  For society’s sake, embrace your inner skeptic  
  While I have tried religion in the past, something 
has always led me away from faith and toward reason. I found the burden of proof is not on the 
atheists to prove that God does not exist; it is on the theists to prove the existence of a deity. I just have not been pre-sented with any convincing evidence. 
  I guess you could say I am skeptical about a lot of things, 
things we hear from politicians, religious ﬁ  gures or the me-dia. This is not to say that everyone is involved in some big conspiracy with black helicopters. I just take things with a grain of salt.
  If you have not guessed by the editorials this semester, 
I am a libertarian, and I believe this comes from my skepti-cism. 
  A while back, when the media reported that cellphones 
might cause cancer, I thought that this was probably over-blown and needed more research before a conclusion could be made.
  It was the government that moved quickly to “protect 
the people.” In 2010, the San Francisco Board of Supervisors required cellphone makers to post notices warning about the levels of radiation in their phones. This year, the Journal of the National Cancer Institute found no link between cell-phones and brain tumors, even in children who have been using cellphones for ﬁ  ve years. 
  I have learned while studying history, politics, econom-
ics and religion that everything must be approached with a level of skepticism. One must question all claims made by the media, political ﬁ  gures and even your professors. 
  I am not saying that the truth can never be obtained or 
reached. Objective truth exists and can be acquired through the use of our ability to reason. This means that we cannot rely upon emotions or whim. We also should not rely upon public opinion.  
  When I hear, for instance, that a majority of Americans 
support waterboarding, I do not immediately accept that this policy is correct for the sake of democracy. Democ-racy constitutes the surrender of the rights of the minority to the whims of the majority; that should not be the standard by which we determine right and wrong. 
  When the government came 
to us in 2003 and said that we had to go to war in Iraq to spread democracy, the American people 
blindly followed without asking whether this was the right policy to pursue. In March 2003, 72 percent of people polled by the Pew Research Center said the use of military force in Iraq was the right decision. And now, after a decade of needless war and destruction, can we say that we are any more safe or that the Middle East has more freedom?
  When we are told that capitalism is an evil  system of ex-
ploitation, I just do not see the evidence. I believe that true capitalism (not the corporatism and government favoritism that we have seen over the past few decades) has brought more prosperity and has increased the standard of living more than any government program ever could. 
  The state is truly the destructive entity.  How much destruction occurs when the government 
taxes (either through increased tax rates or inﬂ  ation caused by printing more money) the private sector and then claims that it has created jobs when it starts a new “shovel-ready” program? The money taken out of the private sector could have gone to more productive pursuits, creating more wealth and more jobs. 
  Government has a monopoly on force, and we must de-
mand that politicians prove their case to us before they start stripping away more liberty.
  When it comes to these important issues, skepticism is 
critical for a free society.   
  Justin Hayes is a political communication graduate student 
at UF and the opinions editor for the Alligator.  
Justin Hayes
jhayes@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
career tips
DANIEL AXELROD
Alligator Contributing Writer
St. Petersburg Times editor Mike Brass-
field has a mental manuscript about the 
do’s and don’ts of freelancing from the 
writers who have approached him.
Brassfield, a regional editor in Clear -
water, once sent a freelancer to a Unitarian 
church to cover a panel discussion about 
respecting people regardless of their sex-
ual orientation. 
Later, Brassfield asked how everything 
went. 
“It went OK,” she told him. “But they 
had to take the microphone out of my hand.” 
Brassfield was shocked. The writer had inserted herself into the 
story.
“Later, I found out that when [the event 
organizers] were passing the microphone for questions, she practically took over the event, saying ‘I’m from the St. Petersburg 
Times,’” he said. “She started monopoliz-
ing the discussion and interviewing the panel and the crowd.”
In the soft economy, editors say they 
can be choosier about picking freelancers from a vast pool of unemployed report-ers and aspiring writers, so knowing the rules of freelancing is more important than ever.
“I don’t have time for coaching or sur -
prises,” Brassfield said. “And I don’t have a lot of time to try to train somebody.”
Across the globe, freelancers are in de-
mand in a number of industries. Nearly half of the 12,000 companies polled in a recent, worldwide business confidence survey said they plan to hire freelance em-ployees, according to Regus PLC, a Lux-
emburg-based company that outsources 
workplace office services.
Staff amputation
Few industries have come to rely on freelancers more than newspapers, which cut nearly one in three newsroom employ-ees between 2000 and 2010, according to industry analyst Rick Edmonds. 
“I’m in dire need of copy from freelanc-
ers,” said Sherri Day, the St. Petersburg Times’ Brandon bureau chief. “My staff isn’t just responsible for regional cover -
age. I also need regular copy.”
Of course, freelancers have always 
worked at newspapers. Media scholars have documented how papers cut cover -
age to boost profits during four decades of 
corporate consolidation. Freelancers filled 
the gaps.
But after 15 years of failing to monetize 
online journalism, a societal shift in how companies advertise, a recession and de-
clining readership, newspapers have gone 
from self-mutilation to staff amputation. 
Even conservative, widely cited news-
paper figures from the American Society 
of News Editors estimate a loss of 13,500 
newsroom employees between 2007 and 2010.
Ironically, editors said, former full-time 
reporters are sometimes less equipped to 
freelance. 
They’re discouraged by paltry newspa-
per freelancer fees — from less than $50 
per article to a few hundred dollars — 
sensitive to rejection and unsure how to 
pitch.
Tampa Tribune features editor Kim 
Franke-Folstad receives amateur pitches from professionals who turn emails into 
virtual vitae.
“Pitch me a story, don’t pitch me your -
self,” Franke-Folstad said. “I don’t need to 
know how you wrote 300 stories for Peo-
ple magazine. I need to know what you 
want to write for me.”
Former reporters aren’t the only ones 
who need pitching lessons. Every individ-ual fancies him or herself a writer, espe-
cially the well educated. 
Franke-Folstad recently fielded a call from a man who only identified himself as 
“an academic.”
He wanted $1,000 for his story. And, as 
is common with amateurs, he wouldn’t re-
veal his story idea for fear the newspaper 
would steal it. 
He also kept calling his story an “edito-
rial.”
The Equalizer
Regardless of a freelancer’s credentials, 
strong story ideas are the great equalizer, said Dennis Moore, deputy managing edi-
tor of USA Today and head of the paper’s 
Life section. 
But they must be timely and targeted to 
the correct editor.
And freelancers must know the pub-
lication, its audience, coverage area, pro-duction schedule and which stories are only handled by staff, he added.
“It’s surprising to me 
the number of people who will suggest stories who clearly have never read USA Today,” Moore 
said. “A number of peo-
ple also approach us sug-
gesting an article for our Sunday edition. USA To-
day has published for almost 30 years and 
has never published on Sunday.”
Moore still chuckles about the woman 
who wanted to profile a cruise ship singer. 
She called and “spoke eloquently for 15 
minutes about the beauty and power of 
his voice.”
“Clearly, this person was a good sing-
er,” Moore said. “But this was not the kind of story we would write.”
Moore won’t speak twice with the free-
lancers who argue about story ideas.
“I guess I admire their confidence in 
themselves and in the subject, but not 
enough for them to cover the story,” he 
added. 
To freelance for large newspapers and magazines, writers must build a network of editor contacts and clips and gain expe-rience at small operations, said Julia Dahl, an associate editor at cbsnews.com.
For cold pitches, Dahl’s maxim is “three 
emails equals a relationship.” Even unsuc-cessful pitches can help build fruitful rela-tionships.
Whether using the phone or email, 
freelancers should be polite, patient and persistent without being overbearing. For example, writers should wait a few days, not a few minutes, before calling after an 
email pitch. 
Editors need “some way to see that 
you’re not a loon,” Brassfield said.
When editors reject pitches, freelancers 
should ask questions such as: Can I call 
you with another story idea? What types of stories are you seeking? And: How about this other story idea? 
For Moore, multimedia skills are a big 
plus, but not every editor wants them.
To keep jobs, freelancers must not be 
difficult. They must know AP style, meet length and story expectations and hit 
deadlines. They should “think like staff-
ers” by suggesting photos and writing well-sourced stories. 
And their copy can’t be sacred or slop-
py. 
“A good storyteller is probably worth 
cleaning up,” Franke-Folstad said. “But you’re probably not a good storyteller. Even professionals aren’t as good as they 
think they are.”
Most of all, editors said, writers must 
improve pitches without taking rejection 
personally, realize freelancing is not lucra-tive and know it rarely leads to full-time 
jobs.
“You really have to love journalism to 
freelance,” said Dahl, who spent a decade 
freelancing for major print publications. 
“The best thing a freelancer can do is mar -
ry a lawyer or someone who can provide 
you with a steady income.” How to pitch a story idea and get published by a newspaper
Brassfield
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
In the annual State of the Campus ad-
dress held Tuesday night, Student Body 
President Anthony Reynolds focused on 
the proposed expansion and renovation 
of the J. Wayne Reitz Union.
The event was mandatory for dozens 
of student group leaders, and 182 people 
signed in at the assembly.
Reynolds said he threw his full sup-
port behind the “Make It Reitz” effort 
to renovate and add to the Reitz Union, which was built in 1967. 
Members of the UF Board of Trustees 
will determine whether to approve the plan at the Board’s Thursday meeting.
“I want you to remember one number: 
87. Eighty-seven cents per credit hour,” Reynolds said. 
He said that’s how much money 
would be taken per credit hour for the Reitz Union construction from each stu-dent’s Activity and Service fee. 
Student Senator and chairman of the 
Reitz Union Board of Managers Sean Fahy said about 5,000 students had signed the initiative as of Tuesday.
Reynolds said during his address that 
the semester had taken some unexpected turns with the resignation of former Stu-
dent Body President Ben Meyers and the 
impeachment trial of Supervisor of Elec-tions Toni Megna. However, Reynolds said he wouldn’t focus on those.
“All too often, we find ourselves 
caught up in the most recent scandal and the latest controversy,” he said.
He applauded Megna and former Sen-
ate President Micah Lewis for initiating 
what Reynolds called the school’s “revo-lutionary new voting system.”
The weekly Student Senate meet-
ing followed after the address.  
Senators Katie Waldman and Matt Mount-
joy, who are chairing the temporary com-mittee to revise the elections codes, said 
they are dividing sections of the codes for the committee members to review. 
The committee will meet Sunday to 
compile and review the suggested chang-
es. 
Mountjoy said the meeting will begin 
at noon in room 355 of the Reitz Union 
and last “however long it takes.”8, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2011
Alex Catalano / Alligator 
Student Body President Anthony Reynolds focused on the proposed Reitz Union 
expansion and renovation in the annual State of the Campus address.
student governmentReynolds backs Reitz renovation in address
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIAMI — Even with more children 
living in poverty because of the rough 
economy, the number of children with-
out health insurance in the U.S. has 
dropped by 1 million in the past three years, according to a report released Tuesday by Georgetown University.
Many states have expanded eligi-
bility for, and simplified access to, the children’s Medicaid program. This has helped shrink the number of uninsured children from 6.9 million in 2008 to 5.9 
million in 2010. Experts say the Afford-
able Care Act, the federal health care overhaul that requires states to main-tain income eligibility levels and dis-
courages other barriers to coverage, has 
played a key role in the improvement.
Overall, 34 states had a significant 
decrease in the rate of uninsured chil-dren.
Florida made the most progress, 
dropping from 667,758 to 506,934 dur -ing that time period, although the state still has one of the highest rates of unin-sured children in the nation.
Minnesota, Kansas and Wisconsin 
saw an increase in the number of unin-sured children.
Nevada has the highest rate of unin-
sured children while Massachusetts has 
the lowest, according to the report.
The findings, from 
the Georgetown Uni-
versity Health Policy 
Institute’s Center for 
Children and Fami-lies, are based on an analysis of new 
health insurance data from the Census Bureau.
The news comes as the number of un-
insured adults has risen in the past few 
years. High unemployment rates and 
the increasing cost of private insurance are driving more families to the federal-state Medicaid and Children’s Health Insurance Programs (CHIP). Both pro-grams provide health insurance for chil-dren, but come from different funding streams and allow states more flexibility 
in how they run their programs.
President Barack Obama signed an 
extension of CHIP and provided $87 
billion to help states pay for Medicaid in the 2009 economic stimulus.
The Affordable Care Act should also 
help these gains, said Joan Alker, co-executive director of the Georgetown University research center.
“We will move to a culture of cover -
age,” she said. “The presumption is ev-eryone has insurance. Families will feel there’s an option out there for them.”
The Supreme Court has agreed to 
hear arguments challenging the consti-tutionality of the health care overhaul next year.
Florida led the nation in reducing 
the number of uninsured children in part because the state’s Medicaid rolls swelled as the economy soured. But leg-islation passed in 2009 has also simpli-fied the process and reduced penalties 
for those who don’t pay premiums.Study: Fewer children in US uninsuredORIANA PAOLILLO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Some people say you make your own luck, 
but Florida isn’t doing that, according to re-
cent rankings in a national magazine.
Men’s Health Magazine ranked five Flor -
ida cities among the most unhappy and un-luckiest places in the U.S.
Tampa, Miami and St. Petersburg were 
among the top 10 saddest and unluckiest places to live in the country. Jacksonville and 
Orlando also made the lists, but neither were in the top 10.
The magazine based the happiness rank-
ings on suicide and unemployment rates. It based luck on the number of lottery winners, 
the amount of money lost in gambling and 
bets, the number of lightning strikes and the number of deaths from falling objects.
Sarah Fowler, a 21-year-old political sci-
ence senior, moved to Tampa during high school, the fourth saddest city and second un-
luckiest.
“There are lots of families and kids [in 
Tampa], and if that doesn’t seem like a happy environment, I don’t know what is,” Fowler 
said.
Senior lecturer Steven Noll, a professor in 
the history department, disagreed with sui-cide rates being used as a measurement and didn’t associate the number of suicides with  
a particular state.
“People come looking for opportunity, 
especially because of the nice weather,” he said.
Noll was shocked St. Petersburg was listed 
as  America’s saddest city.
“My son lives there,” he said. “It is a great 
place.”
Fowler said she doesn’t understand how 
people could call the “‘Sunshine State” an un-
happy place.
“People come here for a good time,” she 
said.Florida cities 
make list of 
unlucky, sad 
US cities
Florida led nation in reduction
Alker
Luckiest u.s. Cities:  
1. San Diego 
2. Baltimore, Md.  
3. Phoenix 4. Wilmington, Del.  
5. Richmond, Va. 6. San Francisco  
7. Las Vegas  
8. Philadelphia 9. Louisville, Ky.  10. Reno, Nev. 
 Least Lucky u.s. Cities:
 
91. Fargo, N.D.  
92. Miami  
93. Bridgeport, Conn.  
94. St. Petersburg  
95. Billings, Mont.  
96. Sioux Falls, S.D. 97. Memphis, Tenn.  
98. Jackson, Miss. 99. Tampa 100. Charleston, W.Va. “I want you to remember one 
number: 87. Eighty-seven cents 
per credit hour.”
Anthony Reynolds
Student Body presidentBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS Classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Starting at ONLY $369
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld
352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive 3 & 4 bds Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $349
UPGRADES AVAILABLE $399
Only $9.99 to sign & $100 Credit
352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
$795-2/2 Furnished Apt. On bus route, 1.5 
miles to UF campus. W/D, AC, Cable and in-ternet included. Pool, Fitness ctr., computer lab. No application fee. Yearly and monthly lease. 305-793-4290.   1-25-11-22-1
$330/month. Close To UF ! 2 rooms in
4BR/2BA unit on seperate leases at Univ
Commons, full washer & dryer, free cable
TV and internet, quiet 3rd floor. Utilities pkg
$30/month. No other fees ! Move in now !
813-854-5628, bradshepherd2@gmail.com
12-1-11-5-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1s Under $500
2/1s Under $600
$99 Move In Special!
352-372-7555
FrederickGardens.com
12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, 
fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term 
available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 TH
FREE Cable with HBO
All the amenities & FREE tanning
Gated, PET FRIENDLY
TheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.4455
12-7-11-74-2Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
12-7-11-74-2
A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.
Great pools • Fitness • Tennis
Call for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’s
BivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1 for $689 * 3/2 for $809
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!
●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis
●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com
12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2011
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels apts. Call now: 
4352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.
●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, 
green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.
postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.
12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!
ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   12-7-11-74-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House Historic 
spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1480/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    12-7-11-34-2
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - Bike to UF
● 4BR/2BA House directly across from
Law School. W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
12-7-11-33-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420    12-7-11-32-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   12-7-11-32-2Close to UF, $555/month plus $300 sec dep. 
2BR with 2.5Bathroom townhouse. New floor/
paint. Fenced backyard with W/D hookup. 
1310 SW 61st, GNV, 32607. Call 352/332-
4088 or 352/514-7098    12-7-11-26-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling 
fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we 
have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, 
last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550
12-7-11-19-2
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings 
for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  
2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laundry 372-
3783    12-7-11-18-2
●●●● MUST SEE! ●●●●
1BR, quiet, custom-built, in-law suite. 
Spacious, living room, full bath, dining, W/D. 
Cable, utils incl. Close to all -- has it all! $700/
mo. Call 278-8381    12-7-11-15-2
Newly renovated very clean, spacious prop-
erty near everything in NW area available for 
lease. Laundry room, lots of storage space, 
central H/Ac, fireplace, much more. $890/
mo. Call 352-375-6754 or 352-495-6250   
1-9-11-15-2
Get an entire 2/2 apt for only $820/mo avail -
able NOW! Clean, spacious, comfortable 
inside. Gated community. Access to tanning 
beds, 24 hr gym, basketball & tennis courts 
& more. Furnishing available 954-625-5043   
12-7-13-2
QUIET ngbd close to campus: 2br/2b,
w/d, tile floors, built in storage,
bookcases & desk, lge yard. $800/m.
Call 352-335-7139 for more details.
1-9-11-13-2
A charming, 3 BR/1.5 BA house. Great 
Neighborhood. Close to UF. W/D. Available January 1 (flexible). 2 people - $800/mo. 3 
people - $900/mo. Call Meryl: 352-373-5933   
12-2-11-5-2
Room available for $540/month. Walking 
distance from CAMPUS and MIDTOWN. Separate bathroom, walk-in closet, washer/dryer, wifi. Available for Spring and Summer. Contact 954-562-3578 for questions.   1-9-11-7-2
SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
2BR/1.5BA close to UF, Shands,Vet School
$625 w/ 1 month free; $595 selected units.
Contact our office to
inquire about student specials!!!!
Sun Island Properties 
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $650/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. 
Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-
3160    1-9-11-7-2
Contact 305-502-6261
2 bedrooms, 2 baths. $515/mo all inclusive and fully furnished. Pet friendly. Available from spring to summer. Apt in Windsor Park.   12-2-10-3
Bedroom w/ own bathroom avail $365 (un-
furn) or $385 (furn) for 9 mo lease. Price all-inclusive (rent/util/cable/internet). Washer/dryer/dishwasher. Pets ok. On 9/35 bus routes. ~1.5 miles from UF. Student/young professional pref. Avail ASAP. 850-585-4405.1-9-11-9-3
Beautiful 2bdrm/2 bath with loft town home 
apartment for sublease at Cobblestone. Each apartment has washer and dryer in unit and built in microwave. Free extended cable with HBO included. $999/mo. 386-972-2425   12-5-4-3
December FREE! Move in NOW for Spring 
Semester. Cabana Beach--2 bdrm/2 bath, furnished plus W/D. $509/per person. (352) 552 1757.    1-13-11-10-3Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-7-74-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus 
route. $350/mo + utils per room. Available 
December. Call 727-729-1561   11-30-26-4
Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $379/MO
cable, internet, utilities, pool+ more
beautifully renovated, on bus route,  
Call 352  262-2871, Available 1/1/12      1-9-
11-14-4
MOVE IN NOW- Need 1 male student to share 
4/4 Countryside condo, near poolside. Easy 
commute UF/SFC, 2 bus rtes, furn common 
area, W/D. unfurn $365/obo furn avail. Text 386-
233-0011, ph 386-676-9703, nukken1@aol.com
1-9-11-11-4
Bedroom w/ own bathroom avail $365 (un-
furn) or $385 (furn) for 9 mo lease. Price all-
inclusive (rent/util/cable/internet). Washer/
dryer/dishwasher. Pets ok. On 9/35 bus 
routes. ~1.5 miles from UF. Student/young 
professional pref. Avail ASAP. 850-585-4405.
1-9-11-9-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       
12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator 
Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 11
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
●●● BK CHRISTMAS TREES ●●●
Potted Red Cedar & Arizona Cypress; 3 ft to 
13 ft; $5 to $65. Free pecans & sugar cane. 
20926 NW 75th St., Alachua, 
10am-6pm, 7 days. 386-462-2060    1-9-11-
10-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory Refurbished
Check Us Out Before You Buy!!
Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL
352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com
4-25-11-99-10
SAWMILLS from only $3997- MAKE MONEY 
& SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship. 
FREE Info & DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.
com (800)578-1363 Ext.300NAlligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-
74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr 
Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-
6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facil-
ity. We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups 
available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-
74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!
PRICES SLASHED!!!!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS
CASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!
352-338-1999     12-7-74-1292 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $999
94 FORD TAURUS $999
96 HONDA ACCORD $1499
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $1999
98 FORD F250 $2500
02 CHEVY BLAZER $4999
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $1999
01 DODGE NEON $1999
00 OLDS ALERO $2500
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLES
NO CREDIT CHECK
MOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!
352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!
PRICES SLASHED!!!!
NO CREDIT CHECK!
352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $8999
03 MITS ECLIPSE $7999
05 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999
352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $12999
04 HONDA ODYSSEY $9999
05 SUZUKI XLT $9999
352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
I Buy Junk Cars & Scrap
Call Anytime 352-443-1100 Titles only
1-9-11-50-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      12-5-11-77-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
 
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by The Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
1-9-11-15-14
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
1-9-11-15-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
12, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2011
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 
372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
 PROOFREADER
ACT/SAT ADMINISTRATOR
LINUX ADMINISTRATOR
GRAPHICS DESIGNER
X-PLANE DEVELOPER
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
TECH SUPPORT
Please apply online at
www.gleim.com/employment.      12-7-11-
16-14
Sanford Office looking for General Dentist to 
work with a great team. Part-Time(one-two 
days a week)Position available as soon as 
possible. fax Resume to (407) 324-9229    
1-10-11-17-14
MOVIE EXTRAS
To stand in the background for a major film. 
Experience not required. Earn up to $300/day. All looks needed. 877-568-7064    1-9-11-16-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm, 
M-F. Wkend hrs vary. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax re-sume & availability to 373-2230   12-1-11-10-14
Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa-tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 orsmokeclinic@gmail.com for further details.   1-9-11-12-14
Earn $50-$65
Participate in an insurance research study. Contact DSG Associates, Inc. Sign up on-line at www.dsgai.com or call 800-462-8765. Free to sign up!    11-30-11-5-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.FreeCarJobs.com    1-9-11-11-14
RGIS INVENTORY SPECIALISTS
Part-time hourly workFlexible schedules$8 an hour to startApply online at RGIS.COM     1-9-11-10-14
Opus Coffee Bar
We are searching for fun and active students
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast-paced coffee bar near campus.
Starting pay is $7.75/hour + tips.To apply, go to our website,
www.opus-cafe.com, click on theemployment tab, and follow the directions.     12-5-11-7-14
NOW HIRING
VALET PARKING ATTENDANTS
Flexible  scheduling. $8-$15/hour.
Email Kurt kmorrell@717parking.com    12-1-11-5-14P/T Tutoring Spring Semester 2012: college 
courses: algebra, poli sci, & history for local 
non-profit serving learning disabled college 
students. Please call 352-335-8966 or email 
resume to reports@academic-success.net.   
12-7-8-14
NANNY needed for 3: ages 10,12+
MTTH 1:40-4:40; W/F 12:30-3:30
$12/hr; 12-15hrs/wk; $180-200/wk
email resume, photo, schedule to
info@noahsarknanny.com    11-30-11-3-14
NANNY needed for 2: ages 3 & 5
MTW+TH 7:45 to 5:45; 35hrs/wk;
$11.50/hr: EXP. refs, cpr, bkkg ch.
email resume, photo, schedule to
info@noahsarknanny.com    11-30-11-3-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring now for 
Front Desk/Customer Service, Boys & 
Girls Gymnastics & Tumbling Coaches! 
Applications (required for consideration) at 
www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.html. Email 
HR@suncountrysports.com for more info.
12-5-11-5-14
Retired Professor seeks assistane from 
mathematics graduate student with calcula -
tions. For further details please call 352-335-3843    12-2-11-3-14
Healthy men and women 18 years of age or 
older are needed for a research study evaluat -
ing how genetics and a botanical supplement affect how the body breaks down a drug. You 
will be paid $10 for an initial screening, which 
will take about one hour. If accepted into 
this study, you will have to spend two sepa-
rate 2-night stays (two weeks apart) in the 
Shands Clinical Research Center at Shands 
Medical Center. Participants will be compen -
sated up to $650.00 upon study completion. 
Contact Dr. Mohamed, College of Pharmacy at mmohamed@ufl.edu or 352-294-5129.
11-30-11-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 
www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
12-7-78-15
HORSE BOARDING: $350/mo. From GV/
UofF 10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-coun-
try, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling 
opportunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.    2-29-11-51-15 
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS)Basic 
Life Support(BLS) and CPR classes to fit your schedule.American Heart Association 
Card issued. Training Gators for over 15 
years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.   
1-9-11-11-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Best religion? NO religion! Get to know your 
Creator. See why the Bible is unique. Try "www.godonthe.net/evidence/codes.htm" (entire page). You Tube. "Chuck Missler Isaiah 53 Bible Code" and "Chuck Missler Hidden Torah Message Bible Code".   1-9-11-9-18Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
Like www.GoBud.org Travel/Leisure on 
Facebook before December 1st and one 
random person will receive a $50 American Express gift card.    11-30-3-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 
373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
12-7-10-74-21
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Poll Results
Do you agree with coach Will 
Muschamp’s remarks about the Gators being a soft football team? Bowl Game Opponent
Do you want Florida to play Ohio State in a bowl game this 
season? Vote online at alligatorSports.org.Freshman Brad Beal has helped UF’s press defense, which forced 18 turnovers in Monday’s win against Stetson. See story, page 14. 
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Forward Jennifer George (right) led the Gators with 15 points in Tuesday’s win.
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
In the spirit of the holiday season, Belmont 
was in a giving mood against Florida.
The Gators used a full-court press to force 29 
Bruins turnovers in a 72-45 win Tuesday night 
in the O’Connell Center.
UF’s press led to 16 fastbreak points and 44 
points off turnovers — more than half of its to-
tal points.
Coach Amanda Butler was pleased with her 
guards’ efforts taking Belmont’s guards “out 
their comfort zone.”
“One thing we ask them to do in every ball 
game and on every possession is to set the tone with their defense and their ball pressure,” But-ler said.
Senior guard Lanita Bartley was perhaps the 
greatest beneficiary of Belmont’s mistakes, re-cording 12 points, four steals and three assists.
Bartley’s performance comes on the heels of 
a 44-point offensive outburst in last weekend’s wins against La Salle and Charlotte.
“‘Nita takes great pride in turning over ball 
handlers and getting the ball back,” Butler said.
Junior forward Jennifer George led UF with 
15 points and six rebounds and recorded three steals. Since attempting just one shot in the season opener against Michigan, George has 
scored in double figures in every game except 
her nine-point effort against Charlotte on Sat-urday.
“It’s just the mentality of my junior year,” 
George said. “I have to step it up every game.”
Belmont took more shots and recorded more 
turnovers than it scored points in a nightmarish first half.
The Bruins were 7 of 21 from the field and had 22 giveaways as they went into locker room 
trailing the Gators 46-19.
Meanwhile, Florida had its best first-half of-
fensive performance of the season, hitting 19 of 
35 attempts.
Eight different UF players scored in the first 
half and nine players ended the night with points on the board.
“Freshness is something we’re always trying 
to achieve,” Butler said, “so we can maintain that defensive pressure.”
Belmont kept it tight through the first five 
minutes, scoring the game’s first points.
With 14:21 remaining in the first half, the 
Bruins pulled within four points of the lead at 14-10 before the Gators called a timeout.
Then, Florida buried Belmont, going on an 
18-2 run during the next 6:32 to take a 32-12 
lead.
“The last thing I said to the team collectively 
before they hit the floor was, ‘Let’s show this 
team how much we respect them by how hard we’re going to play,’” Butler said.
“We talk every day about defense and that 
being our starting point and that run was really triggered by playing great defense and then getting easy shots going the other way.”
Every player on UF’s active roster had at 
least 13 minutes of playing time except sopho-more forward Kayla Lewis, who missed the game with a stress fracture in her hip.
Butler said that the team is taking a “wait-
and-see” approach to Lewis’ injury.Florida forces 29 turnovers in 
blowout win against BelmontTOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer 
Florida’s 27-member 2010 recruiting class dwindled to 18 
on Tuesday when two more players announced their inten-
tions to transfer.
Safety Josh Shaw and defensive end Lynden Trail plan to 
leave the Gators, coach Will Muschamp said in a statement Tuesday.
Both four-star recruits according to Rivals.com, Shaw, a de-
fensive back from Palmdale, Caif., and Trail, a defensive end from Miami, were part of the Gators’ No. 2-ranked recruiting class in 2010. But both struggled to crack the depth chart once on campus.
Shaw appeared in 11 games at Florida, including 10 this 
season. He started one game during his career and recorded 22 tackles. He missed the Furman game on Nov . 19 to return home and be with his ailing grandfather.“I have enjoyed my time at Florida but I feel like I need 
to be closer to my family right now,” Shaw said in the state-ment. 
“This is not a football decision, this is a family decision. I 
need to be with my family.”
Meanwhile, Trail did not play in two 
years at Florida. Early this season, Mus-champ said Trail needed “to play better” if 
he wanted to see game action.
“I have decided that I would like to pur -
sue opportunities elsewhere,” Trail said in 
the statement. 
“I want to thank the fans and Gator Na-
tion for their support. I’ll always be a Gator 
at heart.”
Before the team announced the transfers Tuesday after -
noon, a post on Trail’s Twitter account suggested he was leav-ing the program. “GATORNATION I LOVE YALL AND LOVED ALL 
YALL SUPPORT I LOVED THE COACHES MY TEAM-
MATES AND THE STUDENTS HERE ONCE A GATOR AL-WAYS A GATOR <3,” Trail posted.
The pair joins tight ends Gerald Christian and Michael 
McFarland, wide receivers Robert Clark, Chris Dunkley and Adrian Coxson, as well as safeties Jonathan Dowling and Jor -
dan Haden as 2010 signees who have transferred from Florida 
since Feb. 2010. 
Shaw and Trail are also the 10th and 11th players to leave 
the Gators since Muschamp was named coach last December, 
joining Christian, Clark, Dunkley , McFarland, running back Mike Blakely, cornerback Janoris Jenkins, wide receiver Java-
res McRoy and linebackers Chris Martin and Dee Finley,. 
“We wish Lynden and Josh the best of luck in the future 
and we certainly appreciate their contributions to the football 
program,” Muschamp said in the statement.
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org.Shaw, Trail become 10th, 11th to leave UF under Muschamp
“Let’s show (Belmont) how much we 
respect them by how hard we’re going 
to play.”
Amanda Butler
UF womens basketball coach Trail
FOOTBALL
91% YES
9% NO
87 total votes�UF RECORDED 14 STEALS 
IN MONDAY’S 96-70 WIN.
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
In Billy Donovan’s milestone 
game Monday, the Gators made 
sure they weren’t the team feeling pressure. 
Instead, they were the ones 
dishing it out.
Florida’s guard-heavy press 
helped forced 18 turnovers and a season-high 14 steals during a 26-point win against Stetson at the Amway Center in Orlando.
All but one starter, freshman 
Brad Beal, recorded a forced take-away, leading to 19 points off turn-
overs. Though Beal didn’t have a 
steal in his 22-point, 10-rebound night, he stayed active defensively with a game-high three blocked shots.
“Our press is designed just not 
to get steals, but to just try to make the offense force turnovers,” Beal said. “So we just pressed early and 
coach Donovan said, ‘Attack the 
first pass on the inbounds (pass).’”
The Hatters had 12 turnovers in 
the first 20 minutes, thanks in large part to the work 6-foot-7 forward 
Will Yeguete did at the front of the 
Gators’ full-court pressure.
In his second start for the in-
jured Erik Murphy, Yeguete led both teams with four steals. He also recorded his first double-double after scoring 10 points and notch-
ing a game-high 11 rebounds.Florida can’t press as aggres-
sively with the 6-foot-10 Murphy in the lineup, but Yeguete’s athleti-cism and ability to defend guards 
created a nightmare situation for 
Stetson in-bounders.“We were tall, so it was hard 
for the offensive player to be able to make passes, and I think we 
slowed them down a little bit,” Beal said.
The 14 steals were the most the 
Gators have had in 39 games dat-ing back to Nov. 18 of last year against North Carolina A&T, when Florida had 16 swipes and Yeg-uete, again, dominated the control 
of loose balls with a career-high 15 
rebounds and three steals. 
“We were prepared for it; I 
don’t know if we were ready for it,” Stetson coach Casey Alexander said. “To their credit, they speed you up and create turnovers no matter who they’re playing.”
While Florida tempered the use 
of its press late in the second half after center Patric Young and for -
ward Casey Prather got into foul trouble, Stetson’s half court offense was still not able to take advantage of the slower pace.
The Hatters made just one three 
on 17 attempts, with the lone make coming on a deep bank shot by 
guard Dennis Diaz.
“I wouldn’t say that we eased 
off,” senior guard Erving Walker 
said. “Stetson is a physical team, and they got some good shooters, and their center was really good. They made plays at certain points of the game, so it wasn’t us just tak-ing our foot off the brake there.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@
alligator.org.14, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Brad Beal (23) was active on defense despite being the only UF starter to not record a steal 
against Stetson on Monday. The Gators recorded a season-best 14 steals in the 96-70 win.
Press defense paying dividends for 10th-ranked Florida
THE JETT STREAM
With four seconds left in Florida’s loss to FSU on Sat-
urday, Lerentee McCray jogged toward the locker room. The Gators’ offense was coming on the field, 
and assuming Charlie Weis couldn’t  draw up a 14-point play, the game was over. McCray’s night was done.
But it wasn’t. Even with four seconds left in the last game of 
a lost regular season, Will Muschamp wasn’t letting his junior 
linebacker slip away prematurely.
“Lerentee!” he yelled in that pissed-off, Southern voice that 
has surely crawled into the heads of Florida players as they try to sleep at night.
At least one reporter could hear Muschamp from 30 feet 
away, but apparently McCray could not. Muschamp yelled even louder, cranking his vocal-chord dial up to 11: “Lerentee! Get your ass back here!”
McCray obliged. The Gators ran one more play and the 
post-game festivities ensued. Some players and coaches greet-ed friends from the other sideline. Others just exited quickly , like McCray was trying to do.
This past week has been treated like the football apocalypse 
in Gainesville: Matt Elam ripped the seniors on Twitter, Mus-champ ripped everyone in front of a lectern, two players transferred. And through all of this, chemistry has been pegged as the team’s central issue.
That’s backward logic. Florida isn’t 
6-6 because it has chemistry issues. Florida has chemistry issues because 
it’s 6-6. 
We often oversimplify the teams 
we follow, probably because we watch 
too many sports movies. When a squad succeeds, the players 
and coaches overcame a devastating obstacle in the second act to forge an unshakable bond. And if they lose, it’s because ev-eryone on the team hates each other.
But real life doesn’t work like that. In high school, I came off 
the bench for terrible teams that I loved being a part of. I also started on playoff teams that I hated. 
In almost every game, the winning team is simply better, the 
loser simply worse. That’s an elementary concept, but people  often lose sight of it. The Gators’ roster is full of five- and four-star recruits who didn’t pan out. That doesn’t mean they were selfish or spoiled. It just means they weren’t good.
After members of the senior class spoke in front of the team 
Friday night, Elam (@Dopest_Hitter22) tweeted that every player gave a “fake” speech except Jeff Demps and Deonte Thompson. On Tuesday, one underclassman said Elam’s opin-ion does not represent how most of the younger players feel.
“Every team is going to have their individual trials; we’re 
going through that,” that player said. “But people made more of an effort this year. This year was more of a group than last year. People were all about themselves last year. Now, we pulled together a little bit more. We still have a ways to go, as far as closeness, obviously.”
Fans want to blame chemistry because it’s a quick fix: Get 
rid of the punks, and everything will be smooth. But the real issue is more basic, and to improve it will take time. Time on 
the recruiting trails, time in the weight room.
Sure, you can look at McCray leaving a game early or Mus-
champ scolding him as a sign that the team just needs a better 
attitude.
But you would be wrong.Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org. Chemistry isn’t the problem for Gators this season, talent isKELLY PRICE
Alligator Writer
Mark Pantoni has been behind the curtains 
of the big show that is Florida football since 
Urban Meyer’s tenure.
Now, Pantoni, UF’s Director of Foot-
ball Administration, will be back behind the 
scenes of a Meyer-headed staff — this time at Ohio State.
Amid the mixed feelings fans and players 
expressed about Meyer accepting the Ohio State job less than a year after he resigned from Florida, Pantoni’s departure has impact-
ed recruits who know him best.
UF oral commit Latroy Pittman said he and 
Pantoni were very close, and he was “really just shocked” at his departure from Florida. 
The four-star wide receiver from Citra North Marion High read the news online at almost 
the same time that Pantoni told him person-
ally. 
“Actually , he talked to me… and told me 
that he left or whatever and told me the situa-
tion and what went down,” Pittman said. “So we’re really close. I would say [he’s] like a big brother to me. Hopefully he can do at OSU ev-erything he did for Florida.”
Tyriq McCord, a four-star defensive end 
from Tampa, posted Monday on Twitter: “Hell no!!! Please tell me it’s not true!!!”
Despite the lack of public recognition,  Pan-
toni has been a colossal power in recruiting in recent years. He organized many day-to-day aspects of recruiting, including visits, and has been a force behind UF’s Friday Night Lights camp. 
Meyer said in a press conference following 
the 2008 National Signing Day: “Mark Pantoni is now in charge of our recruiting efforts, and 
he did a great job.”
Gators four-star 
tight end oral com-mit Colin Thomp-son said he was 
close with Pantoni and that he appreciated Pantoni’s efforts to make sure the recruiting process went smoothly . 
“He’s a great guy who I enjoyed be-
ing around,” Thompson said. “He will be missed.”Because Pantoni was a beloved figure and 
close friend to many prospects during their recruiting process, his departure could impact 
UF.
Five-star offensive tackle John Theus from 
Jacksonville, currently a Georgia oral commit, wished Pantoni the “best of luck” via Twitter. 
“He was definitely one of the best I dealt 
with. Big loss for UF,” he tweeted.
But others, like Pittman and Thompson, 
believe the fallout will be minimal.
“I don’t think (it will impact recruiting),” 
Pittman said. “I mean, if it (does), it would 
probably be a surprise to me. I doubt it.”
Thompson agreed. 
“He wasn’t a position coach, so I think it 
will be OK.” Recruits say Pantoni’s departure not likely to have big impact
Tyler Jett
twitter: @tyler_jettUF R ecruiting WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Maegan Dennis / Alligator Staff16, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2011
