We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 42 FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Florida junior 
forward Ndidi Madu 
(right) helped spark 
the Gators in their 
68-59 win over 
Arkansas in the 
first round of the 
SEC Tournament  
on Thursday in 
Nashville, Tenn.
See Story, Page 17.n CONESTOGAS RESTAURANT 
IN ALACHUA SERVES A THREE-
POUND BURGER.
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer 
Sean Smith remembers the first 
time he laid eyes on it.
He was 10 years old, out with the 
family for a Sunday afternoon sup-
per. He glanced to the back of the 
restaurant where eight high-school 
boys were in a macho free-for-all to 
finish their burgers.
When he glanced back 20 min-
utes later, most of them either had 
their heads resting on the table or 
were sulking down at their leftover 
portions. Two of them had fin-
ished.
It was the same restaurant that, 
years later, Santa Fe High School and future New York Giants defen-
sive lineman Linval Joseph would 
come to after practices twice a week 
to order the same burger.  There 
were stories that he used the sur -
plus of free T-shirts as sweat rags.
Flash forward to now. Smith’s a 
20-year-old on the far side of an AA degree at Santa Fe College, and he’s 
decided the Navy’s going to be his next path.
On Tuesday, while most stu-
dents will be strutting in the tropi-
cal sand over Spring Break, he’ll 
be boarding a plane at Jacksonville International Airport on a one-way 
flight to start basic training in Mich-igan.
What do you get your best bud 
who’s going away to serve for months on end? 
Copious amounts of ground 
beef.
Midway down sleepy old Main 
Street in Alachua  in a century-old 
brick building, cooks at Conestogas 
restaurant serve what’s known as 
the Main Street Monster Burger.It’s three, inch-thick beef patties, 
a 48-ounce hunk of heart attack, 
with some lettuce, tomato, onion 
and a ridiculous heap of thick-cut steak fries getting in the way.  If any restaurant in the 50 states can 
make a bigger one, Conestogas will 
see their ante and raise it. 
The burger has its own page in 
the menu, and if you polish off the whole thing you get a T-shirt and a 
slice of Key lime pie. 
Yes, you have to eat all of it.The restaurant’s main dining 
hall sits between two walls of ex-posed brick. Clusters of horseshoes, 
banjos, rusty washboards and old-
world chotchkies cling to the walls. 
As he walks in, Smith walks 
past the hostess, offering a friendly 
wave. She used to sit in the front row of his 10th-grade algebra class. 
He takes a seat.
Dixie, a middle-aged waitress 
who peppers her 
speech with “hun” and “y’all,” comes 
over to the table and takes the order. Sean 
lays it on her. She stops scribbling on her pad. 
“Now ya gotta eat all of that to 
get the T-shirt,” she said. 
Oh he knows. 
As she walks back to the kitchen, 
Sean scans over the menu, process-ing what he’s about to throw into his face.
“Forty-eight ounces,” he sighed. 
“Jesus Christ.”
Twenty minutes later, Dixie 
returns. She has Sean’s meal. The 
tractor wheel-size patties teeter on 
the plate. Her wrist is buckling at 
the sheer weight.
“Oh my God, my wrist is about 
to break,” she said.
Two businessmen at a nearby 
table break their discussion to lean 
in for comment.
“Are you going to eat that 
Police in Ohio say drunken driving suspect sipped beer in front of cop
ELYRIA, Ohio — Police in northern Ohio 
say a man who was asked during a traffic 
stop whether he’d been drinking took a swig from an open can of beer and told the officer, “Yes.” 
According to Cleveland’s WJW-TV , the 
Elyria police report says 25-year-old Ste-phen Supers was pulled over early Wednes-day because the officer had observed him speeding.
The report says that after Supers took the drink in front of the officer he failed a series of field sobriety tests.
Supers is scheduled to appear in court 
Tuesday on charges including driving under the influence, driving under suspension and possession of marijuana.
A message was left at his home phone 
number in Elyria on Thursday. Court re-cords do not list his attorney.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Rain
78/56FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD 13
SPORTS 17
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
RoboCop
Officer Chester, a robotic talking K-9, talks to students Tuesday afternoon on the Reitz Union 
North Lawn about the importance of safety during Spring Break. UPD hosted the 28th An-nual Spring Break Safety Fair to bring awareness to students about the importance of safety during spring break.
NATIONAL
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
The Supreme Court ruled 8-1 
Wednesday in favor of a contro-
versial Kansas church’s infamous 
funeral protests, citing the First 
Amendment. 
A UF free speech advocacy 
group supported the decision.
The Marion B. Brechner First 
Amendment Project, which aims to 
address free-speech issues by filing 
legal briefs in court cases, author -
ing scholarly articles, presenting 
speeches and papers and testify-
ing before legislative bodies, filed a 
brief to the Supreme Court in July in support of the church. 
“Our brief supported the 
group’s right to speak, not its un-derlying viewpoint,” said Clay Calvert, the group’s director. “And 
that’s an important distinction.”
The case, Snyder v . Phelps, came 
about when seven of the church’s 
members traveled to Maryland to protest the funeral of Marine 
Lance Cpl. Matthew Snyder using 
signs that read, 
“Thank God for 
Dead Soliders,” “Fags Doom Na-
tions,” “America 
is Doomed,” and “You’re Going To Hell,” 
according to the 
case syllabus. 
At no point during the protest 
did the picketers  cross onto prop-erty where the funeral was being held. They stood 1,000 feet away 
on public property , chanting Bible verses and holding their inflam-matory signs.
The court stated in its ruling 
that the protesters were making 
statements pertaining to public is-sues.
“The funeral setting does not al-
ter that conclusion,” U.S. Supreme 
Court Chief Justice John Roberts 
wrote in the decision. 
But Calvert said it was an open-
and-shut case for the Supreme Court, as evidenced by the near-unanimous vote.
“The First Amendment is not 
there to protect majority, popular, happy speech,” Calvert said. “The 
First Amendment is designed to 
protect minority and dissenting viewpoints. There’s no need for the First Amendment if it only protect-
ed speech that the majority likes.”UF group backs court’s ruling
Roberts
Before leaving, 
Navy recruit tries to conquer burger
NewsLocal
SEE BURGER, p AGE 8News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 42 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, Julian Pothemont,   
  Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
An Introduction to 
Astrophotography
Tuesday, 7 p.m.
Powell HallArne Reykowski is the direc-tor of research for the Invivo 
Corp. in Gainesville.  He has 
been interested in astronomy since his teenage years, and from early on experiment-ed with astrophotography. 
Recently, he went back to as-
tronomy and discovered as-trophotography in the digital age, which opens possibilities 
for the amateur astronomer.
6th Annual UF Law Student/ 
Faculty Art Show
March 16, 7 p.m.
Legal Information Center
The Art Law Society will be hosting its annual art show at the Levin College of Law. There will be free food, live 
music and a silent auction 
benefiting the local arts in medicine program. Everyone is invited to come and cel-
ebrate the arts for a good 
cause.
1st Annual Gainesville Rugby St. 
Patrick’s Golf TournamentMarch 19, 1 p.m.West End Golf Course
Entry is $35 for individuals 
or $120 for a team of four. Registration includes the green fee, cart and a recep-
tion. For more details go to 
gainesvillerugbyclub.com/golf.htm.
Hustle for Humanity 3K/6K
March 26, 8 a.m.UF Commuter LotThe top three runners in the 
men’s division and the wom-
en’s division will each win a prize. T-shirts will be pro-vided to the first 25 people 
who register, and food will 
be provided after the race to all participants. Register on-line at ufhabitat.org. It costs $15 to pre-register and $20 on 
the day of registration. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? bourne.
Scott contends Florida tax-
payers could be on the hook for 
billions in potential cost over -
runs and operating subsidies.
Rail backers, though, say the 
private company that wins the contract to build and operate the system would bear those costs if any. 
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
Man guilty of killing ex-girl -
friend, new boyfriend
DAYTONA BEACH — A 
central Florida man has been convicted of killing his ex-girl-
friend and her new boyfriend.
A Volusia County jury found 
28-year-old William Gregory 
guilty Thursday of first-degree 
murder in the deaths of 17-year-
old Skyler Meekins and 22-year-old Daniel Dyer. Gregory could face the death penalty.
Authorities say Meekins 
and Dyer were fatally shot at a Flagler Beach home in August 2007. Analysts reported find-ing Gregory’s fingerprints on a 
shotgun that had been kept at 
the home and used for the mur -
der.
A defense attorney said ex-
perts couldn’t determine when 
Gregory left the fingerprints. 
Gregory had lived at the home with Meekins until her grand-mother kicked him out.
Gregory and Meekins had a 
daughter who is now 4 years old. Their parents share cus-tody.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alliga-
tor.org. Please model your 
submissions after above events. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not ap-
pear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
STATE
Justices hear high-speed 
rail dispute
TALLAHASSEE — A bi-
partisan challenge to Gov. 
Rick Scott’s refusal to accept 
$2.4 billion in federal high-
speed rail money got a fast-track hearing Thursday as the Florida Supreme Court tried 
to beat a tight deadline.
Two state senators, one a 
Democrat and the other a Re-
publican, sued Tuesday, argu-ing Scott had no authority to 
reject the stimulus funds for 
the proposed Tampa-Orlando bullet train.
The new Republican gov-
ernor filed a written response Wednesday. The justices must decide the case Friday.
That’s because U.S. Trans-
portation Secretary Ray La-
Hood has given Scott until 
then to accept the stimulus funding or lose it to high-speed rail projects in other 
states. The pressure of making 
such a high-stakes decision in a compressed time frame bubbled over into frustration as the justices questioned the 
senators’ lawyer.
“What you’re telling us is 
that we have to piece together 
about 10 different statutes and 
exhibits and do it by 9 o’clock 
tomorrow morning?” Justice Barbara Pariente asked Clif-ton A. McClelland Jr. of Mel-RAIN
78/56CLOUDY
78/59THUNDER
STORMS
73/46PARTLY
CLOUDY
73/50SUNNY
77/56TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
BEIJING — Chinese police are further 
intensifying pressure on foreign reporters, 
warning them to stay away from spots des-
ignated for Middle East-inspired protests 
and threatening them with expulsion or a 
revoking of their credentials.
The warnings show how unnerved the 
authorities are by the online calls for protests every Sunday. The appeals, which started 
two weeks ago, have attracted few outright 
demonstrators but many onlookers, loads of 
journalists and swarms of police.
Staff from The Associated Press, Agence 
France-Presse and numerous other over -
seas news organizations were called in for 
videotaped meetings with Beijing police Wednesday and Thursday and told that re-
porters trying to film or interview near the 
proposed demonstration spots in Beijing or 
Shanghai this weekend would be punished.
The Foreign Correspondents’ Club of 
China said in a statement that some jour -
nalists reported being accused by police “of 
trying to help stir up a revolution, disrupt 
harmony in China and simply cause trou-
ble.”
The warnings ratchet up notices from po-
lice earlier this week that put a section of the Wangfujing shopping street in downtown 
Beijing and an area near People’s Square in 
Shanghai off limits for foreign media.
However, a British broadcast journalist, 
who declined to be named in line with com-
pany policy, said her team was told that it 
was not allowed to film anywhere in China, 
including basic street scenes, without prior approval.
The extreme reaction signals a retreat 
since restrictions on foreign media were eased in the run-up to the 2008 Olympics. 
In 2006, then Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao announced that local officials 
could not intervene in the work of foreign reporters doing interviews, though some 
sensitive areas, such as Tibet, remained off limits to reporters without special permits.
Foreign reporters have always been af-
forded greater latitude than domestic ones.
In a tense news conference Thursday, 
Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu repeatedly said there was no change in the 
reporting regulations. Jiang said the rules 
were clear and that reporters were no longer journalists if they broke the law and created 
news.
“Some people are eager for fame and try 
to create trouble for China. For people with their kind of motive, no law can protect 
them,” Jiang said.
The furor surrounds a news event that 
apparently never transpired. No large pro-
tests seem to have erupted at the designated 
demonstration spots, though at least one ac-
tivist was detained for being present at one 
of them. One journalist was also attacked by unidentified men while trying to report 
from the Beijing shopping street Sunday, 
and others had their equipment confiscated 
and footage erased by police.
The situation evolved out of online posts 
of unknown origin that first circulated on 
an overseas Chinese news website nearly 
two weeks ago, calling for Chinese to gather 
peacefully at sites every Sunday in a show of people power meant to promote fair -
ness and democracy. A renewed call this week expanded the target cities to 35 from 
27. China’s extensive Internet filtering and 
monitoring mean most Chinese are unaware of the appeals.
Many Chinese are frustrated over infla-
tion, corruption and inadequate social ben-efits, the same issues said to have pushed people in the Middle East to take to the streets.
A human rights activist who posted mes-
sages on Twitter describing the scene at Wangfujing on Feb. 20 has been detained by Beijing police on suspicion of taking part in 
an illegal demonstration, the Hong Kong-based Chinese Human Rights Defenders 
said in a statement Thursday.4, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011
AP Photo
Chinese policemen check journalists’ ID cards at Tiananmen Square before the open -
ing session of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference in Beijing. 
China warns foreign journalists not to cover protests
The protests have yet to materializeON CAMPUS
By LAUREN ETTLINGER
Alligator Contributing Writer
The question of how to deal 
with an annoying roommate has 
finally been answered. 
The most common conflicts 
brought to the Dean of Students 
Office are roommate disputes in the dorms, said Chris Loschiavo, 
assistant dean of students. The Office of Student Con-
duct and Conflict Resolution has 
paired with the Levin College of 
Law to create a new way of re-
solving disputes on campus. 
Loschiavo started a program 
in which some students are sent 
to mediation meetings with law 
students instead of conduct hear -
ings. 
In mediation, the law students help find an acceptable compro-
mise. 
While a ma-
jority of the cas-es are conduct 
cases, Loschiavo 
said, some can be resolved by simply speak-ing with a third 
party.Members of Gators for Alter -
native Dispute Resolution, a stu-dent organization based out of 
the law school, has members who 
are certified in mediation every semester.
Zane Altman, events chair of 
the group and a fourth-year law student who helped start the conflict resolution initiative, said that she and the other members of the GADR board jumped at the chance to be a part of Loschiavo’s initiative.
Two conflicts have already 
been resolved through mediation at UF, Loschiavo said. 
“These cases have come to 
great resolutions,” Loschiavo said. “And typically, we would expect a 75 percent success rate of all conflicts this office sees.”Law school students to assist in conflict mediation
Loschiavo
n HE IS WORKING ON A 
SEVEN-YEAR PERFORMANCE ART PIECE.
  By KAT BEIN
 Alligator Staff Winner
 
  Tom Miller had his life plan 
all sketched out when he came to 
Gainesville in 1984. It went some-thing like this: go to school, get a degree in something and continue 
onward.
  But that’s not how it happened.
  “I felt this thing and just wanted 
to stay here,” he said. “I still feel it today. It’s a Gainesville thing; peo-ple who feel it know what it is.”
  For more than 20 years, Miller 
has been a self-motivated artist and thinker with the goal of inspiring 
others to think for themselves.
  Like most artists, Miller started 
young. He would doodle provoca-
tive, almost obscene, works on his school papers and was always sent to the vice principal, his father.  
  But through the punishment 
he learned the power art has over people’s minds and how it can be a 
tool to create a reaction and interac-
tion with people.   But Miller isn’t just focused on the shock effect.
  “Inciting a reaction is easy to do,” 
he said. “Just get a cruciﬁ  x and do something weird to it … I’m trying to do something much deeper with the things I express.”
  Miller also takes time from his 
own work to give others the chance to showcase their talents as part of his weekly Unspectacular Talent Show hosted each Monday at The Laboratory , 818 W. University Ave.      
  For his most recent project, Miller 
has gone back to school. He’s en-rolled as a theater student at Santa Fe College, and is currently one year 
into a seven-year performance piece 
he calls “Professor Miller.”
  His plan is to ﬁ  nish his degree at UF and go on to New York to re-ceive his master’s degree. When he graduates, he will become a profes-sor of theater, and once positioned as such, he will give it up.
  The plan sounds like a total con-tradiction of what one should do 
with their time. But for Miller, this 
kind of contradiction is essential.
  “It’s just for me. I’m not doing it 
for anything else,” he said. “We all like making it up as we go along.” FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
 Jordan Streetzel / Alligator
  Artist and Santa Fe student Tom Miller poses at the smoker’s hut at 
Santa Fe. His enrollment is part of a seven-year performance. 
 Artist plays role of student
  By STEPHANIE SCHWARTS
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  Through April 18, some students are offering free tax 
help for low-to-moderate income taxpayers.
  The IRS Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Program allows 
certiﬁ  ed students and volunteers to provide free income tax 
preparation and assistance to eligible taxpayers. 
  According to Rebecca Thompson, a community impact 
manager for the United Way and a ﬁ  rst-year VITA worker, the program requires students and community volunteers to have 12 to 24 hours of IRS training and to pass a beginning 
and intermediate IRS exam.
  Last year, 1,048 people asked for free tax help. This year, 
VITA’s goal is to have more than 1,400 taxpayers receive 
help.
  Thompson said there are 50 certiﬁ  ed volunteers this year, 
predominantly from the UF Fisher School of Accounting.
  Volunteers are usually expected to volunteer once a week 
for three to ﬁ  ve hours. They must also sign conﬁ  dentiality 
forms with the IRS to make sure the tax-payers’ information is secure and conﬁ  -dential. 
  Marlee Stark, a third-year accounting 
student at UF, has been volunteering with VITA for two months and said it required a good deal of time and effort to get certiﬁ  ed. 
  Stark said the skills she acquired during her VITA train-
ing will be valuable in her future endeavors.
  “Not only will this help with my accounting skills, but it 
is a way for me to give back,” Stark said.
  Taxpayers who qualify for the free tax preparation must 
have an earned income of less than $49,000 a year.
  There are 10 VITA sites for free tax help in Alachua Coun-
ty. Appointments are required.
  “All of the taxpayers who come are very thankful that we 
volunteer our time to prepare their taxes at no cost and at a location convenient for them,” Stark said. 
  To see a list of the sites in Alachua County and surround-
ing counties, visit the VITA website at irs.gov/individuals/article/0,,id=107626,00.html.  Students offer 
help with taxes 
AroundGainesvilleThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
50 TOTAL VOTES32% YES68% NOThursday’s question: Would you buy a camera that alters your appearance in its photos?Today’s question: Will your Spring Break make Charlie Sheen proud?Government redundancies inexcusable
Picture this scenario: It’s lunchtime. You’re hungry , so 
you go to Orange and Brew for a panini. You place your order, and because you have an unlimited meal 
plan, you hand the cashier your meal card. When you get 
your sandwich, the cashier demands that you pay for it 
again using your debit card. When your tuition bill comes due, you see that the price of the sandwich was added to your statement, forcing you to pay for it a third time.
Let’s hope it was an especially tasty panini.While this scenario may seem absurd, this is exactly the 
situation that was uncovered this week at the federal level in a report on government waste released by the Govern-
ment Accountability Office. In the report, it was revealed 
that American taxpayers are forced to pay multiple times for services and programs that are redundant, inefficient and wasteful.
The news that the government wastes money comes as 
no surprise to most people. However, before this report was made public, it is likely that few were aware of the sheer mag-
nitude of waste that spills out of Washington’s coffers. In this 
season of turmoil over federal spending, now would be the perfect time to identify overlaps in the federal budget and eliminate all redundant or otherwise wasteful programs.
The following are some of the findings from the GAO’s 
report:
Eighty-two federal programs are designed to improve 
teacher quality . 
Fifteen agencies are in place to enforce food safety laws.Fifty-four programs promote financial literacy.
Forty-seven job training programs are hosted by the fed-
eral government, 44 of which overlap.
In all, 33 areas of “overlap and fragmentation” were 
found to exist. Even if everyone were to concede that it is the 
government’s job to perform a task, does anyone really think the task can be performed better if carried out separately and simultane-ously by the Department of Agricul-ture, the Department of Health and 
Human Services and the Department 
of Homeland Security?
Aside from the findings of this re-
port, even more waste is caused by overlap of different levels of govern-
ment. Federal, state, county and municipal monies often are spent to cover the same things. Utilities and emergency re-sponse programs are especially renowned for overlap.
And can anyone explain why we need a U.S. Environ-
mental Protection Agency and a Florida Department of En-vironmental Protection? Or why a single road needs to be patrolled by the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office, the Florida Highway Patrol and the Gainesville Police Department? 
As in all things, partisan politics often get in the way of 
reducing these wasteful overlaps. 
For example, if a politician were to call for the elimina-
tion of one of the 20 existing federal programs that deal with homelessness, the other side of the aisle would invariably la-bel the effort a heartless attack on the homeless population. If the federal deficit is to be brought under control, such politi-cal wrangling must be called out for the folly that it is, and waste must be eliminated.
The GAO report found that $200 billion could be saved 
on the consolidation of federal data centers alone. 
Government functions, like paninis, should only be paid 
for once. 
The time has come for Washington to walk the talk about 
wasting hard-working Americans’ money.
Bob Minchin is a fourth-year Electrical engineering major. His 
column appears on Fridays.
It’s been a pretty sobering week for us. We’ve been 
bombarded with stories of budget cuts and constantly re-
minded of how much money the university, the state and 
the nation need to stay afloat. 
We wish we could crank up our MP3 players and tune 
out the problems the same way we tune out people on Tur -
lington Plaza, but we can’t. 
Or can we? Let’s look the other way for a couple of days 
with the when-the-going-gets-tough-the-tough-go-to-the-
beach edition of…
Darts & Laurels
We need to look on the bright side. Sure, in our Thurs-
day interview with Bernie Machen, the president showed how worried he is about our beloved university coming to 
a grinding halt. 
And yes, we’re wondering what’s going to happen at 
the state level for K-12 education. But at least Washington 
didn’t shut down. 
Congress passed a spending bill that will keep it up and 
running for another two weeks on Wednesday. Of course, that’s just a short-term measure, and the tougher decisions are still ahead. 
We’d like to give a we-don’t-need-anything-else-going-
to-pot-right-now LAUREL to both houses of Congress. 
Shutting down parks, museums and monuments and delaying the processing of passports and bankruptcies doesn’t sound too good to us.
Our bickering politicians settled down and agreed to 
get down to work, but we can’t say the same for some of our favorite athletes and their bosses. 
Both sides of the NFL lockout debate are probably still 
arguing as you read this,  but their Friday deadline is after 
we check out for Spring Break. So we’re assuming the NFL 
Players Association is decertifying and will allow players to hit owners with anti-trust suits in the case of a lockout. Say what you will about union debates, but to us it looks 
like 32 filthy rich people are jeopardizing the livelihoods 
of all kinds of employees. 
We’re not just talking about the players and their fami-
lies, but everyone from secretaries to team doctors to con-cession stand workers. And what about places like Green 
Bay, built around a football-based economy? For being 
greedy, we’re going long and hurling a now-what-are-we-supposed-to-do-on-autumn-Sundays? DART at NFL team 
owners.
We’ll find something to entertain us. But unlike many 
people, it won’t be Charlie Sheen. Because we’re sick of hearing about him, we’re slinging a you-should-report-on-a-crazy-person-who-actually-matters DART at the 
media for feeding into an ego problem. If you want crazy, 
just take a look at Libya, or around Gainesville, for that 
matter.
That said, the world has gotten a wee bit saner in the 
past week. For centuries, Christians have blamed Jews 
for killing Jesus, but they won’t have the Vatican backing 
them up. 
For refuting a reason for hatred with an analysis of 
scripture, we’re handing a thanks-for-getting-around-to-clearing-that-up LAUREL to Pope Benedict XVI.
And, because we’re feeling generous, we’d like to throw 
an extra we-don’t-care-where-we-get-sand LAUREL at 
Spring Break. 
The weather’s beautiful, and we could use the break af-
ter midterms. 
Until next time, have fun and stay safe, Gators.
Bob Minchin
letters@alligator.orgFRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Machen’s admiration for 
Israel is appreciated
I would like to publicly thank 
UF President Bernie Machen for 
moderating the Jewish Awareness 
Month and Accent show featuring Alan Dershowitz event this past 
Wednesday evening. UF is lucky to have someone like Machen at the 
helm of our institution who shared, “If you have not been to Israel, you have not seen the world.” 
While many people may dis-
agree with decisions made by his administration over the years, I believe that it is absolutely criti-
cal to point out that we do have a 
principled president leading our 
university. 
As a Roman Catholic, I am 
grateful to see and hear Machen 
speak publicly about his admira-tion of Israel’s leadership in green 
technology, computer innovation, archaeological preservation and 
business development. 
He also shared insights into his 
2008 trip to Iran with other uni-
versity presidents. He is a fair and humble leader who is not afraid to 
share his personal views on major world issues. 
I thank him for his outspoken-
ness and work on behalf of the stu-dents.
Rafael A. Yaniz
President, Gators for IsraelLetter to the Editor
All Republican governors’ eyes are on 
Wisconsin and Ohio. If anti-union 
measures are successful in these two 
states, there is the strong possibility that sim-
ilar policies will spread to other Republican led states. Our own Gov. Chris Christie is 
licking his chops in anticipation of a roast of 
public employee unions in these states. His 
finger-pointing rhetoric at union benefits and pension obligations during his recent annual budget speech gives some insight 
into his desire to bring an anti-union battle 
here to New Jersey. Luckily, we have a leg-
islature that is less eager to blame others for our current budget crisis and instead focus on reasonable solutions and a way forward.
However, other states across the nation 
are not as insulated as we are from this new Republican strategy of blame-for-gain. It has already been more than two weeks of pro-tests since the newly elected Wisconsin Gov. 
Scott Walker threatened to remove the rights 
of public employees to engage in collective 
bargaining through their union representa-tives. Even after offers of benefit reductions and pay cuts, Walker is still not willing to 
halt his anti-union threats. In Ohio, the sen-
ate has just passed a bill through committee 
that would eliminate the rights of thousands of public workers to protest and limit their rights to negotiate details of their state con-
tracts. Knowing what is at stake, workers 
in these two states and across the U.S. have 
been showing their support for public em-ployees and their rights to collectively bar -
gain and protest. As early as 1768, workers 
here in America have had to rise up and 
protest against injustices, unsafe working conditions and 
the attitudes of 
employers who 
were driven by 
greed and the intoxicating spirit of capital-ism. It was not until the declining work-
ing conditions of the Great Depression and 
bloodshed by workers in protest that the 
issue of worker’s rights made its way into congressional legislation. The movement ul-timately culminated into the passing of the 
National Labor Relations Act of 1935.
Under this act, workers were given the 
right to form unions, collectively bargain and 
take part in strikes. As a result, the American workforce saw drastic improvements in pay, 
retirement security and working conditions.
However, Section 152 of this act estab-
lishes by definition the exclusion of federal, 
state and public employees from protection. In light of this fact, many states have enacted 
similar protections to cover their public em-
ployees. This state legislation defining the 
rights and protections of public workers is the target of the current political leaders in Ohio and Wisconsin.
The fact of this issue is that newly em-
powered Republican governors are waging a war motivated by partisan politics and dis-crimination. It is an assault on hard-working Americans by greedy sociopathic top-down 
dimwits in an attempt to try and wiggle out 
of financial obligations on which they blame 
their current state budget crises. The motiva-tion is based on a deplorable, but win-win strategy for Republicans. It is a strategy that 
weakens traditional democratic supports 
and strengthens traditional republican sup-ports. For example, you have governors such as our own Gov. Chris Christie who re-
fuse to pay pension fund obligations for our 
hard-working middle class state employees in favor of tax cuts. In their minds, the union workers that they are screwing out of a pen-
sion — who in recent history always sup-
port Democrats — would never vote for or 
support them in elections anyway. Though, those who they are able to secure tax cuts for are current and possible future supports. It is 
a strategy that sacrifices American values to 
capitalize on political partisanship.
If allowed to go unchecked, these Repub-
lican majority states will be setting back the 
rights of our public-working citizens to an 
era pre-National Labor Relations Act. What 
comes next: the elimination of a minimum 
wage, the reinstatement of child labor or the allowance of a 16-hour workday? Although dramatic, the point is that the right to strike 
and assemble to form collective bargaining 
strategies should be the right of all Ameri-
can workers. Instead, we are left with a na-tional policy that excludes state, federal and agricultural workers from being guaranteed 
these rights out of fear. It is a government 
fear that citizens will be able to disrupt the 
tranquility and harmony of the day-to-day functions of government. And only recently, Republican leaders are taking advantage of 
this exclusion under the federal law as a way 
to threaten and bully concessions out of pub-
lic employees. My only question is — why aren’t their more people in the streets pro-testing?
Christopher Pflaum, Daily Targum, Rutgers 
U. via UWIRERepublican strategy attacks public employeesUWire
Christopher Pflaum
UWirething?” one of them asks.
Sean begins mapping out his 
strategy.
First, he’s going to make a 
regular-sized hamburger out of 
one of the patties. Then he’ll take 
a fork and knife to the other two. The steak fries will come later. His 
burger comes medium well. It’s 
better, he reasons, to cook out the water weight.
He digs in. About half way 
through, the bottom bun disinte-
grates from the grease. He flips it 
over and keeps eating.
Nervous about going into basic 
training in six days?
“No, I know it’s something I 
can do,” he says between bites then points down at the burger. “This I’m worried about.”
Dixie comes in to check on him.“How is it?” she asks.
“Big”
He gets back to work. Only two 
more cheese-slathered patties to go. 
And the fries.
By this time, he’s slowing down. 
His bites are still the size of golf 
balls, but it takes 10 or 12 seconds to swallow.
The pressure is building up in 
his stomach. Then, he looks up.
“Wait,” he says. “I’m farting. 
That’s good.”
Ten minutes later, Dixie comes 
around again.
“How ya doin?” she asks, reach-
ing out to rub his shoulder.
“Ugggh,” comes the reply. “Under the Bridge” by Red Hot 
Chili Peppers plays over the stereo in the background — the one that goes “I don’t ever wanna feel like I 
did that day.”
Two patty halves, the rest of the 
fries and a pile of debris still lay on 
his plate. He throws off the napkin 
and sticks his utensils into the pile of meat like a railroad spike. He hands over the keys.
Enough.
This might be the first brick to 
crumble in his wall of stubborn-ness. Basic training will probably 
take care of the rest.
Back in the car, he scoots back 
the passenger’s seat and belches.
The Navy’s in for a real treat.8, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011
Alex Orlando / Alligator
Sean Smith prepares to down the Main Street Monster Burger at 
Conestogas Restaurant in Alachua. This is his last big meal before he ships off for the Navy on Wednesday.
By ASHLEY PODOLL
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Gym-goers can take a deep breath after a recent study 
suggests the aggressive cleaning policies frequently prac-
ticed at gyms may not be necessary to prevent high levels of bacteria.
According to a UF study published in the American Jour -
nal of Infection Control on Thursday, researchers found no trace of the bacteria, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus or MRSA, in 240 samples taken from three different community gyms.
Samples were taken from high-traffic areas and from 
places people were more likely to touch. 
MRSA outbreaks caused much concern in previous years, 
especially due to increased gym traffic, said. 
Isabel Anasco, an epidemiologist with the Alachua Coun-
ty Health Department, said that health officials have learned from mistakes and now take precautions and institute poli-cies preventing the spread of MRSA.
“We don’t see outbreaks like we used to 
anymore,” Anasco said. “The current sani-tizers at the gyms will get rid of the bacte-ria that people carry around naturally. We 
now have very good guidelines and we maintain them.” 
The study suggests bacteria that live on skin may not be 
able to survive on other surfaces like the floor or the equip-ment at the gym.
Drew Elliott, a  fitness consultant at Bailey’s Powerhouse 
Gym, said he and the rest of the staff are adamant about wiping down equipment, especially in places prone to have more bacteria build up from sweat like ellipticals and tread-mills.
He said although new research may say that heavy clean-
ing isn’t necessary, he would rather play it safe.
Jennifer Boyd, a UF senior, said she will still stick to her 
plan of wiping down machines at Southwest Recreation Center when she goes for a workout.
“I will probably still clean the machines after I use them, 
just out of courtesy,” she said. Gym germs not 
a major concernSmith leaves for basic training Wednesday
BURGER , from page 1
UFResearc hASSOCIATED PRESS
GRANTS PASS, Ore. — Ken 
Webber wears his redneck heart out 
in the open, for all to see. 
On his right arm a red, white and 
blue tattoo depicts his skin ripped open to reveal an American flag and 
the words “100 percent American.” 
On his left, the tears reveal a Con-
federate flag and the words “Pure 
Redneck.”
So when Webber was told to 
surrender the Confederate flag that 
flies from the antenna on his pickup truck — or be suspended from his 
job driving a school bus — the choice 
was easy. Webber chose his flag.
“My flag will fly,” he told The 
Associated Press on Thursday. “No one here is gonna tell me what I can and can’t believe in.”
Webber, 28, of Medford drives 
the kindergarten bus for Talent El-
ementary School.
He has been driving for First Stu-
dent Inc., which contracts buses for 
the school district, for four years.
He also attends community col-
lege and is married with four young children. 
Webber got the Confederate bat-tle flag, emblazoned with the word Redneck, as a birthday present in 
2009 from his dad, and has been fly-
ing it ever since.
But last month, school Super -
intendent Ben Bergreen saw it on Webber’s truck parked at the school 
bus yard in Talent and told Web-
ber’s supervisor the flag had to go, 
or Webber had to go.
The school district owns the bus 
yard and leases it to First Student.
“The fact is, our district is about 
37 percent minority students,” Ber -
green said. “It’s fairly common knowledge that the Confederate 
battle flag is perceived by folks as 
a racist or negative symbol. The 
Southern Poverty Law Center said 
more than 500 extremist groups use 
it as one of their symbols.
Webber said he is suspended 
without pay pending an investiga-tion, and he expects to have to sell 
off some belongings to pay the rent.
“I work for what I have. I sup-
port my family . It’s just who I am. I’m a redneck,” Webber said. “It’s a 
way of life.”
Webber said flying the flag had 
nothing to do with racism, extremist groups or politics.FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 9
AP Photo
Ken Webber, a school bus driver from Medford, Ore., was suspended from his job for refusing to remove 
a Confederate flag from his truck parked at the Phoenix-Talent School District’s bus barn in Talent, Ore. 
NATIONALOregon bus driver suspended for Confederate flagn IT ALSO APPROVED FUNDING FOR 
GPD’S TV SHOW, “POLICE BEAT.”
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
The Gainesville City Commission agreed 
Thursday to create more bus services at UF 
and pump $49,000 into a Gainesville Police TV show.
The increase in bus service will create new 
Regional Transit System bus routes and other additions, such as longer service hours for some routes.
The new routes, which will start running 
in August, include one from The Estates to the Hub and another from UF to downtown 
Gainesville.
“There were enhancements that the stu-
dents wanted,” said City Manager Russ 
Blackburn.
These additions will cost the city an extra 
$646,206. 
Students at UF pay for RTS services though 
a transportation and access fee, which is cur -rently $7.33 per credit hour. The city estimates that $10,923,193 will be raised from that fee next school year. Next year’s fee hasn’t been determined yet.
Commissioner Thomas Hawkins said the 
fee does a lot to help pay for RTS service around the city. With-out it, he said, there 
wouldn’t be as much bus service.
“It would be an unrecognizably different 
transit system,” he said.
The commission also approved a year’s worth of funding for the Gainesville Police Department TV show, “Police Beat.” 
Police Chief Tony Jones said it is used to 
show the public what the police department has to offer.
“I think that it’s an important communica-
tion tool,” he said.
The show is financed through a city trust 
fund. The trust fund money comes from 
property and other confiscations that relate to 
crimes such as drug seizures, Blackburn said.
Blackburn said these finances do not come 
out of city taxpayers’ money.City Commission approves new bus routes to UF
Gainesville Cit yCommissionBy JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
Spring break came a week ear -
ly for the No. 14 Gators, but they 
weren’t spending it at the beach.
Instead, the team hit the prac-
tice field hard for the first time 
since the preseason during its 10-day interval between competi-tions. Fielding ground balls and 
working on fundamentals, Flori-
da reenergized itself for another busy week, one featuring three games in eight days.
“This week was tough with the 
combination of school, lacrosse and preparing for Lehigh, but 
next week is going to be tough as 
well,” sophomore Ashley Bruns 
said.  “No spring break.”
A 16-6 victory at home over 
Maryland Baltimore County on 
Feb. 23 springboarded a buzz-ing Gators offense into the break, 
which ends tomorrow with a 
match against Lehigh (2-1) in 
Dizney Stadium at 1 p.m. 
Sophomore Kitty Cullen leads 
the nation in goals with 19, while 
Bruns is in the top 15 in assists 
and points.
Last season, Bruns was Flori-
da’s dominant scorer with a team-high 48 goals. But this season, the 
sophomore has developed more 
of a point guard mentality, dish-
ing out passes and assists, as Cul-
len comes into her own.
“I love assisting; it’s actually 
my favorite thing to do,” Bruns 
said. “I had a lot last year, and, 
you know, if I can’t make the 
goals this year, that’s fine, be-cause there are so many other 
things I can do to help out my 
teammates.” 
With Bruns setting her up, Cul-
len has flourished as a scorer. UF coach Amanda O’Leary has cred-
ited the midfielder’s improved 
shooting percentage (34 percent 
in 2010 to 59 percent this year) to 
the stick and finishing skill work done by Gators assistant coaches 
Erica Lagrow and Caitlyn Mc-
Fadden. 
“I used to just try to shoot as 
hard as I could, and now, my 
coaches have kind of taught me 
that you have to also look where 
you’re shooting,” Cullen said. 
“It’s more about placement than power.”
The Gators have tallied 79 
points this season, the ninth-most in Division-I. The diversity in the 
team’s offense has been critical in its early success, Bruns said. The 
attacker has been able to spread her seven assists between six dif-ferent scorers.
The Mountain Hawks will also 
feature a potent scoring threat when they come to Gainesville on 
Saturday, O’Leary warned.Lehigh’s senior Lauren Dyk-
stra is averaging four goals per 
game for a team fresh off a 16-goal performance.
“They have a tremendous 
offensive player, Lauren Dyk-stra, who we’re going to need to 
clearly shut down,” O’Leary said. “She is very, very good and has 
the potential to put a lot of balls in the back of the net.”
After Lehigh, Florida has two 
additional home games over 
spring break: March 9 against 
No. 6 Georgetown and three days 
later against Temple.10, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Sophomore attacker Ashley Bruns, the Gators’ leading scorer last season, has seen her role evolve this 
year into more of a point guard position, dishing out a team-high seven assists to six different scorers.
UF LACROSSE
No break for Gators 
as offense surges
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Senior second baseman Aja Paculba has been reliable along -
side Michelle Moultrie and Kelsey Bruder atop UF’s lineup.
 UF WILL HOST THE LIPTON INVITATIONAL 
THIS WEEKEND, STARTING TODAY AT 3:15 P.M.
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
 
After defeating defending Women’s College World 
Series champion UCLA at the Cathedral City Clas-
sic, the Gators took over the Bruins’ No. 2 spot in the 
NFCA polls.
But that doesn’t mean there isn’t room for improve-
ment. 
Despite the gaudy numbers on offense and the pitch-
ing staff’s tiny 0.78 earned run average, UF coach Tim Walton is in search of one more thing: consistency. 
So far, the offense has relied heavily on its top three 
hitters — center fielder Michelle Moultrie, second base-
man Aja Paculba and left fielder Kelsey Bruder. 
Moultrie, who was named the USA Softball Player 
of the Week last weekend, has been the team’s most 
reliable hitter. 
The junior leads the Gators (14-0) with a .556 batting 
average, a full 87 points ahead of Paculba, the team’s second-leading hitter. 
She also ranks first in slugging percentage (.844), 
on-base percentage (.615), stolen bases (six) and is sec-
ond in total bases (38) — all while hitting out of the 
leadoff spot. 
“My swing feels great, and I’m just trying to stay 
in my regular mental routine,” Moultrie said. “I don’t 
feel pressure in clutch situations because I know if I 
don’t get it done, the rest of the team will.”
Paculba and Bruder have each followed successful 
junior seasons with another productive year. The two are tied for the team lead with four home runs and 
have driven in a combined 34 runs. 
As good as those three have been, Walton said he 
wants to see more production from the bottom of the 
lineup. 
Senior Megan Bush and sophomore Brittany Schutte, the team’s top power hitters last year, have come up with some timely home runs but rank second 
and third on the team in strikeouts.  
“They’ve stepped up with some big hits,” Walton 
said. “But we’ve had too many poor at-bats, especially 
with runners in scoring position.” 
Although they’ve been solid defensively, shortstop 
Cheyenne Coyle and catcher Tiffany DeFelice have had their share of struggles at the plate. DeFelice has the lowest batting average (.172) of any starter, while Coyle is hitting only .256 with a team-leading 14 strike-
outs. 
“Even though we’re hitting over .350 as a team, we 
want to be more productive with our outs,” Walton 
said. “We need to go out with a game plan and cut 
down on our strikeouts.”  
The Gators will have a chance to put that plan into 
action when they host the Lipton Invita-
tional this weekend. 
UF will open play at 3:15 p.m. today 
against Valparaiso before taking on Syr -
acuse at 5:30.  
Although the Gators won’t be facing 
any ranked teams, they aren’t taking 
their opponents lightly. 
“Even when we’re playing at home, we’re never go-
ing to look at who we’re playing,” he said. “All these teams have played in the postseason. If we’re going to keep making strides, we need to come out and make 
those improvements.”
ROGERS WINS SEC AWARD: For the third consecutive 
week, a UF pitcher earned SEC Pitcher of the Week 
honors. 
Freshman Hannah Rogers won the award after  re-
cording three wins last weekend at the Cathedral City 
Classic, including a 10-strikeout performance against then-No. 2 UCLA. 
Senior Stephanie Brombacher captured the honor 
the previous two weeks.Top three hitters carrying Florida’s inconsistent lineup  
SoftballFRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 11
By JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
 
Florida coach Mike Holloway ex-
pects greatness from his athletes, but 
last weekend’s performances may have made him do a double take.
While the No. 1 men clinched their 
first Southeastern Conference Indoor Championship since 2004, nine Gators combined for 10 individual SEC titles.
Freshmen Cory McGee and Eddie 
Lovett, who won the women’s mile run and the men’s 60-meter hurdles, respec-tively, particularly stood out.
McGee (4:41.10) defeated her nearest 
competitor by more than five seconds, 
while Lovett (7.73) barely edged Keith 
Hayes of Kentucky (7.78).
“While we were pleased that they 
won SEC titles, we’re definitely not surprised at what they did, because we knew that’s what they were capable of doing,” Holloway said. “We’d be disap-pointed if they didn’t perform at that level.”
Lovett’s triumph at the SEC meet 
was his first victory of the season, but McGee’s win added yet another accom-plishment to her résumé, which includes two SEC Freshman of the Week awards and a personal-best mile time of 4:36.53.
Another Gator who reeled in his first 
SEC Indoor Championship victory was junior Gray Horn, who won the hep-tathlon with 5,816 points.
Despite two consecutive victories 
in the decathlon at the SEC Outdoor Championships, Horn had yet to win an indoor crown before last weekend.
“If you look at it, (Horn)’s gotten bet-
ter and better each year, so it’s not so much a getting over the hump thing,” Holloway said. “Gray’s 
just kept working and got 
better, and we’re going to 
continue to see that.”
With the SEC meet behind them, 
the Gators will move on to last-chance meets this weekend in the Alex Wilson Invitational in South Bend, Ind., and the Virginia Tech Qualifier in Blacksburg, Va.
Among the athletes looking to qual-
ify for the national meets are senior sprinter Terrell Wilks and SEC triple-jump champion Christian Taylor, who is looking to qualify in the long jump.
Next weekend, the Gators will travel 
to College Station, Texas, to compete at the NCAA Indoor Championships.After SEC meet, Gators face last chance to reach NCAAs
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida freshman distance runner Cory McGee won the women’s mile run at the Southeastern 
Conference Indoor Championship, beating her nearest competitor by more than five seconds.
TrackClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
The Life. The Look.
The Landings. 
All-Inclusive 3/3 ONLY $439
www.TheLandingsUF.com
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive 2, 3 & 4 bedroom suites
***Starting @ $405***
Available for summer move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
352.373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
Hurry March rent free!! female sublease,
utlities inluded,private bath, furnished or
unfurnished, clean female roommates,
washer dryer included, bus line, 348 a month
352 260 7967
3-16-11-4-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2        2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 Tranquility 500 sqft Only $489-559
IMM Lease $500 rent credit
w/wrap lease rent credit & NO MIFees
Limited Time! 352.376.1248
4-20-11-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
“Renovation Celebration”
1 BR Starting at $499
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 13
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
4-20-11-67-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    4-20-11-67-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    3-31-11-58-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1600
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1300
3-4-11-30-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
No move in fees and $500 off March!
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
3-15-11-34-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160    3-24-11-40-2GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $425, 2 BR $535. 352-335-0420   3-31-
11-43-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $475, 2BR $575 352-335-0420   3-31-11-43-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-
11-42-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for 
Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd 
at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living 
room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 
15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-
yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
3-15-11-24-2
Condominiums 2 & 4 Bedrooms now or 
summer and fall. Popular locations such as 
CountrySide, Southwest and Shands area. 
Call for details Bristol Park Realty 352 367 
2669 Bristolparkrealty.com   3-14-11-21-2
3/2 Available Fall!
4 Blocks to UF
***48 Hour Special***
352-371-7777                      3-4-11-20-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.
Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com3-15-11-19-2
House for rent - 3/2, 1618 sq. ft. in NW GNV. 
10 mins to campus or downtown. Excellent condition, lots of upgrades. $1050/mo with 1-yr lease. For info, application or pictures: lmallicoat@live.com or 386-972-9440.   4-5-11-30-2
www.10houses.com2 & 3 bd HOUSES for Aug. 1Cent H/AC, W/D, quiet areasBike to UF352-316-0154 or nancy@10houses.com    3-25-11-22-2Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
*FIND THE PERFECT APT*
100+ Floorplans! Skip the Bus! Walk to Class!
Free GATORNET–Fastest Internet in town!For more info: www.ForRentNearUF.com   3-25-20-2
Downtown garage/studio apt, off-street
parking, privacy. Behind Hippodrome, on 
bus lines. $420/mo, 1st, last and sec.
Call 352 373-6551, leave message.
3-4-9-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 
920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. 
postj@bellsouth.net   3-31-11-20-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
5-10-11-34-2
***FALL RENTAL***
4,5,6+ Bdrm Houses for Rent
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Ask abt Family Discounts
Immediate Move-In Available
3-18-11-10-2
3BR/2BA, 1940sq.ft. Quiet neighborhood. 
1.5 miles from U.F. Large fenced yard, wood floors, 2 car garage, and sun room. Available 5/1. $1100/month. 3936 SW 3rd Ave. 352-359-1270    3-25-11-15-2
Large 1/1 in quiet neighborhood next to 
Oaks Mall. Walk to shops, bus routes, cafes. Screened porch, lots of storage. Move in by 4/1 get one month free. 1 yr lease minimum. Discount for longer leases. Rent $500/mo. call 305-992-2832 or pazos.lu@gmail.com   3-22-11-10-2
1BR/1BA, 5 blocks from Shands & UF. Quiet complex, parking, walk-in closet, W/D. $550/mo. Call 317-2642 or 371-9520    3-23-11-10-2
14, ALLIGATOR  n FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month 2BR 1BA Apts
3 BLKS TO UF & Downtown!
840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms, Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac.
Carpet, Pets Allowed. 829 Sw 5th Avenue.
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt 3 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo $600 Deposit
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht.
216 SW 12th Street.
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA 1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. $500/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue $600 Deposit
3-4-11-1-2
$385-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins 
from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, 
W/D included, furnished common area. 
352.514.3398.    3-31-15-2
Don't wait!
Place Your Sublease Ad TODAY!
After Spring Break,
there are less than 6 weeks 
left in the semester!
It's FAST & EASY!
Go to: www.alligator.org/classifieds
One bedroom available in a 4/4. $480 + 
utilities. pet friendly. great roomates! The Woodlands Call 863-303-3359   3-4-5-3
$325 Summer Sublease May-July for Gainesville Place Apartments.1/1 in a 4/4, Comes fully furnished with washer and dryer, utilities included $325! Many bus routes.allison.lynch@yahoo.com    3-21-11-7-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-20-70-4
MOVE IN NOW- Need 1 male student to share 
4/4 poolside condo at Countryside. Easy com-mute UF/SFC, 2 bus rtes, furn common area, W/D. unfurn $365/obo furn avail. nukken1@aol.com Text 850 585 4405, 386 676 97033-16-11-5-4
Roommate wanted $400. 3/2Grad student preferred. Quiet Lakefront house. 1/2 utilities. 352-281-2200 or Welchds1@bellsouth.net   3-17-11-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    
4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW****Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
We offer unlimited wireless prepaid plan 
starting at $40/month.We flash phones to 
metroPCS.We fix phones too. Call us today 
at:(352)356-8615.Visit our
website:http://infinitemobile.net     3-4-3-8
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
4-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
RUG LIQUIDATION SALE! 75% Off Every 
Rug. FREE SHIPPING/BUY NOW. 200,000 Rugs Must Go www.eSaleRugs.com (866)647-3965    3-4-1-10DO YOU EARN $800.00 IN A DAY? Your 
Own Local Candy Route 25 Machines and 
Candy All for $9995.00 All Major Credit 
Cards Accepted (877)915-8222 AINB02653   
3-4-1-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!All models between $200 - $400 off! All come 
with one year parts and labor warranties! 
Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 
352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-
11-35-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
3-31-10-38-12
FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 15
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12We Buy Cars, Trucks, Vans, SUV's, etc...
Bring your title and get CASH TODAY!
Call Gary at 352-682-8838,
email dlimotors@yahoo.com or
stop by 3535 North Main Street.    3-30-20-
12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys 
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
3-16-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
TECH SUPPORT
ACCOUNTING EDITORNETWORK ASSTSALES CONSULTANTSCEO ASSISTANTFull time positions.Send resume to hr@gleim.comwww.gleim.com         3-14-11-10-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring for Spring Semester
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352)-392-2908 Ext: 105
720 S.W. 2nd Ave Suite 156
3-25-11-21-14
Earn $1000 to $3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.AdCarDriver.com    3-25-11-20-14
Experienced swim lesson instructor needed 
for local program. Part time hrs either in mornings or late afternoons. Please email resume with lesson experience and 3 refer-ences to jwilby@cox.net   3-16-11-10-14
Great deal!
Brand new home, perfect for college student, 
quiet community. 3 bed, two bath. Wont last. 699/mo Call 904-992-0141    3-18-11-10-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & CSS experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-14
Project Manager/Account Director wanted for Gainesville web design company. Web design/marketing experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-14VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
3-18-11-70-13 
WANTED-COMIC BOOKS, sports & bubble 
gum cards. Mags, toys, movies & music, rock 
and roll stuff anything pre 1975. Please call 
Mike: (800)723-5572 $pd    3-4-1-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
16, ALLIGATOR  n FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011
SUMMER JOBS:
Recreation Camp Counselors/Supervisors 
for summer recreation program 6/13/11-
8/05/11 for children ages 5-14.  WSI/Lifeguard and Maintenance Aides (5/11-9/11).  Exp desirable.  City of Plantation 
(west of Ft Lauderdale) 400 NW 73 Ave, 
Plantation, FL  33317 or www.plantation.org 
to download application.   3-4-11-5-14
HOME HEALTH AGENCY now hiring RN, 
LPN, PT, OT, ST, RT & PTA, OTA to fill PRN 
or FT positions. Great pay. 352-284-2336 or 
send resume to 352-373-2254. Work avail -
able  now.   4-1-11-20-14
Nanny for 2-year-old girl needed. Must be 
available full time starting in May and part 
time starting in Sept (Mon-Thurs, 12-6). 
Childcare experience and references re-
quired. Email resume to
nannyingville@gmail.com.    3-4-11-4-14
Lifeguard-Certification Required
$12.00/hour. Weekend Work.
State Mental Hlth Treatment Fac
Call Grady Carthon(352)264-8248    3-31-
18-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT 15-40 hrs/wk - M-F, 
9am-6pm. $7.25/hr. Excellent Word, typing, 
internet & Excel skills. Indicate available 
hours, major, graduating semester.
OMA.office@yahoo.com   3-14-11-5-14
2 LOT TECHS for busy motorsports dealer -
ship. Requires cleaning, loading, unloading 
& operating machines, building maintenance 
& light mechanical. Valid driver license req. 
Apply  in person at Polaris of Gainesville 
12556 NW US Hwy 441    3-4-4-14
The Village, an upscale retirement commu-
nity, is seeking a full-time Nurse Manager. The ideal candidate will have the following 
skills / experience:
- Current and valid license in the State of 
Florida as an RN
- Experience with Memory Support- One to three years experience in a geriatric 
setting
- One to three years management experi -
ence- Excellent interpersonal skills
-Please see www.thevillageonline.com/jobs 
for more information!      3-28-11-14-14
MULCHING, PRUNING & MOWING
Daytime assistance needed for gardening. Flexible hours. $12/hr. Located north of Hwy Patrol Station. Email resume to:jaythaw@bellsouth.net    3-15-11-4-14
Between High School and College? Over 
18? Drop that entry level position. Earn what you're worth!!!. Travel w/Successful Young Business Group. Paid Training. Transportation, Lodging Provided. (877)646-5050.    3-4-1-14
CALL NOW! Top 5% Pay! Excellent Benefits. 
300 New T660's. Need CDL-A & 3 mos re-cent OTR. (877)258-8782 www.meltontruck.com    3-4-1-14
LOVE TRAVEL? Expedia CruiseShipCenters is now hiring "Mobile" Travel Agents. Work from home, flexible schedule, no experience required. Full training. Call (800)527-8666 Ext 665    3-4-1-14Drivers - FOOD TANKER DRIVERS 
NEEDED OTR positions available NOW! 
CDL- A w/ Tanker REQ'D. Outstanding pay & 
Benefits! Call a recruiter TODAY! (877)882-
6537 www.oakleytransport.com    3-4-1-14
Drivers Earn Up to 39¢/mi HOME SEVERAL 
NIGHTS & WEEKENDS 1 yr OTR Flatbed 
exp. Call: (800)572-5489 Susan ext. 227 
Pam ext. 238 SUNBELT TRANSPORT, LLC    
3-4-1-14
Regional Opportunity 100% Owner Operator 
Reefer Company. $1,000 SIGN-ON BONUS! 
Home Weekly. Call (800)237-8288 or visit 
www.suncocarriers.com    3-4-1-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs 
look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-
0069 to schedule an appointment todayprogreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
French tutor
Fluent and very affordableGrammar, conversation, vocabularyContact Ben Schwartz at (860)593-9967     3-16-1-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY. WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-96963-31-20-15
HORSE BOARDING
Watermelon Pond, trails, training, privacy, 
open stall. $325/mo. 330-329-8834 or chriswriterbuerki@gmail.com   3-15-11-10-15
Have a fixed annuity? GET YOUR MONEY 
TODAY! Cash out All or a Portion - avoid sur-render charges. Learn more: (904)2067303 www.freemancommerciallending.com/ an-nuityFinancial    3-4-1-15
CASH NOW! Cash for your structured settlement or annuity payments. Call J.G. Wentworth. 1-866-494-9115. Rated A+ by the Better Business Bureau.    3-4-1-15ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Criminal 
Justice. Job placement assistance. Computer 
available. Financial Aid if qualified. SCHEV 
certified. Call (877)206-5165, www.Centura.
us.com    3-4-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA 
approved program. Financial aid if qualified - 
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance (866)314-3769.    3-4-1-15
Heat & Air JOBS - Ready to work? 3 week 
accelerated program. Hands on environ -
ment. Nationwide certifications and Local Job Placement Assistance! (877)994-9904    
3-4-1-15
Approved for VA education benefits. Learn 
to Operate a Crane or Bulldozer. Heavy 
Equipment Training. National Certification. 
Georgia School of Construction. www.
Heavy5.com Use code "FLCNH" (866)218-
2763    3-4-1-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   7-22-11-100-16
PREGNANT? CONSIDERING ADOPTION? A childless energetic, spiritual, committed couple seeks to adopt. Financially secure. Healthcare professionals. Expenses paid. Gil & Dave (888)580- ADOPT (2367). FL Bar#0150789    3-4-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.comthen call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
need performance credit? 5$ student tickets 
for 'Nightingale and the Rose' at the HIPP, 
March 7, 7.30 pm, 352.375.4477   3-4-11-
5-20
Advertise in Over 100 Papers through-out Florida for One Low Rate. Advertising 
Networks of Florida, Put us to work for You! 
(866)742-1373 www.florida-classifieds.com.    
3-4-1-20WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
FOUND DOG:
Male, neutered. NW 6th St area Friday 2/25. 
Mixed breed, medium size. Call 205-218-7595 to identify.   3-15-3-25
FOUND MEN'S WEDDING RING
Flavett soccer fields. Has inscription. Call to identify 407-923-1775      3-15-3-25
Sports
FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
BRACKET CHALLENGE ONLINE SPRING BREAK INSIDE
n Already excited for March Madness? Head 
over to alligatorSports.org and sign up for our 
bracket challenge, complete with a slew of high-quality prizes for the best bracket and for beating sports editor Adam Berry’s entry.n Even though school’s out for the 
week, we will still have plenty of Gators sports coverage. Check our website for updated stories, podcasts and videos during Spring Break.n Flip to Pages 10 and 11 for stories 
on Florida lacrosse, softball and track. All three squads will compete this weekend, and the UF softball team will host the Lipton Invitational.n Check out alligatorSports.org 
for the latest stories on all UF sports, follow us on Twitter (@alligatorSports) and subscribe to our podcast on iTunes.AP Photo 
Arkansas guard Lyndsay Harris fights for a rebound with Florida guard Jordan Jones and forward Ndidi Madu during UF’s 68-59 win in Nashville, Tenn., on Thursday.
UF WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
A season full of humongous highs 
and devastating lows for the Florida 
women’s basketball team continued 
in much the same manner Thursday against Arkansas. 
Flawless shooting helped the Gators 
break out to an early 26-9 lead, and 
they held on to win their fourth straight 
game 68-59 over Arkansas on Thursday in Nashville, Tenn.
But the first game of the Southeastern 
Conference Tournament also highlight-ed what has made this year’s Gators so perplexing.
Florida (18-13, 8-9 SEC) began with 
perfection, shooting 8 of 8 from the field 
and building an 18-7 lead before the first 
media timeout. Forward Ndidi Madu accounted for six points and three re-bounds to spark the streak.
“I don’t think I’ve ever seen (a run 
like that),” assistant coach Murriel Page said. “We were on fire. Everybody wanted to do it tonight.”
Despite the electrifying start, Flori-
da simmered and began showing why team ranked last in the SEC East in 
turnovers.  
After the Gators built a 17-point lead, 
the Razorbacks (18-11, 6-11 SEC) went 
on a 19-2 run to tie the game at 28.
For a moment, the Gators lost their 
edge. They turned the ball over seven times in nine trips down the floor and went more than four minutes without a bucket. 
But Florida bounced back and closed 
the half with a 15-5 spurt, taking a 43-33 
lead into the break. 
After intermission, 
Florida’s stellar shoot-ing disappeared, and the 10-point advantage went with it. 
UF shot 3 of 16 to 
open the second half, and Arkansas capital-
ized on another Florida scoring drought with a 9-0 run. 
The Razorbacks tied the game at 49 
after a catch-and-shoot three-pointer from guard Lyndsay Harris. The SEC leader in threes made 4 of 7 in the first half and single-handedly brought the Gators overcome lapses 
to advance in SEC tourney
n UF WILL PLAY ITS FINAL REGULAR-
SEASON GAME AT VANDERBILT ON SATURDAY.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
For coach Billy Donovan, claiming sole pos-
session of the Southeastern Conference regu-
lar-season championship would be merely a bonus. 
But that doesn’t make Florida’s matchup 
with Vanderbilt on Saturday any less impor -
tant. 
Although the No. 14 Gators (23-6, 12-3 SEC) 
accomplished their goal by beating Alabama to clinch a share of the title Tuesday, Donovan insists their game against the No. 20 Commo-dores (21-8, 9-6 SEC) at 6 p.m. in Nashville, Tenn., is critical to his team’s psyche. 
“Tuesday night has been written about, 
talked about, and whenever the time is ready, there will be a banner hanging in the O’Dome,” Donovan said. “That’s done. That’s over with. Now, can we come in to Nashville … and play our best game.”
Florida will have a number of distractions 
standing in its way in Memorial Gymnasium.
The Gators hold a one-game lead heading 
into Saturday’s action, which includes five SEC finales. Alabama is the only team within striking distance, as it can force a tie with a win and a UF loss, which would result in a shared 
championship.  
Because Alabama and 
Georgia tip off in Tuscaloosa 
at 1:30 p.m., the Gators may secure the conference title be-fore they even take the court. 
The prospect of Florida 
being sidetracked by the Alabama outcome concerns 
Donovan, who has consistently preached that his team should only focus on the things it can control. 
“That game should have no bearing on how 
we go out and play , and that, to me, is easier said than done,” Donovan said. “It doesn’t make a difference what happens; this game is still important for us.”UF focused amid distractions
Perhaps more than anything, the Gators baseball team is a nation-al championship contender this 
year because of MLB’s eligibility rules.
If you read any season previews, 
you know the obvious reasons why Florida is a top-five squad in every poll. They return five freshman All-Americans. They bring back all but one starter in the field. They hauled in one of the best recruiting classes in the country — a ritual that has become al-most preordained in Gainesville.
But consider how different Florida’s 
team would look this year if MLB op-erated like the NBA, where one-and-done college stars are more than sim-ply tolerated. In the last four basketball drafts, 11 of the 20 top-five picks (in-cluding three No. 1 overall s e l e c t i o n s ) were coming off their fresh-man seasons.
NBA Com-
m i s s i o n e r 
David Stern’s 
demand that every Ameri-can basketball 
player go to college for at least one year — unless they pursue the less ap-pealing options of bolting to Europe or playing in the D-League — has created an ugly system where some schools 
can thrive as de facto minor league College baseball benefits 
from MLB eligibility rules
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 19SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 18
SEE TYLER, PAGE 18
Tyler Jett
The Jett Stream
tjett@alligator.org
Twitter: @JettStreaminPage
Men's
Bask etballBy JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org 
 
According to all four major 
polls — Baseball America, Colle-
giate Baseball, NCBWA and USA Today/ESPN— Florida is the top-ranked team in the country. 
But if the No. 1 Gators continue 
to lose focus on the basepaths, they won’t hold their ranking much longer.
Despite a sour loss Tuesday to 
recent nemesis Florida State, the Gators (7-1) enter tonight’s pivotal series against Miami (4-4) playing solid baseball in nearly every facet 
of the game, except baserunning.
While it is still early in the 2011 
campaign, the blunders have be-
come an area of concern for Kevin O’Sullivan’s club, as his players’ minds seem to wander once they reach base.
“It’s something we just have to 
stay focused on,” shortstop Nolan Fontana said. “We’ve had a few mental mistakes, and we’ve just got to fix it.”
Florida’s inconsistency on the 
basepaths has developed into a frustrating problem for a team that preaches fundamentals and doesn’t particularly run much. 
While the Gators’ baserunning 
statistics are less than gaudy, their “mental lapses” routinely occur on pickoffs, sacrifice flies or hits.
Down 5-0 in UF’s lone loss 
against FSU, senior second base-man Josh Adams worked a walk, placing runners at first and third with one out. But Adams com -
pletely misread the ball on a Pres-ton Tucker single and was easily thrown out at third, killing a po-tential rally. 
“It happens,” Adams said. “It’s 
early in the season. The grass is high, grass is low, sometimes the ball goes faster, slows down. It’s something that could be mental or 
just [players] making mistakes.”
Both Adams and Fontana said 
the way to improve is by simply 
practicing more and just staying focused. 
When asked if O’Sullivan had 
addressed the issue, Adams smiled and responded, “Definitely.”
In its first eight games, UF is 
7 for 11 in stolen bases, but that doesn’t include four pickoffs.The Gators have been picked 
off the second-most times of teams 
ranked in Baseball America’s top 
10 despite placing in the bottom half in stolen-base attempts. Only No. 10 Arizona State has been picked off more times than Florida, with five, and the Sun Devils have swiped 27 bases. 
“We’ve got to keep working at 
it,” O’Sullivan said.  “You’re not 
going to be perfect in this game. 
You just learn from your mistakes and hopefully not make the same ones over and over.”
UF’s coach stressed that he does 
not expect the issue to plague the team for the rest of the year. 
“It’s the early part of the sea-
son, so come talk to me in June,” 
O’Sullivan said. “If we’re still mak-
ing the same mistakes, we’ll take full responsibility for it.”
Etc.: Florida won four of five 
against Miami last season and 
swept the Hurricanes in the NCAA Gainesville Super Regional, end-
ing their year for the second con-
secutive season. … For the third straight weekend, UF’s rotation re-mains the same. Brian Johnson will start tonight’s opener, followed by Hudson Randall on Saturday and freshman Karsten Whitson in the series finale. … In Tuesday’s loss to FSU, Fontana’s seven game 
run-scoring streak ended. … The 
Gators have won a school-record 21 straight in McKethan Stadium.18, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Florida shortstop Nolan Fontana and the Gators have struggled on the basepaths this year, getting 
picked off the second-most times of teams in Baseball America’s top 10 squads.
UF BASEBALLBaserunning woes plague Gators early in season
basketball programs. 
Look at Kentucky, where four freshmen 
turned pro last season, perhaps out of fear that 
slipping on the grease dripping from coach John Calipari could lead to serious injury.
MLB’s draft rules, on the other hand, encour -
age commitment. Unlike in basketball, you can turn pro out of high school. Perhaps it’s unwise to spend the rest of your life relying on a prep di-ploma and a $150,000 signing bonus, but it’s your prerogative.
Let’s say you don’t turn pro out of high school, 
whether it’s because teams don’t like you or you don’t like them or the money is simply not right. 
You have two choices: You can either go to a 
junior college, where you will be eligible for the draft at the end of your first and second seasons, or you can go to a four-year university like Flor -
ida, where you will not be eligible for the pros until you finish your junior year or turn 21.
This system has the best of both worlds. If a 
player only cares about turning pro, that’s fine. 
But that type of “student-athlete” should not be 
going to a typical university . 
Only about 0.9 percent of UF students are 
listed on a team roster this year, and it’s unfair to stereotype all athletes as meatheads. 
But I won’t forget the time I sat next to a fresh-
man basketball player in an introductory math class two years ago. He whipped out a PSP and, 
without headphones, watched an episode of 
“Family Guy” during the lecture. I don’t remem-ber anything else from that class.
More importantly, MLB’s eligibility rules 
make the life of a college baseball coach slightly  easier. 
Once they figure out how to balance 11.7 to-
tal scholarships for a whole team and out-recruit other premier programs for the best prospects, coaches know they can pencil a player’s name in the lineup for three years.
At Florida, that’s been the biggest story of the 
past two offseasons. Last year, the talk was about then-sophomore Preston Tucker, who somehow led UF in home runs, RBIs and batting average in his first year.
Just like that, he was one of the best prospects 
in the nation, drawing comparisons to former Vanderbilt third baseman Pedro Alvarez, the draft’s No. 2 overall pick in 2008. 
While the rules cost Tucker a shot at some 
quick cash, they rewarded UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan, who offered a scholarship to a player not even selected in the 50-round 2008 draft.
“You’ve got to work extremely hard to get 
him here, but knowing that you’ve got him for three more years after that at least makes it a little bit easier,” O’Sullivan said entering last season. “I’d hate to see the rule change.” 
And so would any Gators fan looking at the 
team’s weekend rotation. Sophomores Brian Johnson and Hudson Randall will be back next year. Same goes for freshman Karsten Whitson, who automatically became the biggest name on the team when he turned down about $2 million from the Padres to come to UF.
This is like Jared Sullinger announcing he will 
return next year. 
But that won’t happen, because the NBA has 
turned college campuses into pro basketball pit stops. If a star doesn’t want to go to class, who cares? Look deep in the rulebook and you will find, “A double-double excuses you from a week’s worth of attendance.”  
And the system does not look like it’s going 
to change. Michael McCann, a law professor 
specializing in sports at Vermont Law School, 
believes the NBA uses the one-and-done rule to boost the marketability of its top draft picks.
Because he was on a top-10 team last year, 
John Wall played several nationally televised games and became a SportsCenter regular. This past summer, mere months after supposedly liv-ing as a wide-eyed college kid, Wall signed a $25 million deal with Reebok. 
But to Kentucky fans, Wall was nothing more 
than a piece in the Calipari assembly line. 
College sports shouldn’t be that cold. And 
while you look down Florida’s batting order, rec-ognizing name after name from last year’s squad, you realize it doesn’t have to be.TYLER , from page 17
Razorbacks back into contention 
with her game-high 18 points. 
Moments later, Sarah Watkins 
made a turnaround jumper over two defenders to give Arkansas its first lead since the opening bucket at 57-55. 
Once again, the Gators were 
tested until the final minutes. But instead of buckling under  pres-sure like in January and early Feb-ruary, Florida’s newfound poise 
emerged in the clutch.
Tied at 59 inside three min-
utes, Madu fed a perfect high-low 
bounce pass to forward Jennifer 
George for a turnaround layup. 
Then, Jordan Jones drew a charge on UA’s C’eira Ricketts, and George scored three more to put the game away.
“They are in a tough stretch 
and are just gutting it out,” coach Amanda Butler said of her team. “(I’m) just really proud of that re-
silient spirit that we continue to 
display.”
Five Gators scored in double 
digits Thursday. Madu, George and guard Deana Allen led with 
12 points apiece, while Jones and fellow guard Jaterra Bonds each accounted for 11.
With Madu starting the early 
run and George closing the final 
minutes, Florida showed its in-side presence can provide stabil-ity from start to finish.
“We’ve been stressing to our 
players that in order to make this run in the SEC, our post players have to step up,” Page said. “This is a great start.” 
With the win, Florida earned a 
matchup against No. 1 seed Ten-nessee today at 1 p.m. in the tour -
nament quarter -
finals. 
U n d e f e a t e d 
in conference play and ranked No. 4 in the na-
tion, the Volun-
teers have already blown out the 
Gators twice this season. 
But, according to Butler, 
Florida is excited to get a third crack at the defending conference champs. 
“We want to be a champi-
onship program,” Butler said. “There’s one way in this league to become a championship program, and that is through Tennessee.”Butler, UF excited for second-
round showdown against UT
W-HOOPS , from page 17
Women's
Bask etballFRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
Donovan does not plan to prevent 
his team from learning the early re-
sult, and senior forward Chandler Parsons said the Gators expect to come out with the same mentality 
regardless. 
Still, Parsons added that being the 
sole regular-season champion is im-
portant to him and his teammates. 
“There’s a big difference,” Par -
sons said. “We want to be outright 
champs. We don’t want to share it 
with anybody.”
The SEC doesn’t break ties to de-
termine a regular-season champion, leaving the door open for an ironic outcome. Despite handing the Tide a 27-point beating, UF would share the championship with Alabama if both finish with identical records. 
“It’s weird when you think about it like that,” Parsons said. 
But Parsons, like Donovan, add-
ed that the head-to-head matchup would not be a suitable tiebreaker, as one contest shouldn’t determine the result of a 16-game season. 
Donovan also pointed to sched-
uling as a reason to leave it a tie. Be-cause Alabama plays in the West, its conference schedule has been differ -
ent from UF’s.  
Even if 
Florida held a tiebreaker, Sat-urday’s game would still be critical in pre-
paring for the SEC Tournament.
“(It’s about) understanding how 
to go out there and fighting … get-ting into, ‘OK, everything is OK now. We did it,’” Donovan said. “You’ve got to want more.”Florida eager to secure 
title outright vs. Vandy
HOOPS , from page 17
Bask etballn THE MEN’S TEAM WILL FACE LSU 
AND ARKANSAS THIS WEEKEND.
By THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
 
After a month away from the familiar con-
fines of Linder Stadium at Ring Tennis Com-
plex, the No. 11 Florida men’s tennis team will 
finally retake its home court today. 
The Gators kick off Southeastern Confer -
ence play by hosting LSU today and Arkansas on Sunday. 
The matches will be UF’s first at home since 
a Feb. 4 contest against Central Florida and the team’s first overall since a 4-3 loss to No. 6 UCLA in the consolation game of the Indoor 
Championships on Feb.  20.
UF coach Andy Jackson said he was looking 
forward to being a top contender in the SEC 
once again.
“The league typically is extremely tough, 
and this year is no exception,” he said.
Jackson said he sees nine of the 12 league 
teams competing for spots in the top 25 of the ITA rankings, with six teams that could poten-
tially earn top-10 positions.Tennessee is the only SEC team currently 
ranked in the top 10, sitting at No. 2. But Jack-
son’s predictions may come true in the end, as Georgia, Kentucky and Florida all currently fall in the top 15.
Jackson said the Indoor Championships 
were a good experience for his team, as the Gators (7-3) have now played three top-10 squads.
“We have to make some improvements, 
especially in doubles, if we want to be a top-five team,” Jackson said. “And you have to be top five to try to win 
the SEC.”
Last year, Florida worked 
its way to an 11-2 record against teams in the SEC, 
falling in the conference 
tournament’s title match to Tennessee.
“We feel like we let the championship slip 
from us in a very close match last year, and 
they talk a lot about it,” Jackson said. “We 
have to be careful that we don’t try to win 11 
matches in one day.”
The No. 1 UF women’s tennis team will also 
kick off SEC play this weekend, with matches 
at LSU today and No. 16 Arkansas on Sunday.UF returns home for SEC play
Jackson
20, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011
UF SWIMMING
By MELISSA PENDER 
Alligator Writer
 
The Florida swimming and 
diving teams will operate under 
a new structure during the 2011-2012 season, and that means new opportunities for a few Gators as-sistants.
Head coach Gregg Troy will re-
tain his position but also coach the 
2012 U.S. Olympic Men’s Swim-
ming Team, leading  to former assistant head coaches Anthony Nesty and Martyn Wilby becom-ing associate head coaches.
Nesty said he is grateful for 
the opportunity and excited about the increased duties, espe-
cially  spending more time work-
ing with the swimmers.
“It’s a great title, but as far as 
us coaching, it gives me a lot more responsibility on deck as well as in the office,” he said. 
“The way we’ve set it up, the 
coaches will have more time to spend poolside with the athletes, 
and every coach wants to be able 
to do that.”
Both coaches are committed 
to keeping the team operations the same. Nesty swam for Troy in high school, and he and Wilby worked as assistant coaches when Troy was the coach at The Bolles School in Jacksonville.
“We’re still intact. We were 
all brought here by Gregg under his philosophy, and I swam for 
him, so my phi-losophy is kind 
of the same,” Nesty said.
Both coaches 
have been with 
UF since 1998. 
Wilby works mostly with the women, and un-
der his coaching, Gemma Spof-forth became only the second swimmer to ever break the 1:50.00 mark in the 200-yard backstroke, swimming a 1:48.34 to win the 
Southeastern Conference Cham-
pionship and break the NCAA record in 2009.
Nesty has primarily worked 
with the men’s team, and his work with Shaune Fraser helped him finish in the top five in the 200 fly during his first season in 2007. 
Fraser’s continued training 
under Nesty brought him two NCAA gold medals in 2009 in the 200 free and 200 fly, in which he set an NCAA record.
Nesty won five NCAA cham-
pionships at UF, taking first place in the 100 fly three years in a row from 1990-1992. In the 1988 Olym-
pics, he won the gold medal in the 
event for his native Suriname.
Wilby and Nesty have another 
goal in mind: helping some of UF’s swimmers reach the Olym-pics in 2012.
“We’ve set up so that we can 
compete at the NCAA level and also send athletes to the Olym-
pics,” Wilby said.
In addition to the coaches’ new 
positions, UF made a few other 
structural changes. 
Assistant coach Steve Jung-
bluth was named recruiting coor -
dinator, and Evra Gilliam will be director of swimming operations.
Wilby, Nesty ready to step into expanded roles next year
n THE TWO ONE-LOSS TEAMS ARE 
RANKED IN THE NATION’S TOP FIVE.
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer 
 
Perhaps a fireworks display is just what the 
Gators need to spark a solid warm-up. 
Tonight, No. 1 Florida will face No. 5 Utah 
on the Utes’ senior night, which will kick off 
with a fireworks show in a pre-meet ceremo-
ny . 
Biding farewell to seniors and ogling over 
Fourth of July-style entertainment goes hand-
in-hand with an expected packed house. 
“We’re treating it similar to Georgia,” UF coach Rhonda Faehn said. “It’s going to be a large crowd, probably the largest crowd that we’ve seen all year.” 
The biggest struggle on road trips is stay-
ing focused, so tonight will be a perfect test of Florida’s ability to stay in the zone.
But looking at Utah may evoke more feel-
ings of familiarity than discomfort.
Both are young teams; Utah carries seven 
freshmen, while UF possesses five.
As far as season records go, both squads 
have suffered one loss. 
Junior Elizabeth Mahlich said Utah had 
a lot of injured gymnasts last year, but those athletes are back, so she expects the meet to be challenging. 
The Gators have also been struck with a slew of injuries this season, and many of those athletes aren’t likely to return. 
Freshman Brittney Noble only performed 
in one meet before she was injured, leading to a five-meet hiatus. 
Although Noble was recently diagnosed 
with tendonitis and cleared for competition at Auburn and West Vir -
ginia, she struggled in her return, posting a 9.625 and a 9.3 in her floor per -
formances. 
Because of her condition, Noble, who 
stretched apart from her team in Wednesday’s practice, will not be traveling with the team this weekend. “A four- or five-hour plane ride is really not 
going to help [her],” Faehn said. “It’s best we just leave her at home this weekend.”
Though one Gator is experiencing setbacks 
with her injury, another is emerging on the other side. 
Sophomore Marissa King has been slowly 
creeping back into her all-around position af-ter a shoulder injury , competing in three events against Arkansas last week. 
Faehn said she might put King on the all-
around roster tonight along with Alaina John-
son and Ashanée Dickerson.
Since this is the last competition before the 
Southeastern Conference Championships, 
Faehn is honing in on solidifying the lineups the Gators will be using for postseason.Gators to travel to Utah for final regular-season meet
GymnasticsNesty
