VOLUME 106 ISSUE 18 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Florida Writer’s Festival to be held in October
Five award-winning authors will be in attendance, pg 3.  
Local print shop hosts T-shirt design contest for charity
Fifty percent of the winner’s sales will be donated, pg 8. 
Pressure on Powell to perform:
Gators coach Will Muschamp said he wants 
more production from Ronald Powell, pg. 20. Check out today’s 
Avenue to discover 
how this season’s 
movies can turn into 
this season’s hottest 
fashion trends. See 
Page 9. 
94/70
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 9CLASSIFIEDS 14
CROSSWORD  15SPORTS 18 Haley Stracher / Alligator 
   Suggestion Sign
Drew McLean, a soil and water science graduate student, spreads his awareness about the limited off-campus RTS routes at the Unite Party Platform Generating Event on Turlington Plaza Wednesday. 
ENVIRONMENT
  MEREDITH RUTLAND
 Alligator Staff Writer
 
  Activists plan to protest this 
weekend urging state park ofﬁ  -
cials to promise that adult male bison at Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park will be kept alive and well.
  Residents from Gainesville and surrounding cities are staging a sign-waving protest on the corner of 34th Street and Archer Road at 1:30 p.m. Saturday, just in time to catch the gameday trafﬁ  c, said protest organizer Lisa Grossman.
  Her main worry is that the bi-
son could be sold for slaughter.
  “I think there’s thousands of 
Gainesvillians who are concerned about this,” said 
Grossman, a Jacksonville resi-dent who attend-ed high school in Gainesville.
  The manage-
ment plan of Paynes Prairie’s 
animals, which was released this spring, states the adult male bison in the herd of about 60 are sched-uled to be removed. 
The ﬁ  rst choice of a new home 
is animal sanctuaries, but if none can be found, other unspeciﬁ  ed recipients who pass animal safety screenings may be called in.
  David Jowers, the park man-
ager, referred all questions to the Florida Department of Environ-mental Protection in Tallahassee.
  The male yearlings will be ster-
ilized and will remain on the prai-rie with the females, which will create a non-reproducing herd of about 30, according to the man-agement plan.
  The state plans to remove the 
Protesters will rally to keep Paynes Prairie bison alive 
  BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  College students are used to being hun-
gry, but every once in a while it’s for a 
good cause.
  Islam on Campus is encouraging stu-
dents to fast today from sunrise to sunset for its ninth annual Fast-a-Thon. 
  The fast will end at 6:30 p.m. today with food at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center. Doors open at 6 p.m.
  For every student who fasts, IOC pledg-
es to donate $5 to hunger-activist groups. 
  The donations will be split evenly be-
tween the two groups: Islamic Relief and Alachua County Coalition for the Home-less and Hungry. 
Islamic Relief is an organization that 
raises money for the East African drought victims. 
  “We felt like we owed it to them to do-
nate,” said Abidah Ali, vice president of external affairs for IOC.
  For each student who comes to the 
event but doesn’t fast, IOC will donate $3 to the groups.
  Experiencing for one day what the hun-
gry and homeless experience almost every day is rewarding, she said.  Ali said Islam on Campus always tries 
to donate to organizations that deal with hunger to continue the overall theme of the event.
  Ali has been fasting during Ramadan 
since she was ﬁ  ve years old. 
  During Ramadan, which is one month 
long, Muslims must fast between sunrise and sunset and are forbidden from sexual activity, she said. 
  Muslims are required to start fasting at 
puberty. Students go hungry from sunrise to sunset for annual Fast-a-Thon
Islam on Campus will make donations to hunger groups� THE EVENT WILL BE 
HELD BY THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING.
   ALEXANDRA RIVERA
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  Engineering faculty 
members and national ex-
perts will speak Friday from 8 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. at the Engineering Innovation Summit at Emerson Alum-ni Hall. 
  The College of Engineer-
ing will sponsor the event, which is designed to pro-mote entrepreneurship and raise awareness about the Innovation Institute and its goals. 
The institute opened last summer, and is meant to  develop entrepreneur-ial culture and innovation skills.
  “The summit is an explo-
ration to bring together the leaders of the innovation institute,” said Eric Sander, director of the institute.
  Speakers include ex-
perts from government, academia and industry.  
  “By bringing these 
thought leaders together, [we can] build upon plan for strategy for the Engi-neering Innovation Insti-tute and put it in a place to positively impact students, faculty and staff in terms of moving talent and technol-ogy to [the] marketplace,” Sander said.   Expert summit to 
be held Friday
SEE BISON, PAGE 5
SEE FASTING, PAGE 5Forgione
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 18 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Justin Hayes,
  Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tyler Jett, Greg Luca,
  Corey McCall, Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Adrianna Paidas, Lily Parkinson, 
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Brandon Davis
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,  
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Deskt
op Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Alexander Silva, Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening
Swap Meet UF
Today, 6 p.m.
Stuzin Hall 267 Center for Entrepreneurship & InnovationSeeking an internship, extern-ship or project opportunity with a Gainesville start-up/entrepreneurial company?Here’s a chance to meet com-pany reps from more than 30 Gainesville start-ups, includ-ing Grooveshark, AxoGen, Trendy Entertainment, Register Patient, Fracture and many more. Opportunities are available in areas such as marketing, Web development, public relations, computer engineering, advertising and more. See the full company list, event agenda and RSVP on Facebook by searching “Swap Meet UF — Fall 2011.”
UF Distinguished Professor 
Lecture Series: Arlan 
 Rosenbloom, Department of 
Pediatrics
Today, 6 to 8 p.m.Hough HallThe UF Hough HallGraduate School of Business presents “Insights and Conundrums about Growth Hormone Action Pathways.” Refreshments will be served. RSVP by Sept. 13 to mccrayi@ufl.edu.
The Role of Sentencing Reform 
in LibertarianismToday, 7:30 to 8:30 p.m.Matherly 118The UF Libertarians are hosting Greg Newburn of Families Against Mandatory Minimums for a talk about controversial legislated man-datory minimum sentences for criminal offenses. Any Century,” a panel discussion about the need for minor -
ity scholars in academia and the diversity of discipline research. Admission is free. For more information, email Jonee Lewis at joneelewis@ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to  jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORReCtiOn
In Wednesday’s edition of 
the Alligator, a headline stated 
that Student Government Pro-ductions and Gator Growl are receiving $161,000 from Student Government. SGP is actually receving $90,000. Of that fund-ing, $71, 000 is going to Gator Growl.criminology, political sci-
ence or pre-law students or anyone else interested in the topics of criminal justice and liberty are welcome to attend. 
Get Carded General Meeting
Today, 7:30 p.m.Little Hall 223Get Carded is a student organization dedicated to raising awareness about life-saving organ and tissue donation. At the first gener -
al body meeting, discussion topics include awareness ef-forts, fundraising, volunteer opportunities and  upcom-ing events. All majors and years are invited. For more information, please email floridagetcarded@yahoo.com, check out Get Carded UF on Facebook or follow @ufgetcarded on Twitter.
Black Graduate Student 
 Organization Forum fea-turing Christopher “Play” Martin
Friday, 6 to 8 p.m.College of Public Health and Health Professions AuditoriumChristopher “Play” Martin from Kid ‘n Play will engage in a one-on-one discussion on the evolution of hip-hop, his professional success and his personal struggles. Then he will anchor “The New Faces of Academia: Higher Education in the 21st SUNNY
94/70THUNDER
STORMS
94/69PARTLY
CLOUDY
88/69THUNDER
STORMS
86/68PARTLY
CLOUDY
86/68MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
Alex Catalano / Alligator
Gone Fishin’
Forest resources and conservation students and natural resource conservation students use a seine net to 
capture samples of small minnows Wednesday afternoon. They worked under the guidance of the head of the student fisheries department, Kimberly Thurman, at the shores of Lake Alice.
BEATRICE DUPUY
Alligator Contributing Writer
The annual Florida Writer’s Fes-
tival has returned for the 62nd con-
secutive year. 
The five award-winning authors 
attending this year’s festival will read works of poetry and fiction from Oct. 20 to Oct. 22. 
These authors include a former 
member of the indie-rock band Sil-ver Jews, a journalist whose stories have appeared in numerous maga-zines such as GQ and Vanity Fair, and professors from universities across the U.S. 
“It’s a top-notch collection of contemporary writers,” said Travis Fristoe, a UF graduate student and programming liaison for the Ala-chua County Library District. “If I didn’t live in Gainesville, I would travel to see it.”
The first of these readings will 
take place at the Alachua County Library District Headquarters on Oct. 20 with  David Berman, author of “Actual Air,” and will continue from Oct. 21 to Oct. 22 at Ustler Hall Atrium. 
“I am curious about Berman 
because he so rarely gives public readings,” Fristoe said. 
On Oct. 21, four of the authors, 
Amy Hempel, D.A. Powell, Kevin Young and Laura Kasischke, will have a 30-minute craft talk about the writing process. 
The UF Master of Fine Arts pro-
gram for Creative Writing and the Alachua County Library District Headquarters will be hosting the event. 
This is the second year the event 
will be run solely by students.
“This event is really great not 
just to hear readings,” said David Fishman, an organizer of the festi-val. “There is an educational aspect that will be beneficial for graduate students and for anyone at the uni-versity interested in the writing process.”
Festival to bring in renowned authorsDEVIN NUNEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer 
What started as a class project for one UF student can 
now be used to help many. 
Be Real, a campaign created by UF student Anna 
Daggs, is an organization that aims to educate the 
Gainesville population about eating disorders.
Daggs, president of Be Real, began the campaign as a 
project for her strategies class.  
“I emailed my final project to Elizabeth Dizney, my 
Diseases of Eating professor, because I thought she’d be interested,” she said.
Dizney then forwarded the campaign to Shands Vista 
Behavioral Health, which funds the organization.
Daggs is working with Shands Vista to target social 
media networks that promote an unhealthy lifestyle.  Websites such as totalfratmove.com promote the image that physical perfection is a must, she said.
While Be Real aims to educate the entire Gainesville 
population on eating disorders, its first event will be targeted toward UF’s Panhellenic Council women.  Be Real will be hosting Dr. Kevin Wandler, Shands Vista’s chief of eating disorders programs, and Allison Kreiger Walsh, a former Miss Florida and an UF Greek alumna  who suffered from an eating disorder, on Sept. 19 at 7 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
Nicole McManus, vice president of Be Real, hopes 
that when students hear eating disorder stories first-hand, they will become more aware of their prevalence on campus.
“I still look at things like totalfratmove.com and 
laugh,” McManus said. “It hasn’t hit home for me be-cause I haven’t seen it directly yet.” 
The members are currently planning a week in Oc-
tober dedicated to raising awareness about the Shands Vista eating disorders program as well as MEL4600, the Diseases of Eating class, she said.New group aims to 
spread awareness of eating disorders
“I still look at things like totalfratmove.com 
and laugh.”
Nicole McManus
UF student4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011
John Schank / Alligator
UF’s chapter of Students for Justice in Palestine protests on Turlington Plaza on Wednes-
day afternoon for Palestine to become the 194th United Nations member.
EMPLOYMENT
EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
Montana Symone loves bras, panties, yoga 
pants and puppies.
That’s why when she saw an internship 
opportunity with Victoria’s Secret’s Pink 
brand, she decided to apply.
Now, the telecommunication junior is one 
of thousands of students across the United States working as an on-campus brand am-bassador.
Her job is to represent Pink on campus by 
promoting to students.
“What better way to market our collegiate 
collection than to talk directly to college stu-dents?” Symone said. “It’s all about direct contact.”
In this way, companies like Victoria’s Se-
cret, American Eagle, Google and Sony Music can raise brand awareness and figure out ex-actly what’s working and what’s not for their young-adult markets.
Symone uses this direct line to give girls surveys about products and then communi-cate the results to Victoria’s Secret corporate.
Keivan Zolfaghari, a campus representa-
tive for Google, said one of the biggest parts of his job is answering students’ questions about Google products — from troubleshooting to basic setup.
He is also able to send his peers’ sugges-
tions back to Google’s product teams. 
“Google really values college students,” 
said Zolfaghari, a food and resource econom-ics junior. “Those are the people who will be using Google and Google products in the future, so it’s important to be in touch with them.”
Brand ambassadors like Symone and 
Zolfaghari reach out to UF students through events, giveaways and social media.
For the first week of school, Symone and 
her five other team members passed out Pink folders stuffed with school supplies on Turl-ington Plaza. 
The group planned to be on the plaza from 
10 a.m. to 2 p.m. but ran out of products by 11:15 a.m., Symone said.
In addition to Pink folders, people around 
campus can be seen sporting Chegg sunglass-es, American Eagle T-shirts or Google water bottles — all given out by students working as brand ambassadors.
Although these giveaways and promotions 
are becoming increasingly common through-out the U.S. — Google has a presence on about 100 campuses and Pink is represented on 54 — UF’s policy remains that outside vendors are not allowed to distribute anything other than printed materials. These materials can be given out only on the North Lawn, Turlington Plaza or the Plaza of the Americas.
Advertisements written in sidewalk chalk are not allowed either, said Cheryl Wise, the administrative assistant for UF’s business af-fairs department.
According to the Division of Student Af-
fairs’ website, these regulations exist to pre-vent distraction and keep students and fac-ulty safe.
Wise said they don’t actively police cam-
pus for organizations that may be bending the rules.
“If we see it, we’ll send the company or or -
ganization a notice,” she said. 
However, Symone said she’s never had 
a problem getting approved to host promo-tions on campus, whether it was Pink’s first week of school event on Turlington Plaza or its tailgate before the UF and Florida Atlantic University football game on the Plaza of the Americas.
“It’s just really , really important that we 
have a presence on campus,” she said. “We give college students products that cater to them and raise brand awareness of the store everywhere. It’s a win-win.”
Students moonlight as campus ambassadors for major brands
“We give college students      
products that cater to them and 
raise brand awareness of the store 
everywhere. It’s a win-win.”
Montana Symone
telecommunication junior� PALESTINE IS APPLYING TO JOIN 
THE UNITED NATIONS.
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
Members of Students for Justice in 
Palestine waved neon signs and chanted 
with a megaphone on Turlington Plaza on Wednesday in support of an independent Palestine.
Mohammad Tina, president of Students 
for Justice in Palestine, said the group mem-bers rallied from 11 a.m. to noon to encour -
age students to back Palestine’s indepen-dence from Israel.
Palestinian officials are expected to ap-
ply to the United Nations for recognition as an independent state, a move the Obama administration has pledged to block, ac-cording to U.S. Press Secretary Jay Carney during an Aug. 4 press conference.The rally comes a day after the Student 
Senate passed a resolution supporting the government’s efforts to promote a peaceful settlement to the Israeli-Palestinian con-flict. 
Tina said he had heard a little about the 
resolution.
“I wasn’t really surprised,” he said. “I 
feel like our Student Government is kind of biased.”
The resolution also condemned the ac-
tions of Hamas, which is listed as a Foreign Terrorist Organization by the U.S. Depart-ment of State.
Tina said the group’s goal is to raise 
awareness of injustice in Palestine as well as other countries.
“Humans deserve human rights,” he 
said.
Students’ overall response was positive, 
Tina said, and several students asked for more information about Students for Justice in Palestine.Students call for Palestinian 
independence from Israel � ABOUT 200 FEWER 
WERE SOLD BY THIS TIME LAST YEAR. 
  MORGAN WATKINS 
 Alligator Staff Writer
 
  Despite a $48 price hike in 
student decals for motorcy-
cles and scooters, sales at the end of August were higher than comparable sales last year. 
  As of the end of August, 
UF Transportation and Parking Services had sold 1,430 annual motorcycle and scooter decals to students, said assistant director Ron Fuller. 
  The sales for annual de-
cals in August 2010 were just 1,195. 
  Cloudia Kowalski, a se-
nior nursing student, bought an annual scooter decal this year just as she has done  every year since she was a freshman. 
  She doesn’t mind the 
price hike as much now be-cause she only bought one for her scooter. 
When she lived on cam-
pus, she purchased decals for her scooter and her car. 
  Despite the price hike, 
however, it’s harder for her to ﬁ  nd places to park on campus. 
  “There are so many more 
scooters,” Kowalski said. “I have to move scooters over and squish them together. I don’t think I should have to pay [$144] for that.”
  Decals are still sold 
throughout this month, but those totals aren’t yet avail-able.
  In September 2010, UF 
sold 1,836 annual motor-cycle and scooter decals to students, Fuller said. 
Total sales through this 
September won’t be avail-able until after the end of the month. 
  Having fasted for the past 15 
years, Ali said she will be fasting 
again this year.
  Imam Omar Suleiman, the out-
reach director for the Islamic Circle of North America, will also speak at the event. ICNA is an organization that devoted to promoting educa-tion and spiritual development, ac-cording to the group’s website.   Ali said she expects 800 or 900 
people to attend this year’s Fast-a-Thon.
  Last year, she helped organize 
the Fast-a-Thon as secretary. 
  Despite all the hard work, she 
said, she didn’t feel tired or hungry at all.
  “You really realize how much 
you don’t need food,” she said.
  To pledge to fast, visit fasta-
thonuf.com.  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 5
 Gina Chitko / Alligator 
   Advertising major Kelsey Stalnaker rides her scooter to and 
from her home and Weimer Hall. 
  BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  Gainesville will soon see a post ofﬁ  ce close 
and ZIP code retire.
  The downtown post ofﬁ  ce at 401 SE 1st 
Ave. will close forever Friday.
  The post ofﬁ  ce will close because of purely 
ﬁ  nancial reasons, said Bill Logeson, postmas-
ter of Gainesville.
  “The rent was more than we can handle,” he said.
  The Main Street post ofﬁ  ce, 1401 North 
Main St., took over 23 of the post ofﬁ  ce’s city mail routes and two of its rural mail routes from the downtown post ofﬁ  ce June 1, he said.
  Post ofﬁ  ce box holders were notiﬁ  ed 30 
days ago that they should either transfer their box rent to another post ofﬁ  ce or close their box. 
The post ofﬁ  ce would refund them the un-
used rent, he said.  The Main Street post ofﬁ  ce has been serv-
ing the 32601 and 32604 ZIP codes since June 1.
  The 32602 ZIP code has been retired, which 
is the ZIP code for all the downtown P .O. boxes.
  “If you haven’t made a decision, time is 
running out,” he said.
  The post ofﬁ  ce is one of the 3,700 post ofﬁ  c-
es to be closed nationally by the United States Postal Service. 
  There are 33 other post ofﬁ  ces that will face the chopping block in Florida.
  The Wood and Swink Store and Post Ofﬁ  ce 
in Evinston, Fla., was slated to meet the same fate as the downtown post ofﬁ  ce until an out-pour of support from its surrounding commu-nity saved the functional landmark.
  Wood and Swink is a local meeting place  
for the town and has been around since 1882.
  The USPS will be holding a public meet-
ing in Evinston to discuss its proposal to make possible changes in the way postal services are provided, according to a press release from the USPS. The meeting will be at 6:30 p.m. in the Evinston Church.  Downtown post ofﬁ  ce to close Friday for ﬁ  nancial reasons
FASTING , from page 1Organizers expect about 
800 people to break fast
Exact removal date for bison 
has not yet been announced
animals during the winter, said Kristin 
Lock, public information ofﬁ  cer for the Florida Department of Environmental Protection.
  An exact date for the removal has 
not been released.
  One of the reasons the animals will 
be removed is safety. 
In an interview earlier this year, 
Donald Forgione, director of the Flor-ida Park Service, said the bison could be dangerous to drivers if an animal wandered onto a major highway like State Road 441 or Interstate 75, which both run through the prairie.
  Grossman said she believes the re-
moval is a way for the Florida Depart-ment of Environmental Protection to try to ﬁ  x its mistakes at the animals’ expense.
  If too many bison were being born, 
she said, some should have been steril-ized a long time ago.
  Grossman, who has been banned 
from the UF campus after a protest in December, said she wants the Florida Department of Environmental Protec-tion to commit to sending the bison to humane sanctuaries.
  “Hopefully we as a collective voice 
will be able to make a difference,” she said. “Everybody’s welcome. We have signs for everyone.”
  The plan also calls for either the re-
moval or the sterilization of the park’s male cracker horses. There are about 30 of the wild horses in the state park.
  At the moment, the plan is to steril-
ize the male horses and to take steps to try to avoid removing them, Lock said. BISON , from page 1 Scooter decal sales increase 
this year despite price hikeZip code 32602 for P.O. boxes has been eliminated
“Everybody’s welcome. We 
have signs for everyone.”
Lisa Grossman 
protest organizerReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR41 TOTAL VOTES44% YES
56% NOWednesday’s question: Are you going to 
see Shaquille O’Neal speak?Today’s question: Have you ever released a balloon 
into the sky?Tattle-tale Tactics
Obama website 
shows insecurities
Since he took office, President Obama has been a bit 
touchy about people speaking or reporting negatively about him.
How can anyone attack the Second Coming? Even Obama’s most ardent supporters can admit that he 
has a bit of an ego problem. 
In 2009, the White House launched flag@whitehouse.gov, 
an email providing a way for people who got a negative email or saw something “fishy” on the Web about health care re-form to alert the administration. 
Now, the administration has launched what conservative 
blogger Ed Morrissey of Hot Air has dubbed “Snitch Cen-tral.” 
His blog’s title could actually be catchier and less ridic-
ulous than the one Obama’s re-election campaign came up with for its new website: AttackWatch.com. 
Its tag line is “Get the facts. Fight the smears.” By now, everyone should know about Obama’s platform, 
so why waste time making a website talking about his plans for term two?
No, the Obama campaign has bigger fish to fry. Obama is so self-conscious that he’s included  “Forwarded 
Email” and “Rumor” as categories of attacks that he would like to be alerted about by his followers. 
That’s right. Obama’s biggest threat in the 2012 election is 
not Romney or Perry — it’s chain mail.
For those under the age of 50, chain emails are something 
that people forward to all of their  contacts that usually prom-ise good luck if they continue the chain and torture in an ev-erlasting hell if they don’t. 
Of course, despite the petty nature of this campaign strat-
egy, there are also some creepy, “Big Brother” implications. 
Although this snitch service is being conducted on behalf 
of the campaign, Obama is still an elected official. 
Getting his supporters to essentially spy on dissenters and 
report it to him is reminiscent of the 1918 Sedition Act, which targeted negative speech toward the government’s war ef-forts. 
It is unlikely that Obama will be locking up the originators 
of negative chain emails or reports that do not support the president’s policy. 
However, dissent is healthy in any free society and should 
not have to be “reported” to elected officials in some secretive email system. 
It is unclear what the president plans to do with all of this 
information, but it will probably be used to shape a message that will attract the more middle-of-the-road opponents and spin negative reports to favor the president. 
Even though there are probably no Orwellian motivations 
to this “Attack Watch,” it is still a silly strategy that makes the president look like an eighth-grader hiding in a locker to see what people are saying about him. 
Things will be more interesting when Obama decides to 
run a grown-up campaign.
Judging sorority women is hypocritical
I’m a psychology major at UF. I’m also a male. That 
makes me what some would call a rarity.
Even though psychology is one of the most popu-
lar programs at our university and I almost never have a class with fewer than 50 students, I frequently find myself among only a few other male counterparts in every class-room I walk into.
It’s safe to say that when I attend class, I’m in a gender 
minority.
Now, that comes with some (obvious) advantages. One 
of the subtler ones is that I’ve learned a thing or two about the female population at UF. 
And while I do try to avoid making gross generaliza-
tions about them, I think it’s fair to claim that you can often divide the girls here into two groups: those who are in so-rorities and those who hate them.
Sure, there are a few women reading this who don’t fit 
into either category. I’ll admit you’re out there. But when pressed, there’s a good chance you’d still come down on one side or the other.
Something about Greek life (at least, at UF) brings out a 
ferocity of opinion that no religious debate on Turlington Plaza ever seems to spark.
And I get it. I’ve heard all the stereotypes about sorority 
girls, and I’m sure some of them have a pretty good basis in fact. 
The clique (or cult?) mentality can sometimes be a bit too 
much. Their pursuits occasionally fall on the side of superfi-cial. And you don’t have to say much to convince me that a strict monogrammed dress code is kind of unnerving.
But here’s the deal. Even if those sorority girls deserve 
some of their bum rap (and that’s a topic for another ar -
ticle), those who deliver it look just as bad.
Just the other day I was sitting in one of my psychology 
classes, and the topic of sororities came up. As soon as it did, one girl behind me decided she couldn’t contain her -
self. She spent the next several minutes ranting about how awful sororities are, assuring her friend that she’d never join one and outright mocking the poor girl who was explaining to the professor why recruitment week starts so early.Maybe her points were legiti-
mate. But there’s no real justifica-tion for the way she made them. You might think the things so-rorities concern themselves with are superficial, but do you know what else is superficial? Criticiz-ing girls you don’t even know because they’re all wearing the same outfit.
In fact, I can’t think of anything much more superficial 
than delivering a venomous criticism of a person you know almost nothing about.
And you might very well believe that the sorority men-
tality cultivates a sense of conformity. But repeating ad nau-seam the same things about how awful sororities are is a bit of conformity in itself.
The easiest way to go with the herd is to hate whatever 
group the herd hates in the same way the herd likes to hate them. If you despise sheep, you should really try acting less like one.
But more importantly, there are appropriate ways to offer 
your opinions, however negative and condemnatory those opinions might be. That method is not via snarky whispers and mocking imitations.
You’d be surprised to find out that the sort of personality 
you’re complaining about is the type of personality you ap-pear to have every time you don a high-pitched voice and try to giggle “like a sorority girl would.”
So here’s an idea: Have your opinions. Express those 
opinions. If you’re really feeling ambitious, ask a sorority  member to respond to your opinions.
But stop with the mean glares and the meaner insults. 
Stop generalizing, stereotyping and hating. Stop being ex-actly the type of person you’re complaining about.
Either that, or go to one of the numerous universities in 
the nation without Greek life. I hear they have a great party scene.
Alex Guilmartin is a psychology and pre-law senior at UF. 
His column appears on Thursdays.
Alex Guilmartin
letters@alligator.org THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Many organizations around campus invited  
students to participate in events commemo-rating the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
The “9/11: Never Forget Project” on the North 
Lawn honors each of the fallen with an American flag. The UF College Democrats had a 9/11 Memorial Fund event on the Reitz Union Colonnade. 
Tributes such as these can be beneficial in unexpect-
ed ways.
Along my walk to class I passed the “Good Deed 
Mitzvah Marathon” held by the Jewish Student and Community Center on Turlington Plaza, which had me sign a pledge to do a specific good deed in honor of a 9/11 victim.
A theme behind this event and many others around 
campus is to reinforce the age-old wisdom that, in the words of Martin Luther King Jr., “hate cannot drive out hate, only love can do that.” 
Anger and sorrow are natural and proper respons-
es to human tragedy, and I’m under no illusion that those responsible shouldn’t continue to be brought to justice.
However, it is my belief that ultimately, this still-
grieving nation can best honor the dead by drawing upon our better qualities.
Along with a stinging sorrow, thinking upon 9/11 
still invokes a shared sense of national pride. These feelings make it easier to see those who live with us as brothers, to whom we have a connection and obliga-tion.
There is so much people can do in their individual 
lives to make this world better, and events such as the “Good Deed Mitzvah Marathon” are great reminders of what is really important.
Shortly after fulfilling my 
own pledge in the Marathon, an official associated with UF 
cut in front of me in a line to hear guest speaker Chief Justice Sandra Day O’Connor. He hastily proceeded to snatch the last two remaining tickets for very important guests of his who had not bothered waiting in the line. With all the tickets then gone, I was turned away, un-able to attend.
When compared to how good it felt to perform the 
good deed earlier, an action that normally would have enraged me was put into perspective for its actual trivi-ality. To my surprise, I found myself pitying the indi-viduals who had acted selfishly more than I pitied my own bad luck.
Remembering to care for others helps reveal that 
those who don’t have our best interests at heart, or even seek to do us harm, are also our brothers. 
As the Cuban poet and freedom icon Jose Marti once 
wrote, “for the cruel one whose blows break the heart by which I live, Thistle nor thorn do I give: For him, too, I have a white rose.”
Both as individuals and as a nation, we are faced 
with trials, big and small. Perhaps the best way we can help alleviate the problems of this world is by follow-ing the example set by students at UF. 
They insist we must never forget 9/11, nor should 
we forget the strong moral consciousness that awoke on that terrible day.
Ford Dwyer is a political science and history junior 
at UF. He is also the editorial director of the UF College Democrats.Good deeds important to gain perspectiveGuest column
Ford Dwyer
Speaking Out
Ever since we were little kids, we have been innocently 
releasing balloons into what we thought would be an infinite sky, floating on to Neverland. 
The real fact of the matter is, instead of our parents telling 
us, “3, 2, 1, let go!,” they should have been telling us, “Never ever let go because you will be killing sea animals.”
It may have started out with a smile, but it sure as hell 
didn’t end with one.
Turtles don’t celebrate with balloons, and neither do birds. 
In fact, balloons are responsible for killing most of the marine food chain, including sea turtles, dolphins, whales, birds and any other curious animal. 
Statistics show that nearly all balloons released in Florida 
will end up in the ocean or any other large body of water. 
Marine life activists protest against balloons for the same 
reason they protest against plastic bags — they look like jel-lyfish to sea turtles. 
Sea turtles mistakenly see balloons as jellyfish and end up 
lugging them around in their gut for an entire lifetime. 
If they mistakenly eat multiple bal-
loons, they can eventually die from choking or from having intestinal 
blockage. 
Birds, on the other hand, see a shiny object on the wa-
ter’s surface and end up either choking or getting tangled up trying to catch what they think is going to be an interesting lunch. 
We are all culprits to this sea-life crime, and most of us are 
never even aware of it. 
Luckily, though, some state and local governments have 
already addressed this issue and banned the releasing of bal-loons from their cities and states as a litter crime. 
In the city of Gainesville, without such laws, we need to 
take the initiative and stop the death of wildlife associated with balloons on our own accord. 
I’m not necessarily trying to provoke the idea to ban 
balloons, but I am pushing you to change the way you cel-ebrate. 
A simple behavioral change to promote a healthy marine 
world could be, the next time you celebrate, trying to have everyone pop balloons instead of releasing them at the same time. 
Other ideas would be to just blow bubbles, maybe make a 
wish or simply use balloons that are very securely tied down and make sure proper disposal techniques are used in clean-up. 
The opportunities to avoid the releasing of balloons are 
endless; sadly, there is not a world infinite with sea life. 
Don’t release balloons into the environment, and if you 
see one, pick it up. Please help conserve our wildlife.
Eddie Roqueta is a wildlife ecology and conservation senior at 
UF.Releasing balloons 
dangerous to birds, marine animalsGuest column
Eddie Roqueta
Speaking Out
Researchers around the world are racing to develop a 
commercially viable alternative to meat without the inconvenience of raising and slaughtering millions of 
animals every year.
Lab-grown meat promises equivalent nutritional content 
to normal meat while requiring less energy and producing fewer emissions. But will people want to eat it once scien-tists work out the kinks?
Scientists are now able to take cells from animals and 
entice them into reproducing in a nutrient-filled petri dish. The growing cells are then placed on a biocompatible scaf-fold, which allows the muscle tissue to further develop. The technology is still in its infancy, but it promises to not only change the way we eat meat but also benefit the environment.
Lab-grown meat wouldn’t waste 
all of the energy and nutrients cows spend every day grazing, sleeping 
and doing whatever else it is cows do. It will also cut back on greenhouse gasses by reducing land requirements and cutting down on bovine flatulence.
A recent study by Oxford University and the University 
of Amsterdam estimated that lab-grown meat could reduce greenhouse gas emissions by up to 96 percent while requir-ing between 7 and 45 percent less energy.
Unfortunately, by all accounts, the meat looks terrible and tastes even worse. One researcher described it as “steak-flavored Jell-O.” Scientists will have to find a way to over -
come these aesthetic hurdles.
As with many groundbreaking areas of research, the 
technical challenges will likely be dwarfed by the marketing challenge of convincing people to try the new meat alterna-tive.
With the way the technology is shaping up, I think we 
can hope for a reasonable facsimile of a hamburger some-time in the future, but we shouldn’t hold our breath waiting for the slaughter-free porterhouse.
Andrew Shockey writes for The Daily Reveille at Louisiana 
State University.Scientists need to work out kinks before marketing lab-grown meatUWire
Andrew Shockey
UWire8, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Joy Revels, owner of Dragonfly Graphics, screen-prints a design for a local school. The company 
makes about 150,000 screen-printed shirts a year.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NEW ORLEANS — Lack of data from 
shrimp trawling is a huge problem in get-
ting a national picture of sea turtle deaths and captures on fishhooks and in fishing nets, and limits on such bycatch should be set nationally rather than within individual fisheries, a new study says.
All six species of sea turtles found in U.S. 
waters are either endangered or threatened. Most either migrate or are so widespread that they can be caught in different ways by people fishing for different species of fish and shell-fish, said lead researcher Elena Finkbeiner, a doctoral student who did the research at Duke University and just transferred to Stanford University.
The most extreme example is loggerhead 
turtles, up for a federal decision this week about whether they should be listed as en-dangered rather than threatened. Finkbeiner said they’re so widespread that they can be caught in 17 of the 18 fisheries analyzed by scientists at Duke, Conservation International and the National Marine Fisheries Service for the study published Wednesday in the journal Biological Conservation.
But limits on sea turtle “bycatch” are cur -
rently set and regulated by those 18 fisher -
ies, 14 in the Atlantic and four in the Pacific. They range from boats using set gillnets off of California to those dredging for scallops in the mid-Atlantic and those fishing for snapper or grouper.
“This is one of the key messages — there’s 
a lot of inconsistency in how the different fish-eries are managed,” said Elizabeth Wilson, se-nior manager for marine wildlife for the non-profit Oceana, which was not involved in the study . “What we really need to do is look at all fisheries together and their impact on sea turtles.”
One inconsistency, she said, is that although 
shrimpers must sew turtle escape hatches into their nets, they’re not required in other fisher -
ies that drag trawls along the sea floor. “Scal-lop trawls in the mid-Atlantic are not required to use turtle excluder devices,” nor are they re-quired in trawls for bottom-dwelling fish such as croaker or weakfish, Wilson said.
“It doesn’t make sense to require the shrimp 
fishery to use it and not these other fisheries,” she said.Another inconsistency is in observation. 
Under a recent settlement to a lawsuit filed by conservationists, the 124 boats in Hawaii’s pe-lagic longline fishery must carry an observer to count every turtle that gets hooked, and the season ends when the 17th is brought up. In other fisheries, observer coverage ranges from less than 1 percent to 34 percent.
The study is the first compilation of sea 
turtle bycatch estimates from all fisheries na-tionwide. Total fisheries service estimates of sea turtle bycatch deaths fell 90 percent from 1990 to 2007 — from 71,000 a year to 4,600 a year, said the study.
But it said Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic 
Coast shrimp trawls account for up to 98 per -
cent of all sea turtles caught by people fishing for other species, and 80 percent of the deaths — but fewer than 1 percent of those trawlers carried observers to count turtle bycatch.
Study: Shrimp nets pose big problem for sea turtles� A LOCAL NONPROFIT WILL 
BENEFIT FROM SALES.
KATHERINE GREENE
Alligator Contributing Writer
There is a lot more to Gainesville 
than Gators football, and a local 
company wants to give Alachua County residents a chance to ex-press it.
Spirit326.com, a branch of the lo-
cal print shop Dragonfly Graphics, is hosting a T-shirt design contest for local artists. The winner’s shirt design will be released in December in the company’s new Gainesville Nostalgia collection.
Aimee Anderson, 35, marketing 
director at Dragonfly Graphics, said the Gainesville Nostalgia collection is geared toward people who live in Gainesville and want to support the community.
“We want people to show off 
their pride,” she said.  “But we also want to do it in a way that is not just about orange and blue and about the Gators.”
Anderson cited a number of 
ideas already in process for the page including a shirt for the 34th Street Wall and one for the UF Bat House. A Gainesville mainstay for 25 years, the company wants to highlight things people can reminisce about.
Dragonfly Graphics and Spir -
it326.com have been serving the Alachua County School Board, as well as private institutions, with dress code-appropriate T-shirts for years. Part of this service is giving back to the schools. With every item sold, the school receives 25 percent of the revenue.
Anderson said the company is 
sticking to the idea of giving back with the design contest. Fifty per -
cent of sales received from the win-ning T-shirt will go to the artist’s nonprofit organization of choice. 
André Frattino, 27, an art educa-
tion graduate student, liked this idea of giving back to the community.
“If I won, I would find a charity 
that is more geared toward the arts,” he said. “I would want to give back to the arts field because we are just so underprivileged and underfund-ed. So I might pick something like funding art supplies for students.”
Anderson said there are a few 
limitations to the contest because of the T-shirt printing procedure. There is a two-color limitation, and photography is not allowed. Other than that, artists are welcome to ex-plore their creativity, she said.
Those interested in entering the 
contest can submit designs to An-derson at aimee@spirit326.com.T-shirt company to support community with design contest
“This is one of the key messages 
— there’s a lot of inconsistency 
in how the different fisheries are  
managed.”
Elizabeth Wilson
senior manager of marine wildlife at OceanawilDlifetheAvenue    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_AVENUE
Blogs, Blogs, Blogs   
Check out our blogs to see what retailers are pairing with designers 
to bring high fashion to a low price, the ﬁ  ve best tailgate burgers and quick tips to staying green on gameday all at alligator.org/blogs.  Twit Pick
@Lord_Voldemort7: Sarah Michelle Gellar is 
a worldwide TT. This can mean only one thing ... Buffy has returned to slay Edward Cullen. FINALLY.  Go online for our proﬁ  le 
on downtown’s Half Cork’d Premium Wine, Beer and Bubbles, and a DIY skin care recipe.     MAE BASIRATMAND
 Avenue Writer 
 During the summer months, we found ourselves escaping 
the heat under the blissful air conditioning of movie theaters.  
Now, a piling stack of assignments and readings hardly allots time to catch a quick ﬂ  ick, let alone time to put together trendy, in-season outﬁ  ts. Why not kill two birds with one stone?  
  This season, not only go to the movies but become a part of 
the movies. These upcoming and currently playing ﬁ  lms pos-sess great style that will propel your panache all the way until winter. After all, the streets are your stage.
  
  “The Help” (Released Aug. 10) 
  Even though this movie came out over the summer, it’s still 
going strong at the box ofﬁ  ce. Not only is its exposure of the Civil Rights movement enlightening and witty, but it also pos-sesses great costumes that are suitable for fall.  The movie takes place in the early 1960s in Jackson, Miss. Because it’s already football season, what better way to represent a Southern tra-dition than to dress the part? Think of channeling your prim and proper self, only with bold colors, big hair and cat-eye sun-glasses.
  
    “Footloose” (In theaters Oct. 14)  
  In this remake of the classic 1984 version with Kevin Bacon, 
a new generation of dancing, singing, promiscuous teens set out to party in a town that condemns it. This movie is also all about getting down in the South, as it is set in Tennessee. In-stead of dressing up (like in “The Help”), dress down. After all, what would a dance movie be without baggy clothes and off-the-shoulder shirts?
    
  “
My Week With Marilyn” (In theaters Nov. 4) 
  This ﬁ  lm is for all those Monroe wannabes. This fall, chan-
nel your inner Marilyn with styles based on none other than the bombshell herself.  The movie follows Monroe, one of her assistants, the trial and tribulations it takes to be a sex icon, and how valuable it is to sometimes escape the Hollywood facade.  Utilize this opportunity as an avenue to display your true ﬂ  air and expensive taste. 
  Key Pieces: bustier tops, high-waisted skirts/pants, hour-
glass accentuating pieces, deep plunging v-necks
    
  “In Time” (In theaters Oct. 28)  
  Starring Justin Timberlake and Amanda Seyfried, this is a 
movie that takes place in the future when aging stops at age 25. The characters are not only particularly good looking, but constantly appear dashing in well-tailored, sleek clothing. The style featured in this ﬁ  lm manifests in the idea of everyday couture. For this type of edge, think of crisp and clean styles, which ultimately ooze conﬁ  dence. The essence here is to play up the use of black and white pieces. Consider this your week-end dinner and dancing outﬁ  t taken to a more sophisticated level. This will distinguish you from the stumbling helpless in midtown and ﬂ  ocks of girls downtown who are desperately trying to keep their balance in their four-inch stilettos. Perhaps Gainesville isn’t ready for such class. 
 Translating looks on the big screen into fall’s hottest trends   
Carly Coleman / Alligator 
The Help
Key Pieces: structured dresses, ﬂ  oral patterns, thick 
headbands, teased hairstyles, A-line skirtsCarly Coleman / Alligator 
In Time
Key Pieces: ﬁ  tted blazers, cocktail attire, faux fur, frilly skirts and collarsmovie fashion
Carly Coleman / Alligator 
Footloose
Key Pieces: cut-off shorts, cowboy boots, rock band T-
shirts, ripped jeans, off-the-shoulder tops and crop tops
10, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011
 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 11
JESSICA KRAMER 
Avenue Contributing Writer 
In the first week of September, 
Gainesville and Tallahassee-founded 
company Party Degree launched its new website, PartyDegree.com.
The site provides those in 
Gainesville and Tallahassee with deals, including discounts on concert tickets, bar tabs and study packages.
“Initially we had a plan for Party-
Degree.com to be a resource for col-lege students with information about events,” said James Dieterle, the co-founder of Party Degree and Party-Degree.com. “Then we saw the rise of live shows and the rise of market-ing like Groupon and LivingSocial. We wanted to combine both of those concepts.” 
In 2009, the company was found-
ed by students from UF and Florida State University who had the idea of more fun, less money.
Party Degree gets the word out 
about its deals through its website, email list and social media. As the company grew, it was able 
to transition into throwing concerts.
Party Degree is one of the pro-
motional companies that has booked Laidback Luke to perform at the Flor -
ida Theatre tonight.  
After selling out its featured deal 
for the Laidback Luke tickets, Party 
Degree has decided to include 25 
deals for its upcoming concert featur -
ing Big Sean on Thursday, Sept. 29. 
The deal will include a VIP ticket 
to the show, allowing buyers to have a front row viewing of the perfor -
mance. 
The value of the ticket is $30, but 
the limited number will be sold for $20.
Concerts will be most limited on 
deals where there are between 25 and 50 tickets available to purchase.
 Other deals on food and bar tabs will be available in unlimited amounts. 
Dieterle said multiple T-shirt com-
panies and nightclubs in Gainesville have already contacted the company.
However, initial deals will be tai-
lored around specific events. 
“When we offer discounts on tick-
ets, we’ll offer things to supplement them,” he said. “We’ll do something with a neon store for accessories for the concert and a pizza place right next to the concert, something late night — things like that to benefit people who are already out.”
Any merchant can fill out a form 
to be considered for a deal on the website.
Upcoming deals will focus on food 
and apparel discounts.
“The concept is providing deals 
focusing on the ages of 18 to 24,” Di-eterle said. “We don’t want to target it just to college students because of our plans for expansion.”
The website also offers similar dis-
counts for Tallahassee residents and has plans to launch Orlando and Mi-ami deals in the near future. 
For Party Degree’s deals, check 
out PartyDegree.com. PartyDegree.com offers array of deals 
Photo courtesy of Party Degree 
Party Degree is offering more than 20 deals for its up-
coming event featuring Big Sean on Sept. 29. “The concept is providing 
deals focusing on the ages of 
18 to 24.”
James Dieterle
co-founder of Party DegreeDiscounted tickets, bar tabs 12, ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011
 He Says…  She Says…   Raise your hand if life 
gets you stressed.  OK, keep 
your hand up if you think sex is an awesome stress re-lief.  Good.  Now, keep your hand up if sex is occasion-ally a source of your stress.  
  Fail. We’ll wager that you’re 
not being as safe as you should be when you get down and dirty.
 Safe sex isn’t a joke.  It 
isn’t something to practice if you feel like it.  And, the repercussions of unsafe sex aren’t life-changing consequences that you’re immune to. If you can’t handle the discussion that follows, then you aren’t mature enough to bang.He Said, She Said: A solid stance on wrapping it up   
 Wrap it up. It 
doesn’t matter if they say they’re 
clean. It doesn’t matter if they claim to be on birth control. Don’t believe them! Fellas, it is never worth the risk to not slap a bag on that thing.
  Honestly, how hard is 
it? It takes 10 seconds to 
put a condom on. After that, feel free to do what-ever (or whomever) you want. There is no sense in risking getting a girl pregnant or living the rest of your life with an STD. Also, if for some reason your partner is offended when you whip out a con-dom, he or she probably isn’t the type of person you want to sleep with anyway. 
  The scenario may be a little different for those of you in a long-term re-lationship. The thought of wearing a condom while making love to the girl (or guy) you’ve been dat-ing for a year might seem a little silly. In that case, both of you need to be cer-tain you are clean. But before you go in guns blazing, make sure you have a re-liable form of birth control in place.
  And girls, double 
check that you took your pill that day and be conﬁ  dent in your answer when your man asks if you did. It is an immedi-ate turnoff to any guy if you show the slightest sign of hesitation.
 — JACOB ROMOSER  Two things: 
  First: Diseases are difﬁ  cult to talk 
about but easy to spread.  If you want 
to be safe, have a thorough STD test.  You 
AND your sex partners deserve to know what you’re packing.
  Second: Pregnancy. Last time I checked, 
there’s a population problem on this planet, and there’s a slew of young and/or single parents who will openly admit that raising 
kids isn’t inexpensive or far from easy .  
In favor of an abortion? Fine, but 
don’t expect it to be an emotional cakewalk. Opting for adoption? All right, but hang in there when you give the baby away after carrying it for nine months.  
Guys, you’re part of this equa-
tion, too.  Be ready to MAN-UP and offer support to your girl.
  This unpleasantness can be avoided if 
you TALK TO YOUR COMPANION and ALWA YS HA VE SEX WITH A CONDOM. Condoms are FREE at the Student Health Care Center, they prevent the spread of many (but not all) diseases and they plum-met your risk of pregnancy . Sex isn’t as good? You know what’s less enjoyable? Peeing pus into a beaker at the doctor’s of-ﬁ  ce because your tract itches and burns like hell.  
  Ladies, I would suggest going on the 
pill as a backup plan. Not a substitute — a backup plan. It’s easy , makes periods more manageable and gives you great skin and boobs.  Just saying.  
  Finally, WALK AWAY from a guy who 
is unwilling to wear a condom.  No one wants a regrettable d-bag in his or her black book.  
  College is where you play the ﬁ  eld. It’s 
the time in your life where you can search around for the guy or girl of your dreams or just the guy or girl for the night. Either way, this may be the best opportunity you’ll get to test drive the cars before you buy them.
  But as fun as this may be, it can be a dan-
gerous game to play. This goes double for those who insist on being risky and occa-sionally say “to hell with it” to the protec-tion. Is it ever worth the risk of not using some sort of protection? All it takes is one time. And that one time could last a life-time.
 — KAY BEA
STDs in Adolescents and Young Adults
Compared with older adults, sexually active adolescents ages 15 to 19 and young adults 
ages 20 to 24 are at higher risk of acquiring sexually transmitted diseases for a combination of 
behavioral, biological and cultural reasons. 
The higher prevalence of STDs among adolescents also may reﬂ  ect multiple barriers to ac-
Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; 2009 Sexually Transmitted Disease SurveillanceSTDs in Adolescents and Y oung Adults
Compared with older adults, sexually active adolescents ages 15 to 19 and 
young adults ages 20 to 24 are at higher risk of acquiring sexually transmitted 
diseases for a combination of behavioral, biological and cultural reasons. Estimates 
suggest that even though young people ages 15 to 24 represent only 25 percent of 
the sexually experienced population, they acquire nearly half of all new STDs.
Chlamydia
15- to 19-Y ear-Old W omen  — In 2009, as in previous years, women 
ages 15 to 19 had the highest rate of chlamydia compared with any other 
age or sex group. 
20- to 24-Y ear-Old W omen  — In 2009, as in previous years, women 
ages 20 to 24 had the second highest rate of chlamydia (3,273.9 cases per 
100,000 population) compared with any other age or sex group. Chla-
mydia rates for women in this age group increased 3.3 percent from 2008 
to 2009.
15- to 19-Y ear-Old Men  — Chlamydia rates for men ages 15 to 19 
increased 5 percent, from 700.3 cases per 100,000 population in 2008 to 
735.5 cases in 2009.
20- to 24-Y ear-Old Men  — In 2009, as in previous years, men ages 
20 to 24 had the highest rate of chlamydia (1,120.6 cases per 100,000 
population). Chlamydia rates for men in this age group increased 6 per-
cent from 2008 to 2009.
Gonorrhea
15- to 19-Y ear-Old W omen  — In 2009, as in previous years, women 
ages 15 to 19 had the highest rate of gonorrhea (568.8 cases per 100,000 
population) compared with any other age or sex group. 
20- to 24-Y ear-Old W omen  — In 2009, as in previous years, women 
ages 20 to 24 had the second highest rate of gonorrhea (555.3 cases per 
100,000 population) compared with any other age or sex group. 
15- to 19-Y ear-Old Men  — In 2009, as in previous years, men ages 
15 to 19 had the second highest rate of gonorrhea (250 cases per 100,000 
population). From 2008 to 2009, gonorrhea rates for men in this age 
group decreased 10 percent. 
20- to 24-Y ear-Old Men  — In 2009, as in previous years, men ages 
20 to 24 had the highest rate of gonorrhea (407.5 cases per 100,000 popu-
lation). From 2008 to 2009, gonorrhea rates for men in this age group 
declined 6.1 percent.
Maegan Dennis / Alligator Staff  SHELBY WEBB
 Avenue Writer 
 
  Two weeks ago, Los Angeles’s billion-dollar 
pornography industry shut down. The reason? A 
male actor tested positive for HIV . 
  Turns out it was a false alarm.  The actor has retested negative and does not 
have the disease, according to an industry trade group. 
But the industry hasn’t just moved on without 
looking back.  
  “The industry will be abundantly cautious as 
we try to nail down the reasons for what now appears to have been a false positive result on a previous test,” Free Speech Coalition executive director Diane Duke told the Associated Press.
  Now back in business, the pornography in-
dustry is ﬁ  ghting in the court of public opinion with renewed cries to mandate condoms and protection in the industry.
  Industry groups are rallying against this back-
lash, arguing that condom use isn’t aesthetically pleasing. 
But whatever they’ve been doing has certain-
ly been good for business. The pornography in-dustry pulls in $10 to $15 billion a year, which is more than the combined revenue of professional football, basketball and baseball franchises, ac-cording to ABC News. 
  While this battle has been raging since around 
the birth of pornography, this issue sheds light on another issue: that false positives and inaccu-rate tests are still a reality in HIV testing.
  Dr. Gary Wang, assistant professor of medicine 
and head of an on-campus lab studying viruses and chronic illnesses including HIV, explained how inaccurate tests could happen.
  “Probably the most common scenario, which 
is actually rare, that we would see is a technical issue,” Wang said. “Anywhere from mishandling of the specimens, something with the blood draw and into the actual test involving free agents — technical issues are almost always the reason for a false positive test.”
  The test itself is highly sensitive, and although 
it is almost 99 percent accurate, it is complicated. Problems can arise. 
The standard test is usually a two-step pro-
cess where you have an enzyme-linked immuno-sorbent assay (ELISA) followed by another test known as a Western Blot. 
If both of those tests have positive results, 
then the patient is diagnosed as HIV positive and schedules another test to conﬁ  rm the diagnosis.
  There is also the real threat of a false negative 
as well.
 Wang said during the early stages of infection, 
the body hasn’t had a chance to develop an an-tibody yet. 
The tests for HIV look for those antibodies to 
detect the disease, and because they haven’t been developed, the test doesn’t catch it and results in a false negative. 
 Technical issues can also constitute a factor 
for a false negative test.
  Even though the test is very accurate, there is 
still room for potentially fatal errors. 
Wang advises that instead of relying on test-
ing yourself consistently to stay safe, do the ob-vious and wear a condom.
  “Condoms dramatically reduce the transmis-
sion of HIV , so that’s probably the most impor-tant step for protection,” Wang said. “Certainly,  pornography actors are taking chances by liv-ing that kind of life, and you never know what your partner’s status is. Since no test is perfect, without the proper protection, anyone who is en-gaged in this sort of activity is taking chances.”  HIV scare in L.A.’s porn indus-
try brings attention to protectionpublic health
“Condoms dramatically reduce the 
transmission of HIV, so that’s probably 
the most important step for protection.”
Dr. Gary Wang
assistant professor of medicine CHRIS ALCANTARA
Avenue Writer
Power-pop outfit The Paul 
Collins’ Beat will be kicking 
off its four-day Florida tour to-night in Tallahassee. 
The New York-based band 
is scheduled to hit Gainesville at The Atlantic, 15 N. Main St., on Sept. 16 as the second stop of its statewide “Floriduh Tour.”
The Paul Collins’ Beat 
will be performing alongside previous tour mate Garbo’s Daughter as well as local bands Averkiou, Post Teens and Rose Cross. 
“It’s pretty cool,” frontman 
Paul Collins said. “We have never toured in Florida before, and we are really stoked to go down there.”
Collins first immersed 
himself in music with the for -mation of his first band, The Nerves, in 1974. 
Based out of Los Angeles, 
the band toured with punk leg-end The Ramones and record-ed its first hit single, “Hanging On The Telephone.”
In 1979, Collins formed 
what would later be called The Paul Collins’ Beat and began producing albums throughout the ‘80s. 
“We’re a classic two guitar, 
bass and drum setup,” Collins said.  “We were influenced by the best rock ‘n’ roll music of the late ‘50s, ‘60s and ‘70s. We pretty much play melodic, guitar-driven rock ‘n’ roll.”
In the early ‘90s, The Paul 
Collins’ Beat went on a 10-year hiatus. 
Following the break, the 
band released a series of come-back albums including “Flying High” and “Ribbon of Gold” in 2007 and 2008, respectively. 
With the release of its latest 
album, “King of Power Pop,” Collins and his band are hit-ting the road with their first statewide tour in Florida.
“It’s a way for us to start 
our scene in Florida,” Collins said. “With the shows and people coming out, we hope this will be the start of many tours.”
Collins said the band is 
planning on performing a set that will incorporate material from his early work to present day songs. 
“We mixed it all up,” Col-
lins said. “We did a little bit of everything, and fortunately, it seems to work out great.”
The Paul Collins’ Beat 
will be sharing the stage with Garbo’s Daugther on Friday at The Atlantic. Doors open at 9 p.m. Tickets are $8. THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 13
New York-based rock ’n’ roll band to play The Atlantic 
Eldon Baldwin / Alligator
The Paul Collins’ Beat will perform at The Atlantic Friday night. Collins describes 
the music as “melodic, guitar-driven rock ’n’ roll.” Doors open at 9 p.m. musicTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
$379 3/3 All-Inclusive
$349 4/4 All-Inclusive
VISA Gift Cards Available
Call us today at 352-336-3838!
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $329
Upgraded 4/4’s ONLY $359
3/3’s @ $429 with 42” TV
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-21/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREEFrederick GardensCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2     1,2,3,BR’s – Welcome Home!
·         HUGE floorplans! * H20/Sewer Incl!·         W/D Avail! * Pets Loved!·         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis·        376-2507 * BivensCove.com 12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011  § ALLIGATOR, 15
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW - ONLY A FEW LEFT!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
9-30-11-29-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-23BR, 2Bath, Washer/Dryer, 
Fenced backyard, Carport,
No pets. $1450./Mo   303-877-4915
9-19-11-30-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   9-23-11-29-2
Roommates a Hassle?
Move into your own downtown apt!www.ArlingtonSquare.orgStudios and 1Bdrms starting at $599!Check availability now! 338-000212-7-11-74-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs.1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-15509-16-11-20-2
3BR, 2BA, Condo Unit, Ground Floor, Kitchen 
& living area; Swimming pool & tennis courts; The Sparrow; $700.00 per month.Call Cristen at 352-514-6222    9-19-11-20-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House
Historic spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $2000/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    9-19-11-20-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. 
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1st month half price! Vacant lots alsoavailable. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-58879-20-20-2
Spectacular 3BR, Lakefront Condo
1 mile south of UF and Shandsrecently renovated,  $1299 monthpool, clubhouse, 2500 s.f. + garageavailable immediately (352) 262-2871    9-21-11-20-2●Historic House walk to UF.2703 NW 2nd 
Ave.Central h/a,screened porch,private parking,laundry with w/d.perfect for grad stu-dent or professional.No pets.1st,last sec.$40 app fee. $795 mo. 352-332-5836    9-15-11-16-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
Spacious 3br/2ba/2cg home in Blues Creek, 
huge Mbr/ba w/walk-in closet,cent ac/heat w/sec sys,internet hookup, all appls, W/D, $1200/mo, 7953 NW 48 way, call 954-805-7827, 561-912-6223, billyo110708@att.net  9-20-11-10-2
SPACIOUS TOWNHOME with backyard,
2BR/1.5BA
off Archer Road near UF.
Contact 386-328-6229.
e-mail moritae@yahoo.com $529/month
9-29-11-15-2
Stoneridge Apt / No deposit / Avail Now
* 1 Bedroom ~ 1 Bath ~ 816 sq ft* $625/mo ~ $35 App Fee ~ Sept FREE * Cats & Small Dogs OK* Email Julie at jmf1001@gmail.com    9-15-11-5-2
GIGANTIC 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority/Norman/Shands area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Was $2400 re-duced to $1780 OBO. 352-665-8166 lv msg.   9-27-11-10-2
1BR/1BA Apts, side-by-side. Large screened-
in porch, W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499/each. Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #2 & 3 Please call 352-371-3473    10-5-11-15-2I WILL PAY 1 MONTH RENT AND 
APPLICATION FEE TO SUBLET ($300)- 1 bedroom with bathroom in quad apt. at The Crossing at Santa Fe, female only....rent $359/mo. until August 2012.....background check required...pls. call 813-391-7596...Liz   9-16-11-5-3
1/1 in a 3/3 at the Enclave. $514/month, 
cable, utilities, wireless internet, and fur-niture included. January 2012-July 2012. Must be a female UF student. Email Krista at ufkris2011@gmail.com for details.   9-20-11-7-3
RENT $357/mo. 1bed/bath available in a 3/3. 
All inclusive, incl. internet, cable, electric-ity. With washer/dryer. I will pay application fee. Available Jan-May 2012. (Negotiable). Females only. Call 386 546 6315   9-21-11-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    9-21-11-72-2
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
●BED SET TWIN $49
●FULL $69●QUEEN $89●KING $99352-376-0953 4390 SW 20TH AVE   10-6-11-30-6
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
2007 Honda CBR600RR Perfect Condition  
2007 Honda CBR600RR, garage kept and covered. 1600 miles perfect condition, never down. You must have a valid motorcycle li-cense to test it out.   $6200   Ph: (352) 281-7907  Email: kgb@digitalcontrollab.com 9-16-5-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
9-30-11-21-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      9-22-11-74-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
$$ CASH PAID, $500 OR MORE $$
FOR JUNK CARS & TRUCKS
RUNNING OR NOT, ANY CONDITION
SAME DAY PICK UP. FREE TOWING
NO TITLE NEEDED. CALL 352-771-6191
 10-11-11-30-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
The Independent Florida Alligator
IT Department
Is now accepting applications for a
STUDENT  INTERN
If you are a student able to work 4-10 hours
per week this fall and are eager to gain
valuable hands-on experience in desktop
support and network infrastructure, then stop
by the Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F,
9am-4pm to fill out an application.
Please include available work schedule,
references, and resume.
EEO/AA.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   9-21-11-20-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    9-30-11-34-14Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
Centerplate Part-Time Jobs!
● Event Supervisors● Warehouse Runners● CashiersApply in person at Ben Hill Griffin StadiumMonday-Friday 8:00 AM to 4:00 PMwww.centerplate.eventbrite.com
(352) 692-6244
                      9-23-11-17-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
Florida Football Drink Seller!
Tremendous Cash in a Short Time!Yes - it is a work out!Apply in person at Concessions OfficeGate 18 BHG Stadium       9-23-11-17-14
PHONE REPS NEEDED ASAP
Flexible Shifts, 
Must be Articulate and Reliable371-5888 X111 or 6020 NW 4th Pl, Ste G9-30-21-14
Wanted: Head Lacrosse Coach for boys var-
sity at Gainesville High School. Playing exp. a must. Fax resume to C.J. Boulware: 352-955-7283. Info: 352-955-6707x289 /boulwarecj@gm.sbac.edu     9-30-11-20-14
MARTIAL ARTS INSTRUCTOR WANTED!
For growing tkd school in Gainesville.Friendly, energetic person.Experience preferred.Leave message at (352)375-0700.     9-23-11-14-14
 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011  § ALLIGATOR, 17
Doorstep Delivery seeks delivery drivers! 
Flexible schedule, perfect job for students looking for extra $. Very busy during game weekends! Must be 21+ with a clean driving record. Please call 352.224.3090 for more details.   9-21-11-10-14
Participants wanted for Perception Study. 
Ages 18-35, Native English Speakers with normal hearing. $10 compensation for partic-ipation. Contact Krista at spl.ufl@gmail.com. Study begins September 15th.   9-21-10-14
If you are age 18-30 with a sedentary to mod-
erately active lifestyle, Dr. Thomas Buford is conducting a study to investigate the poten-tial role of blood flow in the loss of muscle as we age. Participation in the study will require 5 visits to the clinical lab, medical history, blood and muscle tissue sample, physical and cognitive testing, MRI. Compensation of up to $250 in gift cards. Call the UF Institute on Aging, 352-273-5919.    9-22-11-10-14
RETAIL - THORNEBROOK CHOCOLATES
Looking for a sweet job? We are hiring PT staff at Thornebrook Chocolates! Must be available year-round. E-mail resume to Cathleen@ThornebrookChocolates.com.    9-19-11-7-14
ACT Coordinator
Immediate full time or part time opening for a person with SAT/ACT tutoring background to help develop a new program at Gleim Publications. Great opportunity a "go getter". Must have strong written and verbal skills and a good attention to detail. Please apply online at http://www.gleim.com/employment    9-23-11-10-14.SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE
NOW HIRINGGreat working environment. PT/FT positions available. Apply in person @ 2906 NW 13Tth St. 352-372-1226 sandysresale.com    9-26-11-10-14
Female Tutor/Sitter/Driver needed for 9 & 
13 yr old. 1 to 3 days/wk (MTWTh 3:15p to 8:15p) some late nights & Sundays. Math & computer skills. 15 mile commute. Contact 352-332-6465.     9-19-11-4-14
Permanent part time for yard, housekeep-
ing, errands. Students only. Start $10/hr. Weekends required. Call Sebastian 352-591-3000.    9-19-11-4-14
Sleep Center Superstores is looking to fill 
FULL & PART time positions for SALES & DELIVERY help. Candidates must be de-pendable, honest, personable & motivated. We will work with obscure schedules. $7.31-$10.00 per hour depending on experience, plus incentives. Apply in person 4994 NW 39th Avenue Suite A Gainesville 32606. (352) 872-5668     9-20-11-5-14
ATTENTION SEDENTARY ADULTS (50+)!!
Need participants in a UF study assessing the accuracy of an advanced pedometer. $$$ provided!!! If interested, call 336-406-3706 or email FitBit10000@gmail.com    9-23-8-14
LAW CLERK-P/T. Law student, creative 
problem solver. Green conscious, book lover, passion for writing/knowledge/fitness/MMA. 626 NE 1st St, 32601. Send resume & writing sample to paulsrothstein@gmail.com    9-27-11-10-14Extended Day Enrichment
Program Is Hiring Now
SCHOOL BOARD OF ALACHUA COUNTYAFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM-VARIOUS LOCATIONS-● ENERGETIC PEOPLE TO TEACH OUTDOOR GAMES - $10/hr - BA desired or successful exp. working w/ children.●   CREATIVE PEOPLE TO TEACH ARTS & CRAFTS - $10/hr - BA desired or success-ful exp. working w/ children.Hours required - M,T,Th,F - 1:45-5:30, Wed - 12:30-5:30 PMDRUG TESTING REQUIRED - BACKGROUND CHECK CONDUCTED - AA/EOEFor More Information Call: 352-955-7766.Apply online www.sbac.edu9-16-11-3-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   10-12-20-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
Horse boarding, $350/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome    9-30-11-38-15. 
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) $99 
and Basic Life Support (BLS)$35. Classes run continuously to fit your schedule. American Heart Association Card issued. Call Cardiac One at 352-494-4217.    10-14-11-30-15
J & B Cleaning Services has a few openings 
for cleaning your home, condo, or apt.25 yrs. experienceExcellent References(386) 264-1576     9-16-11-5-15FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  Familiarize your-
self with the new GRE exam in this work-shop from the UF Teaching Center, Monday - Thursday, 9/19-29.  Verbal sessions on M & W, 9/19 & 9/21; Math on Thursday, 9/22 & 9/29.  All sessions take place from 5-7 p.m.  Call 392-2010 to register and learn the room location.    9-20-5-20
Annual Limplighter
Mobile Home
Community Garage Sale
Sept 17th, 9a-1p
BIG Picnic...free food...
100's of items for sale!
Door Prizes
5200 NE 29th Ave Gville
9-16-11-3-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
KANAPAHA
BOTANICAL GARDENS
HALF OFF WITH GATOR ONE CARD 
DURING THE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER.
Come and enjoy our beautiful gardens!
9-30-20-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM... A boutique,KEY 
WEST 1970's style. We got it all for you, from all the world, imports you can believe in.Clothes,Gifts,Art,Books,Music,Plants.. .Hwy.441S....15 min.that could change you.   10-26-31-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Free Horse Boarding
I need someone to feed my two retired horses. In exchange I will provide free horse boarding - large 12 x 12 stalls, huge pasture and riding area - great set-up. Responsible person only. Emailarcherhomeforrent@gmail.com    9-15-11-2-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   10-19-11-100-16
ALL YOUR CPR AND FIRST AID NEEDS
FLORIDA HEARTSAVERwww.floridaheartsaver.org 575-0119                        9-30-28-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
OPERATION CATNIP
Thank you for being a part of the good news! 
Operation Catnip is on track to meet our goal of spaying/neutering 3,000 cats in 2011! 
We cannot reach this number without 
your continued support. We need you on September 18th. We need the unaltered free- roaming cats in your neighborhood brought to this  clinic for FREE spay/neuter surgery. Please call us at 352-380-0940 re-garding reservations and trap rental.   
If you are able to donate your time for this 
worthwhile cause, we'd greatly appreciate it! Sign up today by clicking on the link at the top left. If you find that you cannot spare any extra time, please make a tax deductible donation. While our services are offered to caregivers for FREE, realistically our cost is around $30 per cat.  Thank you and we hope to see you September 18th!    9-16-5-20
OPEN HOUSE
Thurs. Sept. 15th, 5-7pm
Demos, Prizes, Food, All are welcome!
352-331-5355 www.dermacaregainesville.com
9-15-11-4-20
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Sorry Dan Wenger, Mick Foley and Hulk Hogan
In Wednesday’s paper, we made an unforgiveable, 
egregious error stating Dan Wenger dressed up as Mick Foley for a team lift. He actually was Hulk Hogan. Our bad. Added DUI Patrols After Tennessee Game
Following  Saturday’s game against Tennessee, area law enforcement agencies plan to ramp up patrols in search of drunk drivers. A so-called saturation patrol will be in effect until 4 a.m. Sunday. Florida midfielder Erika Tymrak is drawing comparisons to Barcelona’s Lionel Messi, one of the best in the world. See Story, Page 20. 
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Gators sophomore Ronald Powell has struggled to adapt to his new role, recording just five tackles and 
a sack in two games. Coaches have said they’d like to see more production from his position.  
GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Both coach Will Muschamp 
and defensive coordinator Dan 
Quinn have said they want to see more production out of sopho-more linebacker Ronald Powell. 
Powell has recorded five 
tackles and a sack so far this sea-son, but Quinn expects more out of the Buck linebacker position, which he said is one of the “fea-tured spots” in his defense. 
“That guy is counted on to be 
one of our big rushers,” Quinn said. “With Ronald, we’re cer -
tainly looking for more produc-tion.”
Quinn added that most of 
Powell’s difficulties are due to his positional switch, as the Buck linebacker is expected to fill a variety of roles in the new system. 
In certain situations he will 
start a play as a defensive end in a three-point stance, and in oth-ers he’ll stand up and play line-backer. Depending on the play call he may be expected to rush the passer, set the edge and play the run or drop into coverage. 
“When you first start, it’s so 
many different things it’s hard to master,” Quinn said. “Now that he’s got some experience with two games under his belt, I think we’ll see that production increase.”
Roberson drawing com-
parisons: Cornerback Marcus Roberson, a freshman, has im-pressed from the moment he stepped on campus, working his way into the Week 1 start-ing lineup. Roberson’s size and athleticism make him a difficult matchup for any pass-catcher, according to junior safety Josh Evans. 
“ H e ’ s 
got good size and also can jump, and 
that’s one thing that helps him with the taller receivers,” Evans said. “He’s an athletic young guy and I think he’s ready to D up any receiver in the SEC.”
Last year the Gators could 
count on first-team All-SEC cornerback Janoris Jenkins to effectively shut down the op-position’s top receiving threat. But now, with Jenkins kicked off the team, Florida has had to look elsewhere. 
Luckily for UF, senior wide 
receiver Deonte Thompson 
Coaches looking for bigger pass-rush impact from Powell
UF Fo otball
See NoteBook, p Age 19
MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Picture this. 
Tennessee comes to Gainesville on 
Saturday with a quarterback who is lead-ing the Southeastern Conference with a passer rating of 204.2. He’s thrown for nearly 700 yards in just two games, with seven touchdowns and zero intercep-tions. He’s completing just shy of 80 per -
cent of his passes.
No, this isn’t a story pulled from the 
90s archives. Those stats belong to soph-omore gunslinger Tyler Bray, arguably the best thing to happen to Knoxville, Tenn., since a guy named Manning.
Asked Wednesday what he had to do 
to prepare his inexperienced secondary for Bray and the Volunteers’ potent pass-ing attack, Florida coach Will Muschamp was forthcoming.
“Well they’ve got to look at the stats 
— this guy is completing 80 percent of his passes. It’s pretty easy to get ready,” 
Muschamp said.
“He’s been very 
accurate with the ball not just in the in-termediate, but also the vertical passing game. He’s got two explosive guys out-side, so we’ve got our 
work cut out for us.”
By no means is Bray a one-man 
show. 
Wide receivers Justin Hunter and 
Da’Rick Rogers represent a deadly Bray has firepower to 
challenge UF defensetHe Jett S tReAM
Dear Will,
You have a problem on your hands, 
one larger than you would publicly like 
to admit. Ten months on the job, your players 
have already been arrested seven times. 
You have said all the right things about 
“The Florida Way” and taking a stand against criminal activity. You need to do more than talk, though. 
You need to take action, and not just by pun-
ishing players. You need to show that alcohol possessions and marijuana busts affect you. 
You need to take a pay cut.Whenever you finish dissecting Tennessee 
game film this afternoon, march to Jeremy Fo-ley’s office and tell your boss you want to add a clause to your contract. Tell Jeremy you are so concerned with running a clean program that you will pay a fine every time a player is con-victed.
And Jeremy? You should do the same. You 
can’t distance yourself from this; it’s your ath-letic program. Same with you, Bernie Machen. The well-being of your school relies heavily on the money Mus-champ brings in.
This is a problem 
Urban Meyer never properly handled. He won a pair of national champi-onships, but those accomplishments 
were often dwarfed by the 31 arrests during his six-year tenure. 
So far, you’re on pace for an even more crime-
infested career. If players keep getting cuffed at the current rate, you will be staring at arrest No. 50 in your sixth season.
You are pocketing about $3.25 million this 
year and taking home another $2.5 million in 2012. On its face, there’s nothing wrong with that. You are, after all, the CEO of a company that hauled in more than $44 million two sea-sons ago, and the well isn’t drying up any time soon.
But look at those bonuses. You will make Open letter to Will Muschamp
tyler Jett
twitter: @tyler_jett
See t yLeR, p Age 20See teNNeSSee, p Age 19Bray
thinks the Gators have found a similar replace-
ment. 
“Roberson kind of reminds me of Janoris his 
freshman year when he first came in,” Thomp-son said. “He’s good at the line of scrimmage. He’s a good jammer, just like Janoris was.”
Injury update: The shoulder injury that se-
nior running back Jeff Demps suffered Saturday against UAB is completely unrelated to the in-jury that sidelined him last year, according to Muschamp. 
He added that Demps is fine and has been 
practicing with the team. 
Quinn said junior cor -
nerback Jeremy Brown has “looked good” in practice so far this week and has 
made progress every day. Still, Quinn was un-able to say whether Brown would be able to play Saturday against Tennessee. 
Thompson revealed that he was momen-
tarily knocked unconscious after taking a hit to the back of the head following a catch over the middle on Sept. 3 against FAU. He said he did not suffer a concussion, but he did not return to practice until Wednesday, Sept. 7. 
Trail needs work: Freshman defensive end 
Lynden Trail has been participating in practice and has not been the target of any disciplinary action, Quinn said. Trail was left off UF’s roster against UAB and did not dress for the game. 
“We’re just looking to get more out of Lyn-
den, and I think we’re getting that this week,” Quinn said. 
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org. THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 19
Alligator File Photo
Tennessee wide receiver Da’Rick Rogers (21) and teammate Justin Hunter 
have combined for more than 500 yards and five touchdowns this year.
Rogers, Hunter difficult matchups for UF
combination on the perimeter, as the 
two have combined for 502 yards and five touchdowns through two games.  
Rogers can also line up in the slot, present-ing matchup problems for the defense.
Safety Josh Evans said Florida has been 
preparing for Rogers to motion around and for multiple personnel groupings, adding the Gators are confident their cor -
ners can play man defense against the Vol-unteers.
Evans said the key was to “attack them 
early in the game and let them know that we’re confident in our DBs.”
Whether UF’s corners can hold their 
own remains to be seen, as Cody Riggs (5-foot-9) and Marcus Roberson (6-foot) have yet to be challenged by the combination of size and speed possessed by Hunter (6-foot-4) and Rogers (6-foot-3).
Both Tennessee receivers have a recep-
tion of more than 45 yards this season, and Hunter had a touchdown grab of 81 yards in the opener against Montana. Hunter leads the SEC with 16 catches, and Rogers is nipping at his heels with 15. Both aver -
age more than 13 yards per reception and are electric after the catch.
Defensive coordinator Dan Quinn said 
Wednesday that he will use each corner to his strength, meaning Riggs could try to be more physical at the line to counteract the discrepancy in size. 
“They know they’re probably going to 
want to take shots due to his height, but I think [Riggs] covers up pretty good with them,” Evans said. “He’s a real aggressive guy. He’ll get hands on you and he likes to press guys.”
But Riggs, a sophomore, and Roberson, 
a freshman, haven’t seen anything like they will come Saturday.
“Everyone recruited them,” Muschamp 
said of Rogers and Hunter, “and everyone 
in the country wanted them.”
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@alligator.
org.Tennessee , from page 18
noTebook , from page 18Demps expected 
to play against Tennessee THe MAilbA g
We missed you. Sincerely. 
After a week off, The Mail-bag is back to answer your 
pressing questions related to all things Gators. As expected, the Tennessee matchup was a hot topic this week. Let’s “square” up these questions.  
@PhilipGaryTalks: Janoris Jen-
kins made a name for himself in his 
first Vols game, can we hope for the same from our freshmen this time? 
You can certainly hope 
for it. But, as the saying goes, you can wish in one hand…  The Tennessee passing attack is no joke. The Gators must get pressure up front to hurry Bray into making mistakes with the ball. He hasn’t shown that this season, throwing seven touchdowns and zero inter -
ceptions. But Bray did throw seven picks in a three-week span against Vandy, Kentucky and North Caroli-na last season. Affecting his comfort level in the pocket will be the key , and if it happens, someone in the secondary could be the beneficiary . Just don’t be surprised if the oppo-site happens. 
@ericsolgard: In what way does Marcus Roberson remind him of 
Jenkins, hopefully he is referring solely to his football ability?
Let’s put this in context first. On 
Wednesday , wide receiver Deonte 
Thompson told the media that fresh-man cornerback Marcus Roberson reminded him of former UF and current North Alabama corner Jano-ris Jenkins when he was a freshman. For those who don’t remember, Jen-kins, like Roberson, started in the secondary as a true freshman.
When asked how Roberson re-
minded him of Jenkins, Thompson said Roberson is physical at the line of scrimmage and very good at jamming the receivers. Given that Roberson doesn’t have an arrest to his name, we say the comparisons don’t go beyond the football field. There’s no correlation. 
@K_J_C: Can you discuss the 
beach house owned by Fisher and Muschamp? Haven’t heard much about this.
Oh, the infamous beach house in 
the Pensacola area shared by FSU coach Jimbo Fisher and Florida’s Will Muschamp. We haven’t been invited to the pad — yet — but we have heard they throw some quality ragers there during the offseason.
All you need to be concerned 
about is that Muschamp has said the two have no intentions of wagering the house in this year’s post-Thanks-giving matchup in The Swamp. Though, that would certainly raise the stakes of an already-intense ri-valry . The rest of the chatter is just that, meaningless chatter. Just be-cause the two are friends and share a home does not mean they don’t want to beat the other senseless come November. 
@AlligatorArmy: Which Gator 
would win an eating contest staged at Gator D?
You sure do love these hypo-
thetical superlatives — kind of like a certain Florida beat writer we know, but we digress. We think this should actually happen, and will consider recommending it to the O-line and D-line. As for the answer, it depends on what Gator Dining is serving that day . If candy is on the menu, we got Jon Halapio. If it’s chicken, we got Omar Hunter and his “Chick-fil-A love handles” that teammates poked fun at during media day in August.
@AschoffESPN_SEC: Will the 
Gators run the option this year? I’ll hang up and listen.
Oh, look everyone, a celebrity 
submission. Please welcome ESPN’s Ed Aschoff, best known for finishing in a tie for sixth place in last year’s al-ligatorSports Brand Picks Column. 
Well, Ed, thanks for the question, 
but the answer is simple: Yes, they will — unfortunately . Brantley ran the read option once against UAB. Does that mean they will run it of-ten? Hopefully not. You might be able to count the number of times on one hand, as Charlie Weis suggest-ed. But they will run it, nonetheless.
@tbailey: Who are the Tebow/
Cooper McCoy/Shipley bunk bud-dies we can depend on announcers harping on all year for this team?
Did you all know Tim Tebow 
and Riley Cooper were roommates? Now that we’ve gotten than fun fact out of the way , let’s get to this year’s bunk buddies. 
We aren’t sure if the announcers have hammered this one home yet, but look for them to discuss the UF offensive line — namely Halapio, Jonotthan Harrison and Kyle Koeh-ne, who all live together and share a couch. Yeah, a single couch. That’s 921 pounds of grown men together on one piece of furniture.
@zachmoller: Call it today: Will 
Brantley have more INTs than Pass-ing TDs?
No. But not because we believe 
Brantley is somehow a different quarterback than last year, when he threw nine touchdowns and 10 picks. He’s clearly not. We real-ize he’s already behind pace with one touchdown and two picks, but with Charlie Weis calling the shots, Brantley will be constantly put in a position to succeed. Even Jimmy Clausen threw just four intercep-tions compared to 28 touchdowns during his senior year in Weis’ sys-tem. Jimmy Clausen! While Brantley 
will never put up those kinds of numbers, he will be somewhat ser -
viceable. We predict 14 touchdowns and nine interceptions.
Submit questions: @alligatorSports.
Janoris comparisons, beach house ragers and love handles
UF Fo otball  JOHN BOOTHE
 Alligator Staff Writer
   
 It’s not every day a former Manchester 
United footballer favorably compares one 
of his players to the man most responsible for twice booting his beloved Red Devils from the Champions League Final. 
  But when UF assistant coach Alan 
Kirkup discusses how junior midﬁ  elder Erika Tymrak has been playing of late  — ﬁ  ve goals and an assist in the No. 9 Gators’ last ﬁ  ve games — the similarities between her and Barcelona striker Lionel Messi become clear. 
  Whether it’s goals, assists or skills with 
the ball, both players can seemingly do it all for their teams.
  “She’s a player who can unlock de-
fenses by dribbling, by beating people. That’s a skill that’s tough to coach. Some of it’s innate,” said Kirkup, a Manchester United player from 1972-76. “Lionel Mes-si from Barcelona has the same quality to beat players but also score goals and set other people up.” 
  Before Florida’s leading scorer could 
begin her recent hot streak, the midﬁ  elder found herself trying to grow out of a fa-miliar role from last season. 
  As UF’s top returning assist specialist, 
Tymrak came away from the team’s sea-son-opening matches against Miami and FIU with a pair of assists and four shots on goal that failed to ﬁ  nd the back of the net.
  “I was getting more assists and the 
coaches kind of talked to me and said, ‘You need to start doing both scoring and assisting,’ so I tried to step it up a little,” Tymrak said.  “But I owe it to my team because they’ve been playing me amazing balls, and I’ve just been ﬁ  nishing them.”
  As a player who can dismantle de-
fenses with her dribbling, Tymrak’s new-found aggressiveness also provided her the freedom from coaches to create chanc-es with more risky plays. 
  The junior leads Florida with 12 shots 
on goal and has the highest shot percent-age among UF players with double-digit attempts.
  “We don’t try to close down any part of 
her game,” UF head coach Becky Burleigh said. “Our game is not necessarily about beating people one-v-one, but when you have the ability to do that, let’s do it.”
  With a year left in college and budding 
opportunities to play for the U.S. U-20 Women’s National Team, the 20-year-old said she takes her coaches’ compliments to heart, as Messi is one of her favorite players and Barcelona is a team Florida tries to emulate.
  “We watch a lot of ﬁ  lm, and Barcelona 
is a team that we try and play like because they possess it,” Tymrak said. “They’re the best team in the world. With Messi, everyone knows he’s amazing, but just the fact that he’s so humble and that he can dribble (through) basically the whole team, but at the same time, can make a simple pass. That blows my mind.”
  Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alligator.
org. $75,000 if Florida wins the Southeastern Confer-
ence, $150,000 for reaching the national champi-onship and an additional $100,000 for winning it.
  There needs to be a ﬂ  ip side. Shouldn’t the off-
ﬁ  eld issues be more important? Shouldn’t you get punished if your players end up behind bars? Isn’t this college football? Aren’t you a molder of men?
  I respect kicking Janoris Jenkins off the team in 
the spring, but that only affects you for one year. What about the younger players, the guys who will be around for two or three more years?
  There is little you can do to stop a player from 
getting arrested at 2 a.m., but your contract should have an incentive for coaching a crime-free team. Otherwise, why not recruit the fastest thugs you can ﬁ  nd?
  Listen, Will, you are Coach Boom. You will 
always be the ﬁ  ery guy who accidentally curses on national TV , regardless of how many national championships you may win. That’s not a bad thing; people eat that up.
  But if you are going to wear your emotions on 
your sleeve, you need to be consistent. Dressing down a ref because you disagree with one of his calls? Cool. Saying you are “disgusted” with the NCAA when it suspends Sharrif Floyd? Even bet-ter. 
  But what about when Dee Finley got arrested 
Monday? There was a statement from a team spokesman: “Coach Muschamp is aware of the incident and will handle the matter.” Then there was this from you Wednesday: “I’m handling that. We’ll work through that. That’s where we 
are.”
  That’s just lame talk. Until you put a clause in 
your contract, it will be cheap talk, too.
  Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org. 20, ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011
 Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
  Gators midﬁ  elder Erika Tymrak has scored ﬁ  ve goals in the team’s last ﬁ  ve 
games, and coaches are raving about the junior’s game-changing ability.  
 Tymrak reminds coach of game’s bestTYLER , from page 18