VOLUME 106 ISSUE 2 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
House of Beer to open location in Gainesville
The craft-beer bar will open in early September, pg 9.  
Weimer operates 24-hour weather channel
It is the only local digital weather station in the nation, pg 10. Students adjust to ﬁ  rst day of classes
A glance at a senior’s last ﬁ  rst day and a 
freshman’s ﬁ  rst steps of college, pg. 4.   MATT RIVA
 Alligator Writer
  UF students could see the smoke 
from campus.
  Even closer to the scene, city em-
ployees mowing the grass along 
Southwest 42nd Street could see bits of ash falling from the sky Monday af-ternoon as Gainesville Discount Mat-tress and Furniture Warehouse, an 11,100-square-foot building, burned for more than an hour.
  The ﬁ  re was probably started by 
an electrical problem, Gainesville Fire Rescue District Chief Rusty Bar-rett said.
  When ﬁ  re crews responded, about 
half the building was engulfed, Bar-rett said. 
Two people were in the building at 
the time, but there were no injuries or deaths.
  The entire building was burned.The warehouse, part of a complex 
at 3424 SW 42nd Way, caught ﬁ  re at about 2:55 p.m., Barrett said.   
  Both county and city ﬁ  re ofﬁ  cials 
responded to the scene, and portions of Southwest 40th Boulevard were closed while the ﬁ  re was being con-tained.
  John Kenney works at Kinetic 
Concepts Inc. in a building next door to the warehouse.
  “I clocked in at 3 and that’s when 
they told us to leave the building,” 
Wide receiver
Quinton Dunbar, a 
potential starter,
 has matured 
since redshirting 
last season. 
See Story, Page 17
93/73
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 12CROSSWORD  15
SPORTS 17Matt Riva/Alligator Staff
A woman watches a smoke plume over Southwest 42nd Street on Monday af-ternoon. The ﬁ  re consumed all of an 11,100-square-foot furniture warehouse.
LOCAL Fire claims furniture warehouse
�  TOO EARLY TO TELL HOW THE STORM 
WILL AFFECT THE GAINESVILLE AREA. 
CLARE LENNON
 Alligator Writer
  Students aren’t even two days into the new school 
year, but that doesn’t mean they aren’t speculating 
about classes being canceled soon.
  Hurricane Irene is projected to pass through Flor-
ida on Friday , according to the National Hurricane Center’s website. Gainesville was included in the ﬁ  ve-day forecast cone as of Monday, which could mean canceled classes.
  Even if the eye of the storm does not pass through 
Gainesville, the outer part of the storm could still hit the area, said geography professor and hurricane ex-pert Corene Matyas. 
  “We could still see some damage and still have 
some problems,” she said.
  Matyas said the National Hurricane Center has 
predicted that Gainesville has a 30- to 40-percent chance of seeing tropical-storm-force winds and about a 10-percent chance of seeing hurricane-force winds.
  However, it is still too early to say how the 
Gainesville area will be affected. 
  UF spokesman Steve Orlando said representa-
tives from various UF departments are watching Hurricane Irene’s progress. UF President Bernie Ma-chen makes the ultimate decision of whether to close campus, Orlando said. The school does not yet know whether it will need to close.
  “It can be very much an hour-by-hour process,” 
Orlando said.
  Students can check the UF website for updates.  Hurricane
could mean 
canceled class
  MORGAN WATKINS
  Alligator Staff Writer
  Thieves could ﬁ  nd it harder to 
steal laptops this semester due to 
the University Police Department.UPD is giving UF faculty, staff and students the chance to download free software that will help locate computers if they are lost or stolen.   The No. 1 crime on campus is theft, with 
bicycles topping the list of stolen items, fol-lowed closely by electronic devices like lap-tops, said Capt. Jeff Holcomb, commander of UPD’s community services division.
  Students can access the software, called 
FrontDoorSoftware Laptop Loss and Recov-ery, on the UPD website. 
  UPD used budget funds to buy a site li-
cense that allows university afﬁ  liates to download the program to their computers for free. 
  People can put stickers on their comput-
ers showing the devices are protected by the software to deter thieves.
  The software could also help people who 
ﬁ  nd laptops that have been lost get in touch with the owners more easily. 
  “If someone found a laptop without know-
ing who to give it to, when somebody boots up the system it will have all of the contact information for the owner,” Holcomb said. 
  Some of the program’s safety measures in-
clude a “stolen computer” message that will show on the laptop screen when it is used, as well as a Google maps tracking feature. 
  Hazel Canete, an 18-year-old biology ma-
jor, said the software sounded like a good way to help students who fall prey to theft. 
  While the library is an easy place to have 
one’s laptop stolen, Canete also said the soft-ware could help people whose possessions  Software helps university police track stolen electronic devicesSEE FIRE, PAGE 8
SEE FRONT DOOR, PAGE 8SEE HURRICANE, PAGE 8
Bicycle, computer theft most frequent crimes on campus“I clocked in at 3 and that’s 
when they told us to leave the 
building.”
John Kenney
Kinetic Concepts Inc. employeeNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 2 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Justin Hayes,
  Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tyler Jett, Greg Luca,
  Corey McCall, Caitlin O’Connor
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Brandon Davis
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Johal Baez, Serina Braddock,
  Allison Klempert, Sarah Platt,
  Ally Russo, Justin Scott
  Brandon Stern, Lauren Tami
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 A
dvertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Alexander SilvaSATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
RAIN
84/76THUNDER
STORMS
94/77THUNDER
STORMS
87/75THUNDER
STORMS
90/74THUNDER
STORMS
93/73
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or e-mail editor@alligator.org. What’s happening
English Classes
Tuesdays, Aug. 23 to Nov . 29, 
6:30 to 8:30 p.m.Millhopper Branch LibraryThe Latina Women’s League will hold classes for Spanish-speaking adults who would like to learn English. The Millhop-per Branch Library is located at 3145 NW 43rd St. For more in-formation, call 813-767-2096.
 
Krav Maga
Tuesday, 7:30 p.m.
2020 W. University Ave.Come to Hillel for a free  Krav Maga class taught by a certi-fied instructor. Participants can learn Israeli Martial Arts while getting in a good workout.
Toastmasters Meeting
Tuesday, 5:45 p.m.
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets in Room 1031 in the Entomology Building, 970 Natural Area Drive, on the UF campus east of the Phil-lips Center. The organization provides a fun and positive atmosphere for members to learn and practice pub-lic speaking and leadership skills. For more information, go to www.toastmasters.org or call Mary at 352-870-2267.  
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send 
an email with “What’s Happen-
ing” in the subject line to  jflechas@alligator.org. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s UF student remembered
The public is welcome to cele-
brate the memory of UF health ed-ucation and behavior junior Amy Lakatos at 7 p.m. today at a memo-rial service at the Reitz Union Am-phitheater. 
Lakatos, who was 20, died of 
natural causes Sunday morning.
 UF public relations senior Kim 
Bevitt was part of Lakatos’ pledge class for the Christian sorority Sig-ma Phi Lambda. 
“We called her the prayer war -
rior, because if anyone ever needed encouragement or had something going on in their life, she would al-ways be the person to step in and say, ‘Can I pray with you?’” Bevitt said. “She was just so wonderful.”
This year, Lakatos was 
named chaplain of her soror -
ity, and hours before she passed away , she was rehearsing her speech, said her mother, Ronnie.  
“Amy was our inspiration,” Ron-nie Lakatos said. 
— MELINDA CARSTENSENHappening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
LOCaL
Reitz poster sale runs 
through Friday
The semi-annual poster sale 
has returned for students in 
search of new dorm room decor. 
The sale features a variety of 
posters and fine-art prints from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. this week through Friday at the Reitz Union Colon-nade.
Jeff Apostolou, who is in his 
25th year managing the sale, said about 90 percent of the posters are priced under $9.
 Each year, 30 percent to 40 
percent of the variety of posters change to adapt to the market. This year, the selection of televi-sion posters has doubled due to their popularity, Apostolou said.
Ashley Adams, a UF business 
junior, stopped by  and bought five posters.
“The posters are cheaper than 
I expected,” he said. “There is a great selection; the only thing that sucks is that there are so many , you don’t know what to get.”
— GABRIELA ROSIAS
 TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
ESTEE BECK
Alligator Writer
UF ranked third on Smart-
Money magazine’s list of 50 uni-
versities that get their alumni the highest salaries in relation to what they spent on tuition.
The list included public, pri-
vate and Ivy League schools. The first 18 schools on the list were public universities, with the Geor-gia Institute of Technology and the University of Texas at Aus-tin in the No. 1 and No. 2 spots respectively. Three Ivy League schools — Harvard, Princeton and Dartmouth — are all listed before the first private school on the list, Carnegie Mellon Univer-sity. 
In the study, alumni of each 
university were broken down into two groups: recent grads and mid-career grads. Researchers then divided the median annual salary of each group by tuition costs at the time of attendance. 
The end solution, or “pay-
back ratio,” determined how the schools ranked. The higher the payback ratio, the better the re-turn on tuition investment.
UF’s pay-
back ratio was 191, with recent grads making $45,000 and m i d - c a r e e r grads mak-ing $84,000. Georgia Tech 
topped the list with a payback ra-tio of 221.
The study used out-of-state 
tuition rates, which puts in-state students, who comprise 97 per-cent of undergraduates at UF, at a higher advantage in terms of investment.But even out-of-state Gators’ 
wallets are safe. UF’s four-year tuition costs were the lowest on the chart at $73,476. That’s $4,481 behind the next lowest, the Uni-versity of Georgia.
However, the article said the 
study was less than perfect be-cause it didn’t consider financial aid and scholarships.
The survey also didn’t consid-
er any amenities unique to a uni-versity that might be invaluable to a student’s experience. 
Last year, The Wall Street Jour-
nal reported that corporate re-cruiters rated UF among the top 10 universities they hire from.
UF spokesman Steve Orlando 
said UF is unique also because all of its colleges are in one central location.
“We are one of the most com-
prehensive universities in the country,” Orlando said. “If you want to study it, we have it, and it’s probably right here on this campus.”
UF ranks high for return on tuition
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
Homework, book-buying and 
class-rearranging usually initiate 
the new school year.
But this year at UF, casino 
games, musical performances, bowling and free food are also part of the mix.
The Reitz Union is welcom-
ing back students this week with a free open house. Different ac-tivities will be offered  through Thursday , and Reitz Union Board Entertainment will offer music, comedy and movie events each night.
The events will promote the 
businesses, programs and servic-es in the student union, said Em-ily Davis, Reitz Union marketing coordinator. 
“So many people come to the 
Reitz Union for so many things, but they don’t necessarily know all the services,” Davis said. 
UF English freshman Zack 
Peterson plans to  attend the free weekly event GatorNights! on Friday ,  which will feature about 10 activities and events instead of the usual two or three. 
Peterson said he is interested 
in seeing a movie and meeting new people. 
Anyone can attend the open 
house. Students are required to bring their Gator 1  Cards for free access to GatorNights!
For more information, visit 
www.union.ufl.edu. Reitz free open house 
touts student servicesList includes Ivy League schoolsON CAMPUS
Orlando
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
On Jessica Hall’s first day of school as a 
senior at UF, she forgot her umbrella. So, 
naturally, it was destined to rain on her way to class. 
As she walks briskly through Turlington 
Plaza, heading to her anthropology class, Hall knows she won’t miss the preachers or the people handing out one colorful fli-er after another when she graduates. 
She will miss “the Potato,” nestled 
within a ring of benches in the plaza.  
Three years after her first day of school 
as a freshman, Hall is at ease on campus. Although she still doesn’t know most of the street names, she can mark her paths to most of her classes from other buildings that she’s been walking past for semes-ters. 
She probably won’t get lost going to 
class this year like she did her freshman and sophomore year.
If you were to rummage through her 
backpack, you wouldn’t find any school-books. She isn’t worried about getting them early — she has all week to decide which classes she’ll keep and which she’ll drop.
She knows the secret about the first day 
of school that many freshmen don’t: Most of the classes you attend and the things your professors say are probably going to change. And there’s no reason to stress about it. “As a freshman, I would’ve liked to 
have known that not everything on the first day is set in stone. It’s the time pe-riod where things are kind of up in the air,” she said. “I’m never done changing my schedule until the last day (of drop/add week).”
Hall is more confident now, a seasoned 
senior walking across a campus full of freshmen clutching maps and wandering aimlessly because they’re too embarrassed to ask an upperclassman for directions. 
“I don’t worry as much about my class-
es or where I’m going. I just worry less,” she said of her senior self. “I know it’s not the end of the world.” 
While Hall feels comfortable slipping 
into the back-to-school grind, she has her own set of concerns to deal with as a se-nior.
Hall, a psychology major, wants to go 
to graduate school to get her Ph.D. in that field. So while this is her last first day of school at UF, she is looking at plenty more first days of school down the line.
Given the state of the economy, howev-
er, she is scared by the fact that she might not have any opportunities for employ-ment after graduation. But most seniors seem to feel the same way, she said. 
“It’s scary to take that leap,” she said 
of graduating. “You have to go out in the real world.”
As a freshman, she came to college with 
the impression from movies she’d seen and people she’d talked to that college was supposed to be the best years of your life. 
Much has changed since Hall’s fresh-
man year. 
She no longer lives in the dormitories 
on campus, but in an apartment where she feels more independent. 
She has learned how to manage her 
money and handle the administrative hoops she has to jump through to get her financial aid. 
Hall may be a senior, but her ride at UF 
isn’t over. She turned 21 on Aug. 20, and she’s looking forward to being able to get into the bars and other establishments that were off-limits when she was underaged. 
She may be in the twilight of her un-
dergraduate career, but there’s still plenty to accomplish before she walks across the stage as a UF graduate. 
For seniors and freshmen alike, school 
is definitely back in session. EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
At 7:30 Friday morning, David 
Habib was lugging his mini fridge 
up four flights of stairs, eager to begin the next four years of his life. He spent the next few days im-mersing himself in Gator culture.
Already, the 18-year-old from 
Clearwater rides his bike ev-erywhere, gripes about parking (there’s no Red 3 lot by the Mur -
phree dorms) and has sold his first football ticket to a friend.
He bought his books at the 
Florida Book Store and has gone to microeconomics and laughed while Professor Rush made fun of the man who films the class for on-line lectures.
He’s even gotten a parking 
ticket.
Despite his running start, Habib 
is still an underclassman — he buys his books, he goes to micro-economics, and he has to double check his map before pedaling to class.
Habib has big plans for his next 
four years.
He’s a business administration 
major and wants to own his own business someday.
“I’m not sure what kind yet,” he 
said. “That’s what I’m hoping to figure out over the next few years. I just know I want to be my own boss.”
In the meantime, he wants to 
go rock climbing and learn how to sail at Lake Wauburg, get involved with TRiP and join a UF club swim team and the Falling Gators Sky-diving Club.
He plans to study at Library 
West and go to the gym a few times a week — Southwest Rec is really nice, but Student Rec is more convenient.
In the spring, he might get a job 
at Jimmy John’s, one of his favorite Gainesville eateries. 
And after his sophomore year, 
he’d like to study abroad in Rome or Thailand.
He’s not too concerned about 
taking any language classes, but he might like to pick up a minor in entrepreneurship. Habib has four glorious years 
ahead of him to do all these things and more. 
Four years that started Mon-
day.
When he left for his 8:30 mi-
croeconomics lecture, his random roommate was still sleeping.
He quietly grabbed clothes out 
of his closet in his roommate’s room — all orange and blue.
Gator colors on purpose?“Yep,” he said. “Well, that and 
most of my clothes are blue. It’s my favorite color.”
In addition to his blue polo T-
shirt, blue shoes and blue note-books, Habib also has a blue bed-spread and blue-topped storage containers under his dorm room bed.
“My mom bought everything.”His mother may have bought his 
groceries and his bedding, but he stocked up on Gator gear, includ-ing the orange-and-blue checkered UF hat he wore at a jaunty angle all day.
Coming from a high school 
class of about 150, UF’s big cam-pus has been an adjustment, but Habib said he’s enjoying college life so far.
“It’s weird, it feels like yester -
day I was a senior in high school,” he said.
But he’s looking forward to the 
next four years.
“I’m excited to start making 
lifelong friends and connections,” he said. “I’m going to really dis-cover what I want to do.”4, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011
Day of Firsts, Day of Lasts
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Senior psychology major Jessica Hall, 21, studies in her apartment after her first day 
classes of the fall semester.
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Freshman business major David Habib, 18, checks his schedule on his laptop in his dorm after his first 
day of classes for the fall semester.
After three years, senior marks beginning of endFreshman settles in for four-year journey TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
LOCAL
ESTEE BECK
Alligator Writer
Picket signs and protest lines gearing up 
for action this week will have to be put away 
until further notice. 
Members of local activist groups planning 
picketing demonstrations in front of V erizon Wireless on 3401 SW Archer Road have can-celed the events at the request of the Commu-nications Workers of America labor union. 
Communications Workers, along with the 
International Brotherhood of Electrical Work-ers union, ignited a two-week workers strike against the corporate telephone service pro-vider on Aug. 7, saying concessions were be-ing made to contract items like health cover -
age, pensions and job security . 
But the multistate strike, with some 45,000 
workers, ended Saturday after V erizon said it would seriously consider contract negotia-tions. In response, the Communications Work-ers of America asked that affiliates across the nation postpone scheduled protests.  
Strikers included workers in states from 
Massachusetts to Virginia working for Veri-zon’s wire lines division, making this the larg-est strike in the U.S. since 2007. 
No V erizon employees in Gainesville were 
on strike, but it was important to local activist groups to be ready to show their support. 
Gainesville branches of Communications 
Workers of America, Fight Back Florida, the Alachua County Labor Party and the Interna-tional Socialist Organization were gearing up for their own demonstrations.
The groups had scheduled storefront pro-
tests for the next four Wednesdays from 4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. to show their support for af-fected workers.
Secretary for the Gainesville branch of In-
dustrial Workers of the World Robbie Czopek said fliers for the protest were circulating by Thursday.
He said even though workers in Gainesville aren’t affected, it’s about the solidarity of the working class.
“Attacks on workers are attacks on the 
working class,” said Czopek, who was plan-ning to attend the picketing. He said he ex-pected some 50 attendees, which he deemed a success. 
The New York Times reported that Larry 
Cohen, president of Communications Work-ers, considers Verizon’s agreement to negoti-ate progress but not a victory . 
Kimberly Hunter, community organizer 
for the Alachua County Labor Party , said she is confident that the labor unions will get what they want. 
Protests outside Verizon store postponed amid labor negotiations� NEW LAB IS SCHEDULED TO OPEN IN JANUARY.
MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer  
Sledgehammers flew into walls Monday to signal the be-
ginning of construction on the second phase of the Center for 
Media Innovation and Research in Weimer Hall.
About 14 people gathered for the wall-breaking ceremony, 
which was held on the third floor of the Flanagan Wing of the building. 
David E. Carlson, executive director of the Center for Media 
Innovation and Research, Dean John Wright, public relations professors Ann Christiano and Juan-Carlos Molleda, and as-sistant professor of advertising Troy Elias each donned hard-hats and swung sledgehammers into the wall of the old WRUF newsroom, which will be transformed into a high-tech lab. 
Each person who swung the hammer could smash the wall 
three or four times. 
“This is a wall-breaking ceremony, not a ground-break-
ing ceremony , because we’re not actually going to break the ground,” Carlson joked.
The new lab will be similar to the CMIR lab located in the 
basement of Weimer Hall, but while the original had been de-signed for journalism students, this lab will be geared toward advertising, public relations and production telecommunica-tion students.
“We are remodeling this space dramatically,” Carlson said. 
“This lab is built to experiment with messages that are intend-ed to influence the recipients.”
He said the lab will deliver messages in a variety of ways, 
including print and television. People in the lab will be able to examine the responses and see which were most effective.
The lab will be enclosed in glass walls, containing four small 
rooms for groups of students to use for classes or competitions. There will also be a kitchen for coffee and food.
The space, Carlson said, was designed to be inviting.“It will be a less formal type of teaching space,” he said. 
“It will look much more like a lounge than it does as a class-room.”
The completed lab is scheduled to open in January . College marks new construction with “wall-breaking” ceremony
“It will look much more like a lounge than it 
does as a classroom.”
David E. Carlson
Executive DirectorReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorial
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Today’s question: Would you be glad if classes were 
canceled because of a hurricane?
14 TOTAL VOTES50% YES
50% NOMonday’s question: Do you like the Al-ligator’s new look? Gameday Grumbles 
Rules for parking, 
tailgating not needed  
  For about a half-dozen Saturdays every fall, Gainesville 
becomes a carnival of orange and blue.
  Make no mistake — football season is an engine 
that drives this place. Bars become crammed to the door, restaurant wait times skyrocket, and trafﬁ  c can get unbear-able.
  And most importantly, it’s good for business.  Alumni, students, their families and residents all know 
this. It’s been this way for years.
  So why would the city even consider a recent propos-
al to add more regulations to the parking and tailgating that happens in the neighborhoods just outside of the sta-dium?
  There are several single-family homes just north of cam-
pus that are inhabited by everything from Cup Noodles-grubbing students to regular families. On gameday, these streets are lined with cars in every imaginable spot, and many residents often offer their yards up in order to make some easy cash. 
Often, these yards also have all-day tailgating par-
ties. Folks set up tents, roll out their TVs and ﬁ  re up their grills.
  Proponents say these parties and the litter left afterward 
are the real problem. They wish for people to just park their cars and walk to the game. 
 Some of these concerns are understandable, but we just 
don’t f  eel another bureaucratic layer of regulation is the answer.
The city Planning Department would establish a spe-
cial-use permit, which would cost between $50 and $55, and require that all properties wanting to park vehicles for pay obtain this.
  The fee would be an additional cost to residents, as 
they’ve been required to pay a $52 business tax since 2009. They would even have to submit a parking plan with a map indicating where the cars will be parked.
  These changes come from the City Plan Board, made up 
of residents. The City Commission would then have to pass them twice before they could take effect.
  We understand residents want these neighborhoods to 
be left intact after game days. We also agree that it’s impor-tant to get a handle on any kind of outrageous behavior.
  But at some point, residents have to realize that they live 
in a big-time college football town with a big-time college football program. The tailgating, beer-guzzling, cornhole-playing revelry that comes with every gameday are part of the deal when you move into a house that is minutes away from the stadium.  
 On behalf of the Alligator editorial board, I want to 
welcome all of the new and returning students to UF.I myself am a new student to UF and will be starting 
my ﬁ  rst semester of graduate studies this week. 
During the last two and a half years, I was a columnist for 
my campus newspaper. It was one of the best experiences of my college career. I became a better writer, of course, but I also learned so much more about my own ideas. 
Writing, I have found, is the best way for peo-
ple to really discover whether they know why they believe the things they say on a daily basis. I look forward to a great semester of opinions, debates and perhaps even a hate-ﬁ  lled letter to the editor every once in a while.
 The only thing that’s missing from the equation is, well, 
writers. 
The opinion pages of any newspaper are for those who 
have strong opinions and can formulate those ideas in a man-ner that  inﬂ  uence the debate surrounding the major issues of a city, state, nation or, in our case, a college campus. 
No, you don’t have to be a Pulitzer-Prize-winning colum-
nist or even a journalism major for that matter. But you do have to write well and consistently . 
At the Alligator, we are looking to have at least ﬁ  ve con-
sistent columnists per week, but guest columns will always be welcome. If you believe you have the time, the stamina and the tenacity for taking a strong stand on any issue once a week, please, by all means, apply to be a regular columnist. 
Sorry, we do not pay our columnists, but if you are pas-
sionate about the issues, it should not make much of a differ-ence. Plus, having the experience and a few clippings won’t hurt you when you’re looking for jobs in the future. 
The opinions pages are a place for the exchange of ideas. 
It is my goal to make sure that ideas are, in fact, exchanged day to day by offering a diverse set of opinions from our regular columnists. For this semester, I would like to have at least two right-leaning columnists and two left-leaning col-umnists. 
Of course, just because we are a 
campus newspaper does not mean you have to write about campus is-sues. Campus issues will be given priority , but if you want to talk about what those horrible people are doing on the House Subcommit-tee on Livestock, Dairy and Poultry , have at it. 
All I ask is that you take a stand and defend your posi-
tion. If you actually take the time to write out and defend your opinion, you might actually learn more about the issue or even change your position. 
I am looking for columns between 500 and 650 words 
in length. Please note that for guest columnists, submission does not guarantee publication. Anything that is worthy of publication will be edited, and your title that you worked on for three weeks will probably change — no offense. 
The opinions pages are not for personal vendettas and es-
pecially not defamatory statements. Please read up on libel before submitting a column. 
“Alright, Justin, I’ve got a column. Now what?”
Send columns to opinions@alligator.org as an attachment. The subject line should be as follows: Alligator Column - Topic - Your Last Name.
If you are thinking of applying for a regular columnist 
position, please email me at the email address above with the following: Name, political philosophy, a brief statement of why you think you would make a good columnist and at least three links to previous writings. If you do not have a blog, Facebook note or previous published work, I would ask that you submit at least two guest columns in the coming weeks. 
Have a great semester, and I hope to hear from you soon.Justin Hayes is a graduate student at UF with a major in 
political communication. 
Justin Hayes
opinions@alligator.orgStrong, well-informed opinions needed TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
The beginning of the school year brings with it an army 
of shared treasures. We have college football beginning again, we have our wonderful midtown bars where 
our feet stick to the floors, and we have the freedom that only comes with living in this wonderful swamp we’ve canoodled in within the heart of Alachua County . 
And the school year brings new challenges to one of UF’s 
most spectacular achievements in its history . For all the new Gators, over the past 10 months, UF has dedicated itself to its new Meatless Monday initiative in its two on-campus dining halls in order to become a more sustainable, more ethical and healthier university . 
As you can imagine, even from a school voted the eighth-
most vegetarian-friendly by PETA before UF began working on its Meatless Monday pledge, we still have some work to do.  And at the largest land-grant university in the Southeast, in the land that invented Sonny’s Real Pit Bar-B-Q, we still have some work to do.
Gator Dining Services has already done an amazing job, 
challenging its sixth-largest student population to leave meat off the plate on Mondays to reduce our carbon footprint and become healthier students. This year, UF will unroll a Vegetari-an Dining Guide listing every vegetar -
ian or vegan item at every dining loca-tion on campus to make it even easier to make an ethical and environmental impact when sitting down to eat. 
But even with these monumental improvements in our 
world of dining, we still have work to do. We must all keep working to persuade UF officials to live up to its promise of going meatless on Mondays.
When I first brought this campaign to the forefront in the 
early fall 2010 semester, I was told we’d be laughed at. And perhaps we were. Perhaps we’re still being laughed at by a few. But we’ve already made change, everyone. We’ve made a change that will positively impact our bodies, our planet, our fellow starving men and women across the globe and the approximate 27 billion animals who are unnecessarily slaugh-tered every year to be put on our plates. 
We collected the public support of UF’s very own Office of 
Sustainability , GatorWell, Gators for a Sustainable Campus, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, the Humane So-ciety of the United States, the Earth Day Network and Animal Activists of Alachua to help Gator Dining Services make the positive change to have a vegetarian menu just one day a week in only two dining halls on campus.
In only four days at the end of last year’s fall semester, we 
gathered more than 2,000 petition signatures from concerned UF students and faculty who realized the importance of leav-ing meat off their plates just one day a week. And when the United Nations recently identified factory farming as one of the leading contributors to global warming, it’s no surprise so many of you gladly added your name to the list of supporters.
It’s up to all of us to help Gator Dining Services realize we 
care about the 27 billion animals that are slaughtered every year in America and the 60 million starving people who could potentially be saved if every American left meat off his or her plate just 10 percent of the time.
Send our dining officials a friendly email to let them know 
you support their efforts to become better this year. Join our Meat-Free Monday at the University of Florida Facebook group to stay updated on our work. 
And most importantly, believe in the change that’s happen-
ing here. Jared Misner is the campaign organizer for The Campaign for a Meat-Free Monday at UF.
Meatless Mondays are vital for creating a healthier campusGuest column
In the beginning, there was only you and the thought — the impulse to exercise.
That thought often does not come in 
the form of a great spiritual moment of clarity . More often than not, it comes from the realiza-tion that your jeans don’t fit, that your body is now bulging out of places you had no idea ex-isted or that you can’t make it up three flights of stairs without gasping for oxygen.
So, here you are at a gym — nay, the hu-
man torture chamber — and all you can think is, “What happens now?” You could either turn around and run back to the couch with your favorite bag of potato chips and a pint of Ben and Jerry’s finest; or you could man up — or woman up, as the case may be — and tame the dragon.
You know what you have to do.You know it won’t be easy. But if you 
choose to take the plunge, forcing your body to endure the suffering needed to reach your goal, you will be rewarded in pounds lost, inches cinched and measures of confidence.That’s why you’re ultimately in the gym, 
isn’t it? You want to prove to yourself you can do this. You want to prove to the mirror you aren’t the person it reflects you to be.
So first things first: Be sure you are dressed 
appropriately. That means gym shorts, a T-shirt and tennis shoes are the style of the day . (You may wear a sweatband if you must, but please leave the knee-high socks at home. The ‘80s ended more than 20 years ago.)
You don’t want your workout clothes to fit 
too tightly or to be flamboyant — the gym is not a nightclub. You are there to work, and the way you dress should reflect that.
Find a vacant stationary bike or treadmill 
and pedal or walk at a leisurely pace for three to five minutes. The goal right now is to warm your body up for the work it will have to per -
form in the coming hour.
Use this time to reflect on why you are in 
the gym and what you want to get out of a daily exercise regimen.
Found your center? Fantastic.For the workout, 
you will want to hit the weights first, then do a form of cardio-vascular exercise. 
Your body needs to be able to work at its least fatigued when lifting weights. This will help you prevent injury and allow you to perform more repetitions with more weight.
Generally speaking, weight training allows 
the body to burn 200-300 calories per hour de-pending on the weight of the person and the intensity level at which he or she exercises. Weightlifting is also important because it helps promote fat loss.
For beginners, running through a full-body 
weightlifting exercise regimen is a daunting task, so for now, pick four exercises — pref-erably two lower-body and two upper-body — and complete three sets of 10 repetitions for each. The last repetition of each set of exercises should be hard and provoke the urge to make a nasty face. If you’re able to smile and giggle by your tenth rep, you’re doing it wrong.
After you’ve worked up a sweat with the 
weights, it’s time to hit the cardio floor. As a general rule, the longer you are able to per -
form light to moderate cardiovascular activity, the more fat you will burn. 
Now that your body is pissed off at you, it’s 
time to cool down. If there is a stationary bike around, you might pedal on it for three to five minutes like you did during your warm-up or walk leisurely on the treadmill. You must do something that requires you to move your extremities, but slowly. It is crucial you stay slightly active at the end of a workout to pro-mote blood flow throughout your body and to help kick-start the recovery process.
Get a drink of water, make a healthy food 
choice immediately following your workout and get a good night’s rest because tomorrow you’re going to wake up and do it all over again, right?
R.J. Y oung is a columnist for the Oklahoma 
Daily at the University of Oklahoma.
Shaping up and getting to gym can be daunting for first time Guest column
R.J. Young
UWireJared Misner
Speaking Outare stolen in dormitories. 
“A lot of people think their stuff is safe in 
the dorms and they leave stuff in the common 
area (that gets stolen),” she said. 
Joel Corazon, a 25-year-old UF master’s 
student in architecture, said the software sounds like it could be helpful. However, before downloading it, he said he wanted  to know whether someone could wipe the soft-ware from the computer and restore it to its factory settings, thereby rendering it useless. 
Holcomb wasn’t sure if this could be done 
but said typical thieves probably wouldn’t have enough expertise to remove the pro-gram from the computer. 
Patrick Reakes, chair of Library West, said 
the library has had problems over the years with students having their computers sto-len while studying. During finals week he usually sees increases in theft because of the increased number of students coming to the library. He said the FrontDoorSoftware pro-gram sounded like it could help deter thieves, especially if it is well publicized that people on campus now have this protection on their computers. 
Holcomb said it takes only a minute or two 
for someone to steal a laptop, and recovering one can be difficult without the aid of pro-grams like FrontDoorSoftware, he said.
“Students who leave for a few minutes to 
go to the bathroom or take a phone call and step outside have things stolen,” he said.
For more information, visit www.front-
doorsoftware.com/ufl/.
Kenney said.
As fire and police officials evacu-
ated the area, the power was cut to 
parts of the complex to prevent the fire from spreading across power lines.
“It started popping, and the fire 
started going across to the pole,” said Craig Birkmaier, head brewer of Swamp Head Brewery.
His building was one of few that 
had the same three-phase electrical service as the warehouse.
“We have beer that could be go-
ing bad, and they can’t do anything about it,” he said.
At the time of print, an investiga-
tion was pending.8, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Electrical engineering major Sean Comerford, 22, sets up an online class on his laptop outside of the Reitz Union on Monday 
afternoon. 
Computer theft common in areas such as libraries, dorms
FRONT DOOR , from page 1
Winds could present safety issue
Any UF announcements would also be sent 
through UF Alert via text messages, emails, Facebook and Twitter posts, Orlando said.
Journalism junior Tyler Benjamin said 
he doesn’t mind the storm coming to Gainesville, but he isn’t aching for classes to be canceled, either.
“It’s not the end of the world if I have 
to sit through a few hours of instruction that I’ll have to sit through for another four months anyway,” he said.
If Gainesville does get bad weather, Matyas said the biggest danger could be from wind bringing down trees and branch-es.
Orlando said students should start think-
ing about preparations now in case the storm does hit later in the week. HURRICANE  from page 1
FIRE , from page 1Blaze’s cause still unknown
“It’s not the end of the world if I 
have to sit through a few hours of in-
struction that I’ll have to sit through 
for another four months anyway.”
Tyler Benjamin
journalism junior TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 9
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Senior religion major Jenna Raduns, 21, and senior family, youth and community sciences major Brandon Morris, 
24, look for textbooks at the UF Bookstore on Monday evening.
StuDent life
ERIN JESTER
Alligator Writer
In the heat of the afternoon on University Avenue, the mood 
inside the Florida Book Store was surprisingly calm. Cashiers 
worked efficiently, but not too hurriedly, to get the dozen or so students gathered around the registers taken care of. 
Upstairs, another cluster of students browsed the bookshelves, 
which were neat and tidy , with many empty spaces from where early birds had already caught their worms. 
The madness of the first-day-of-classes textbook rush was no-
where to be found Monday . 
Assistant store manager Taryn Emswiler said the Florida 
Book Store was busiest earlier in the day , although historically , Tuesday and Thursday are the busiest.
Going by how many cases of Red Bull had disappeared by 
2:30 p.m. — the store gave away a can of Red Bull with every purchase Monday — Emswiler estimated about 500 people had bought books so far. She expected a few more waves of students to drop in between late afternoon and 9 p.m., when Florida Book Store closes during drop-add week.
By the afternoon, some UF students were already discouraged 
by the lack of available textbooks at local stores.
“I’ve been to three bookstores and none of them carry my 
classes’ books,” UF junior Jason Simmons said. 
Simmons, a digital arts and sciences major, said the UF Book-
store carries the books, but they’re not stocked. Simmons said the other bookstores he visited weren’t particularly crowded, either. Although the Florida Book Store was the busiest he’d seen Mon-day, they remembered much more chaos in semesters past, with lines often running out the door. 
Florida Book Store will receive a shipment Wednesday, in-
cluding all of the lab manuals for biology and organic chemistry classes. Kory Miller, a Florida Book Store employee, said that’s when he’s expecting a huge rush of students. Textbook stores lacking usual start-of-semester crowds� BAR IS OWNED BY UF ALUMNI.
MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
Owners say it’s no place for a Natterday.
House of Beer opens in early September, but an official 
grand opening party is scheduled for November. 
The bar, which will be at 19 W University Ave., is owned by 
three UF graduates from the class of 1994. It is the third House of Beer location, following bars in Palm Harbor and Dunedin.
House of Beer is designed to attract students and resi-
dents who want an experience different from most offered at Gainesville bars. There will be no “ladies nights,” no 25-cent beer nights and no underage students allowed.
“We’re not your typical bar when it comes to that sort of stuff,” said co-owner Andy Polce. “We’re into the craft beer scene.”
The craft beer scene attracts drinkers who enjoy trying 
drinks different from mass-produced brands such as Bud Light, Polce said.
“The craft market is slowly growing here,” Polce said. 
“There are a few places, and this will help build downtown.”
Drinks will include many gateway beers, such as German 
three-wheat beers, that people use to get into the craft beer scene.  Each draft of beer will cost $4 to $7 and each bottle will cost between $3 and $20, depending on the rarity of the beer.House of Beer coming to Gainesville in early September
“We’re not your typical bar.”
Andy Polce
House of Beer co-owner MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
The unpredictable Gainesville 
weather may finally be tamed.  
WRUF-TV Cox Channel 6 updates 
city-specific weather forecasts and severe alerts 24 hours a day, fea-turing hyper-local weather cover -
age inside the cities.
The channel, which is broad-
cast from Weimer Hall, has been operating since June 1. The high-tech studio features a variety of computers, which run the latest and most advanced weather-watching software so that resi-dents in Gainesville, Jacksonville, St. Augustine, Lake City, Cedar Key and Ocala can get the most accurate weather predictions.“While the core of the channel 
is providing weather information, especially this week with the hur -
ricane coming, it’s more about serving the university,” said Ran-dy Wright, executive director of the division of multimedia prop-erties.
WRUF-TV is powered by 11 
computers and features data col-lected from three National Weath-er Service NEXRAD Doppler ra-dars. The channel shows the latest news headlines, traffic and sports. Three weather casts are held ev-ery 15 minutes and updated as frequently as necessary, said Jeff Huffman, the meteorologist for WRUF-TV .
Huffman was a morning me-
teorologist for three different TV stations in Columbia, Mo., before agreeing to head the WRUF-TV project.
“I was attracted by projects 
and building things,” Huffman said. “I’ve been building this from the ground up.”
This week, Huffman is busy 
following Hurricane Irene, which could brush along Florida’s At-lantic Coast and bring rain to Gainesville on Thursday and Friday. People concerned about the storm can receive the latest updates by tuning into WRUF-TV. The channel, which can be watched digitally over the air on channel 10.1, is the only local digi-tal weather channel in the nation.
Because the studio is located 
on campus, students can get pro-fessional meteorology experience.  
Chani Morris, a UF geography se-nior, was chosen as one of three students to help run WRUF-TV .
“They’re training us to work 
with these systems and the soft-ware,” Morris said. “It’s unbeliev-able. It’s the best thing I’ve ever seen. I’m going to be a meteorolo-gist; that’s my thing. I do weather all the time. For me to see the stuff I’ve seen, this is a very, very good system that we’ve got.”10, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
A microphone sits among computers and software in the studio of UF’s 24-hour weather channel, WRUF-
TV, located in the College of Journalism and Communications.
StuDent life
On-campus weather station provides 24-hour forecasts
“They’re training us to 
work with these systems 
and the software. It’s unbe-
lievable. It’s the best thing 
I’ve ever seen. I’m going to 
be a meteorologist; that’s 
my thing. I do weather all 
the time. For me to see the 
stuff I’ve seen, this is a very, 
very good system that we’ve 
got.”
Chani Morris
UF senior TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 11
TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
THIS WEEK ONLY
$399 3/3 All-Inclusive
$369 4/4 All-Inclusive
$250 VISA Gift Cards!
352-336-3838
12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1The Polos
All Inclusive Roommate Matching
2/2 only $538/month per person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-1
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC!
4/4’s @ $329
Upgraded 4/4’s ONLY $359
$100 Visa Card for fall
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
1BR/1BA available in 4/4 SW condo  
$375/mo. Close to everything, bus line. 
All utilities included. Furnished. Call Nalini at (352) 514-3398    8-26-11-25-1
THE COURTYARDS
Steps to UF. Fully furnished.
Dormitory housing w/pvt individual suites.
Starting at $479.00.
Now leasing for Fall enrollment.
Parking avail.  M-F 9:00-6:00
1231 SW 3rd Ave., #125
352-372-3557/thecourtyardsuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $345.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. Available now. 300-1294    9-2-11-16-1Professional/Grad Student.
All amenities. Must be studious & quiet, safe 
& secure. $350/mo. Leave message 333-8300 or 514-3320        8-26-11-4-1
VALUE PLACE GAINESVILLE
New Extended Stay Lodging 3 miles to UF★NO LEASE - NO CREDIT CHECK
★FREE Utilities, Special UF Monthly Rates
★Furnished Wkly Single Studio $219.99+tax
★Kitchens, Laundry, HD TV/HBO, Secure
5505 SW 41st Blvd.,  I-75, Exit 382352-672-6008 ValuePlace.com/GainesvilleFL     
9-6-11-16-1
FREE RENT IN AUGUST
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse. Walk to UF.
Avail. 8/1 $790/mo. Call 305-982-7218       8-31-11-10-1
4/4 Apartment at the District. Fully Furnished, 
electricity, water, and internet included. Individual bathroom starting in august for a year for $348 a month.  321-402-7623   8-23-11-5-1
ROOMMATE for 2/1 apt. in Summit House 
2nd floor, 2 blks from campus, quiet, on bus route $400 + half util. 561-702-7401    8-29-11-8-1
4BR/4BA available in 4/4 in beautiful gated 
countryside complex. $375/mo incls all utili-ties, cable,internet, etc. Big Screen tv in liv-ing room! Looking for full year lease. 754-281-5023  orShahrouz.ebadian@gmail.com   9-1-11-10-1
3 ROOMS IN LUXURY CONDO
$350-$400 each. Pool, tennis, new applianc-
es. Close to UF. Call 516-851-6879 or email tapyourrealpower@aol.com       9-2-11-10-1
4br/2ba privately owned condo @ University 
Commons J339 for $1000/mo. Near UF on bus route. Pix available. Call Rosa 352-372-3930 or email rosa@matchmakerrealty.com   8-29-11-5-1
1br/1ba in 4br/4ba at Countryside Condos 
$350/mo. Avail. now. Great location very clean! Furnished, wireless,porch,1st floor, 5 min from UF, washer/dryer,bballcourt,pool,hot tub.305-664-1680    8-30-6-1Available completely furnished 4BR/4BA condo. Great bus routes 9 & 35 every 8-10 minutes. Amenities pool, hot tub, volleyball, basketball court, and fitness center. Rent $300/mo, $300 security deposit. 514-7250
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREEFrederick GardensCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Starting at $565
RTS 20, 21, 22
$99 Move In Special
Call today!
352.376.4002
12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com     12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath
Starting @$954 ($318/person!)
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
 TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 13
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1/1• 750 sq. ft •$609/mo.Waived move-in 
fees • Waived pet fee
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    8-31-11-58-2AVAILABLE NOW - ONLY A FEW LEFT!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
9-30-11-29-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
REDUCED AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
2 large rooms w/private baths. 10 min to UF. Large home, quiet neighborhood. $475/mo + utils per room. Cable, W/D, hardwood floors. 5 mins to busline. Call 352-284-0979    8-31-11-32-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   8-31-11-24-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420    8-31-11-24-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
3BR, 2Bath, Washer/Dryer, 
Fenced backyard, Carport,
No pets. $1450./Mo   303-877-4915
9-19-11-30-2
*** AVAILABLE NOW ***
Unique 2BR Apt located between UF & 
Downtown. $650/mth. 302 NW 7th Terr. 
Call 870-2760.
8-26-11-14-2
AUGUST FREE! Walk or bike to Campus! 
Great properties with low rents, check us out rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 352-692-3800    8-26-11-14-2
Midtown 4/2 Apt $1100/mo No Pets
1740 NW 3rd PL Available 8/16
Call 352-231-3002    8-23-11-10-2
2BR/1BA duplex behind Norman Hall
Cent H/AC, ceiling fans, $625/mo.
1117 and 1125 SW 7th Ave.Call 372-4903 or 917-416-69688-26-11-12-2
1124 NW 44th Ave. 4/2 House for Rent off 
NW 13th St. 1366 sq ft. W/D, DW, Cent A/C, Screened porch, 1/2 acre fenced in yard, storage shed, Pets Welcome.$1050/mo. Avail Aug 1st.earlene@hovergirlproperties.com904-742-8184      8-24-11-9-28 blocks from UF. 3BR 1BA.
All appliances incl, DW, W/D.Hardwood floors & tile.Fenced yard, pets ok, no extra fee.Individaul leases avail. $1000/moCall Carol 359-3341                8-31-11-12-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   8-26-11-10-2
1 bdrm near Oaks Mall
$525 1st/last/security move in352-229-6371 or 850-573-11238-23-11-7-2
Roommates a Hassle?
Move into your own downtown apt!www.ArlingtonSquare.orgStudios and 1Bdrms starting at $599!Check availability now! 338-000212-7-11-74-2
VETERANS
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun -
dry 372-3783    8-31-11-12-2
CHARMING DUCK POND TOWNHOUSE. 
$900 a month. Includes 3 beds/1.5 baths, 1350 sq.ft.& a 1-car garage in a quite com-plex. First, last & 1-yr. lease required.Call Jackie Erney,Prudential,352-328-1266.8-23-11-5-2
**MOVE IN READY** 3/2 Condo near OAKS 
MALL New laundry rm w/ W/D. Newly reno-vated enclosed porch. New cherry wd cabi-nets. Pool. Across from N FL Reg Med Ctr.  $945./mo, + utils.  $500 sec. 352.318.4948   8-24-11-5-2
MUST SEE ● VERY NICE ● QUIET 1BR
Custom built in-law suite.Close to all. Has it all. W/D, all utils incl +cable. $750/mo. Please call 278-8381    8-31-11-10-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs.1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-15509-16-11-20-2
Apartment for rent, 2bed/2bath. Townhouse 
style. Furnished or unfurnished. Located in Woodside Villas. For more information call Alysha at 561-261-4793 or Sherry at 561-239-8804. Rent is $700/month.   8-26-11-5-2
Turkey Creek Country Club 4Br/2Ba single 
family home. Security. Modern, quiet, peace -
ful, safe. Cul-de-sac street. 2 car garage, fenced yard. Community playground. Great for family, students. Pet or pets considered. Rent negotiable. Immediate. 954-292-2965 or 352-327-1996    8-26-11-5-2
3BR, 2BA, Condo Unit, Ground Floor, Kitchen 
& living area; Swimming pool & tennis courts; The Sparrow; $700.00 per month.Call Cristen at 352-514-6222    9-19-11-20-2
GREAT LOCATION! 2BD/2BA partially fur-
nished condo. Close to campus and med school, bus stop right outside, lots of park-ing, swimming pool, full kitchen, W/D, pet friendly. $725/mo OBO (904) 891-13119-2-11-10-2
Cute North Wood house 3/2 clean all tiles 
fenced $975/mo 5620 NW 26 terr students welcome Condo 2Bed 2 1/2bath 6117 SW 12 Pl $575/mo both 5mits to Mall UF Shands NFRC Bus stops 352-514-9303 or 371-41368-23-11-2-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House
Historic spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $2200/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    9-19-11-20-25 BLOCKS NW OF UF
1BR/1BA apt. Galley kitchen. Reserved parking next to door. Small pets ok - no extra fee. $500/mo, $300 sec dep. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-2-11-10-2
***FALL RENTAL ROOMS***
Starting From $350 to $450 Per Rooms
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Semester and Year Leases Available
Rooms For Immediate Move-In
9-2-11-27-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/Sorority 
Row/Norman Hall/Shands area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets maybe. Parking! Avail now - 1 yr. Reduced. 352-665-8166 lv mssg    9-6-11-10-2
2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE OVERLOOKING 
A LARGE POND. Located west of Campus Credit Union on County Road 20, Millrun Subdivision. Clean & neat. $750/mo. Call 352-871-7801   pfitz100@yahoo.com    8-29-11-5-2
2/2 house/ S Hgh Sprngs $850. 1 acre. 
Dog OK/ deposit.1st/last /securty/ electric depost $250 month-month call Broker Julie Cole 352-871-5354 Prudential Trend Realty. Avail. now    8-29-11-5-2
2BD/2BA townhouse, full W/D, huge 
closets, tile and laminate flooring, fenced backyard, pet friendly, near UF, very clean, section 8 accepted. $725/mo  
2911 SW 38th place - (954) 439-2076
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home.  
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to 
$400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1st month half price! Vacant lots alsoavailable. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-58879-20-20-2
1Br/1Ba - Stoneridge - No Deposit
-816sq - Available Now-$35.00 App Fee-Laundry Room / Pool / Tennis Courts*Contact Julie at: jmf1001@gmail.com    8-26-11-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-729-1561   8-26-11-43-4
Male, grad student/instructor preferred 
for small furnished apt on side of private home close to UF on bus line. Cable, inter-net, patio, safe. No pets. One person only. Avail Aug. $450/mo incl utils. 352-336-5808  
8-29-11-16-4
14, ALLIGATOR § TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011
1 bedroom in 4/2 apartment  
Midtown student housing No Pets 
1740 NW 3rd PL - Call 352-231-30028-26-11-5-4
Male roommate needed - 4 BR house, 14 
blks from campus. Safe & secure NW neigh-borhood. Great deck & yard. Clean, nicely furn, new appl, $575/mo incl util, w/d. AJ 561.718.5567    9-6-11-10-4
APT SHARE ALL UTILITIES INCL. OWN 
PKING SPACE 5 MIN DRIVE TO UF FURNISHED GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD1 BLOCK OFF UNIVERSITY AVE. $350/MO(352)817-7054                                8-24-2-4
$350 moves you in! No deposit or last months 
rent. Mature male student to share furnished 4/2. FR, LR, W/D, maid service, yrd man, 5 min from UF, new kitchen, big yard. No pets, non-smoker. (813) 362-7729 or 362-78818-29-11-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
1996 LIBERTY 14 X 60 MOBILE HOME
2BR/2BA, cent H/AC. Very good condition. Oak Park Village, G'ville. $10,000 cash.Call 338-8039 leave message   8-25-11-5-5
BY OWNER! A STEAL 3/2 HOME 
MINUTES TO DOWNTOWN FOR SALE OR ASK ABOUT A LEASE TO PURCHASE! INTERESTED CALL 352 318 9262.    8-26-11-5-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
FURNITURE ●  FURNITURE
Lots of it!   Great prices!
Haven Hospice Attic has received 2600 
pieces of furniture as a donation from Collier Companies. The furniture comes from reno-vated student units at several of their proper-ties. These items are being offered at HUGE discounts. Contact The Haven Hospice Attic, 9am-6pm, Mon thru Sat, 352-378-7484 for more info. All sales support Haven Hospice programs.    8-26-5-6
●Carpeting to cover at least 2 10x10 rooms
●Computer standBest offer for both. Call 335-95038-29-11-5-6
A+ Mobile PC Repair
Our technicians provide fast and thorough
computer repairs, at an affordable price.
We come to you. (352) 212-1220 
APlusMobile@rocketmail.com
9-2-11-30-7
Laptops from $200
Used w/ Warranty
Joel 352-336-0075     www.pcrecycle.biz                    8-26-11-5-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
PARKING SPACES For Rent 
$65/mo. 922, 924 SW 7th Ave.
Call 372-4903 or 917-416-69688-26-11-12-10
FALL PARKING 60 SECONDS TO UF
Next to McDonalds NW 13th St. Reserve 
now. Call for semester rates: 352-538-2454   8-24-11-5-10
Visit the Website
http://itsthejobsstupid.comRead the BookISBN: 9781 4620 2143721451(ebook)                         8-26-11-5-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
+15-20 mile range, 15-20 mph. Easy to take 
apart. 300 lb capacity, 500 watt - battery op-erated  Excellent for Campus & Fun $975 & up. Call today J&S Assoicates 352-339-5158    8-31-11-28-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11Road Rat Motors is giving away TWO scoot-
ers to our Facebook friends, one at end of Summer B, another in Fall. "Like" our FB page for more details about the giveaway. facebook.com/RoadRatMotors   9-12-11-24-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
8-31-11-84-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-1292 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
2001 LEXUS ES300
207000 miles. Good condition $4,500352-871-0167    kharyun@ufl.edu     8-29-11-5-12
 TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 15
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      8-23-11-26-13 
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
8-26-11-5-14
Alligator is seeking applicants
for the paid position of
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator is seeking a student with solid 
writing and editing skills, including a working 
knowledge of news writing and AP style. 
Must be a very well-read consumer of local, 
state and national news.
The opinions editor is responsible for editing 
letters to the editor, columns, cartoons and 
writing editorials for each edition of the 
paper. He or she will be a member of the 
editorial board, which includes the editor-in-
chief and both managing editors.
If interested, please e-mail a resume, cover 
letter and sample editorial to the managing 
editor/print at jflechas@alligator.org
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
FALL 2011
BSC2010            ENY1001           MUH4016
BSC2011            FOS2001             PLP2000
BUL4310            GEB3373             PSY2012
ECO2013           MAN3025             RTV3405
ECO2023           MAN4504             STA2023
ENT3003           MAR3023        …and more!
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
9-2-11-12-14
WAITPERSON NEEDED
Sawamura Japanese Steakhouse. Apply 
from 2:30 to 4pm at 1624 SW 13th St.  No calls please.   8-24-5-14
PT - Gun Club
W, F, Sa, Su. Noon - 6pm. Field & clubhouse 
help. Call Mr. Clay @ 352-372-1044    8-26-11-6-14
Veterinary Receptionist
Experience preferred. Must be available 
afternoons and Saturdays. Apply in person 
at Jonesville Animal Hospital, 14145 W 
Newberry Rd, Newberry
8-26-11-6-14
Prepbooks.com, an Atlanta based 
social learning start-up, is hiring Campus Representatives for PT positions.Apply on website under careers.   8-25-5-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net9-2-11-10-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
UF Survey Research Center
Now hiring for fall semester!
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352) 392-2908 Ext: 105
720 SW 2nd Ave Suite 156
9-9-11-15-14
Florida Farm Bureau is seeking an indi-
vidual for business' cafeteria. Prior food exp desired. Hrs - 6am to 2:30 pm, part-time. Send resume to: FFB-HR #619 Fax: 352-374-1510 Email: hr_cafeteria@ffbic.com8-26-11-5-14
Medical assistant/ receptionist wanted for 
busy physician's office. Medical terminology and/or anatomy recommended but not re-quired. Fax (352-377-4816) or email (jas3fl@aol.com) resumes.       9-2-11-10-14
Childcare services for 2 kids (6&10) wanted 
weekday afternoons. Requires car and clean driving record. Experience with children and references a must. email setlow@ufl.edu8-26-11-5-14
homework coach needed for bright but dis-
organized 15 yr old attending alternative school $10/hr.hrs flexible. email qualifications toburgess4him@bellsouth.net    8-26-11-5-14
PERSONAL CARE ASSISTANT: Female 
PCA needed to accompany student with ce-rebral palsy to classes at SFC 20-30 hours/week. College experience preferred. Job requires assistance with personal care, ac-cessing assistive technology, taking notes and helping with assignments while on cam-pus. Level 2 background check required, must become certified through Vocational Rehabilitation, be non-smoker and have own transportation. $12/hrSend resume to debra.koval@gmail.com   8-24-11-3-14●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   8-30-98-14
Five Star Pizza
is now accepting applications fordelivery driver and instore positions.must have a positive attitude must beavailable for weekendsapply in person at 210 sw 2nd ave.between 1:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m.    8-23-
11-9-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.
$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    9-30-11-34-14
Our Company is Expanding in the 
Gainesville area must have great attitude. Earn $500-$1,500. P/t or $2,000.-$5,000.F/t. From Home. Call 407-962-8995 today for an interview.                               8-23-11-7-14
Female Nanny / Babysitter needed in 
Gainesville. Flexible hours, great pay to help with one child. If needed, we have a separate townhouse available for the right candidate. Call for information - 352-327-1018.    8-24-11-7-14
Part time tennis instructor needed.
Must have played competitively to teach an 8 year old child. Female preferred. 352-327-1018    8-24-11-7-14
Software Engineers/Programmers
C/Assembly language developers needed 
to join a local team of engineers building embedded digital TV equipment. Hardware experience a must. Competitive salaries and benefits. Send resume or questions to: nagra.resumes.atlanta@LW.NET    8-24-11-7-14
NEED NANNY TO TRAVEL: all expenses pd;
min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs/wk @ $12/hr;4yr old/1.5 yr old; bonus hr$; exp; good refs;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to  info@noahsarknanny.com9-6-11-15-14
MWFSat NANNY NEEDED 15hrs/wk;
M6:30am-4;W12:30-6:30; Sat 7-14.5 yr old twins + 2.5yr old; clean dmv;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix,schedule to info@noahsarknanny.com8-24-11-7-14
WEB COURSE ASSISTANTS wanted to 
help faculty with course websites. Applicants must be familiar with Dreamweaver, CSS and Photoshop. Be prepared to present samples of your work. Full- and part-time po-sitions are available. Pay starts at $10.00 per hour. basharat@ufl.edu, online application at http://citt.ufl.edu/contact.php.   8-26-11-8-14
PERSONAL COUNSELOR
TECH SUPPORTLINUX ADMINADMIN ASSTAVIATION ASSTPROOFREADER
Full and part time.   Please apply at
http://www.gleim.com/employment 9-2-11-13-14
Cabot Lodge is now hiring 
guest service representatives.  
Apply in person. No phone calls please.                       8-31-11-11-4
16, ALLIGATOR § TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
$25/hr - Hiring liquor promo reps.
Must be attractive, outgoing, size 6 or below due to wardrobe and available to work nights and weekends.Email projectcoordinator@adelantelive.com for more info.     8-25-3-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT  15-25 hrs. $7.35/hr. M 
thru F, 10am - 6pm. Excellent Word, typing, internet surfing skills. Excel a plus. Indicate available hours, in 3-4 hr blocks,  and gradu-ating semester. oma.office@yahoo.com   8-29-11-5-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm, 
M-F. Wkend hrs vary. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax re-sume & availability to 373-2230     9-6-11-10-14
How I Got an A
is now hiring note takers!
We hire for more classes than anyone.
Apply at HowIGotanA.com
9-2-11-9-14
Nanny Wanted for 2 Boys
Older grad student w/ child care experience. Education or counseling majors preferred. Reliable car & references required. Mon. -Thurs., 3:00-5:30 pm, $10 - 15/hr. 352-256-9757.    8-29-11-5-14
Needed: Guitar and/or piano teacher in our 
home for once-a-week lessons for teen-age girls. Email resume to ntouche@live.com   8-30-11-5-14
O'CONNELL CENTER NOW HIRING
*Concerts*Banquets*Sports*
applications accepted on a year round basis
applications available online at:
www.oconnellcenter.ufl.edu
8-29-5-14
NANNIES needed for 2 jobs NOW:
16hrs: M-F 2:45 - 6pm; $11/hr ages 4/6;18hrs/wk: M-F 3-6pm: $10/hr age 8 sp needsNoah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to  info@noahsarknanny.com8-29-11-5-14
Job and volunteer opportunities working 
with children available! PT After School Recreational Aides needed. Volunteer volleyball coaches needed. Visit www.GirlsPlace.net for more information.8-29-11-5-14
Eyecare Express seeks F/T or P/T sales
help. $500-$600 per week.No experience needed, will train.Apply at 3720 NW 13th st Gainesville.8-31-11-7-14
Farah's now hiring exp. waitrons & prep 
cook. Experience a must.Apply Monday-Friday after 5pm.1120 W University Ave                 8-31-7-14
NANNIES NEEDED 12-15hrs/wk: $12/hr
M-F 1:30-4:30pm; W@12:30; ages 10-14Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to  info@noahsarknanny.com8-29-11-5-14
NANNY NEEDED RIGHT AWAY:
20+hrs/wk: M-F 12:30-5:30pm; 2.5 yr oldNoah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to  info@noahsarknanny.com8-24-11-2-14
Elementary Tutors Needed
$20/hr; Ed majors pref.Background check requiredSmartphone a plus; Send resumesmartstartgators@bellsouth.net8-31-11-7-14
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
Horse boarding, $350/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome    9-30-11-38-15. 
PLUMBING
Anything to do with 1 or 2 we do & kitchens too G-DO REDO. State certified CFC 1428363 and insured. Gary Audet 352-494-2695       8-25-11-5-15
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
Certified Crowd Manager available for and 
have worked countless Events, Socials, Night clubs as well as Alachua County Music Festivals. Arriving ready to go in /out capac-ity clikers, reentry stamps etc. Feel free to call 352 318 9262 or email aworld4u2c@aol.com to schedule a CM for your event.    8-26-11-5-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   10-19-11-100-16
CPR/BLS/First Aid. American Heart 
Association Card issued. Classes run con-tinuously. Rates start at $35.00 per per-son. Call Cardiac One at (352)494-4217. Discounts offered.Serving Gators for over 15 years.   8-29-11-10-16
PRIMARY MEDICAL CARE
Accept medicare, medicaid, all private insur-ers, sliding scale fee for uninsured. We offer prostate & breast cancer screenings.call 352 275 8171    8-23-11-5-16
ALL YOUR CPR AND FIRST AID NEEDS
FLORIDA HEARTSAVERwww.floridaheartsaver.org 575-0119                        9-30-28-16
THE SMOKELESS CIGARETTE,
E-Cig is popular and may be just the product to help a friend or loved one stop smoking.www.dnobles.myinlife.com**************************************************8-29-7-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Silence is Golden II, a benefit  for Easter 
Seals at Altrusa House. 8/27 at 7:30pm at the Unitarian Universalist Fellowship.Harold Lloyd silent comedy, improvised music & refreshments. mcarbonell@fl.easterseals.com8-26-11-6-20
THE BIGGEST POSTER SALE. Biggest 
and Best Selection. Choose from over 2000 different images. FINE ART, MUSIC, MOVIES, MODELS, HUMOR, ANIMALS, PERSONALITIES, LANDSCAPES, MOTIVA-TIONALS, PHOTOGRAPHYMOST IMAGES ONLY $7, $8 AND $9.SEE US AT Reitz Union Colonnade on Monday Aug. 22nd thru Friday Aug 26th, 2011. THE HOURS ARE 9AM - 6pm.THIS SALE IS SPONSORED BY Reitz Union Arts & Crafts Center    8-26-11-5-20
FREE .GATOR [FAN WAVER] FOR THE 
GAME.GO TO www.fla-gators.com8-25-3-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
Pol Parsley youtube.com
Features caps, CDs, tapes, DVDsAt Total Video - 2104 SW 13th street8-29-11-5-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Dream Dogz Open House
Sun, Aug 28 from 1 to 3:30pm3909 NW 97th Blvd 352-278-7404Your dog can earn a degree at Dream Dogz University          8-26-11-4-24
TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Soccer player receives award; men’s golf names new assistant:  
Florida center back Kat Williamson was named the Southeastern 
Conference Defensive Player of the Week Monday. ... UF announced  John Handrigan will join the men’s golf team as an assistant coach. Mailbag coming Friday: 
Don’t forget to submit any and all questions to us for Friday’s new mailbag column. Hit us up on our Twitter: @alligatorSports. We want to hear from you.� THE FRESHMAN APPEARED IN 
ONLY TWO GAMES LAST YEAR.
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Wide receiver Quinton Dunbar 
was helpless last season.
As the Gators’ stagnant, 88th-
ranked passing attack mustered just 184 yards per game and lacked a home run threat at receiver, all Dunbar could do was watch from the sidelines.
“I feel like I could have helped 
the team last year,” said Dunbar, now a redshirt freshman. 
“I had to figure out fast that I had 
to mature. Being by myself forced me to mature.”A year later, Dunbar is in line to 
be one of the team’s three starting receivers when the season opens against Florida Atlantic on Sept. 3, along with redshirt senior De-onte Thompson and redshirt junior Frankie Hammond.
But Dunbar’s transformation 
from sideline spectator to Florida’s expected vertical threat was not an easy one.
Dunbar arrived at Florida out of 
Miami Booker T. Washington High as the No. 24 wide receiver in the nation and a four-star prospect, ac-cording to Rivals.com. 
The 6-foot-1 receiver impressed 
during fall camp as a true fresh-man, but that didn’t materialize into playing time, as he made just two appearances before receiving a redshirt.
Between his length and his speed 
— he reportedly runs a 4.3 40-yard dash — Dunbar had all the physi-cal tools to contribute out of high school. What the receiver lacked, however, were the mental ones.
“Mentally I wasn’t probably 
ready,” Dunbar said. “I was imma-ture. Some days I’d come out and want to practice, and some days I didn’t. Some days I’d show up, and some days I wouldn’t.”
Dunbar was used to being just 
Florida volleyball coach 
Mary Wise said freshman Taylor Unroe will solidify the back line this season.See Story, Page 19 
THE RALLY
Gators in the Top 25: Rightful placement or abomination?
Greg: Apparently the Gators are step-
ping up to challenge the Miami Heat for 
the title of most overrated team in Flori-da.
While UF’s No. 22 ranking in the AP 
Preseason Top 25 is nothing close to the hype that surrounded the Big 3, it’s equal-ly undeserved.
This is a team that lost six NFL talents 
from last year’s squad — seven if you ask Will Hill — and enters 2011 with an almost entirely new coaching staff.
And that attrition comes from an al-
ready mediocre group that went 8-5 and finished an unof-ficial 31st in last year’s final AP poll.
It’s ridiculous 
that they rank ahead of No. 23 Auburn, which won the national championship a year ago, lost fewer play-ers to the league and returns all the inte-gral pieces of their coaching staff.
The same goes for teams like Arizona 
State, Penn State and Utah, all of which had solid 2010 seasons, return most of their top talent and have established stabil-ity in their pro-gram.
Florida is 
ranked where 
they are simply because they’re Florida. 
Put these players in a different uniform 
and they probably wouldn’t sniff the Top 25.Matt: Auburn? Really Greg? Auburn? In 2010, nobody expected the Fightin’ 
Cam Newtons to rise through the ranks with a loss-less season, dominating the toughest conference in the nation en route to a national championship. 
But that’s the point. These rankings 
mean nothing. Squat. Less than squat, ac-tually. 
Don’t believe me? Just ask the New Ball Coach. Answer -
ing a question recently about UF’s No. 22 
Matt Watts
twitter: @wattmatts
sEE RALLY, p AgE 18
greg Luca
twitter: @greglucaCourtesy of UF Communications
Redshirt freshman receiver Quinton Dunbar has emerged as a legitimate 
downfield threat in practice and will likely start against FAU on Sept. 3.
More mature, Dunbar ready after redshirt
Alligator Staff Writer
 
If the Florida coaching staff accidentally found it-
self lining up alongside their players, Jaye Howard knows who he’d want to pick up. 
For any Gators defensive lineman, the answer 
should be obvious. Their position coach, Bryant Young, has lived the life they can only dream of, at least right now. All-America selection at Notre Dame, top-10 pick in the 1994 NFL Draft, Super Bowl win-ner, four-time Pro Bowler, member of the 1990s All-Decade Team, NFL Comeback Player of the Year — Young has more to his name than most players could 
fit on a checklist of career goals.
Including, apparently, ample ag-
gression left over from his 14-year career with the 49ers.
“We had a stretch where some of 
the D-tackles were coming off soft,” Howard said last Tuesday. “Never seen it in my life; the guy just ex-
ploded. And I’m a senior; I’ve been 
around. But it brought chills to my body just hearing the man’s voice echo. He’s so big.”
Young’s passion has impressed Howard’s team-
mates, and his impact could be the difference in Flori-da’s season this year. At media day Aug. 5, coach Will Muschamp pointed to the defensive line as the key for every dominant Southeastern Conference team.
The SEC squads who won national champion-
ships the last five years have averaged 94.5 rushing yards allowed per game and 33.4 sacks. Florida, by comparison, surrendered 130.6 yards per game and registered just 21 sacks in 2010.
On paper, Young seems like the perfect man to Young brings 
NFL experience, 
tenacity to line
TYLER JETT
Young
sEE COACH, p AgE 20
sEE dUnbAR, p AgE 20“Mentally I wasn’t probably 
ready. I was immature. Some 
days I’d come out and want 
to practice, and some days I 
didn’t. Some days I’d show up, 
and some days I wouldn’t.”
Quinton Dunbar
UF wide receiver18, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011
AP Top 25
1 
2                                        
3                                                      
4                                                        
5                                              
6                                               
7                                                
8                                               
9                                         
10                                                 
11                                                     
12                                             
13                                                 
14                                                             
15                                                     
16                                                   
17                                                 
18                                                    
19                                                          
20                                        
21                                                         
22                                                            
23                                                       
24                                                
25                                                                 1464143913301286120011681091
965955910900848821690686530519443369361258228219207160Oklahoma (36)
Alabama (17)
Oregon (4)                                                   
 LSU (1)  
 Boise State (2)
Florida State   
Stanford
Texas A&M                                                   
Oklahoma State
Nebraska
Wisconsin
  South Carolina           
Virginia Tech     
T C U                                                                  
  Arkansas
Notre Dame                                                   
  Michigan State                                              
Ohio State      
Georgia
Mississippi State                                         
Missouri                         
Florida
Auburn                                                          
West Virginia
USC                                                                 TEAM               RK  PTSranking, Mr. Eloquent, Will Muschamp, put it thus-
ly: “I could care less.” 
Well, Sir Boom, as one of our esteemed colleagues 
so aptly pointed out, the correct phrasing is “couldn’t care less.” 
As in, I couldn’t care less why you think Florida 
is ranked too high, Greg, because, frankly, they are where they should be.
While the Gators receive absolutely no credit for 
last season’s pathetic showing, they do, fairly or not, have a leg up on most teams because of the uniforms on their backs and the conference they play in. 
That’s one of the few points we agree on, Greg.
But here’s the truth. 
Should Florida win a couple of the toss-up games 
on its schedule and break the eight-win plateau, then a finish inside the top 20 at the end of the year is completely feasible. 
This is the SEC, after all — not the Whack-12.
Greg: First off, you won’t hear me arguing that 
the Pre-knowledge AP Poll is a good way for sports-
writers across the nation to be spending their time.
Like Jersey Shore, the preseason poll is a point-
less mind-suck based on nothing, that, nonetheless, keeps fans on the edge of their seats.
But my point is this: If you’re going to do it, you 
may as well do it right.
I’m not sure how you did your math with this 
toss-up thing, Matt, because even if the Gators win their toss-ups against UAB, Tennessee and Kentucky, that’s still six or seven wins. 
And I know there’s no way you’re calling Geor -
gia, Auburn or any of these other games a toss-up — unless you meant Furman, FAU and Vanderbilt? Those showdowns could be hotly contested.
The idea that Florida’s conference plays a role in 
these rankings is equally silly to me. 
Just because the Gators are about to get their faces 
smacked in by good teams means they deserve credit for getting their faces smacked in?
It all comes back to Jersey Shore. You put that trash 
on another channel, and it’s still garbage.
Maybe Florida isn’t quite garbage, but the point 
remains: a mediocre team in any conference is still just a mediocre team, not one that should be ranked in the top 25.
At least not until they show us something.
Matt: While the Gators may not be #twinning (in a 
football sense) anymore with the departure of Maur -
kice and Mike Pouncey, there will be some holdover 
from the days of Urban and BCS crowns.
Rivalry wins. There’s no way Muschamp loses to his alma mat-
er in his first season at Florida. Not happening. I’m counting the Annual Bulldog Massacre as a notch in the ‘W’ column for the Gators. 
Also, while Florida may very well be terrible, 
there’s no way they lose to UAB. (The only thing the Blazers have going for them is their proximity to Dreamland BBQ.)
FAU and Furman are also as close to a guaran-
tee as you can get since Billy Mays OD’d on booger sugar.
Counting “toss-up” victories against Kentucky, 
Tennessee, Vanderbilt (yes, I went there) and Geor -
gia, means UF only needs a quasi-upset against Au-burn to validate its rank.
So, Greg, don’t be mad at me when the Gators get 
it in this season. 
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org, and Matt 
Watts at mwatts@alligator.org.RALLY , from page 17
Maegan Dennis / Alligator StaffBRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
Mary Wise just wants it to 
be 2009 again.
Florida’s volleyball coach 
longs for the days when she could look out on the court and see Elyse Cusack at de-fensive specialist. Her depar -
ture has left a gap the Gators have yet to fill.
“We were not a great back-
court defensive team by any stretch of the imagination a year ago,” Wise said. “We’re not exactly great right now. We’re working hard to get better, but that was one of the key areas. We just didn’t dig enough balls.”
Last year’s major problem 
at the libero position was the absence of freshman Taylor Unroe. While she may not have completely filled the void left by Cusack, who left UF as the Southeastern Con-ference’s all-time leader in digs, Unroe would have at least been comfortable as a de-fensive specialist. 
But she entered the sea-
son with a broken bone in her ankle and was forced to red-shirt.
“Obviously it was unex-
pected, and it was pretty sad for me at first,” Unroe said. “But with the help of Mary and teammates, it helped me for this year because I knew what I was coming into and I got to see from the outside in.”
Her injury pushed then-
senior Erin Fleming into the libero role, a position she had never regularly played. The result was a team that was strong up front but question-able along the back line.
Florida led the SEC in 
service aces and blocks but ranked above only a 14-17 Ar -
kansas squad in digs. Unroe’s teammates realize the impor -
tant role she could play on the team in 2011 and said she’s someone to look out for this season.
“She’s somebody we really 
value this year,” junior right-side hitter Tangerine Wiggs said. “She’s got a lot of expe-rience passing and playing defense. She’s been doing it ever since she was in kinder -
garten.”
The task of sparking a de-
fensive turnaround for the Gators won’t belong to Un-roe alone as Florida’s roster features four liberos. How-ever, only Elissa Hausmann has seen action in a collegiate match. 
The senior has played in 
just 17 matches in her UF ca-reer, and her only dig came against Albany last Septem-ber. 
Florida’s other two options 
at defensive specialist are both true freshmen.
So while players might say 
filling in at libero is a group effort, Wise seems fairly set on who will be cementing the backcourt for the foreseeable future.
“Now we have Taylor for 
four years,” she said. “We will be a better serve-receive team right now today because of how great of a passer Taylor is. We will be a better defen-sive team as well.”
For Unroe, the idea of fi-
nally starting her college ca-reer is exciting. 
At this time last year, the 
focus was getting better. But now, she can focus on contrib-uting.
Describing herself as a 
blue-collar worker, Unroe, the daughter of a former triathlete and motorcycle racer, is ready for the Gators’ season opener Friday night against Boston College.
“Definitely some nerves,” 
she said. “It’s my first college game — well, real game. In the spring, I got a lot of experience. But playing in the O’Dome, it’s going to be nerve-wracking. ... I can’t wait.” TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 19
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Senior forward Tahnai Annis knows 
how it feels to contribute as a freshman. 
As part of a mammoth, 16-member 
freshman class in 2008, Annis started her career on a team-leading four-goal tear that included two weekly awards in her first six games — similar to this sea-son, where half of UF’s goals have come off the foot of a newcomer.
But unlike 2008’s freshman-heavy 
squad that featured just three seniors, the current competition among No. 9 Florida’s 18 returning players and 13 freshmen is just heating up. 
“I’m not surprised at all,” Annis said. 
“The freshmen all came in during the summer and they definitely all pulled their weight. They’ve really made a great effort to adapt to what we’ve asked from them early on.”
Last season’s leading scorer, Annis 
got on the board for the first time this year during Sunday’s matchup against FIU courtesy of an assist from freshman midfielder Annie Speese.
A pair of 2-0 victories into the season, 
seven of the team’s newest members have seen playing time, including a combined four starts from Speese, goal-keeper Taylor Burke, defender Lauren Silver and forward Tessa Andujar.
The 5-foot-2 Andujar’s debut Sunday 
against the Golden Panthers featured a goal in the first half. Fellow freshman Havana Solaun also scored two days earlier against Miami.
“It fires all of us up because when 
you have a freshman going like that, it makes everyone else want to work just as hard,” said junior Erika Tym-rak. “When you have freshmen starting to lead, it bumps up the intensity and makes the team better as a whole.” 
Before the season opener against 
the Hurricanes, Tymrak noticed many of the younger players were battling nerves and looked worried. 
She tried to reassure them in the 
huddle, explaining that the pregame jit-ters were normal and a sign they were ready to play.
“We all have great chemistry and I’m 
really proud that they all stepped up,” Tymrak said. “I’m sure it was a 
really good feeling for Havana that she scored.”
With a brutal draw this weekend 
against No. 11 Texas A&M (1-1-0) and No. 16 UCLA (1-0-0) in Knoxville, Tenn., UF coach Becky Burleigh expects the competition between the upperclass-men and freshmen to continue.
“We have enough experienced play-
ers on this team that can talk to the younger players about what that’s like, about not being at home and how that’s different,” Burleigh said. “Part of the reason we did it was to put some chal-lenges on this team early.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alliga-
tor.org.Newcomers carrying 
Gators in early going
Alligator File Photo
UF volleyball coach Mary Wise said redshirt freshman 
libero Taylor Unroe will help anchor the team’s back line. 
Unroe plans to fill void at libero
Season opens Friday
Freshman Insurgence  
#15 Tessa Andujar, forward
High school: San Clemente (Calif.) High
Andujar has seen action in both of  UF’s first two games with one goal on four shots. She was ranked No. 63 in TopDrawerSoc -
cer.com’s 2011 Top 100 National Players.
#27 Savannah Berry, defender
High school: Carlsbad (Calif.) High
The 5-foot-5 Berry has yet to see the field for the Gators but was a teammate of  Andujar with Slammers FC club.
#2 Annie Bobbitt, defender
High school: Jacksonville St. Johns Country 
Day SchoolShe has come off  the bench for back-line relief  against Miami and FIU. Bobbitt was a U.S. U-17 national team member and had 52 goals and 39 assists during her prep career.
#0 Taylor Burke, goalieHigh school: Medina (Ohio) HighPlayed a full 90 minutes and had a clean sheet against FIU in goal. Burke was named Ohio’s Player of  the Year after a record-breaking senior campaign, and she also made the 2010 ESPN RISE All-America first team.
#12 Lindsey Cooper,  midfielder
High school: Clearwater Central Catholic High 
Cooper — sister of  former Gators wide receiver Riley Cooper — hasn’t seen action in either of  UF’s first two games. She had 59 points off  of  22 goals and 15 assists as a high school senior.
#6 Kim Sapienza, defender
High school: Gainesville Buchholz HighOne of  three local newcomers on Florida’s roster, Sapienza was dominant late in her prep days with 28 goals and 10 assists dur-ing her senior year.#21 Jillian Graff, forward
High school: Medina (Ohio) High
Graff  came off  the bench in the season opener and notched a shot attempt. She was a teammate of  Burke’s in Ohio and was rated a five-star player by TopDrawerSoc -
cer.com coming out of  high school.
#35 Karina Gutsche, midfielder
High school: Valrico Newsome High
She didn’t make the Gators’ 22-player traveling roster last weekend, but Gutsche was one of  11 in-state players to make the Preseason Powerade Fab 50 named by ESPN RISE in November 2010.
#55 Jennifer Larrick, midfielderHigh school: Westford (Mass.) AcademyA member of  the Massachusetts Olympic Development Program (ODP) since 2004. Larrick hasn’t played yet, but scored 25 goals and had 30 assists in high school. 
#1 Lauren Silver, defender
High school: American Heritage Delray HighSilver cracked the starting defensive lineup against FIU after coming off  the bench against UM. A two-time 2A state champion and a member of  Florida’s ODP since 2008.
#19 Havana Solaun, midfielder
High school: Gainesville Buchholz HighScored UF’s first goal of  the season. Also saw action during the FIU game. Member of  the U.S. U17 Women’s National Team. 
#13 Annie Speese, midfielder
High school: Westminster Schools of  Augusta Ga.
Speese started each of  Florida’s first two 
games, with an assist coming against the Golden Panthers. She led the state of  Geor-gia with 46 goals and 13 assists in 2010.
#23 Taylor Thigpen, midfielder
High school: Jacksonville The Bolles SchoolA three-sport athlete during her prep career, Thigpen came to UF to play with her sister.
John Boothe and Maegan Dennis / Alligator StaffUF SoccerUF VOLLEYBALLinject life up front, and players 
have raved about working with an All-Pro. But there still remains one lingering question: Can Bry-ant Young coach?
On a staff with a combined 165 
years of experience, Young has only been in the business since 2009. Travaris Robinson, Flori-da’s 29-year-old defensive backs coach, is a decade Young’s junior, yet even he has been working with a whistle for five years lon-ger than Young has.Like every other Florida as-
sistant, Young has not been made available to the media this year, but in an interview with a news-paper in South Bend, Indiana, where he became a graduate as-sistant at Notre Dame in 2009, Young admitted to getting bit by the coaching bug. 
At this point in his unproven 
coaching career, Young’s great-est strength seems to be his pas-sion, something that can’t really be measured.
What can be measured, how-
ever, has been far from impres-sive. Young was the defensive line coach at San Jose State last season, where the Spartans reg-istered just 24 sacks and allowed 203.2 rushing yards per game — second-worst in the nine-team Western Athletic Conference. 
Of course, Young wasn’t giv-
en much to work with: San Jose State gave up 259.2 yards on the ground in 2009 and notched just 20 sacks. 
Although, Young did architect 
a five-and-a-half-sack improve-ment for Spartans sophomore de-fensive end Travis Johnson. 
For now, though, Young will 
continue to be the coach with the most unproven track record.
But, perhaps more valuable, 
he has support from his fellow coaches. 
Defensive coordinator Dan 
Quinn coached Young in San Francisco, and Charlie Weis and Frank Verducci worked with him at Notre Dame.
And, of course, there’s that 
whole NFL thing. 
“Having the opportunity to 
play in the league kind of opened some guys’ eyes because a lot of guys aspire to play on that level,” Young told the Gators’ official website in April. “They may take to you a little bit.”
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@al-
ligator.org.20, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011
Alligator File Photo
Florida defensive lineman Jaye Howard, a senior, said defensive line 
coach Bryant Young, 39, could still suit up and play despite his age. 
Young reunited with Quinn, Weis 
COACH , from page 17
naturally better than others on the field. Ever since he was 
young he never had to sit out during games because he was so talented, and he thought things would come just as easy in college.
But he was wrong, and teammates made him realize he 
needed to change his mindset and his work ethic. It wasn’t un-til midway through UF’s 8-5 season that something clicked. 
The gifted wideout had a coming-of-age moment when he 
was confronted, not by a teammate, but by then-Gators coach Urban Meyer, who called Dunbar up to his office in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
Meyer saw Dunbar wasn’t acting like his usual self. The 
normally joyful receiver was quiet and down. Meyer told him that “the sky’s the limit” if he changes his work ethic —  some-thing the former coach made sure to preach 
to the young receiver every day.
Since that conversation, Dunbar has 
turned things around. He was singled out as the most outstanding player in spring practice and has parlayed that into, by all 
reports, a stellar fall camp.
In short, he has found the drive he lacked when he first 
arrived in Gainesville.
Coach Will Muschamp, who said that consistency is the 
hardest adjustment for a young player, even challenged Dun-bar to take it one step further and contribute on special teams — which the receiver has fully embraced.
“That shows the strides he’s made from a maturity stand-
point,” Muschamp said. “He’s always thought he worked hard, but until you start doing it every day it’s a tough deal.” 
Now, with a new, mature approach, Dunbar hopes to do 
what he couldn’t as a freshman: contribute and be the deep threat at wide receiver the Gators need.
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.orgMeyer inspired Dun-
bar to improve work ethic, consistency
Dunbar
DUNBAR , from page 17“Having the opportunity 
to play in the league kind 
of opened some guys’ eyes 
because a lot of guys aspire 
to play on that level.”
Bryant Young
UF defensive line coach