VOLUME 106 ISSUE 7 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Engineering students conduct study in Bolivia.
The project will bring clean water to a small village, pg 3.  
Government-subsidized housing rent on the rise
Residents are struggling to pay their bills, pg 8. Bachmann ﬁ  nishes six-stop state tour
She was the ﬁ  rst Republican candidate to 
complete a campaign tour of Florida. Go to alligator.org for details. 
Freshman Marcus 
Roberson is one 
of several 
underclassmen 
listed as starters 
for Saturday’s 
season opener. 
See Story, Page 14
94/74
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 9CROSSWORD  11
SPORTS 14 Ashley Crane / Alligator
  Dorm Decor
Claudia Zuluaga, an anthropology senior, and Ana Gutierrez, a sports management senior, look at posters at the Reitz Union on Monday afternoon. 
   
� SEVERAL STATE SCHOOLS ARE 
INCLUDED.
CLARE LENNON
 Alligator Writer 
  
  Gator football fans may not need an-
other way to prove their passion, but a 
Florida tourism marketing corporation 
is hoping fans will take another oppor-tunity to ﬂ  aunt their orange-and-blue blood anyway.
  Visit Florida will host its ﬁ  rst Florida 
Fan Game on Friday. The competition will run until Dec. 5, and it will encour-age Florida college football enthusiasts to support their teams and boost state 
tourism. The Florida Fan Games will 
be a part of the corporation’s Share a Little Sunshine program.
  In addition to UF, Florida State Uni-
versity, University of South Florida, University of Central Florida, Univer-sity of Miami and Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University will par-ticipate.
  Fans can go to the Share a Little 
Sunshine Facebook page and send Florida travel invitations. A different customized invitation is available for 
each school. Invitations include cou-
pons and links to restaurant, hotel and attraction deals.
  Each time a fan sends an invitation 
to a Facebook friend, his or her chosen 
school earns a point in the competi- Fans urged 
to promote tourism
  BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
 Alligator Contributing Writer 
  In 1991, all of UF’s international 
services were scattered around cam-
pus. That same year, only 300 UF 
students were sent to study abroad. During the 2008-2009 school year, more than 2,200 UF students studied abroad, and this year, the UF International Cen-ter is celebrating its 20th anniversary.
  The UFIC not only provides study-
abroad programs for students, but it also aids international students studying at 
UF during their stay in Gainesville. It 
also brings international program devel-opment into the classroom, said David Sammons, dean of the UF International Center.
  The center has a 40-person staff with several region-speciﬁ  c advisers.
  It also has 70 peer advisers who 
are available to talk with students about their study-abroad experiences.
A university’s principle func-
tion is to serve the world and make it a better place, Sammons said.The UFIC will hold a study-abroad fair 
Sept. 21 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Reitz 
Union Colonnade. At the fair, students can talk with people who have already studied abroad and learn more about available study-abroad programs.  International Center honors 20th anniversary
  MINA RADMAN
 Alligator Writer 
Some sorority members in the United States will no longer be 
allowed to attend fraternity recruitment events, according to a new rule.
  The ruling applies to the 26 sororities that are part of the 
National Panhellenic Conference. It will be enforced at most 
of the 655 universities that National Panhellenic Conference members attend, including UF.
  The UF Panhellenic president was not available to com-
ment.
  In October 2010, the organization urged its members not to 
attend  fraternity recruitment events because women may be used to persuade men to pledge certain fraternities. 
  Sororities that are not part of the organiza-
tion can still attend fraternity recruitment events.
“I think it’s a stupid rule,” said Kevin Stillerman, a member of Alpha Epsilon Pi. “We’ve had girls in the past, so why not have them now?”
  Jack Causseaux, the associate director for the Ofﬁ  ce of So-
rority and Fraternity Affairs, said the university did not have  Sorority women barred nationally from fraternity rush partiesSEE FANS, PAGE 5
SEE RUSH, PAGE 5
Ofﬁ  ce coordinates study abroad programs
“I think it’s a stupid rule.”
Kevin Stillerman
member of Alpha Epsilon PiGREEK LIFENews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 7 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2011
SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Justin Hayes,
  Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tyler Jett, Greg Luca,
  Corey McCall, Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Keri Smith,   
  Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Brandon Davis
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo, Justin Scott,
  Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Alexander Silva, Natalie TeerThe Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or e-mail editor@alligator.org. what’s happening
Dance Marathon applications 
now available
Today through Sept. 9The largest student-run phi-lanthropy in the Southeast is now accepting applications for Dance Marathon 2012 captains. Interested students should visit floridadm.org to download an application and 
learn more about the 26.2-
hour service event benefiting Children’s Miracle Network. Applications are due in the Dance Marathon office in the Reitz Union. 
Lunch on Campus
Today, 12 to 2 p.m.Plaza of the Americas  
Join Rabbi Daniel Wolnerman, his family and the UF Hillel staff and friends for a Kosher Lunch on Campus. 
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
MeetingToday, 5:45 p.m.Talking Gators Toastmasters meets in Room 1031 in the Entomology Building, 970 Natural Area Drive, east of the Performing Arts Center. The area governor will be the honored guest. The meeting will include installation of officers and food. Members can practice public speaking and leadership skills. For de-
tails, go to toastmasters.org 
or call 352-870-2267. 
Women’s Welcome Assembly
Today, 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.suspect cash, according to the press release.
Video surveillance caught 
the robbery on camera. The video showed that after hand-ing money to the suspect, the employee moved to the side of his car and lay down on the 
ground.
The suspect then headed 
south on foot, according to the 
GPD press release. 
In the video of the robbery, 
which is posted on the Alligator website, the suspect appeared to be a black male between the ages of 20 and 25, according to 
the press release. He seemed 
to be holding a black gun and wearing black pants and a blue shirt and bandana.
If anyone has information 
on the suspect or the robbery, please contact Detective Jeff Nordberg at 352-393-7656. 
— MORGAN WATKINS
*Page 1 photo cutout courtesy of 
UF Communications.Ustler Hall
Like free food? Want to get 
involved? Love networking and making new friends? People of all genders and ages are welcome to attend, so bring friends and meet some new people as the group rings in the newest school year. The assembly 
will feature Heather White 
from the Career Resource Center who will discuss the importance of getting involved and how to suc-ceed in the workforce.
LOCaL
Alligator employee robbed 
at gunpoint behind office
A 68-year-old employee at 
the Independent Florida Al-
ligator was loading newspa-pers into at about 6 a.m. on Aug. 25 when a man robbed 
him at gunpoint, according 
to a Gainesville Police press release.
 The employee had parked 
beside the organization’s of-fice at 1105 W University Ave. , and was loading newspapers into his car when a man point-ed a gun at him and asked for his wallet and money.
The employee handed the PARTLY
CLOUDY
93/72THUNDER
STORMS
92/71THUNDER
STORMS
91/72THUNDER
STORMS
92/72THUNDER
STORMS
94/74
 TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Kung “Fu” Fighting
Johnson Kung follows through on a punch during the Cuong Nhu Oriental Martial 
Arts class led by Mark-Jason White. The class meets every Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Student Recreation and Fitness Center.
� ENGINEERS WITHOUT BORDERS 
TO GIVE VILLAGE CLEAN WATER.
DANA BURKE
Alligator Contributing Writer
In the village of Cachitambo, Bolivia, lo-
cated 13,550 feet above sea level, families rely 
on a single tap in the village center for clean water. 
UF’s chapter of Engineers Without Bor -
ders, which recently took an assessment trip to Cachitambo, is helping to improve the quality of life for the 100 families located at one of the highest inhabited altitudes in the world by providing new clean water sources and greenhouses for the community . 
The community of Cachitambo relies heav-
ily on the Cerro Rico mines, which are rich in silver and provide jobs for the residents.
“The mines are their main source of in-
come, but they are also the main thing harm-ing their environment,” said Lopez, a 23-year-old UF civil engineering graduate. “We are giving them another alternative use of water that’s not just groundwater or contaminated streams.”
According to Delfin, a third-year civil en-
gineering major and the UF chapter’s Bolivia 
team leader, the water from the community’s 
main tap showed high levels of lead and ar -
senic.
“There’s a mine that dumps water into a river that flows through the community .  It’s extremely toxic. ... There is this one tap they use from the mountains that’s the only safe 
water to use, but it runs out by 2 p.m.,” Delfin 
said.
On this trip, the students began setting up 
alternative water supplies for the community, including a gutter system with two 1,000-liter tanks for storage, receiving help from Engi-neers In Action, a Bolivian nongovernmental organization.
Because of the lack of water, Cachitambo 
also experiences a lack of vegetation, said Da-vid Baden, UF Engineering Without Borders president.
“Because it’s so hard to grow food, most 
people end up moving away to a larger city like Potosí and leaving their families behind,” Baden said.
In addition to the implementation of a 
new water collection system, the students 
also built a Pankar-huyu, an underground 
greenhouse common in Bolivia that protects plants from frost and stores moisture, Lopez said.
“We thought that with the water from the 
gutter and the tank that we installed it would make them more sustainable so they didn’t have to go into the city ,” Delfin said. 
Delfin said the optimistic goal is to make 
an implementation trip next summer.
“Eventually our idea would be for every 
family to have their own greenhouse and be self-sustaining.”Students make humanitarian trip4, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2011
Ashley Crane / Alligator
Getting the Word Out
Aateka Hamad, an interior design senior, passes out information for Islam on Campus’ ninth-annual Fast-a-thon, 
a one-day fast on Sept. 15.
NAtioNAl
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
DENVER — An apartment complex near 
Colorado State University that used Face-
book to advertise “the biggest pool party of 
the year” got more than it bargained for — 
at least 2,000 people, most of them college students, showed up.
It wasn’t long before the police fol-
lowed.
Four people, including two CSU football 
players, were arrested at the Ram’s Pointe apartment complex in Fort Collins on Satur -
day. Ten people were taken to the hospital, 
most of them for overconsumption of alco-
hol or minor injuries.
“Some people came from as far away as 
Denver for this back-to-school party,” Fort Collins Police Lt. Hal Dean said Monday.
The party’s Facebook page had nearly 
3,000 registered people. Dean said police 
estimated at least 2,000 people showed up 
at the complex about 65 miles north of Den-ver. Officers had to shut down surrounding streets while they cleared the complex.
The use of social networks such as 
Twitter and Facebook to spread word of everything from parties to freedom move-ments has increased exponentially in recent months. In some cases, the events have led 
to street trouble.
In Los Angeles in July, a simple tweet 
by DJ Kaskade telling his followers about a 
free block party lured thousands of raucous ravers to the landmark Grauman’s Chinese 
Theatre.
Things turned rowdy, with revelers hurl-ing bottles at police and some jumping on a 
squad car.
In Fort Collins, firefighters and ambu-
lance crews told police of the out-of-control party at the apartment complex.
Dean said police weren’t monitoring the 
Facebook party site — something some po-lice agencies have begun to do after social 
media was used by rioters in England to 
organize looting and by organizers of flash mobs in several U.S. cities.
The apartment complex did not respond to telephone calls seeking comment on Monday.
Police said complex management could 
be cited under the city’s nuisance gathering ordinance.
Police said James Skelton, 21, was cited 
for third-degree assault. The charges were related to a fight. Zachary Tiedgen, 21, was 
cited for disorderly conduct. Two others 
were charged.
Skelton is a linebacker and Tiedgen a de-
fensive end on the CSU Rams football team, 
assistant athletic director Gary Ozello said. 
Head Coach Steve Fairchild refused com-ment and said the incident is under inves-tigation.
Ozello said the athletic department has a 
strict social media policy that warns players not to post anything to embarrass the team.Facebook fuels messy megaparty at Colorado State University� ONLY UNDERGRADUATE TEAMS FROM THE 
U.S. CAN ADVANCE TO THE FINAL ROUND.
CASEY ANDREW SPEERS
Alligator Contributing Writer
So you think you can hack?
The Polytechnic Institute of New York Univer -
sity’s cyber security ISIS lab will begin its annual 
Cyber Security Awareness Week capture-the-flag 
competition at 8 p.m. Sept. 23.
Anyone is eligible to enter a team in the compe-
tition. Only undergraduate student teams from the 
United States are allowed to advance to the final 
round on Nov. 10.
The 10 teams that advance to the final round will 
be flown to New York City to compete for cash priz-es and scholarships, according to Efstratios Gavas, 
NYU-Poly cyber security program assistant direc-
tor. 
According to Gavas, more than 100 
teams have registered for the competition.  
Registration will remain open until Sept. 23.
The CSAW capture-the-flag competition is loosely 
based on the DEFCON capture the flag competition held annually in Las Vegas and is designed to test competitors’ application security skills, Gavas said.
The goal of the game is to collect “flags” by find-
ing vulnerabilities in a computer security system. Once the hacker discovers where the system is vul-nerable and cracks a code, a “flag” will appear to the 
hacker. The team with the most flags wins.
“It’s as much of a learning event as it is a compe-
tition,” Gavas said. “Anyone can play and get a few 
right, but an interest in computer security is neces-sary to advance to the competition.”
Kathleen Hamilton, NYU-Poly communications 
and marketing director, said the student-run com-petition could benefit anyone looking to go into the computer-science field.
“The competition helps the hackers learn as they 
go and receive valuable information from industry professionals rather than by textbooks,” Hamilton said.
For registration, rules and more information about 
the competition, go to https://csawctf.poly.edu/.Cyber security 
tournament set to start next month
ERIN JESTER
Alligator Writer
When J.D. and Ila Jean Ward 
opened their roadside fruit stand in 
1951, Northwest  Sixth Street was an unpaved, two-lane road that marked Gainesville’s city limit. 
The fruit stand, now Ward’s Super -
market, has seen a lot of change in the last 60 years.
Ward’s will celebrate its 60th anni-
versary Sept. 10 with a customer ap-preciation event, including giveaways from local vendors and free massages. 
Bryan Ward, assistant meat man-
ager and son of owners Billy and Trish 
Ward, said Ward’s has held similar 
events in the past, to which he estimat-ed several thousand people came out.
This year, the store’s front parking lot will be closed off from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. to accommodate tents where local vendors will give cooking demonstra-tions and give away samples of food and natural products. 
“[It’ll be] just a nice, fun day,” Trish 
Ward said. “And for all the new stu-
dents in town who don’t know us, 
we’re hoping they’ll come by and see 
what we’re all about.” 
She said she and her husband, Billy, 
have owned Ward’s for 20 years, but 
they’ve been involved with the store for closer to 40 years. 
Billy said his grandparents’ fruit 
stand graduated to a small wood-frame store with dirt floors a few years after opening. In 1979, Ward’s became 
a full-fledged supermarket when it 
moved into the building now occupied by Cecile’s Consignment on Northwest Sixth Street. Ward’s moved into its cur -
rent location on Northwest 23rd Av-enue 12 years later.
In 1991, Ward’s had 12 employees, 
all of them family. Now the store em-ploys about 100. 
Ward’s supports more than 350 local 
producers who make everything from 
kombucha and ice pops to candles and 
soaps. As the only family-owned and -operated grocery store in Gainesville, the Ward’s philosophy is to support as many local vendors as possible, Trish Ward said.
Her hopes for the future of the store 
are simple. She said she would like to see it carry on through at least a few 
more generations.
 “I’m very confident that our chil-
dren will carry it on through their adult 
years,” she said. “What their children will do with it I’m not real sure, but it would be nice to see it carried on into the future.”Ward’s Supermarket turns 60 next month
Party to include massages, samples
“Some people came from as far 
away as Denver for this back-to-
school party.”
Hal Dean
Fort Collins Police department tion. At the end of the competition, the 
school with the most points can officially say it has “Florida’s No. 1 Fans.”
Visit Florida Chief Marketing Officer 
Will Seccombe said partnering with Flor -
ida college football teams was an obvious move.
“Florida is the No. 1 travel destination 
in the world, and, arguably, college foot-ball is one of the No. 1 passions in the state of Florida,” he said.
Seccombe said fans of all schools should 
support the state economy. UF football Coach Will Muschamp will appear in TV spots and videos starting Friday.
UF tourism expert Stephen Holland 
said encouraging Floridians to invite peo-ple to the Sunshine State might be a good 
strategy.
“It could be effective, because roughly 
one-third of the visitors in the state come 
to visit friends and relatives,” he said.
Holland said improving tourism could 
go a long way in bettering the state’s econ-omy.
For more information, see the Share a 
Little Sunshine Facebook page, or go to 
www.visitflorida.com. TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Garden of Love Pet Memorial Park provides a range of options for pet owners to bury their pets with all 
the dignity and splendor of their human counterparts.
AnimALS
ERIN JESTER
Alligator Writer
For those who believe all dogs go 
to heaven, there is a place that sends 
family pets into the afterlife in the most dignified way possible.
Garden of Love Pet Memorial 
Park, on U.S. 441 in Micanopy , is a pastoral setting for pet owners to bury their beloved companions with all the care and attention of a real fu-neral home.
A winding dirt road curves up 
from the highway to the center of the park where Spanish moss dan-gles from willow branches that dip 
nearly to the ground.
According to its website, Garden 
of Love offers many of the same ser -
vices as a funeral home. 
Most of the headstones inside the 
cemetery bear inscriptions and pic-
tures of cats and dogs. But the park also serves as a final resting place for a goat, a rat, a squirrel, a hamster, a 
duck, a cockatiel and a horse. 
Burials are by appointment only , 
and pet owners can choose a casket, 
burial site and custom headstone.
Caskets are also available by re-
quest for home burials. 
Pets may also be cremated with 
the option to have their ashes scat-tered in the garden surrounding a statue of St. Francis of Assisi, the pa-tron saint of animals. 
J.J. Lawrence and his fiancee, Lisa 
West, of Inglis, discovered Garden of Love during a 2004 trip to Micano-py.
Lawrence said the park is one of 
their favorite haunts.
On Sunday , Lawrence and West 
visited the park with their three dogs, Brandy , Jack Jack and Rosita Melita Chiquita Juanita Chi Chi Chi-
huahua, whom they call Rosita for 
short. 
“We let our dogs run around here 
because it’s good karma,” Lawrence said. “You can tell [the buried pets’] owners loved them.” 
Headstones inside the cemetery 
bear epitaphs such as “Run free with God’s angels ‘til we meet again,” for 
Encke the cat and “The Greatest 
Dog That Ever Lived” for Gretchen Kilfeather, who lived to be 10 years old. 
Established in 1980 by Dot and 
Frank Stout, Garden of Love was designed to comfort pet owners through their loss by creating a final resting place of splendor and trib-
ute, according to the park’s website. 
All pets are welcome. Garden of Love cemetery provides final resting place for pets
FAnS , from page 1College bragging rights at stakeRule was not put in place by 
the Interfraternity Council
input in the rule’s creation.
“This is not our rule, this is the National 
Panhellenic Conference,” Causseaux said.
Interfraternity Councils at some uni-
versities have already had similar rules, 
Causseaux said, because they want 
the recruitment process to be about the men bonding and not worrying about the girls being present.  The In-terfraternity Council at UF does not ban women from the recruitment process.  
Freshman Lauren Safran, a member of Al-pha Chi Omega, said she would have liked to see what a fraternity rush was like.“I think [the rule is] unnecessary be-
cause the guys can make their own deci-sions with the girls there,” Safran said.
Hallie Kritsas, a member of Chi Omega, 
doesn’t believe there will be much of a dif-ference.
“It’ll just be a different atmosphere than 
in years past when Panhellenic women 
were allowed to attend,” Kritsas said.RUSH , from page 1
“I think [the rule is] unneces-
sary because the guys can make 
their own decisions with the girls 
there.”
Lauren Safran
UF freshmanReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialTUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR
Monday’s question: Are you excited 
about Joel McHale performing at Gator Growl?Today’s question: Do you plan to attend the Cirque du 
Soleil show at UF?
111 TOTAL VOTES55% YES
45% NOFacebook Folly
Opinions on Internet 
need protection
Be careful what you say, especially on the Internet. 
On Aug. 17, an American history teacher at Mount 
Dora High School in Mount Dora, Fla., was suspended 
when it was reported that he posted his opposition to New 
York’s recent legalization of same-sex marriage. 
Jerry Buell’s opposition was voiced on his Facebook page on 
July 25 where he said the decision by the New York Legislature 
almost made him throw up. He also said that same-sex mar -
riage was insulting to traditional marriage. 
His opposition, like many of those who support traditional 
marriage, was founded in Biblical principles. He wrote, “God 
will not be mocked. When did this sin become acceptable?”
Buell, a teacher for 22 years, was suspended by the school 
district due to concerns that his beliefs might frighten or intimi-date gay students. 
There is no doubt that, for many, these posts were offensive. 
And, had the school been a private employer, it would have had every right to suspend or fire Buell for these comments. 
However, the fact that his employer happens to be a govern-
ment-funded public school, the water becomes murkier. Does he, as an American citizen, have the right to write about these 
issues, despite their offensiveness, on his personal Facebook 
outside the classroom?
Buell is an edging-on-inappropriate religious zealot who is 
definitely not shy about his beliefs. For example, his syllabus 
warns students, “I teach God’s truth, I make very few compro-
mises. If you believe you may have a problem with that, get your schedule changed, ‘cause I ain’t changing!”
The school has not dropped an investigation of whether his 
syllabus threatens another aspect of the First Amendment, the 
establishment clause. Because Buell is a public school teacher, 
the sort of rhetoric on his syllabus definitely creates problems for the separation of church and state. 
But what is at the issue here is his speech on the Internet. 
The First Amendment should protect everyone, regardless of how much you want to punch them in the face for their idiocy. 
After the ACLU and the conservative Liberty Counsel be-
came involved in this case, Buell was reinstated to his position. 
For all intents and purposes, the decision of the school dis-
trict to protect Buell’s First Amendment rights was the correct one. He did not say these things in the classroom in the capacity of a school official, and he should not be subject to the school’s disciplinary action. 
The fact that some students stumbled upon his post and 
were offended does not trump the fact that his speech was of a political nature and deserving of the utmost protection by the First Amendment. 
He’s still an asshole.Guest column
Concealed weapons could be safe solution
At 6 a.m. Thursday, a 68-year-old man was loading 
copies of the Alligator for delivery into the back of his vehicle. As he bent into the trunk, a young 
male approached on foot and pointed a gun at him, threat-ening his life in exchange for a wallet.   
The entire encounter lasted approximately 35 sec-
onds based on video evidence, and everything took place around 1,000 feet from the university’s campus. Given the brevity of this and most violent encounters, it would not be reasonable to expect law enforcement to be able to in-tervene — the citizen was on his own in an alley with a dangerous interloper. 
From this, we learn several valuable lessons.Violent crime happens to innocent people — even in 
Gainesville. Also, law enforcement officers simply are not sufficiently numerous or omniscient enough to intervene in most violent encounters, which happen in seconds.  
If we place ourselves in the shoes of Thursday’s victim, 
alone in an alley and staring down the barrel of a pistol held in the clenched fist of a threatening maniac, we are faced with an inescapable truth: As individuals, we are responsible for our own safety — and this responsibility exists in a world where the predators are armed no matter what laws we try to pass.
The lawfully concealed firearm represents a tremen-
dous asset in the hands of a licensed citizen who has un-dergone the training our state requires. To the uninitiated, it may seem extreme, but such misconceptions are the product of an information vacuum filled by social biases and unfounded fears.
Proper firearms education, which is sadly rare among 
the general populous despite its broad availability, tells us a firearm is the only tool that consistently, reliably and repeatedly provides the level of force necessary to imme-diately stop dangerous aggression. 
A firearm can provide a chance at survival to individu-
als who would otherwise be at a disadvantage against the typical youthful male attacker or attackers due to weight differenc-es, upper-body-strength differen-tials or numbers.
The state of Florida recognized this truth in 1987 when 
it enacted a “shall issue” policy that made concealed fire-arms permits available to the average citizen.  
Since that time, lawfully armed citizens have com -
prised 1 to 2 percent of the population in Florida with violent crime rates far below those of the general popula-tion. Nationwide, there are anywhere from hundreds of thousands to millions of legitimate defensive gun uses per year, the majority of which take place without a single shot being fired. In the more than 20 years since Florida passed “shall-issue” legislation allowing concealed firearms has spread to 49 states, time and again disproving the “Wild West”-style predictions made by opponents of this critical freedom.
Even though he was off-campus when he was victim-
ized, if the man from the Alligator robbery was planning to deliver his newspapers at any of the many Alligator vend-ing stations on campus, he could not have had a firearm per Florida state law and university policy. Yet criminals bring weapons onto campus regularly — as evidenced by the armed robbery in Corry Village in July 2009 or the rob-bery at knifepoint of a book buyback tent near Carleton Auditorium that happened in December 2009.  
This need not be the case. Seventy-one college campus-
es throughout the nation now recognize the intrinsic right to armed self-defense and allow their students, faculty and staff to carry concealed weapons on campus.  
As law-abiding adults, the time has come for UF stu-
dents, faculty and staff to ask themselves whether they ought to learn more about this freedom and start asking why they are being denied it by ancient policies that are holdovers from a less-enlightened age.
Dustin Blanton is a part of Students for Concealed Carry.
Dustin Blanton
Speaking Out TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
When I first encountered Google+, I 
was surprised and delighted, and then, shortly after that, I was bored. 
Like many American cultural events, the launch of Google+ managed to evoke sur -
prise and boredom at once. It’s technically very fine, and ontologically “new,” yet the platform feels, somehow, utterly the same, like a high-class rerun.
I use the phrase “cultural event” advis-
edly. For Google+ isn’t just another piece of Google software; it is a sort of second coming of Google itself. While most Google releases are hacked-together-beta-versions of some 
brilliant new idea, Google+ is different. For 
one, it’s beautiful: It has the je ne sais quoi simplicity and elegance of the first iPod or an American Apparel T-shirt. And yet, at the same time, it’s an amazingly un-brilliant idea: Here we find another set of unneeded social tools, another walled-off, postmoderny ter -
rarium where everything is stimulation and fragmentation and ephemera of the type that 
we’ve already seen so much. The “second 
coming” of Google has taken the form of a Facebook rip-off with a shiny finish.
Theorists of capitalism make the distinc-
tion between “sustaining” innovations and “disruptive” ones.  Sustaining innovations improve upon existing institutions, while dis-ruptive innovations undermine those institu-tions by giving us something new. Google 
has always traded in disruption: Page Rank, 
Google Docs, their Maps API, Google Books, Google Voice, ChomeBook, self-driving cars. But Google+ is different. It’s sustaining in the extreme. We get an incremental improvement upon a social networking model that was (to say the least) dubious to begin with, a model where people share and connect with their friends within “walled-off gardens,” accord-
ing to tightly restricted rules, for the benefit 
of a single corporation’s bottom line. This is Facebook’s model. And now it’s Google’s.
There are many problems in this fallen 
world of ours, but I humbly suggest my abil-ity to share party photos and silly links with my friends is not one of them. Meanwhile, corporate ownerships of the means we have to communicate our ideas — corporate own-
ership of the “marketplace” of ideas we trade 
on — is one of the world’s problems. That Google would build the next major social net-working platform by copying the most frivo-lous, and probably odious, features of the one we already have, makes it a turning point for Google, and, I fear, a warning sign for the rest of us. The age of the open Internet is coming to an end. The iconic company of that age, Google Inc., has sold out.
Google’s flagship product, Google Search, 
made the Web accessible. Search tamed the chaos of the Web. And yet Google Inc., per -
haps paradoxically, has also done more than any other company to demonstrate that the Web’s inherent lack of order — its radical decentralization, its low-barriers-to-entry ex-perimental nature, and its openness — could be an effective business model.
When techies talk about the “freedom” of 
the Web, they mean, basically, the freedom to build anything on the Web, without asking 
anyone’s permission. This freedom creates 
chaos, of course (as is freedom’s wont), but it also unleashes genius. If Google was to keep up with the chaos and genius of the Web, it believed that it would have to mirror it. As a practical matter, this meant that Google would engage in small, decentralized experi-ments; that employees would act as entrepre-neurs (spending 20 percent of their time hack-
ing together their own projects); apps would 
be released early and iterated often; and al-most everything would be given away for free. Because nearly all of its revenue would come from Search, and because Google Search is the main way the world enters the Web, Google’s growth would be tied inextri-cably with the growth and value of the Web. What’s good for the Web is thus, per force, 
good for Google. “Don’t be evil,” Google’s 
unofficial slogan, is a rational calculation.
Thus Google would be unlike any com-
pany ever built. It would be a platform for innovation, not a single service. It’s not an exaggeration to say, then, that the very es-sence of the company is constituted to give us products quite unlike Google+, which is to say, products that are unrefined, often ter -
rible, but sometimes revolutionary. Like the Web itself.
But what happens when the Web begins to 
die? Or more precisely, when the locus of ac-tivity on the Internet (which is simply a neu-tral protocol for exchanging bits of data) shifts from those HTML-based “Web pages” that Google searches so well, to the closed and in-accessible world of apps, like Facebook, Pan-
dora, Netflix, Twitter, Skype, Times Skimmer 
and Angry Birds? To explain Google+, you must begin with this single fact: The major information infrastructure of our time, the In-ternet, is in the midst of a major restructuring. The sprawling labyrinth of the World Wide Web is being replaced by a rigidly ordered and centrally controlled world of apps.Facebook is the 
face of this shift. Deeply integrated with the Web, Face-book is nevertheless 
something of its ant-
onym. When you create with Facebook, you 
are following Facebook’s rules, which were approved by a single visionary CEO, who was acting on behalf of a single corporate entity. One does not have to be a 1960s-style pessimist to fear for the future of free speech in a world where bi-directional communica-tion platforms are owned in such a way. We 
return to the earlier question: What happens 
to a company such as Google when the sub-strate that it feeds upon, and has co-evolved around — the Web — accounts for less than 25 percent of traffic on the Internet, and, as a classic Wired article from last summer point-ed out, that number “is shrinking.”
Google+ began with fear, not brilliance. To 
Vic Gundotra, Google+’s project lead, social 
software has been “the most epic failure of 
Google.” “Because we were focusing on or -
ganizing the world’s information,” Gundotra says, “the search company failed to do the most important search of all,” the search, that is, “for people.” According to this redemption narrative, Google+ saves Google from the sins of its own unsocial software, with Gundotra, naturally, as Christ. The story is compelling 
(especially for Gundrota). But is it true? If 
Google has really “epically failed” at building social software, then what should we make of Gmail, Google Groups, GChat, Google Docs, Blogger, YouTube, and Android, all of which, as a point of fact, mediate the majority of my digital communication with the people whom I care about? If these aren’t “social,” then what is? Or are we supposed to believe 
that Facebook’s form, an infinitesimally small 
blip in the long history of human communi-cation, is the final form of “social?”
People like to say that “necessity is the 
mother of invention,” but as often as not, the opposite is the case. Necessity compels people to steal. For when you believe, as Google+’s Gundotra apparently does, that you’re at a “bet-the-company” moment, you don’t in-
vent radical new models, you steal the ones 
that work. And that’s what Google did. Con-spicuously gone from Google+’s develop-ment process was Google’s famed decentral-ized and experimental ethos. While Facebook grew line-by-line, feature-by-feature — its development unfolding in real-time, like a national drama — Google+ was built by or -ders from the top, and then launched across a user base that was already hundreds of mil-lions of people large. Gone from Google+’s final form, likewise, is the openness and ex-pressiveness that defines the Web. The re-
demption story that Gundotra tells thus has 
a Greek twist: Google saves itself by turning against the principles that made its own life possible.
If it’s true that our world needs an alter -
native to Facebook — if sharing ideas across networks is important, and yet the models we have are incomplete — then the stakes are high, for Google may be one of the only com-
panies that could give us said alternative. It’s 
not immediately obvious why this is. In a per -
fectly competitive market, superior products should beat inferior ones. On the margins, one assumes, people will buy the better toast-er. So if you want to compete with Facebook, why not just build a better Facebook?
It’s not that simple. Social networks can’t 
simply be out-competed by high quality 
products, because the quality of the product 
is itself a function of how many people are us-ing. This is what economist call “positive net-work externalities:” the more people who join a network, the more valuable that network becomes for everyone; and in turn, the more valuable the network becomes, the more peo-ple have reason to join it — and so it grows in a virtuous cycle. This gives Facebook, which 
came first, a huge advantage. The hyped 
start-up diaspora, by contrast, gives us an almost-pathetic illustration of how hard it is to compete with Facebook by taking its basic form and working your way up from the bot-tom. Thus Google’s access to millions of user emails, and to millions of dollars in funding, makes it uniquely able to break the back of the positive network externality trap. Which 
makes Google+ that much sadder.
Facebook’s legacy will likely be cultural 
rather than technological. The Facebook 
story makes me happy to be alive: We live in a world where students no older than the writers of this publication can create world-defining institutions and do it without asking anyone’s permission. The company that beats Facebook will do so by emulating its story, 
not its form. It will beat the monopolistic 
company by giving us something totally new — something more open, more decentral-ized, more expressive. We cannot know for sure what that product will be, but one thing seems certain: It’s not Google+.
Max Novendstern is a student at Harvard 
University.
Google sells out with Google+, signals end of Internet eraUWire
Max
Novendstern
UWire8, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2011
Courtesy to the Alligator
Amanda Orozco, 22, of Orlando, poses in a promotional photo for the Cirque du Soleil 
show "Dralion." The show is coming to the  Stephen C. O'Connell Oct. 11-18.
Performing Arts
EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer 
Amanda Orozco used to do pull-ups ev-
ery day in front of a window that looked 
directly out on her dream.
“Just two more,” she would push her -
self.
Two more could get her in that building 
across the street, get her the part, get her in the air.
Now 22, Orozco is living her dream. She graduated from the National Circus 
School in Montreal and the next day was offered a contract from the building across the street — the Cirque du Soleil headquar -
ters.
“My job is to fly,” she laughed. “Liter -
ally.”
Since June 2010, the Orlando native has 
been a star of the Cirque du Soleil show “Dralion” on its North American tour.
“Dralion,” which is coming to the Ste-
phen C. O’Connell Center Oct. 11 - 13, is a show that combines Chinese acrobatics with contemporary circus performances. 
Orozco is the female lead in the act en-
titled Aerial Pas de Deux, in which she por -
trays Azala, the goddess of air. 
She and her partner tumble through the 
sky above the stage performing acrobat-ics, suspended by nothing more than long bands of blue cloth.
The aerial dancer said she knew she 
wanted to perform on the silks, or tissu, 
with Cirque du Soleil after her mom took 
her to a performance of “La Nouba” on her 12th birthday. 
“I was just in awe of it,” she said. “I liter -
ally came out of there and said, ‘Mom, this is what I’m going to do.’”
After graduating from Ocoee High 
School in 2007, she applied to the Nation-al Circus School in Montreal — the only 
school in North America that provides ad-
vanced circus arts training. 
After a four-day , 40-hour entrance exam 
that Orozco described as “the most rigor -
ous thing I’ve ever done,” she was accepted and invited to join the 100 or so students training to join the circus.Orozco spent the next three-and-a-half 
years studying aerial contortion and “mi-noring” in trapeze and contortion.
“I never expected to achieve everything I 
dreamed of by the time I was 21,” she said. 
Her professional life as a circus per -
former is now in full swing. She’s gotten her makeup routine down from two-and-a-half hours to 45 minutes. She’s figured out 
how to fit her life into two suitcases. 
Though she knows her friends from 
high school are graduating college this year 
and starting jobs as teachers or accountants, she manages to find a sense of normalcy in her life.
To Orozco, normal is a “family” of 54 
people from 14 different countries. It’s the 19 semitrucks that follow her from city to 
city carrying about 1,500 handmade cos-
tume pieces, 300 pairs of shoes, and wash-ers and dryers. 
The young acrobat travels to a new city 
almost every week on the tour. Each week she’ll perform in up to nine shows. 
Orozco said she hasn’t really gotten ner -
vous since her first show in 2010 in Trenton, N.J., but when the tour stops in her home-
town, Orlando, in September, she may lose 
some sleep.
“It’s going to be a little intimidating for 
sure,” she said. “I would’ve never pursued such an outlandish dream had I not had incredible support, which is why it’s so amazing to come back to perform for them 
and why it’s going to be even more chal-
lenging.”
No longer a rookie, Orozco said she plans 
to continue performing with “Dralion.” She also hopes to go on the show’s world tour.  
She’s taking online classes to work toward a degree in medicine, just in case, but said she can’t really see herself wanting to do 
anything else. She loves performing too 
much.
“I get to wake up and do exactly what I 
want to do every day,” she said. 
Tickets for the Gainesville show are on 
sale at the O’Connell Center Box Office or online at www.cirquedusoleil.com/dral-ion. Tickets range from $31 to $90.Twenty-two-year-old acrobat stars in Cirque du Soleil show� COMPANY HAS CREATED 
THREE ANDROID APPS.
BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
Alligator Contributing Writer
Parking, professionalism and 
dubstep have all become easier 
thanks to your fellow Gators.
A recent UF graduate and a 
current UF masters student have 
started a cellphone application 
company.
Niche Mobile so far has created 
Who Data?!, a virtual business card application; Gator Parking, an app that allows users to find where parking is on the UF campus; and Wub Dub, a gadget application that plays dubstep sounds.
Gator Parking and Wub Dub 
cost $1, but more  applications cost-ing around $5 to $10 should be com-ing soon, said Garrett Strobel, a co-founder of the company.
The company operates by using 
profit sharing, giving their employ-ees incentive to work, and market-ing.
“We don’t need to build a viral 
app; we just need to target a viral market,” said Matthew Carroll, Niche Mobile’s other co-founder.
He said that by making an appli-
cation like Gator Parking that tar -
gets UF freshman unfamiliar with parking on campus, Niche Mobile only markets to 5,000 people.
Currently, all the applica-
tions are offered only on Android devices.Carroll said the plan to make applications available on iP-hones and iPads is on its way.
The business started at the be-
ginning of this summer.
Niche Mobile currently has five 
student interns, all in computer sci-ence or computer engineering at 
UF.Two UF alums start 
app-making companyMEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writer
A middle-aged father, cov-
ered in faded tattoos and mus-
cles softened by time, watches toddlers play in a stairwell shad-ed by a government-subsidized 
apartment.
He points to open second 
floor windows, big enough for 
a baby to lean out of, noting the lack of protective screens. He motions to a neighboring apart-ment building with broken air conditioning and mentions the children that come home from 
school to study in their swelter -
ing Carver Gardens home on 
Southeast 15th Street.
The man declined to give 
his name for fear of eviction but said his rent recently increased from about $60 to about $77 a month. About a month ago, Sec-tion 8 residents’ rent payments 
increased — some by tens of dol-
lars, others by 400 percent — but conditions haven’t changed.
The Gainesville Housing Au-thority , which manages Carver Gardens and other government-assisted housing complexes, is facing a prospective shortfall of 
about $1 million after letting too 
many people into the housing voucher program.
To compensate, the housing 
authority raised tenants’ rent rates, which are based on indi-vidual income.
“We’re still working ex-
tremely hard to correct the prob-
lem locally ,” said Jane Morris, a 
Gainesville Housing Authority commissioner. “It obviously is a very difficult and unacceptable situation.”
Morris, who lives in the 400 
Building, a Section 8 complex that was not affected by the in-crease, said the organization was 
receiving less federal funding.
She said the Gainesville Hous-
ing Authority voted to increase 
residents’ rates as an alternative to removing residents from the program. But the organization will search for a solution that steers clear of both issues at a Sept. 27 board meeting, she said.
Gail Monahan, executive di-
rector of the Alachua County Housing Authority, said the sit-uation was the result of a knee-jerk reaction by the city housing organization.
“I think that was a very fool-
ish thing to do,” said Monahan, 
who was the executive director 
of the Gainesville Housing Au-thority until the organizations split in April.
She equates the problem to a 
tilting ship. Had the leaders tak-en a step back and looked at the full picture, the ship would’ve righted itself. Instead, they jerk-
ed the helm.
For those who call Section 8 
housing their home, the most 
common response to higher rent is to keep their heads down.
But between the broken toi-
lets that never see a plumber and the peeling paint on the walls, there’s plenty to complain about, 
the man with the tattoos said.
The man just hopes, for the 
sake of the children in his neigh-
borhood, the increased cost means increased care.
Government housing prices jump
Residents struggle with rentBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS Classifieds
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
THIS WEEK ONLY
$379 3/3 All-Inclusive$349 4/4 All-Inclusive$250 VISA Gift Cards!
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com           12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC!
4/4’s @ $329
Upgraded 4/4’s ONLY $359
$100 Visa Card for fall
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $345.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. Available now. 300-1294    9-2-11-16-1
VALUE PLACE GAINESVILLE
New Extended Stay Lodging 3 miles to UF★NO LEASE - NO CREDIT CHECK
★FREE Utilities, Special UF Monthly Rates
★Furnished Wkly Single Studio $219.99+tax
★Kitchens, Laundry, HD TV/HBO, Secure
5505 SW 41st Blvd.,  I-75, Exit 382352-672-6008 ValuePlace.com/GainesvilleFL     
9-6-11-16-1
FREE RENT IN AUGUST
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse. Walk to UF.
Avail. 8/1 $790/mo. Call 305-982-7218       8-31-11-10-1
4BR/4BA available in 4/4 in beautiful gated 
countryside complex. $375/mo incls all utili-
ties, cable,internet, etc. Big Screen tv in liv-
ing room! Looking for full year lease. 754-
281-5023  orShahrouz.ebadian@gmail.com   9-1-11-10-13 ROOMS IN LUXURY CONDO
$350-$400 each. Pool, tennis, new applianc -
es. Close to UF. Call 516-851-6879 or email 
tapyourrealpower@aol.com       9-2-11-10-1
1br/1ba in 4br/4ba at Countryside Condos 
$350/mo. Avail. now. Great location very 
clean! Furnished, wireless,porch,1st floor, 5 
min from UF, washer/dryer,bballcourt,pool,hot 
tub.305-664-1680    8-30-6-1
Available completely furnished 4BR/4BA 
condo. Great bus routes 9 & 35 every 8-10 
minutes. Amenities pool, hot tub, volleyball, 
basketball court, and fitness center. Rent 
$300/mo, $300 security deposit. 514-7250
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        
12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
PinetreeGardens.com
2 bed/1.5 bath Townhomes
with washer/dryer!
***$629 this month only***
Call today! 376.4002
12-7-11-74-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
12-7-11-74-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com     12-
7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
FULLY UPGRADED – Only 
$1,099
($367/person)
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1/1• 750 sq. ft •$609/mo.Waived move-in 
fees • Waived pet fee
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2011
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-23/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    8-31-11-58-2
AVAILABLE NOW - ONLY A FEW LEFT!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
9-30-11-29-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 
352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
12-7-74-2Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.
●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, 
green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.
postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.
12-7-11-74-2
REDUCED AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
2 large rooms w/private baths. 10 min to UF. 
Large home, quiet neighborhood. $475/mo + 
utils per room. Cable, W/D, hardwood floors. 
5 mins to busline. Call 352-284-0979    8-31-
11-32-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   8-31-11-24-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420    8-31-
11-24-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000
●4/2 in NW $1300.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
3BR, 2Bath, Washer/Dryer, 
Fenced backyard, Carport,
No pets. $1450./Mo   303-877-4915
9-19-11-30-2
8 blocks from UF. 3BR 1BA.
All appliances incl, DW, W/D.
Hardwood floors & tile.
Fenced yard, pets ok, no extra fee.
Individaul leases avail. $1000/mo
Call Carol 359-3341                8-31-11-12-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   9-9-11-19-2
Roommates a Hassle?
Move into your own downtown apt!www.ArlingtonSquare.orgStudios and 1Bdrms starting at $599!Check availability now! 338-000212-7-11-74-2VETERANS
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings 
for Vets who qualify under Section 8 
Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun -
dry 372-3783    8-31-11-12-2
MUST SEE ● VERY NICE ● QUIET 1BR
Custom built in-law suite.
Close to all. Has it all. W/D, all utils incl +
cable. $750/mo. Please call 278-8381    8-31-
11-10-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling 
fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we 
have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs.1st, 
last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550
9-16-11-20-2
3BR, 2BA, Condo Unit, Ground Floor, Kitchen 
& living area; Swimming pool & tennis courts; 
The Sparrow; $700.00 per month.
Call Cristen at 352-514-6222    9-19-11-20-2
GREAT LOCATION! 2BD/2BA partially fur-
nished condo. Close to campus and med 
school, bus stop right outside, lots of park-
ing, swimming pool, full kitchen, W/D, pet friendly. $725/mo OBO (904) 891-13119-2-11-10-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House
Historic spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. 
Custom built with many beautiful, unique 
features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $2200/
month obo + util. Call 275 1259    9-19-11-
20-2
5 BLOCKS NW OF UF
1BR/1BA apt. Galley kitchen. Reserved 
parking next to door. Small pets ok - no extra 
fee. $500/mo, $300 sec dep. Call Carol 352-
359-3341    9-2-11-10-2
***FALL RENTAL ROOMS***
Starting From $350 to $450 Per Rooms
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Semester and Year Leases Available
Rooms For Immediate Move-In
9-2-11-27-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Avail now - 1 yr. $1780 OBO. 352-665-8166 lv msg  
9-6-11-10-22BD/2BA townhouse, full W/D, huge 
closets, tile and laminate flooring, fenced 
backyard, pet friendly, near UF, very clean, 
section 8 accepted. $725/mo  
2911 SW 38th place - (954) 439-2076
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home.  
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to 
$400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 
1st month half price! Vacant lots alsoavailable. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-58879-20-20-2
Spectacular 3BR, Lakefront Condo
1 mile south of UF and Shands
recently renovated,  $1400 month
pool, clubhouse, 2500 s.f. + garage
available immediately (352) 262-2871    9-21-
11-20-2
Historic House walk to UF.2703 NW 2nd 
Ave.Central h/a,screened porch,private 
parking,laundry with w/d.perfect for grad stu-
dent or professional.No pets.1st,last sec.$40 
app fee. $800 mo. 352-332-5836    8-31-11-
6-2
3 blocks to UF – Gatornest
$550 – Only 3 left
Bike to UF – Centerpoint
$450- Only1 left
4BR/2BA House
directly across from Law School
W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
2392 NW 2nd Avenue – Call for details
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
9-8-11-10-2
Amazing, unique house for rent. 2/1 with 
study. No pets or smoking please. Has at-tached studio apt which is rented. http://smith-rentals.edicypages.com/ $875/month. 921 NW 12 Ave. Call 352-466-3695.   8-30-11-4-2
The Polos
ONE MONTH FREE
Move In By September 15th
Call For Details!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
 TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 11
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-7-74-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4
Male roommate needed - 4 BR house, 14 
blks from campus. Safe & secure NW neigh -
borhood. Great deck & yard. Clean, nicely furn, new appl, $575/mo incl util, w/d. AJ 
561.718.5567    9-6-11-10-4
$350 moves you in! No deposit or last months 
rent. Mature male student to share furnished 
4/2. FR, LR, W/D, maid service, yrd man, 5 
min from UF, new kitchen, big yard. No pets, 
non-smoker. (813) 362-7729 or 362-7881
9-6-11-10-4
Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $379/MO
cable, internet, utilities, pool+ more
beautifully renovated, on bus route,  
Call 352  262-2871             9-7-11-5-4
LARGE FURNISHED SUITE IN BEAUTIFUL
house. Female only. Upscale horse neigh
borhood north of Millhopper Rd. 12 min to
SFCC, 15 min to Oaks Mall, 30 min to UF.
$350/mo plus 1/3 utilities. 386-462-9678.
9-1-11-7-4NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
For Sale or Rent 3B 1B Waterfront Cottage~ 
25 min from UF see website 4 photos & info PeacefulLakefrontCottage.com$91,000 Sale ~ $900 p/m rent ~ aaamjn@hotmail.com ~ 352 373 5505    8-30-11-2-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must 
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-7-11-74-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     
12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
●BED SET TWIN $49
●FULL $69●QUEEN $89●KING $99352-376-0953 4390 SW 20TH AVE   10-6-11-30-6
Modern 5-piece sectional.
WILL DIVIDE.Easy to move. $75/section. Very clean & comfortable. Call 352-256-4954   9-2-11-5-6A+ Mobile PC Repair
Our technicians provide fast and thorough
computer repairs, at an affordable price.
We come to you. (352) 212-1220 
APlusMobile@rocketmail.com
9-2-11-30-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
12-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-
74-11
12-7-11-74-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
+15-20 mile range, 15-20 mph. Easy to take 
apart. 300 lb capacity, 500 watt - battery op-
erated  Excellent for Campus & Fun $975 & 
up. Call today J&S Assoicates 352-339-5158    
8-31-11-28-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr 
Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-
6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups 
available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is giving away TWO scoot-
ers to our Facebook friends, one at end of 
Summer B, another in Fall. "Like" our FB 
page for more details about the giveaway. 
facebook.com/RoadRatMotors   9-12-11-
24-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
12, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2011
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-
74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
9-30-11-21-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!
PRICES SLASHED!!!!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS
CASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $999
94 FORD TAURUS $999
96 HONDA ACCORD $1499
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $1999
98 FORD F250 $2500
02 CHEVY BLAZER $4999
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $1999
01 DODGE NEON $1999
00 OLDS ALERO $2500
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLES
NO CREDIT CHECK
MOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!
352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $12999
04 HONDA ODYSSEY $9999
05 SUZUKI XLT $9999
352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      9-8-11-74-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
Volunteer Needed: HOPE - Horses Helping 
People, Inc. is seeking volunteers for our 
fall semester sessions.  Please email us at 
ridingtherapy@gmail.com to become a part 
of our team.  www.horseshelpingpeople.org    
9-2-5-13
$$ CASH PAID, $500 OR MORE $$
FOR JUNK CARS & TRUCKS
RUNNING OR NOT, ANY CONDITION
SAME DAY PICK UP. FREE TOWING
NO TITLE NEEDED. CALL 352-771-6191
 10-11-11-30-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Please submit resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
8-30-98-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.
$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    9-30-11-34-14
NEED NANNY TO TRAVEL: all expenses pd;
min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs/wk @ $12/hr;4yr old/1.5 yr old; bonus hr$; exp; good refs;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to  info@noahsarknanny.com9-6-11-15-14
WEB COURSE ASSISTANTS wanted to 
help faculty with course websites. Applicants must be familiar with Dreamweaver, CSS and Photoshop. Be prepared to present samples of your work. Full- and part-time po-sitions are available. Pay starts at $10.00 per hour. basharat@ufl.edu, online application at http://citt.ufl.edu/contact.php.   9-9-11-17-14
PERSONAL COUNSELOR
TECH SUPPORTLINUX ADMINADMIN ASSTAVIATION ASSTPROOFREADER
Full and part time.   Please apply at
http://www.gleim.com/employment 9-2-11-13-14Farah's now hiring exp. waitrons & prep 
cook. Experience a must.
Apply Monday-Friday after 5pm.
1120 W University Ave                 8-31-7-14
Elementary Tutors Needed
$20/hr; Ed majors pref.Background check requiredSmartphone a plus; Send resume
smartstartgators@bellsouth.net
8-31-11-7-14
Five Star Pizza Downtown
is looking for
Postive Profesional Attitudes
car is required for all personel
variety of hours availabe
apply in person at 210 sw 2nd ave.
between 1 p.m. and 5 p.m.
9-7-11-10-14
Centerplate Part-Time Jobs!
● Event Supervisors
● Warehouse Runners
● Cashiers
Apply in person at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Monday-Friday 8:00 AM to 4:00 PM
www.centerplate.eventbrite.com
                      8-31-11-6-14
Shift MGR/Supervisor needed M-F 11AM-
7PM. $10/$12 per hr based on exp. Previous 
Deli/counter exp a plus. Must have 1 year 
supervisory exp.Please send cover letter & 
resume to 375-5459 or
emailmarketcafe@bellsouth.net    8-30-11-
5-14
Homework Coach wanted for intelligent fun 
loving 12 yr old boy. Late afternoons and 
evenings, Sun-Thurs, 2-3 hours per day, 
$10.00/hr. Must have reliable transp. Email 
qualifications to hogans83@hotmail.com.   
8-31-11-5-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring part-
time Bartender's/Deli Help. Accepting Apps M-F 9-11AM and 2:30-4:30PM at the 5156 S W 34th ST location. Must have reliable transportation and some daytime availability   8-31-11-5-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
FALL 2011
BSC2010            ENY1001           MUH4016
BSC2011            FOS2001             PLP2000
BUL4310            GEB3373             PSY2012
ECO2013           MAN3025             RTV3405
ECO2023           MAN4504             STA2023
ENT3003           MAR3023        …and more!
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
9-2-11-12-14
Veterinary Receptionist
Experience preferred. Must be available 
afternoons and Saturdays. Apply in person 
at Jonesville Animal Hospital, 14145 W 
Newberry Rd, Newberry
9-6-11-16-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-
noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF 
Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers 
welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net
9-2-11-10-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
12-7-74-14
UF Survey Research Center
Now hiring for fall semester!
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352) 392-2908 Ext: 105
720 SW 2nd Ave Suite 156
9-9-11-15-14
Medical assistant/ receptionist wanted for 
busy physician's office. Medical terminology and/or anatomy recommended but not re-quired. Fax (352-377-4816) or email (jas3fl@aol.com) resumes.       9-2-11-10-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm, 
M-F. Wkend hrs vary. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax re-sume & availability to 373-2230     9-6-11-10-14
How I Got an A
is now hiring note takers!
We hire for more classes than anyone.
Apply at HowIGotanA.com
9-2-11-9-14
Needed: Guitar and/or piano teacher in our 
home for once-a-week lessons for teen-age girls. Email resume to ntouche@live.com   8-30-11-5-14
Eyecare Express seeks F/T or P/T sales
help. $500-$600 per week.No experience needed, will train.
Apply at 3720 NW 13th st Gainesville.
8-31-11-7-14
 TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 13
NANNY NEEDED for 2: 18mon/4yrs
2wks/mon/min; 40hrs/wk @$12/hr
Noah's Ark Nanny: email res., pix &
sched: to info@noahsarknanny.com    9-6-
11-8-14
Busy Dermatology Office seeking assistant 
to learn all aspects of billing, collections, ac-
counts payable and receivable, appointment 
scheduling and front office management. 
Ideal for seniors obtaining a business BA or 
similar degree. Part-time position leading to 
possible full-time with management potential. 
Fax resume to 352-332-2966.    9-2-6-14
Opus Coffee Bar
We are searching for fun and active students
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast 
paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting pay is $8.00/hour + tips. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opus-cafe.com, click on the employ-
ment tab, and follow the directions.
9-1-11-5-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working 
environment. PT/FT positions available. 
$7.50/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 
NW 13th St    9-9-11-10-14g
Maintenance Supervisor  FT
AC cert. w/4 yrs. apt. maint. exp.
Must have own tools & truck. Salary
commensurate with exp. DFWP
Apply in person 2770 NW 43rd St., Ste. B
12-7-11-69-14Leasing Agent  FT/PT
Friendly, energetic person.
Exp. preferred. 20-40 hrs./wk.
hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Must be avail. weekend. Apply in person
Spyglass Apts 701 SW 62nd Blvd.   DFWP
12-7-11-69-14 
Property Manager – PT
Organized, motivated, outgoing person
for PT position at small apt. community.
Must be avail. M-F 1-6, Sat. 10-2.
Apply in person
2770 NW 43rd St, Ste B DFWP
12-7-11-69-14
UNIFORM STORE -part time help need -
ed immediately (next to mall). Flexible 
hours(perfect for student). Retail experience 
a plus. Email resume/availability to:
jessia4scrubsbydesign@gmail.com   9-2-4-
14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
Horse boarding, $350/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-
time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing 
available. Barn Family Program to mitigate 
board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome    
9-30-11-38-15. 
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
ADVANCED LEARNING PROGRAMS FOR 
AUTISM AND OTHER DISABILITIESCall 352 275 8171 or emaillupus.foundation@hotmail.com    8-30-11-2-15Gator Nation Productions is seeking busi-
nesses that want to increase their market-
ability and web presence through high qual -
ity HD video production. We also offer our services for events, music videos, etc. We 
operate top of the line equipment and editing 
software. Our company enjoys collaborat -
ing the skills we possess with your vision to achieve the best results on projects. Contact 
us at gatornationproductions@gmail.com or 
call 352-235-6310   8-30-11-1-15.
LIFEGUARD.$12.00 PER HOUR. 
REQUIRES CERTIFICATION.20 HRS/WK ON 3 DAY WKNDS. ADD'L HRS MAY BE AVAIL. ADULT-MALE PATIENTS IN MAX SECURITY MENTAL HLTH FAC DURING    POOL REC THERAPY.CONTACT GRADY CARTHON(352)375-8484   9-13-10-14
Home Health RN
Case Manager
Innovative Senior Care,
 by Brookdale Senior Living, has
 an outstanding full-time
 opportunity for an RN
 providing homecare visits to
 residents within our upscale,
 retirement communities in
 Gainesville. Day 1 Benefits,
 Cash Retention Bonus Plan, &
 Management Incentive Bonus!
Recent Medicare HH
experience required.
Contact Erin Shore at:
Ph: 866-766-7067
EShore@BrookdaleLiving.com
www.BrookdaleCareers.com
Job ID: 25801b
EOE M/F/D/V
8-30-11-1-14
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses 
Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen 
Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   
10-19-11-100-16
ALL YOUR CPR AND FIRST AID NEEDS
FLORIDA HEARTSAVERwww.floridaheartsaver.org 
575-0119                        9-30-28-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
UF/LSU WEEKEND PARTY BUS: 2-nts 
French Quarter Marriott New Orleans, GameDay Transport to LSU. $269 pp www.GatorTrips.com 352.278.1595Florida Seller of Travel Lic#ST37866    8-31-5 21
TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Thursday’s Mailbag
There’s still time to get in on this week’s edition of 
the mailbag. Submit any and all questions to us on Twitter: @alligatorSports. Come at us, bro. (Or, lady.)Alligator Open House will be held Wednesday
Want to work at the largest student-run paper in the nation? Come out to alligatorSports’ Open House on Wednesday from 1:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. Positions available as a beat writer or copy editor. Free pizza! UF coach Will Muschamp has fond memories of FAU coach Howard Schnellenberger (left).See Story, Page 16.
Courtesy of UF Communications
Sixth-year senior Dan Wenger, who transferred from Notre Dame during the 
summer, is listed as the starter at left guard for the Gators’ opener Saturday. 
MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Gators coach Will Muschamp released the 
first depth chart since spring on Monday, and while there were some surprises, there’s also a catch.
Some spots are locked down, like John 
Brantley at quarterback, but Muschamp said things are still up in the air with the offensive line and the secondary, adding the final week of practice would determine who starts Sat-urday against FAU at 7 p.m.
“The bottom line with me is that you have 
to earn the right to start, so if a guy doesn’t practice [well], he’s not going to start,” he 
said. “A guy has got to get out there and 
practice and compete and play the right way when we start our football game.”
On the chart, freshman De’Ante Saun-
ders is listed as the starter at safety alongside sophomore Matt Elam, and offensive line-man Dan Wenger, a sixth-year senior who transferred during the summer, is listed as the starter at left guard. 
As recently as Thursday, teammates 
pointed to Kyle Koehne as the front-run-ner for the left guard position, while ju-nior Josh Evans or redshirt freshman Josh Shaw had been expected to start at safety.  
Things become even more jumbled at corner -
back, as the depth chart has Moses Jenkins “or” Cody Riggs listed at one spot, and either Marcus Roberson, Jaylen Watkins or Jeremy 
Brown at the other, in that order. 
Muschamp offered some clarity.
“All of those positions are a little bit up for 
grabs as far as who practices the best.”
“I’m young, but I’m old-fashioned and 
generally how you play is how you practice,” he said. “Nobody, in my opinion, has sepa-rated themselves to be named the starter here 
Monday before our first game.”
Other positions have less competition, 
such as wide receiver and linebacker, but 
Muschamp cautioned that the depth chart “certainly can change as we work through the week.”
Injury update: Florida quarterback John 
Brantley said the soreness and tightness in his lower back that caused him to be limited Florida releases preliminary depth chart
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
 
This time last August, John 
Brantley joked about chucking the ball out of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium in the season opener.
A year later, Brantley insists 
his confidence has not waned, even if the energy the first week of the season is different.
“We’re probably going to keep it a little more controlled 
this year,” he said.
Brantley walked on the field 
against Miami (Ohio) in 2010 
accompanied by so much hype that people half-forgot he was a new starter. Brantley was going to shred the RedHawks, deftly read the defense, hit receivers in stride and enliven a passing at-
tack that grew stale the year pri-
or — like a “real quarterback.”Instead, Mike Pouncey sailed 
a snap to Brantley’s left. Loss of 27 yards. Then, Chris Rainey 
fumbled. T h e n , Em-
m a n u e l 
M o o d y 
bobbled a pitch on 4th and 1. Then, two more errant snaps. 
The defense held water, 
and the offense scored a couple fourth-quarter touchdowns to walk off the field with a deceiv-ing 34-12 win, but Florida’s pre-season excitement was deflated in a little more than three hours. Brantley managed just 113 yards, indicative of a passing attack that would eventually rank 10th in the Southeastern Conference.
The poor showing in the 
season opener certainly is not 
to blame for the whole season, 
Brantley and other players said
At the same time, it didn’t  
New season, same expectations for BrantleyPivotal position:
Offensive line
or secondary?
Tyler: I know this sounds boring to the 
casual fan, but you need to watch the of-fensive line  Saturday. If the group plays 
well this year, the offense will thrive. And if the offense thrives, the Gators will exceed the ho-hum expectations we all have thrust upon them.
I’m not saying the offense will be the strength 
of the team. Florida’s defense was ranked ninth 
nationally in 2010, and the unit should be one of the best in the Southeastern Conference again. To hear players talk about him, Will Muschamp 
must wallpaper his office with hand-scribbled 
zone blitzes. Think John Nash from “A Beauti-
ful Mind,” only with football diagrams instead 
of equations.
But it’s precisely because Muschamp’s 
brain is so big and the defense is so talented 
that the offensive line is key . If Florida can put up points at a decent clip, it should be able to keep games close against heavyweights like Alabama and South Carolina. To do so, the Gators are going to need to pound the ball.   
Running backs Jeff Demps and Chris Rainey are 
the best players on offense. Give them lanes to 
run through, and UF could be off to the races.
Tom: Speaking of “A Beautiful Mind,” I don’t 
know whether you’re brilliant like John Nash, or crazy like him with your argument here, Tyler. Sure the offensive line is key and all if you’re talking football theory . But we’re talking about Florida, not football in general.
You of all people should know that defense 
wins championships — just look at 2008 when Florida shut down Oklahoma’s high-powered offense. It was the secondary that set the tone then (see: Major Wright blowing up Manny Johnson), and this year will be more of the same
As in, the secondary will be the pivotal unit 
on this team, and the Gators’ success will hinge on that very young, very talented corps of defen-sive backs, especially after losing Ahmad Black 
and Janoris Jenkins.
Replacing the best two players on a passing 
defense that ranked 12th nationally last year is 
going to be more important to the team’s out-look than piecing together an offensive line that was just 58th in sacks allowed.
Tyler: Don’t forget about Will Hill.Yes, the defensive backfield is young. But 
running the football is more important than air -
ing it out, whether that be in “football theory” or THE RALLY
QB trying to avenge last year’s letdown
sEE BRAnTLEY , pAgE 15UF Fo otball
Tyler Jett
twitter: @tyler_jett
Tom green
twitter: @tomas_verde
sEE nOTE, p AgE 15
sEE RALLY , pAgE 16exactly lighten the weight of expectations.
“It just killed the momentum, really,” Brantley 
said. “It sucked the wind out of it, I guess you could 
say. … It’s real important just to step on the gas ped-al from the first play. Just keep going; don’t let off.”
Since spring, “confidence” has been the word 
of the day, every day. When asked about how the starting quarterback has changed, players talk about him being more of a leader, being unafraid to take charge in the huddle, being — well, confident. 
But no matter how much he talks about a new 
era to outsiders, Brantley seems to always be tagged by the shadow of last season. Every time he’s avail-
able to the media, questions 
about 2010 creep up.
Monday morning, for exam-
ple, Brantley fielded three differ -
ent questions about learning from 
the pains of last fall. He handled 
them politely , but he was clearly annoyed, his responses increas-ingly curt.
“Last year definitely helped 
me grow up a lot and matured me a whole bunch. I think it will help a lot. I’m ready for this season.”
“I tried my best to forget about it. It’s tough 
sometimes. Growing up, from last year, I’ve defi-nitely done better than that.”
“I’ve definitively matured and grown up.” Later Monday, middle linebacker Jon Bostic talk-
ed about a leader who kept his head high through adversity. Coach Will Muschamp praised Brantley for growing through the changes of the team.
But for all that’s different from this time last 
year, there remains one constant theme: Can Brant-ley live up to the hype?
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org.JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
 
Going from 13 kills in a Final Four match to 
coming off the bench just one season later was a tough break for senior outside setter Stepha-nie Ferrell.
But her determination to get back on top 
is now paying dividends for both Ferrell and No. 9 Florida (2-0, 0-0 Southeastern Confer -
ence) as they host No. 25 Florida State (3-0, 0-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) tonight at 7 in the O’Connell Center.
Ferrell made the most of her opportuni-
ties at the Active Ankle SEC/ACC Challenge, racking up 20 kills and a .381 hitting percent-
age to earn the tournament’s Most Valuable 
Player Award.
“I try not to get too high or too low, but stay 
steady (emotionally),” Ferrell said. “But when I get a big kill, I can’t control myself.”
While Ferrell’s on-court celebrations are 
in the moment, her raw energy is fueled from overcoming adversity in her early days as a Gator.
Prior to the 2010 campaign, Ferrell trans-
ferred to UF from Hawaii, where she logged significant playing time for a Warriors squad that advanced to the 2009 Final Four.
Despite her experience, she was unable to 
crack the starting lineup and sat behind cur -
rent redshirt senior Kristy Jaeckel and former All-SEC first-teamer Callie Rivers.
But it has been Ferrell’s work ethic that has impressed her coach. 
“Stephanie actually did not go home after 
spring semester,” Wise said. “She stayed all of Summer A, all of Summer B, and even in the weeks and intercessions she was working out 
in that weight room.”
While Ferrell may be on the verge of a 
breakout season, she still has some work to do 
to get where she wants to go.
One aspect of her game that Ferrell still 
needs to work on is something that Wise de-scribes as “streaky” play.
“What I mean by ‘streaky’ is that she’s 
going to generate those kills and make those 
plays, but will she hit over .350 every night?” 
Wise said. 
”For Stephanie, she won’t be asked to carry 
the load, but she really is a huge part of this team in terms of what we ask from her.”
While the Gators may not be asking Fer -
rell to put the team on her back, last weekend proved she was more than capable of rising to the occasion. 
If Ferrell can continue to put together per -
formances like her MVP showing in the Active Ankle SEC/ACC Challenge, UF could make a legitimate play for its first national champion-ship, a journey that continues with an experi-enced and talented FSU team tonight.
“She really knows it’s her last year and she 
wants to make it her best,” Wise said. 
“It was just a matter of could she see her -
self at this point a year ago when it was so far away.”
in practice last week should not be a concern for Saturday’s game. 
“I’ve been feeling good 
lately and I’m ready to move forward,” he said. “I’m not worried about it at all.”
Muschamp confirmed in-
jured tight end A.C. Leonard (knee) would miss the opener against FAU. Junior corner -
back Jeremy Brown is question-able after missing considerable practice time with a sprained knee. Wide receiver Omarius Hines (hamstring) and line-backer Dee Finley (shoulder) 
are also questionable. 
Assistants on field: Mus-
c h a m p 
said of-fensive  coordi-
nator Charlie Weis and defen-sive coordinator Dan Quinn would be on the field for games 
instead of in the box. 
Quinn will call the defense, 
and Weis will call the offense. 
Muschamp said he felt it was important to have the coordi-nators on the field to commu-nicate more effectively with players adjusting to the new systems. 
“I’ve been through it before, 
the growing pains of some-thing happens on game days that you’re not prepared for,” Muschamp said. “We’ve got to get them up, we’ve got to get them calmed down. We’ve got to say this is what’s happen-ing.”
Contact Matt Watts at 
mwatts@alligator.org. TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Weis, Quinn will be on field this season
NOTE , from page 14
P David Lerner / Kyle Christy
H John Crofoot / Tyler Murphy
PR Chris Rainey / Jordan Reed OR Frankie 
HammondLS Drew Ferris / Christopher Guido
K Caleb Sturgis / Zack Brust
KR Andre Debose OR Solomon Patton OR Jeff 
DempsBuck Ronald Powell / Kedric Johnson
DT Dominique Easley / Leon Orr
NT Jaye Howard / Omar Hunter
DE Sharrif Floyd / William Green
SLB Lerentee McCray / Darrin Kitchens
MLB  Jonathan Bostic / Michael Taylor
WLB  Jelani Jenkins / Dee Finley
CB Marcus Roberson OR Jaylen Watkins OR 
Jeremy BrownS Matt Elam / Josh ShawS De’Ante Saunders / Josh EvansCB Moses Jenkins OR Cody Riggs / Loucheiz 
PurifoyNickel De’Ante Saunders / Cody RiggsFlorida TWo -dEEp dEp Th CharT
DEFENSE
SPECIALISTSWR (X)  Quinton Dunbar / Andre Debose
WR (Z)  Deonte Thompson / Frankie Ham -
mond
TE Jordan Reed / Gerald ChristianF-21  Trey Burton / Hunter Joyer
F-12 Gerald ChristianZ-11 Frankie Hammond / Andre DeboseHB Chris Rainey OR Jeff Demps / Mike Gillislee
QB John Brantley / Jeff Driskel
LT Xavier Nixon / Chaz Green
LG Dan Wenger / Kyle Koehne
C Jonotthan Harrison / Dan WengerRG Jon Halapio / Nick Alajajian
RT Matt Patchan / Chaz GreenOFFENSE
*Starters appear first, backups are listed second
Maegan Dennis and Shawn JanetzkeBrantley
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Senior outside setter Stephanie Ferrell had 20 kills and hit .381 during the Gators’ 
home tournament this weekend. She earned the Most Valuable Player Award.  
UF VOLLEYBALLFerrell emerging for Gators; rivalry match with ‘Noles tonight
BrANTLEY , from page 14Slow start still 
a reminder for 
Brantley, Florida
UF Fo otball16, ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2011
 Courtesy of Ralph Nataro Photography
  Florida Atlantic coach Howard Schnellenberger, who will retire at the end of 
the 2011 season, said Florida “certainly” should win Saturday’s game.  
FLORIDA ATLANTIC
  GREG LUCA
 Alligator Staff Writer
   
 With 1:48 left and the Gators 
trailing by four, UF quarterback Wayne Peace was in trouble. His running lanes were completely 
closed and his ﬁ  rst passing option 
— the tight end — was covered. 
  That’s when he noticed full-
back James Jones open near the right pylon and lofted a high, wobbly pass in his direction. 
  Jones stumbled backward, 
jumped and snatched the ball from the air with only his right 
hand, securing the game-winning 
touchdown and propelling Flor-ida to a 17-14 victory over Miami. 
  The year is 1982, and an 
11-year-old Will Muschamp looks on from the crowd. 
  On the Miami sideline stands 
head coach Howard Schnellen-berger, then in his 23rd year as a 
coach and fourth season with the 
Hurricanes. 
  Now, 29 years later, the two 
will square off in a game that marks the dawn of Muschamp’s head-coaching career and the be-ginning of the end for Schnellen-berger, who is entering his ﬁ  nal year at Florida Atlantic. 
  “It’s going to be different,” 
Schnellenberger said. “This will be the last time you have a chance to play Florida… It’s going to be-come more nostalgic.”
  Schnellenberger, who has been 
a coach for 46 years and a head coach for 26, has ﬁ  nally decided to call it quits. 
  He’ll still serve as an ambassa-
dor to FAU beyond the scope of football, but his time teaching the 
game will be at its end. 
  “I’ve given this decision a lot 
of thought,” Schnellenberger 
said. “This appeared to be prob-ably the most sensible time to make this announcement.”
  Although Schnellenberger has 
been coaching longer than Mus-champ has been alive, the two 
share similar roots. 
  Bill Oliver, who Muschamp 
worked under as a graduate as-
sistant at Auburn and cited as one of his biggest inﬂ  uences, crossed paths with Schnellenberger at Alabama during the ‘60s.
  “I felt like [Schnellenberger] 
was the best developer of quarter-
backs and teacher of quarterbacks during that time, and on through 
the ‘80s, and where he is now to-
day ,” Muschamp said. “I have 
great respect for him and the foot-ball team that he’ll bring in here.” 
  Muschamp expressed admira-
tion for Schnellenberger’s nation-al title at UM, successful renais-sance of the Louisville and FAU programs, and even his lasting impact on the Miami Dolphins, 
which Muschamp noted in per-
son as the Dolphins’ defensive coordinator in 2005. 
  Schnellenberger was realistic 
about his team’s chances Satur-day , when the Owls will debut a new-look defense and a ﬁ  rst-time starter at quarterback in Graham Wilbert. 
  “If they play a sound game 
and play a hard-fought game, they certainly should win,” Sch-nellenberger said. 
  Still, he said he values one last 
chance to play against the Gators, a team he said has been very spe-cial to him throughout his career. 
  And he will leave The Swamp 
this ﬁ  nal time with only positive expectations for Muschamp. 
  “I wish him the very best of 
luck at Florida,” Schnellenberger said. “I hope it’s a long career.”
  Contact Greg Luca at gluca@
alligator.org.  Unlikely paths intersect Saturday
off from time to time, whether it’s because the quarterback isn’t accurate, the receivers aren’t running precise routes, pass protection has broken down, whatever. 
A good running attack, on the other hand, 
is butter. If you can pound the  ball, you con-trol the game. Go watch Florida’s 2009 SEC Championship loss, when the Crimson Tide gutted the Gators for 251 yards on 53 carries.
  Florida has to stop the run on defense, and it has to run the ball on offense. If Florida’s front seven lives up to preseason hype, the pressure will be off the defensive backs. Oppo-
nents will ﬁ  nd themselves in obvious passing 
downs, which makes the job that much easier.
  Offensively, there are plenty of doubts 
about Florida’s big men. Can Xavier Nixon re-cover from an offseason during which he lost and then regained 55 pounds? Is Dan Wenger truly safe after suffering two concussions at Notre Dame? Are the other starters (who hold a combined eight starts) ready?
  Florida’s season hinges on these questions.  To m :  Right now, the hype with that front 
seven is just that — hype. None of those high-ly touted players — Ronald Powell, Sharrif 
Floyd or Dominique Easley — have shown us 
anything to prove Florida’s pass rush will be vastly improved from last season.
  Until they do, the pressure remains on that 
group of defensive backs because, after all, they are the last line of defense for the Gators’, well, defense. That’s a lot to ask of a (very) young defensive backﬁ  eld that could likely start two freshmen and two sophomores.
  Oh, and one of those sophomores, by all ac-counts, has been the leader of the defense as a whole. 
I’m talking about Matt Elam, by the way . 
You know, the guy Easley referred to as the best out there. If he’s really the leader every-one says he has become over the last year, that means not only the secondary’s success is on his shoulders, but the entire defense depends on Elam and that group.
  Tyler: Nah. Offensive line is more impor-
tant. And that’s that.
  Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org and 
T om Green at tgreen@alligator.org. 
RALLY , from page 14“If they play a sound 
game and play a hard-
fought game, they certain-
ly should win.”
Howard Schnellenberger
FAU coach