We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 10 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  UF sophomore 
guard Kenny 
Boynton (right) is 
considered the best 
defender on a team 
that has struggled 
to slow down 
opposing offenses 
in its last three 
games.
See Story, Page 14.Man in Washington state sees his stolen van while bird watching
PORT ANGELES, Wash. — While De-
van Miller was bird watching recently on 
Olympic Peninsula, he saw bald eagles, kingfishers, woodpeckers and his stolen Volkswagen Vanagon.
Miller told The Peninsula Daily News 
the van was so badly damaged he almost didn’t recognize it. 
The top and side panels had been cut 
off and the dashboard ripped apart.
Clallam County detectives took finger -prints, but Miller has little hope of finding whoever took the van from his Port Ange-les driveway in November.
The engine and transmission were 
intact when he spotted the van Jan. 2 in woods near the Elwha River. 
Miller was able to drive it eight miles 
to an auto sales yard, which is giving him credit toward another Volkswagen.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 10
CROSSWORD 13
SPORTS 14Partly 
cloudy
72/49
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Wordy Walls
Biology major Deepthy Alias, 26, paints the word “liar” on a brick on the Reitz colonnade 
Tuesday afternoon. This brick, along with others, will be used to build a wall on the Plaza of 
the Americas next Monday morning as part of IRHA’s Writing on the Wall project. The wall will be torn down by students on Jan. 28 as a symbolic breaking of stereotypes.
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer 
Shayna Teijido, a UF nursing 
senior, died Monday due to com-
plications involving  blood clots 
in her lungs.
She was just shy of her 22nd 
birthday.  
Ryan Arens, a UF journalism 
senior who knew Teijido though the co-ed service fraternity Alpha Phi Omega,  said she was such an integral part of the fraternity that 
it is going to be hard without her 
there. 
“She had such a passion for 
helping other people,” said 
Arens, who is the newly elected president of the fraternity.
Teijido had been a member 
since spring 2008.
She would have graduated at 
the end of this semester with a 
degree in nursing, which he said 
shows her dedication to caring 
for others.
Arens said she volunteered 
a lot of her time at places like Gainesville Pet Rescue and No-Nursing student  
remembered as warm, caring
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer
City and university interests joined forces in their first joint 
meeting in recent years to discuss issues concerning students, 
from taxi fares to apartment price gouging. 
City Commissioner Jeanna Mastrodicasaled the meeting 
between the City Commission and Student Senate on Tuesday 
night in Mayor Craig Lowe’s absence. 
She suggested the idea for a joint meet-
ing, which was a tradition back when she took office in 2006. 
Student Senate President Ben Meyers 
said the meeting was important because it encouraged discus-sion between students and city officials. 
“Too often, students forget that we are residents of 
Gainesville for as long as we’re here,” Meyers said.SG meets with 
city officialsOBITUARY
n A MAN WAS CHARGED 
WITH FELONY BATTERY WHEN THE ARGUMENT GOT VIOLENT.
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
A dispute between two half-
brothers over wrestling trad-
ing cards led to one brother get-
ting stitches and the other being charged with a felony.
Kaven King, 24, lives with his 
brother and another roommate 
in an apartment at Gateway at 
Gainesville, 4000 SW 37th Blvd. 
King and his brother were in 
the apartment’s kitchen, where the brother tried to take King’s phone 
from his hand. When his brother 
turned to leave the room, King came screaming after him with a drinking glass and smashed it 
over his head, a police report stat-
ed.
King left the 
apartment be-
fore police ar -
rived. When po-lice reached the apartment, they found blood and 
glass all over the 
kitchen and living room floors, ac-
cording to the report.
The brother had a 1.25-inch 
long by 1/3-inch thick cut in his head, and though the wound 
wasn’t life-threatening, it did need 
stitches, the report stated.
Police found King in the 
neighboring complex, Stoneridge 
Apartments, shortly after. He 
told police he had been mad at his brother for trying to take his phone and said he’d acted defen-sively. However, the report noted 
that the injury showed the blow 
came from behind.
King was arrested at 12:15 a.m. 
Tuesday and charged with one 
count of felony aggravated bat-
tery.  He was taken to the Ala-chua County Jail, held on $15,000 bail and had not been released by press time.Brothers wrestle over cards
StudentGovernment
King
SEE OBITUARY, p AGE 5
SEE SENATE, p AGE 8“She had such a passion 
for helping other people.”
Ryan Arens
president of Alpha Phi OmegaNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 10 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Nicole Deck, 
  Safid Deen, Desiree Farnum, 
  Olivia Feldman, Greg Fink, 
  Josh Isom, Caitlin O’Conner, 
  Briana Seymour, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,   
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
SUNNY
63/40PARTLY
CLOUDY
58/33RAIN
63/37PARTLY
CLOUDY
74/56PARTLY
CLOUDY
72/49
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Dynamo Policy Group General 
Body Meeting
Today, 6 p.m.
Anderson Room 034The Dynamo, UF’s first and only student-run think tank, 
will be hosting its first gen-
eral body meeting today. Topics will include getting published, speaker ideas and our first social. New mem-
bers are encouraged to attend 
and leadership opportunities are available. 
Get Carded meeting
Today, 7:15 p.m.Little Hall 127There are 110,179 Americans currently waiting for a life-
saving transplant. Come 
learn how you can help raise awareness about organ and tissue donation with Get 
Carded at our first meeting of 
the semester. All majors are welcome. For more informa-tion go to http://groupspac-es.com/GetCardedUF. 
Psychology Club & Psi Chi 
MeetingToday, 7:20 p.m.
Little Hall 101
Eager to meet fellow psychol-ogy majors? Are you inter -
ested in learning about grad-uate school, volunteer and 
research opportunities? Then 
come to the first Psychology Club meeting tonight at 7:20 p.m. in LIT 101. Come early 
for pizza! The guest speaker 
will be Ira Fischler. For more information and updates, add our group on Facebook or go to www.psych.ufl.
edu/~psichi
Golden Key General Body 
MeetingToday, 7 p.m.
Turlington L005Looking for a way to get in-volved on campus? Look no further than Golden Key. 
With our emphasis on service, 
academics and leadership,  
there is bound to be an opportunity for you to 
get involved. Come out 
to our meeting to hear  
about our upcoming events. There will be free pizza and drinks. 
Pi Sigma Alpha Meeting  
Today, 7 p.m.Anderson 34
Pi Sigma Alpha Political 
Science Honor Society will be having its first meet-ing of the semester. We will be discussing upcom-
ing meetings and exciting 
events including a trip to  
Tallahassee, the opportu-nity to be published in the 
spring issue of the Political 
Science Newsletter and fun socials. Start making  
connections, learn about in-African Student Union Meeting 
Friday, 6:30 p.m. Matherly Room 18 We will be having our first meeting of the spring semes -
ter. If you are looking to get involved or learn more about African culture, you don’t want to miss this meeting. 
Gainesville Comedy Showcase
Wednesdays and Fridays, 10 p.m.Free stand-up comedy featur -
ing both professional and lo-cal comics. The showcase is  located at Mother’s Pub on Wednesdays and Jeff’s Deli on University Avenue on 
Fridays.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your sub-missions after above events. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.
STATE
Scientists use sedation to 
free entangled whale 
CAPE CANAVERAL— Sci-
entists used at-sea chemical se-
dation to help cut 50 feet of rope 
that was wrapped through the 
mouth and flippers of a young North Atlantic right whale.
Officials said Tuesday this is 
only the second time the sedation efforts have helped disentangle a whale. The rescue happened Sat-urday off the coast of Cape Ca-naveral. The other was in 2009, 
also in Florida.
A survey team first spot-
ted the young female whale on 
Christmas Day. A team of rescu-
ers removed 150 feet of rope on 
Dec. 30.
Scientists gave the whale a 
dose of antibiotics and will track it for 30 days using a temporary 
satellite tag.
Wildlife officials say North 
Atlantic right whales are among 
the most endangered species in 
the world, with only 300 to 400 
remaining.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSternship opportunities and gain valuable information about the department. Pi 
Sigma Alpha can offer all 
that and so much more! Free pizza and refresh-ments will be served! 
Campus Diplomats Forum
Thursday, 6 p.m.Arredondo CafeAttend our forum to find 
out more and see if you 
have what it takes to be-come a campus diplomat. For more information, or 
to download an applica-
tion, go to dso.ufl.edu/studentorgs/diplomats/. Applications are due Jan. 29.
2ND Tech Entrepreneur 
Intern Swap MeetThursday, 6 p.m.
Hough Hall lobby
Searching for a spring or summer internship with a local start-up company?  Here’s your chance to meet 
company representatives 
from over 15 local start-ups, including Grooveshark, RegisterPatient, Trendy 
Entertainment and 
Fracture. Internships are available in fields such as marketing, Web develop-ment, public relations, 
computer engineering, 3-D 
modeling and more.  RSVP on Facebook is requested but not required.
Zumbathon for March of 
DimesThursday, 6 p.m.Florida Gym
Join a night of dance-in-
spired fitness and fun ben-efiting the March of Dimes. Tickets can be purchased at 
the door for $12 for three 
hours of Zumba instruc-tion, light refreshments and door prizes. To spice up your Zumba, you are 
invited to dress in neon to 
show your support for the March of Dimes.
Ayaan Hirsi Ali: Islam and 
FreedomThursday, 6 p.m.Pugh Hall Ocora  
Feminist critic of Islam and 
Somali-born noted author 
Ayaan Hirsi Ali will speak about her heroic personal journey from Somalia to the 
U.S. and about her recent 
book, “Nomad.” For more information, go to bobgra-hamcenter.ufl.edu. SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
In the wake of recent talks about 
merging the Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Office and the Gainesville Police De-partment, one City Commission candi-date is voicing her opposition to such a measure. 
Calling the possibility of consolida -
tion “unacceptable,” Susan Bottcher, who is running for a city commission seat in District 3 in March, believes that such an act would undercut the rela-tionship between the community and police. 
“The ability to have direct influence 
over our policing is essential to the safe-ty of our neighborhoods,” Bottcher said in a statement. “If consolidation were to occur our neighborhoods would suffer longer response times and a disconnect from their local police force.”
Eric Conrad, Bottcher’s campaign 
manager, said that Bottcher has met with Gainesville Police Chief Tony Jones and Jeff McAdams, the head of the Fraternal Order of Police, regarding the issue and is hopeful to meet with Alachua County Sheriff Sadie Darnell. 
Using Jacksonville as 
an example of a city that has undergone police con-solidation, Conrad said a 
consolidated police force would not be a true representation of the local com -
munity. 
“Susan knows the importance of the 
neighborhood having their own voice in fighting crime,” Conrad said. “People feel the need to have an open dialogue with their police.”Candidate speaks out 
against police mergerON CAMPUS
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
Sales of UF’s discounted Microsoft Of-
fice discs have been bringing business to 
both the UF Bookstore and the Computer 
Help Desk. 
Last week, both departments began of-
fering the highest-end version of the office 
software for $15, down from the almost 
$500 price the software runs for on Micro-
soft’s website. 
Versions for both PC and Mac are avail-
able for the discounted price, though Mac 
users are only treated to the standard ver -
sion of the software.
“We’ve been pretty slammed,” said 
Jonathan Pitts, manager of the Technology Hub at the Reitz Union. “But I’ve heard our 
lines are a bit shorter than the Computer Help Desk. Their lines are out the door right now.”
Pitts estimates the UF Bookstore alone has 
sold 1,000 copies of the software in a week.  
The Health Science Center’s ground-floor 
bookstore also plans to begin selling the 
software today.
Both 32-bit and 64-bit Windows 7 up-grade discs are also being sold for $15. 
The discounted software has been avail-
able to both faculty and staff since 2004, but 
only recently extended to students, who 
have been glad to receive the offer.
“Fifteen bucks for something that would 
usually cost you $500,” said Chris Caro, a 
21-year-old economics major, as he waited 
in the back of a 13-person line in the Hub. 
“C’mon, you’d be crazy not to take ad-
vantage,” he said. 
Caro said he heard of the discounted 
software through ISIS and the GatorTimes newsletter, which is e-mailed to students.
Others hadn’t gotten the message yet. 
When asked about the software, 18-year-
old math major Mia Peterson became frus-trated. She hadn’t heard about the offer, and 
had purchased a $100 copy of the software 
for her Toshiba laptop in August. 
“I wish I knew about it sooner,” she 
said.Software sale a success
NewsLocal“C’mon, you’d be crazy not to 
take advantage.”
Chris Caro
UF economics studentBy MIGUEL CHATELOIN
Alligator Writer
Luke Sipka enters from stage right por -
traying a member of a marching band, 
based on a situation suggested by the au-
dience.
He then goes limp and falls to the 
floor.
Richard Camillucci rushes over and 
picks up Sipka by the shoulders, not to check if he’s unharmed but to puppeteer his motionless body and continue the act.
Such is the aim of “Dead Puppets,” an 
acting game that their improvisational troupe, ArACkA, regularly performs.
“Dennis? Did you put on two right 
shoes again?” Camillucci says holding up 
a limp woman, a participating member 
from the audience, who is portrayed as the band leader.
Sweating, Camillucci rushes back to 
Sipka, holds him up again and says, “Oh, you know I have that condition where I can’t tell my right from my left.”
The audience surrenders little laughter.It’s a rough Saturday night for the 
troupe at Brophy’s Irish Pub.
They notice their rhythm is a little off 
and the loud noises at the bar distract the audience from the performance.
Camillucci shrugs it off and continues 
performing. Such nights are not uncom-
mon for an art form that thrives on the un-
expected.
It’s also not an art form exclusive to 
them.
In the last few years, improvisational 
acting troupes have populated Gaines-ville’s comedy scene and names like ArACkA, Generation Sketch Comedy and Sharkpunch are commonplace to fans of 
the shows.
According to some of the groups, The-
ater Strike Force, a large improvisational 
theater club on campus, is a major reason 
for the existence of these troupes.
“Every single one of us learned improv 
from TSF and then we became part of these 
groups,” said Augie Artiles, co-director of Generation Sketch Comedy and a member 
of ArACkA.
According to Camillucci, some stu-
dents start a troupe when TSF shows don’t 
have the spots to take them. Others start a 
troupe out of sheer desire to make use of 
their talents.
But those talents don’t always come 
from an acting background.
“One of my favorite things about im-
prov is that people from pretty much any walks of life can do it,” Camillucci said. “You don’t have to have a theater back-ground.”
For most involved students, the large 
time commitment required by most troupes doesn’t feel like a burden. Gen-eration Sketch Comedy director Shawn McWhinnie calls it “a break for them from 
studying.”
But the time commitment has been high-er this week as Gainesville troupes have been preparing for the annual Gainesville 
Improv Festival that starts today.
Lasting for four days, the event features 
almost every troupe in Gainesville and 
others from Chicago and San Francisco.
The headliner for the event is 3033, a 
group of veteran performers from Chi-
cago.
“Gainesville usually doesn’t see that 
caliber of talent,” festival co-producer Sky-ler Stone said.
Today there will be a kick-off event 
in the Common Grounds night club and 
performances will be held at the Phillips 
Center for Performing Arts throughout the rest of the festival.
Ticket prices and schedules of perfor -
mances are on the event’s website, www.
gainesvilleimprov.com.
Many performers in visiting troupes are 
alumni of UF and former members of The-
ater Strike Force. They return to Gainesville 
to not just perform, but to teach workshops 
during the event.
Camillucci notes that troupes like his 
have loyal fans that keep returning for shows but rarely attract audiences new to 
improvisational acting. 
“With troupes, you have to know some-
one to know when a certain show is or to 
get it on Facebook,” Camillucci said. “We 
built an audience through practically word 
of mouth.”
He’s entertained the idea of starting 
a comedy club in Gainesville where all troupes could perform.
With one dedicated location for im-
provisational comedy, he said, troupes could have “a real home for improv in Gainesville.”4, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2011
FILMLOCAL 
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer 
Instead of using words and ideas to tell a 
story, Joan Frosch prefers to use feet.
“Nora,” a film produced by Frosch, a UF 
professor of dance and director for the Center 
for World Arts, will make its U.S. broadcast 
television debut tonight. 
The film, based on the real-life stories of 
Zimbabwe-born dancer Nora Chipaumire, aired on PBS World’s “AfroPoP: The Ultimate Cultural Exchange” at 7 p.m. and midnight. 
The film illustrates Chipaumire’s child-
hood experiences growing up in Zimbabwe.It portrays her life during the Rhodesian 
Bush War, also known as the Zimbabwe War of Liberation, through dance and perfor -
mance. 
Frosch first became intrigued with Chi-
paumire’s tale while producing and directing her film “Movement (R)evolution Africa: a 
story of an art form in four acts.”
“I remember being in our dance studios 
downstairs, and when Nora walked into the room, the room stood still,” Frosch said. “She has such an enormous presence that there was just no taking your eyes off of her for anyone in her room.”
Following “Movement (R)evolution Af-rica,” Frosch said that she wanted to focus on just one artist and his or her story. 
She decided to make Chipaumire the sub-
ject. 
“I know that Joan has been working on this for many years,” UF School of Theatre and Dance associate professor Paul Favini said. “I’m so glad it’s getting the recognition.”
Tom Davison, director of American Pub-
lic Television Presentations, worked on “Af-
roPoP” and said its goal is to communicate 
the African American experience to the U.S., something that “Nora” exhibits.  
“It’s a really unique look at something 
that’s not usually accessible to audiences,” he said. “’Nora’ is almost a visual poem piece. The actual production values of the film are excellent. This type of story telling is really hypnotic. The history of Nora’s life tells what 
the country was going through.”Dance professor produces film to air on PBS tonight
“She has such an enormous   
presence that there was just no 
taking your eyes off of her for   
anyone in her room.”
Joan Frosch
UF dance professor n THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES WILL VOTE 
TO REPEAL THE HEALTH CARE BILL THIS WEEK.
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
As the U.S. House of Representatives debates this week 
whether to repeal the Obama administration’s health care 
overhaul, White House press secretary Robert Gibbs remains optimistic that such legislative maneuvering will yield few ac-tual results.
In a phone conference with college reporters Tuesday, Gibbs, 
who will step down to become an outside political adviser to President Obama amid a shake-up of White House staff, said that the conservative-driven push for health care repeal in the lower house is not in the interests of the American public. “In these economic times, now is not the time to take a step 
back,” Gibbs said. “The president is willing to listen to improve-ments (to the bill), but let’s not throw the benefits out when we have a great foundation.”
Gibbs used his time with reporters to stump for key portions 
of the bill. The points that Gibbs placed em-phasis on during the 30-minute conference included those that allow young Americans to stay on their parents’ health plan until 
they turn 26 and prohibit health insurance 
companies from raising the rates or denying Americans with pre-existing conditions. 
“Until you become a little more stable in 
your job, the president believes the best way to maintain that stability is to stay on your 
parents’ health care.”
In response to charges that the bill would hinder job growth and pile on to the national deficit, Gibbs said that if the bill was repealed, between 250,000 and 400,000 jobs would be lost in a year.
He acknowledged and expressed gratitude for GOP law-
makers toning down the rhetoric by referring to the bill as “job-destroying” as opposed to “job-killing” in the wake of the Arizona shootings.
“I think everyone is smart to take a step back in these de-
bates,” he said. 
When asked about certain states, including Florida, that had 
filed suit against the health care bill and whether the bill would emerge intact after being entangled in the courts, Gibbs said that despite the “legal sideshow,” the Obama administration was confident that the bill would be upheld. 
“We are confident in the way the law was written,” Gibbs 
said. “We’re quite confident the law will be shown to be con-stitutional.” White House press secretary discusses health care
Gibbs
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Daniel Karpel plays “dead puppets” with Matt White and Tim Anderson at ArACkA’s 
improv practice Tuesday night inside Weimer Hall.
Improv comedy groups prepare for annual festivalWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Special to the Alligator
Shayna Teijido poses with her boyfriend, Chris Tingley. Teijido, a UF nursing senior, died Monday after 
complications from blood clots. 
She dedicated her time to volunteering
ah’s Endeavor, a program for 
children mostly with disabilities to do recreational activities.  
Rob Klaasen, another member 
of the fraternity who organizes volunteers with Gainesville Pet 
Rescue, said she had the same problem as a lot of other students 
have who volunteer with the cats and dogs.  
“She’d go play with the ani-
mals and wanted to take them all 
home.”
Arens said that her dedication 
was matched by no other. In the fall semester alone, she 
had more than 100 hours of vol-
unteer work, more than any other member of the fraternity.
“A lot of our events are op-
tional,” he said. “But Shayna was at every one.” 
Klaasen described Teijido as 
very friendly, warm and always there to help out.
When he heard what hap-
pened to her, he was shocked.
“It’s weird when you lose 
someone and you try to remem-ber the memories,” he said. “And you realize that they’re not going to be the same.”A vigil was held by her fra-
ternity Monday night. About 100 people attended holding candles in a circle on Turlington Plaza re-
membering their friend. 
At the vigil,  she was compared 
to Martin Luther King Jr., because 
of her passion to help others.
Arens said it is going to be 
weird this semester with her ab-sence. 
He was used to seeing her ev-
erywhere at everything, always 
caring.
“It won’t hit any of us until 
we’re out there in a week without 
her.”OBITUARY , from page 1
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ORANGE BEACH, Ala. — The shooting of an Arizona 
congresswoman and rising tempers along the Gulf Coast 
prompted increased security for meetings on Tuesday be-tween BP’s oil spill claims czar and residents seeking com -
pensation.
Metal detectors and additional police officers were added 
at two events attended by fund administrator Kenneth Fein-berg in Alabama. Feinberg is on a two-day tour to discuss ways to improve the process for compensating people who lost money because of BP PLC’s April 20 oil well blowout. The spill dumped millions of gallons of crude into the sea.
More than a thousand people crowded into an Orange 
Beach gymnasium to hear Feinberg talk. Each one had to 
first walk through a metal detector and re-move all items from their pockets.
A similar procedure was used at an ear -
lier meeting Tuesday in nearby Bayou La 
Batre. The security measures weren’t in place at previous meetings.
Frustration has grown among residents who feel they’re 
not being compensated enough, and meetings with Feinberg have grown increasingly heated.
“It’s become very frustrating, an emotional drain on peo-
ple,” Orange Beach Mayor Tony Kennon said.
Kennon said he didn’t want to take any chances after the 
Jan. 8 shooting in Tucson, Ariz., that critically injured U.S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, killed six people and wounded 12 others. He said there haven’t been any specific threats.
“But there’s no way I wanted to look back and have re-
grets,” Kennon said.
Feinberg has faced repeated criticism that he is not com-
pensating people enough for their losses, paying too slowly, or denying claims altogether. He is in charge of the Gulf Coast Claims Facility, which is doling out $20 billion of BP’s money to business owners and others impacted by the spill. Security added 
at Gulf oil spill 
claims meetings
NewsNationalThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Did Ricky 
Gervais make a good Golden Globes host?
68 TOTAL VOTES47% YES53% NOTuesday’s question: Have you skipped class in favor of tutoring sessions?When state Rep. Kelli Stargel filed a bill that would 
require elementary school teachers to grade not only students’ progress but parents’ participa-
tion, we rejoiced a little. 
Finally, there would be a way to hold irresponsible par -
ents accountable for their ill-prepared students. 
We’ve known parents who treated public school more 
like a free day care than a learning institution, so the idea of holding both parents and teachers accountable for a child’s development appealed to us.
That is, until we read the bill.According to our reading, the only repercussion of the 
parental involvement grade is the grade itself. The only provided outcome of an unsatisfactory rating is meeting with the faculty to discuss possible means for improving the grade. 
We’re not suggesting the state would have the means 
nor the right to punish a parent’s negligence via the child’s grades, but without any incentives for families to perform better, the bill seems pointless.
We can foresee teachers making an effort to fill out this 
extra grade only to send it to families who don’t care about it to begin with. 
In fact, only people who are already involved with their 
children’s education would take action when given a low 
grade.
We applaud any effort to make parents care about their 
children’s future, but this bill wouldn’t make a dent in the 
gigantic problem of parental apathy.Class Act
Bill meant to involve 
parents falls flat
Pretentious Tensions
Everyone has some-one they’d love to bring down a notch. 
There’s always that guy in class who’s a little too smug in his answers, that coworker with her holier-
than-thou attitude.  
Can’t someone wipe that 
self-satisfying grin off their 
faces?
That’s what Ricky Ger -
vais did at the Golden Globes on Sunday night.
Hollywood doesn’t usu-
ally have to come face to 
face with its worst critics, 
but Gervais remedied that problem by establishing himself as a turncoat. After his performance, he’s de-
cided not to host next year’s 
award show. Not that he’d be allowed to after joking about the celebrity elite in 
a completely unsurprising manner. Armed with the 
truth cloaked in comedy, Gervais in effect roasted Charlie Sheen, Angelina 
Jolie, Johnny Depp and oth-
ers.
For some reason, Holly-
wood was appalled.
Any time someone en-
ters the spotlight, volun-tarily or not, he or she risks being commented on and ridiculed. Why should stars 
get preferential treatment?
Actors aren’t doctors or 
engineers — they’re enter -
tainers. And it was certain-
ly entertaining to watch the 
most pretentious people 
around taking their verbal licks. They shouldn’t stick their noses higher in the air; 
celebrities need to throw 
some dirt on the wounds and laugh them off, just like everyone else does. Students may need self-esteem boost
Ever notice how you have all the right opinions? 
Why don’t more people think like you? Think back to when you were young, and imagine a situation 
where you and your fellow classmates were all “compet-ing” to be the best at something. How about the most 
interesting show-and-tell piece? We’ll go with that.
Proud of yourself, you bring in your glowing pet 
scorpion named, let’s say, Biggles. When you turn off all 
the lights and your long-necklace-wearing, bespectacled teacher draws the blinds closed, the class hushes in awe as Biggles, the greatest show-and-tell piece of all time, dazzles and amazes everyone with his strange, neon glow.
The lights come on, and you are on top of the world. 
Your show-and-tell is the best. Everyone else takes a turn, and then the prizes are dished out–-except every-one’s ribbon says they’re the best, just like the one you’ve been handed. Identical to the others.
That isn’t true! Yours is the best. You know reality, and everyone else is a rube with 
the wool pulled over their eyes. But it’s all par for the course and everyone is on the same level, even though you know better.
Fast forward to today. You still have opinions, but 
there’s no ribbon for your participation. Not so easy be-ing the best now, is it? Where’s your ribbon? Why did they stop handing out ribbons when you stopped being the best? Did they stop somewhere between the onset of schoolyard apathy and the pressure of honors classes? You never took the time to notice, but the expectation is still there.
You know it’s true that not everyone can be the best, 
but growing up in this everyone-is-equal culture, you carry the inward scars with you to this day, right now. When you were little, you knew you could be an astro-naut-ninja-president with super powers and still have time to be a movie star. When you’re young, these 
thoughts are real. You actually believed this.
And you’re telling me this 
same person needs a boost in 
self-esteem?
Yeah, and Bill Gates needs to 
borrow some lunch money.
If anything, kids need to be 
brought back to earth because 
you’re now learning that in the good ol’ college life when 
it comes to you versus reality, reality wins. 
Every time. It grinds you up, spits you out, and it barely notices. 
This will be true forever. It was true when you were a kid. You were just being lied to, and this is a tough real-ization.
Dreams are important to pursue. If they weren’t, you 
wouldn’t be walking through campus reading this article. You’re one of the ones that made it. But you didn’t make it through a magical ribbon that gets handed to everyone. You made it through hard work. That’s a real achieve-ment. That’s a pillar to lean your self-esteem against.
If you mess something up, do it again until you get 
it right. You think those stunts on Cirque du Soleil come naturally? Every time you read the sports section about another Gator athletic achievement, know that it took dedication and hard work.
Most of you are smart, overachievers, organized nut-
job A-types or some combination of the three. Know that you either win or you learn. So, stop letting that guitar gather dust, stop neglecting that extra credit, stop not 
starting a conversation with that guy in class, and go out 
there and manufacture some self-esteem. Who decided you needed a ribbon in the first place?
Wesley Campbell is a fifth-year English major. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.
Wesley Campbell
letters@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Political link to teen pregnancy unfounded
In “Teenage pregnancy not so glamorous,” Anita Babbitt ar -
gues that abstinence-only sex education is to blame for higher 
teen pregnancy rates. 
She argues that the correlation between red and blue states 
and teen pregnancy rates is just as simple as that: Red states equal abstinence-only sex education equals higher teen preg-
nancy rates, and blue states vice versa.
Clearly Anita, in addition to many others on the left who 
consistently attempt to make this same argument, has failed to 
delve deeper and research the many other underlying factors 
that contribute to this phenomenon. Yes, studies show that red 
states equal higher teen pregnancy rates, but I promise you that 
if you look more closely at the neighborhoods, communities and regions where teen pregnancy rates are higher and take 
into account their respective demographic data — race, age, in-
come, educational attainment, home ownership and employ-
ment status — you will find that teen pregnancy rates correlate 
better with the aforementioned demographics, and that they do not correlate with religion or political affiliation alone.
Suzanne Santos
4BA
n n n
TAs available to help struggling students for free
Laura Ellermeyer, author of Tuesday’s tutoring column, could 
have gone to TA sessions for free to prepare for the exam. ECO 2013 has TAs available seven periods a day, five days a week. I’m not sure if practice tests were made available last semester. They usually are and are by far the best way to prepare for an exam.  
Additionally, there should be no shame in asking for help. College is difficult. It’s also important. Too important for you to have to worry about embarrassment when asking for help. Whether you get help by asking a friend, visiting a professor during office hours or buying review packets, what’s really im-portant is that you understand the material. It’s certainly better to grasp it three hours before an exam than to not have grasped it at all. 
A final comment on whether TZ shouldn’t be necessary: 
What makes TZ  so different from  TA sessions? I would say you’ll be babied more in TA sessions than you are in large TZ sessions, since they offer individual attention. Should all uni-versity-sponsored tutoring be dissolved because of the moral hazard produced by providing assistance? I don’t think so. I think smart people can still ask for help. 
Nathan HagenLetters to the Editor
With the exception of Gators football, I have 
not seen anything in my years at UF that has united the student body quite like 
block tuition. 
We students have made it known that we stand 
firmly opposed to the idea. Our representative on the Board of Trustees, Student Body President Ash-
ton Charles, has led the opposition to the adminis-
tration’s proposal, and, due in large part to her ef-forts, the proposal was delayed for one year. 
Delaying the debate is not good enough. Block 
tuition will be no better in 2012 than it would have 
been in 2011. We cannot let our guard down and we 
must continue to actively oppose block tuition.
For those unsure of what block tuition entails, 
rest assured that you are not alone. The specifics 
of the proposal have been underpublicized and are 
nebulous. 
Essentially, the administration seeks to establish 
a system in which all students are charged tuition as if they were taking 15 credit hours, regardless of 
whether they are actually taking 12 or 18. While stu-
dents who choose to take more than 15 hours would be the beneficiaries of this policy, they represent a very small minority of students. The administra-
tion’s intent is to cut costs by financially pressuring 
students to take on a heavier course load, thereby speeding up graduation rates. 
The advocates of block tuition are, in effect, sug-
gesting that academics should be a student’s only 
focus and that “distractions” from class   — including 
extracurricular activities, work and volunteering  — 
only take away from the educational experience of 
attending UF. 
I know that I am not alone in the belief that noth-
ing could be further from the truth. The college ex-perience is a dynamic one that encompasses a broad 
range of activities that enrich the lives of students in 
ways a classroom never could.
The advocates of block tuition have yet to ad-
equately address the genuine concerns of students who work full time. Though one senior administra-
tor remarked that students who work “choose” to 
do so, my experience suggests that the vast majority of students who work full time do so because they need to finance their educations. Many students rely on a full-time job (while simultaneously taking a full-time course load) to provide them with the 
money they need to pay for meals, rent, medicine, textbooks and tuition. Students 
that endure such a challenging path should be helped, not un-
dermined and taken advantage 
of. Block tuition makes no exception for these stu-
dents, and it would not only raise their tuition but would pressure them into taking on a heavier course 
load and add further stress to their lives.
For those of you who have been fortunate to get 
involved with extracurricular activities here at UF, 
you will no doubt agree that a substantial amount of learning is accomplished outside of the classroom. 
Tens of thousands of students have had their lives 
enriched by the multitude of extracurricular activi-ties here at UF, and the implementation of block tu-ition would discourage such activities by forcing 
students to take on a more burdensome academic 
load. 
Contrary to what some critics may say, students 
do not oppose block tuition because of laziness or a lack of academic motivation. We do so because block 
tuition would prevent us from obtaining a complete 
education that is based on more than what is taught in the classroom. 
If we want UF graduates to be diverse, well-
rounded and engaged citizens of the world, we must encourage UF students to go beyond reading about experiences and actually live them. 
Moreover, we should never forget that there are 
students who are forced by circumstance to work 
full time in order to afford the cost of a UF degree — 
block tuition works to punish them for doing so.
There are numerous other reasons why block 
tuition would have a negative impact on our uni-
versity. I simply write to remind us all about two 
aspects of block tuition that I believe to be the most troubling. First, block tuition would negatively im-
pact the experience of nearly all UF students. Sec-
ond, though the potential implementation of block tuition has been delayed, we must use the added time we have to continue our opposition. 
Our administration is not an adversary; admin-
istrators have the interests of the students in mind, which is why student activism has historically been effective. We cannot rest on our laurels knowing that this proposal has been delayed, and we must continue to actively and respectfully stand in firm opposition.
Ben Meyers is the Student Senate President.UF block tuition: not now, not everGuest column
Ben Meyers
Speaking Out
“There is no cheat sheet for life…”.  
This is absolutely unequivocal, and I am glad 
for the opportunity to have a discussion about the 
role of supplemental learning at the university level. Gen-
erations of students all over the world have utilized tutors, TAs and learning centers such as Broward Tutoring Center, TutoringZone or the University Athletic Association to fa-
cilitate learning and further clarify the material presented 
by a professor. Yet somehow the very mention of the name “TutoringZone” in certain circles elicits a negative response and is tantamount to sacrilege. I think this is due to indi-viduals forming an opinion based upon speculation rather than truly considering our role in the process. 
It’s instructive to consider the genesis of TutoringZone 
and what we attempt to do. While tutoring at the University Athletic Association some dozen years ago, it occurred to 
me that this type of learning environment would be a won-
derful resource if made available to nonathlete students. My idea was not visionary nor the result of an epiphany. Exactly what is the difference between one of our weekly review ses-sions and a discussion and recitation section?  Exactly what is the difference, frankly, between our services and those of a private tutor? Or a textbook?  
Students all across the world choose to procrastinate; 
alas, this is true even at campuses where there is no Tutor -
ingZone. 
Now, let’s focus on the students who go to class, go to 
discussion, do their homework and go to TutoringZone. For these students, we provide an affordable and effective way to reach their academic goals. Con-sider our weekly reviews —  students meet every week in a group to work with an expert to practice problems 
and discuss concepts. It’s Sunday morning and a handful of students are learning chemistry or accounting. What could possibly be the problem with that?
Is it the fact that we charge for our services? I find this 
objection disingenuous. 
First, we take great pains to promote our financial aid 
program. It is on the front page of our website and is in-cluded in every correspondence we send to a member of the UF academic community. We never let cost stand in the way of a student getting the help they need — more than 10 per -
cent of attendees each semester are there at no cost. Further, we price our services to be affordable to the average student 
— a full semester of tutoring (one session per week, two 
hours per session) costs less than most textbooks.  Finally, as an economist I feel obligated to point out the principle of, “There ain’t no such thing as a free lunch.” That is, some -
one has to pay for the tutoring at Broward Tutoring Center.  Whether it’s property taxes or tuition, the status quo means that all students pay for Broward Tutoring Center whether or not they use the services.  So what you are actually object-
ing to is introducing choice to the issue.  You are also im-
plicitly objecting to the ability of a tutor to earn competitive wages as a return on his or her hard work and dedication.
I agree wholeheartedly that there are a number of valu-
able “free” resources for students.  A number of tutors work-ing at TutoringZone also work at the other tutoring centers.  
Our belief is that the more a tutor works with students the 
more effective he or she will be at communicating that mate-
rial.  
Everyone at TutoringZone is first and foremost an educa-
tor. We do not rely on shortcuts or tricks. We go through 
rigorous training to master the curriculum and also master delivery of the material. We will turn cartwheels and shout from the rooftop if that’s what it takes to teach a concept. The problem with most tutoring is variability in quality. Hir -
ing is based upon GPA and credentials. Well, being smart is a necessary condition to be a tutor, but it is not a sufficient quality. We work with individuals to make sure they can deliver the material in multiple ways to ensure success. 
I have been a member of The Gator Nation for 15 years 
now — as a student, as an instructor and as a mentor. I have watched with pride as the university has introduced significant new programs to enhance learning outcomes for all students. I like to think, perhaps somewhat egotistically, 
that TutoringZone has played a small part in spurring this 
innovation. 
We have worked with faculty and administrators to en-
hance TA review sessions, online assignments and to re-move the stigma of needing help. I, too, remember when it was embarrassing if you needed extra help for school.
If TutoringZone has done nothing but to make it OK to 
ask for help when you need it, then our legacy will be an important one. 
Matt Hintze is the Founder and CEO of TutoringZone.
Tutoring service customers don’t deserve academic stigmaGuest column
Matt Hintze
Speaking OutMastrodicasa hopes these meetings 
will become, at the very least, an annu-
al event, but there will probably not be another one until the fall 2011 or spring 2012 semesters. 
The meeting was dominated by 
the issue of taxi fares, which gained recent attention after a sting operation by the Gainesville Police Department, University Police Department and Stu-dent Government members showed that some drivers have unfairly hiked 
prices for students.
Several taxi drivers at the meeting 
argued that they face mistreatment by 
their student customers, who some-times act as drunk and disorderly rid-ers or rush out of the cabs without pay-ing their fare.
Mastrodicasa said the issue would 
be discussed further at the February Public Safety Commission meeting.
Also at the meeting, a student sena-
tor expressed concern over the meal limit at St. Francis House, which pro-vides aid and food for the homeless. 
Senators also offered a presentation about student apartment rental prob-lems, such as price gouging and unfair evictions.8, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2011
Jesse Lash / Alligator
RTS Director Jesus Gomez speaks during the joint City Commission/UF 
Student Government meeting.
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
Alachua County Commissioners debated at an in-
formal meeting Tuesday how to best divvy up more 
than $1 million set aside for the Community Agency 
Partnership Program.
In a discussion that dipped into philosophy, the 
Commission agreed that allocated funds should go to organizations that will feed people and help chil-
dren. 
Commissioner Mike Byerly said that he supports 
funding programs that will satisfy day-to-day needs. 
He spoke of Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs and how 
food, shelter and medical care were most important.
“If you’re hungry, you’re not going to want to 
learn,” he said.
Chairman Lee Pinkoson said he thinks it would 
be best to fund programs that care for children at an early age, like the Reich-
ert House Youth Academy and Success By 6. 
“If we don’t invest in the children, the situation 
will never, ever, ever get better,” he said.
Byerly said he’d support funding such organiza-
tions as long as short-term needs for residents were addressed. If he had to choose between the two, he said, he’d choose feeding families.
Another point of discussion was putting up signs 
in Alachua County lakes to make sure boaters are aware of the air boat curfew, especially citizens of other counties who boat in Alachua County.
The Commission is also considering putting the 
audio recording of informal meetings on the Com-mission website so members of the public will be able 
to hear what was discussed.City to disperse 
$1 million to aid programsTECHNOLOGY
By KIERA WRIGHT-RUIZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Verizon Wireless announced Tuesday that Apple’s 
iPhone will be available to Verizon users. 
This will split AT&T’s global monopoly and expand 
Apple’s network both nationally and locally.
“There will be an increased level of competition be-
tween AT&T and Verizon, and actually consumers will 
benefit from that,” said UF marketing professor Barton 
Weitz.
The iPhone 4 will be available at Verizon stores be-
ginning on Feb. 10. For current Verizon users, online 
pre-orders will begin Feb. 3.
Weitz does not think many people will switch phone 
services unless one company offers a large motivating incentive. 
“I think there will be new offerings for iPhones,” he 
said. “Some might be discounting the price, or some of them might be offering special services.” 
The iPhone for Verizon will have slight differences 
from AT&T’s model due to the networks they run on, 
said Chuck Hamby, Verizon’s regional public relations 
manager. According to Gizmodo.com, the Verizon iP-
hone will have a different antenna with four antenna 
notches, one located at each corner of the device.
The 16GB iPhone is priced at $199.99. The 32GB iP-
hone is $299.99.Verizon to start selling iPhone
Taxi fares were among the topics discussed
SENATE , from page 1
NewsLocal“I think there will be new offerings for          
iPhones. Some might be discounting the 
price, or some of them might be offering 
special services.” 
Barton Weitz
UF marketing professorBy ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator  Writer
A mohawk never stopped Chuck 
Hurley from working.
Neither have two sleeves of tat-
toos or a jail record.
In fact, he’s never even turned in 
a job application. Doesn’t need to; 
Chuck lets his food do the talking.
Since he was 16, Chuck has run  
kitchens all over Gainesville.
First was Phil-nick’s. Armed 
with a good set of social skills to compensate for his lack of experi-ence, he walked in for lunch and walked out with a job. 
Now he can be found in the ware-
house district on Gainesville’s east side. Among the auto shop garages and pest control stations is a cinder block building with a red, blue and yellow paint job and hand-painted signs advertising homemade food 
— Chuck’s handiwork.
This, the fusion of Cajun food 
and honky tonk, is Kickin’ Devil 
Cafe.
Even the phone number is devil-
themed. The last half contains the number of the beast — 666.
Inside, sleepy blues music plays 
— live on most nights — and wait-
resses lay the “honey” and “darlin’” 
on thick.
In back under a fluorescent light 
and between rows of stainless steel 
counters and grills, Chuck works his magic. 
His personal touches are all over 
the kitchen. On one counter sits a roll of masking tape, a paint brush and a pack of Lucky Strikes. A Hal-loween mask hangs from one end of the ticket string.
In another corner, a bowling ball 
waits in its bag for Chuck’s lunch break. He walks over to Alley Ga-torz most afternoons to shoot a few games where he finds his latest favorite food — bowling alley hot dogs — cooked under a humming heat lamp.
On a shelf in the back of the kitchen, an iPod plays rap music through computer speakers. It’s lo-fi music compared to the blaring punk of his first kitchen.
He adds those touches to his 
skin, too. Pictures of a red onion, scallion, radish and garlic clove decorate his left forearm. His other arm reads “beautiful friends.” It’s still red. The ink is still setting from last night.
Further up that arm is a five-
pointed nautical star listing the four cardinal directions. The fifth reads “lost.”
As he talks to a waitress, he 
throws together a batter for crepes. In go four eggs, a few cups of flour and the better half of a Budweiser. He measures none of them. 
He dices a zucchini and tosses it 
in a pan. While it sizzles, he carries it over to a spice chest and piles on pinches of orange and red powders without glancing into the pan.
But those seemingly careless 
measurements have cost him over the years.
On his palm, he sports a scar the 
size of a pen cap. He had tried to cut a sample off an 80-pound wheel of Parmesan. With all his weight, he pushed down on the wide edge of a knife. Finally, the cheese gave way. He slipped. The knife gouged through the meat of his hand. Side-ways.
Another scar is from a busy 
night catering a party. He used a knife to open a pack of sirloins. The knife sailed through the plastic and through his finger, slicing it like a banana.
But those come with the terri-tory of a executive chef position. He would rather take those than paper cuts.
“It would really suck if I couldn’t 
cook and had to get a real job,” he said.
Luckily, he hasn’t.At 19, he was leading the kitch-
en staff at Cafe Gardens as the highest paid employee. Punk mu-sic screamed out the doors of the kitchen he refers to as “a punk rock pirate ship.”
By 22, he dropped out, married 
and made his way to Rochester, N.Y. He snapped up a job at Tonic, an up-and-coming restaurant, be-fore swinging up north.
There, he cooked up a passion 
for new recipes and food design. He had homework, too. He read three cookbooks a week, searching for new dishes to try on his custom-ers.
“You can’t be sacred to try new 
s---,” he said. “It’s going to go one of two ways. They’re either going to love the food or they’re going to love the food.”
The closest time he ever came 
to losing a job was when his boss at Tonic asked him to write a resig-nation letter after he had missed a couple busy days.
Instead, Chuck wrote a high-
school love letter. He kept his job as executive chef.
Eventually, those 70 to 80 hours 
a week in the kitchen cost him his marriage. Food was his woman. The kitchen his home.
And just like home, he could al-
ways go back.
Once on a road trip to Gainesville, 
he stopped for lunch at his old stomping grounds at Cafe Gardens. 
He walked straight into the kitchen 
and started working. 
He picked up another job just as 
easily. He walked into Pilo’s Pasta, a former downtown Gainesville 
restaurant, for lunch. Clad in a 
leather jacket, leather pants and a spiked-up mohawk, he approached 
Pete Corsa, the old Italian owner. 
After a few minutes of foodie talk, 
Corsa could see that Chuck knew 
his way around the kitchen. He got a job that day.
He got his latest job the job at 
Kickin’ Devil the same way.
After a few conversations with 
the owner, Mary Jane Brunel, he landed the Sunday brunch shift, 
noon to 5, despite the fact that he 
was on work release from Alachua 
County Jail after his second count of driving without a license.
She didn’t care. She had tried his 
cooking.
“He’s a culinary delight,” she 
said. “When that stuff comes out of the kitchen, it’s not only good food, it’s amazing food, and it looks 
amazing.”WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 9
Alex Orlando / Alligator
Chuck Hurley fills a lunch order at Kickin’ Devil Cafe, 2017 NE 27th Ave. He’s been working as a chef for 
more than half his life in Gainesville, New York and Paris.
LOCAL BUSINESSGainesville chef works magic at Kickin’ Devil Cafe Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds WEDNESDA Y, JANUARY 19, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$380 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Gainesville Place
Now leasing for 2011-2012!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
 (352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $399***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
Student Friendly 4/4's 
$424 for EVERYTHING
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
Call for current specials!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
Free rent, utils., etc. near
campus for female in exchange
for overnight staying with
elderly female. For details,
call Sarah 373-7965 10am-6pm m-f    1-19-
11-5-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. 
Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus 
Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-
205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-8-
15-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Studios $599 Downtown location
Arlington 352-338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe-NW 23rd Blvd
1s-$699 2s-$789 3s $859.
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400  madisonpointe.org4-20-70-2
●ONE MONTH FREE●
Available for Immediate Move-Ins
1,2, and 3 Bedrooms
(352)335-7656
www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
1/1 $599 *2/2.5 townhouse $779*
4/2.5 townhouse $1099*Washer/Dryers*
352-332-7401 www.thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
● Amazing Rent on 1 and 2BR apts.
Ranging from $390 to $545.Sorry no pets or Section 8.Madison on 20th. 335-7066      4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2011  � ALLIGATOR , 11
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!
4-20-10-70-2
Renting Now!!
We have REAL 1/1s
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE-1 MO FREE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
3Blks to UF- GATOR NEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS 1 MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
1-31-10-68-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's f rom $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
2/2 & 3/3 Roommate Matching
Walk In ClosetsPrivate BathroomsCable w/HBO & ShowtimeFull size W/D
Pet friendly
352-374-3866                  4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-19-10-103-2
CALL TODAY!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
2 Months Free!
Sundowne Villas
Studio *$430 and 1/1 *$457
Located behind Butler Plaza
Pet friendly No weight limits!
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$447
2/1 *$548
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free
Sunrise Villas
One Bedroom Villa *$428
Near UF and Shand's
Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Ph. 372-4835  www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
First Month Free
Campus Walk Apartments
All Inclusive Individual Leases
4 Bedroom Townhomes and flats
Located on UF campus
$350 per bedroom All Inclusive
Semester Leases available!
(352) 376-0828
(Rental office at Homestead Apts.)
www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/
shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-
closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year 
lease, $700/mo
●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr lease
●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida 
rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and 
tennis courts. $1000●Downtown 2 BR at the Lofts at W. University.  This modern designed unit in-
cludes cable, internet, washer/dryer, and 2 
onsite parking spaces. Minutes from UF and 
Shands, $1050/mo●Mallorca Square,Large 2br,2.5 ba town-house convenient to Oaks Mall and UF/hos-
pitals, many extras,$895/mo
●Treehouse Village- 2/2  New Carpet,D/W, 
W/D incl.,on covered bus line close to down -
town, UF/Shands. $595●BIG 3/3 in SW, Ceramic/Carpet, D/W, W/D 
includes clubhouse, pool, comp lab, volley -
ball, tennis, basketball, MUST SEE $900
★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
4-20-10-70-2
Immaculate small efficiency,quiet.Wash/
dry on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No pets. 
1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus routes.Avail 
Dec 27.$399/m 352-262-2871 Owner agent. 
1-24-11-14-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7129 SW 45th Place. $550/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114    1-20-11-10-2
LOW COST MOVE IN!
Small 2BR $375/mo.
Call 352-372-6881 or 352-213-3901   1-20-11-10-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE
Sunroom, garage, updated. 3103 NW 4th 
Terrace. $825/mo. Call Andrea Martin, Keller-Williams Realty 352-281-3131   1-21-11-10-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    1-21-11-10-2
 ●●●●●●●   NEAR  UF   ●●●●●●●
4 Apts  2/1 in College  Park area
(5/3 House) (4/3 House) (3/2 House)
available for August  Manny  352-317-4408
info & pic  gainesvillestudentrentals.com
1-31-11-16-2
Studio for rent. Bedroom, kitchen, full bath-
room, total privacy. 3 miles from Butler pla-za near Tower Square. $475.00 per month includes Utilities, Cable TV, & Internet Call 352-378-4626 or 352-262-4290    1-28-11-15-22BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shady lot. 
From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No 
pets. Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 
13th St. 376-5887    1-24-11-10-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2s with vaulted ceilings $999
3/3 Townhomes w/Private Baths $1089
Garage included, Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
www.madisonpointe.org          4-20-66-2
Available Aug 1st. 3BR/1BA very nice house, 
short bike, cent H/AC, dishwasher, disposal, 
W/D provided. Very private backyard with 
small garage. 924 NW 9th Ave. $1100/mo. 
Call 352-339-2342 Other houses available   
1-25-11-9-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA very nice house. 
Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game 
room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets 
ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-
339-2342 Other houses available   1-25-11-
9-2
2BR/1BA cabin, 20 acres. Fixer-upper. 
Horses/dogs welcome. 27802 SW 120th 
Lane, Newberry. $555/mo. Comes with 
horse. Long driveway. In Gothe State Forest. 
Call 330-329-8834    1-26-10-2
*5 BEDROOM HOUSE*
Walk to class. Right Across from The 
Swamp stadium. Available Aug 1st.
Wood Floors. Lots of parking. Please call 
John @ (561) 866-8234 for further info
1-21-6-2
3 bd 1 ba in NE Gville . Beautiful, restored 
hardwood floors, stainless steel appliances, W/D, front porch, back deck, fresh paint. Lg fenced property, Pets OK. Great location. Available now. 516-459-7654.    1-24-11-5-2
Looking for female sublease for 1/1 in a 4/4 
at the Woodlands of Gainesville. $565/mo includes utilities, fully furnished, pet friendly! Please call 727-804-6893 for more details.   1-19-5-3
Would someone PLEASE sublease this apt?Male to take over sublease in 2br/1b. Walking distance to campus. Directly off University Ave. $325 from 2/11-7/11. Email gatorgal24@gmail.com for specificis   1-19-11-3-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-20-70-4
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $425/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79291-31-10-42-4
1st month free. Grad student looking for fe-
male roommate in fully furnished 4/4 condo at Countryside. $425/month. Short term lease available. Cable/internet, utils, W/D, 2 bus routes. Contact Megan 727-542-8155.   1-21-11-11-4
Large Room in NW Home.
$450/mo incl utils & DSL, large closets. No pets. Mature, non-smoker, grad student/professional. Scott 352-335-8209   1-20-11-10-4
12, ALLIGATOR  � WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2011
Roommate wanted- Share nice clean NW 
area 3 Br, 2 bath single family home with two 
senior UF students- fenced back yard- wash-
er/ dryer-fireplace- $320 mo. & 1/3 utilities. 
Call Jon-321-537-5640 or 352-665-9547    
1-21-11-10-4
Female looking for same to share a furnished 
3BR/2BA condo. 10 mins by bus to UF cam-
pus. $400/mo including utils. Great Location! 
Call 850-974-0686   1-21-11-10-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-
cluded. $350/mo. No deposit required. 863-
634-1893. Available immediately.   1-19-11-
3-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
2BR/1.5BA newly renovated townhouse. 
6134 SW 8th Lane. You have to see it to appreciate it! Come see it and make an of-fer. Call 352-281-7411 or 786-537-2963 and make an appointment   1-31-11-17-5
Rent to Buy. 2BR/2BA Capstone Quarters Condo Near Shands. Private porch, back-yard, new carpet, paint and appliances. Community Pool, $650/mo. $54,900 Call 352-378-4626   1-28-11-15-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
iPad Owners
www.CaptureNotes.com
is the BEST note taking app for the iPad
Created by Gators for Gators!
G8R Software, LLC - GO GATORS!
1-28-8-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
★★★GatorMoto★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275 GatorMoto.com  4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-20-10-70-11GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
1-31-10-78-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $149997 Pontiac Transport $149996 Chevy Blazer $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $199998 Ford Expolorer $199997 Lincoln Town car $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $499999 Ford F150 $599998 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESCertified vehiclesNo credit checkMove  vehicles $500 & up!352-375-9090     4-20-70-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
2009 KIA 4DR SPECTRA LX
left over model only 250 miles 30+mpg cold a/c 
& factory warranty beautiful black exterior gray interior $8450 located gville 352-284-1047   1-20-11-2-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948    
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.What's black and white & read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2011  � ALLIGATOR , 13
EARN UP TO $300/DAY! Bartending!!! No 
experience necessary. We train you! 888-
575-TIPS (8477)           1-25-11-5-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Local high school is seeking an Assistant JV 
Coach for its girls lacrosse team. Playing ex-
perience is required. Paid position from 1/31 
- 4/9. Contact Lynn at 352-378-5476 for more 
information.   1-21-11-8-14
 TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-
noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF 
Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers 
welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   
1-25-10-20-14OFFICE ASSISTANT Flexible, minimum 20 
weekday hours. Excellent Word, Excel, typ-
ing, internet skills. $7.25/hr. Indicate, major, 
graduating semester, available schedule.  
siva1950@yahoo.com   1-21-11-18-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617   2-28-10-39-14
A awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have 
fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, 
then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-
dren’s summer camp, has positions available 
in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, 
softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront 
(sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, 
WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, 
H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, 
Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-
ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call 
us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at 
www.campmataponi.com.   2-11-10-26-14
Computer tech, Skills to repair comps. Must 
have car. Be honest, available, dependable. 
Part time, make own hours. hr@blue4.com    
1-26-11-10-14
Smokers are needed to participate in a study assessing the effects of various activities on 
cravings, withdrawal, mood, and smoking. 
Compensation will be provided. If interested, 
call 336-406-3706 or email
uflsmokelab@gmail.com    1-28-14-14GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND 
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS 
FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY 
PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT 
JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-6300
2-4-11-20-14
CAREER POSITIONS
Stay in Gainesville. Great benefits and op-
portunities. Flexible hours.
● ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT
● SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
Please apply online at http://www.gleim.com
1-21-11-10-14
University Athletic Association - Accounting
Currently seeking flexible individual for part-
time (OPS) filing clerk. Varied duties includ -
ing data entry and filing. Experienced in Microsoft Excel & good organizational skills 
required. Minimum wage position averag -
ing 20 hour per week. Please fax resume to 
(352) 375-5182.     1-26-11-12-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys 
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Experienced Part time. 
Some weekends and holidays.
Apply in person at Jonesville Animal 
Hospital 14145 W Newberry Rd. Newberry
1-21-11-7-14
Free rent, utils., etc. near
campus for female in exchangefor overnight staying withelderly female. For details,call Sarah 373-7965 10am-6pm m-f    1-19-11-5-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   2-9-20-14
Female UF student caregiver needed for 
28-year-old disabled girl. Must have personal low-profile vehicle (no SUVs). Duties incl toi-leting & companion services. Sun 9am-8pm. Luxurious work conditions. $10/hr. 377-1306   1-19-11-5-14
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.25/hr, experience and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 for more info and interview.    2-2-15-14
Nutritional Supplement Store is seeking part
time help. MUST HAVE vitamin sales expe-
rience or strong nutritional education.
Apply in person at Sunflower Health Foods,
87 SW 34th St, Gainesville
1-19-11-5-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
NPD Online Research $9.50/hr+
P/T Product Researchers and TestersKeep the products you test, and write a short review. Good English skills required. Apply at www.PaidOnlineResearch.info   1-20-5-14
Lot person, Polaris of Gainesville. Clean machines,load, and unload for customers, clean building, very minor mechanical, hours1p-6p M-F apply in person[students prefered]12556 NW US HWY 441 Alachua Fl 32615   11-20-11-5-14INSURANCE WE REPRESENT
OVER 100 COMPANIES
HOME, AUTO AND LIABILITY
WHY PAY MORE? 371 9696
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-
27-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-20-70-18
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25CNAs who believe in compassionate care & 
uncompromising services are encouraged to 
apply on-line at http://ck546.ersp.biz/employ -
ment. Strict background checks/drug screen. 12hr shifts, days, nights & wkends avail.
1-24-11-7-14
CONSTRUCTION SUPERINTENDENT
ASSISTANT
Full or part time student. Responsibilities - 
AutoCAD, SketchUp. Assist with planning 
hanger, putting green, guest house, swim-
ming pool, fountain construction and main-
tenance of multiple business and residence 
properties. Back up Shipping, yard main-
tenance. Apply at http://www.gleim.com.    
1-27-11-10-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm 
& 3:30-9:30pm, M-F & wkends. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax resume & availability to 373-2230    1-20-11-5-14
NANNY for 12+ hrs / afternoons;
exp w/ 3 yr/old; 2:45pm T, W, + 1 more; 
must be patient, structured, music exp;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix &
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com   1-19-
11-4-14
Looking for Masters of Accounting Student 
to conduct an Activity Based Cost Analysis. 
Two week project, pays $15/hr. Please send 
resume and cover letter to
wecare@chestnutfirm.com    1-21-11-5-14
Science Assessment Editor Needed - FT
Progress Testing seeks individual with out-
standing science, editorial, and organiza -
tional skills to join editorial team in maintain -
ing and expanding our test item banks for 
K-12 schools. Prior teaching exp pref. Send 
resume to lbresko@progresstesting.com   
1-21-11-4-14
MEDICAL ASSISTANT
PT or FT for a doctor's office. Experience 
preferred. Email resume to:snpohani@gmail.com          1-24-11-5-14
Looking to have fun while working hard and 
staying in shape? 1800GOTJUNK is hiring outgoing gals/guys to cover mainly Tu, We, or Th morning Truck Team shifts. Other shifts available. +21 age req'd for insurance. $8.50 - $11/hr. Email cover letter and resume to cameron.lansdell@1800gotjunk.com1-24-11-5-14
AFTER SCHOOL SUPERVISOR for
2010-2011 school year, $9.00 hr+ to start. Apply 8505 NW 39th Ave. GNV    1-24-11-
5-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
Sports
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
POLL QUESTION ONLINE TEEING OFF WITH ANTHONY CHIANG
n Denver Broncos running back Laurence Maroney was ar-
rested for possession of marijuana and having a concealed 
weapon. In the mugshot, Maroney is pictured with his dread-locks in pigtails. No word if it was a result of the drugs or if he was just trying to look like Pippi Longstocking.n Be sure to check out the latest edition of the al -
ligatorSports Podcast, posted Tuesday, for the latest Gators news and analysis. While you’re on alligator -
Sports.org, read our recruiting blog, Orange and Blue Chips.Today’s question: Which columnist do you agree with in today’s Jumpball, Anthony Chiang or Adam Berry? See page 16 for each writer’s argument and vote on alligatorSports.org.Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida sophomore guard Kenny Boynton is regarded as the best overall defender on a team that held opponents to 38.7 per-cent shooting in its last 11 nonconference games, but the Gators have not lived up to those standards since then.
n SEC OPPONENTS ARE SHOOTING 46.2 
PERCENT AGAINST THE GATORS.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
In the face of horrendous scoring droughts and 
lengthy shooting slumps, the Gators used their de-
fense as a red herring. 
Any inquiries about improving the offense and 
scoring more points were met with comments about the team focusing only on things it can con-trol, with defense chief among them. 
But over the past week, the facade has become 
the curse, as UF has found itself locked in offensive shootouts rather than defensive slugfests. 
While that intensity helped Florida hold its op-
ponents below 70 points when the team was shoot-ing poorly , the desire to defend has dropped since 
UF’s shots started doing the same. 
“Maybe you get a little satisfied when you’re 
making shots that you can just win the game with 
offense,” senior forward Chandler Parsons said. “We need to have all of our focus on the defensive end like we did earlier this year.”
In the 11 games directly preceding Southeastern 
Conference play , the Gators held their opponents to just 38.7 percent shooting. The tenacious defense 
was often necessary , as UF was scoring just 66.1 
points per game. 
“It was our defense that really kept us winning 
some of those games where we probably didn’t score enough,” coach Billy Donovan said. “I don’t think there’s any question there’s been some slip-page.”
Over the first three SEC games, Florida is al-Gators’ defense slumping during conference play
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
After last season, coach Amanda Butler 
and the Florida women’s basketball team 
found themselves in a precarious position. 
The Gators entered the offseason with just 
one returning guard and had to recruit the 
position heavily.
In four newcomers, they found success: 
Lanita Bartley has started every game but one; freshman Jaterra Bonds is second on 
the team in scoring average; and freshmen 
Kayla Lewis and Brittany Shine have pro-
vided quality minutes and scoring off the 
bench. 
But the guard with perhaps the most po-
tential had been hiding — until recently.Against Georgia on Sunday, junior Dea-
na Allen paced the Gators with a team-high 14 points and also snared 13 boards for her 
first career double-double. Allen, who av-eraged 19.2 points per game last season at 
Pensacola Junior College, suffered a slow 
start to the season due to nagging injuries Allen stepping up since 
returning from injuries
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
 
Steve Addazio didn’t attract many 
fans during his time in Gainesville, 
but he certainly had plenty on the re-cruiting trail.
Last month, offensive linemen 
Chase Hounshell and Tommy Jordan 
were preparing to enroll early at Flor -
ida for the spring semester.
Then, Urban Meyer resigned and 
Addazio, the former UF offensive co-
ordinator and offensive line coach, accepted the head coaching position 
at Temple. And the pair of three-star offensive linemen had a change of plans.
“The big thing about us was we 
lost coach Addazio,” Hounshell said. “He was the one who re-cruited us, and we built great relation-ships with him. We 
kind of knew things were going to change when he took the job at Tem-OL recruits discouraged 
by Addazio’s departure
SEE RECRUIT, p AGE 15Recruiting
SEE W-HOOpS, p AGE 15SEE HOOpS, p AGE 15
UF WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
“But in the beginning of the 
season, I felt like I wasn’t in my 
groove as an individual, and I 
didn’t really know how to distrib -
ute my talent.”
Deana Allen
UF junior guardSteven H. Keys / Alligator
Sophomore Lauren Embree, the Gators’ No. 1 last 
season, is still not fully recovered from a wrist injury.
Saj Guevara / Alligator
Florida junior guard Deana Allen recorded her first 
career double-double Sunday in a loss at Georgia.
Defensive struggles tied to increased scoring
lowing opponents to shoot a combined 46.2 
percent from the field. 
These defensive lapses have coincided 
with the team’s offensive resurgence, as the Gators are scoring an average of 75.7 points 
per game in their last three. 
But, as has been Donovan’s point all 
year, the team’s high-level shooting is not 
always sustainable. After an 8-of-30 shoot-ing performance in the first half against South Carolina, the Gators 
faced a 10-point deficit at 
the break. 
Despite outscoring the 
Gamecocks 44-37 in the 
second half and holding them to just 40.6 percent 
shooting, UF could not dig its way out of the early hole, falling 72-69 on Saturday . “If we had played defense in the first 
half like we did in the second, we prob-ably could’ve weathered and battled that 
storm,” Donovan said. 
Despite the loss, the final 20 minutes 
against South Carolina can serve as a wake-
up call as the team returns to a mentality that brought it success earlier in the season. 
“Defense is our whole thing,” Par -
sons said. “It’s where we’re going to win games.”HOOPS , from page 14ple.”
At the beginning of the month, the 
Gators expected nine oral commits to 
enroll early. Instead, two weeks into 
the semester, only seven are on cam-
pus, with Hounshell and Jordan as the 
missing pieces.
Jordan, a 6-foot-5, 280-pound tackle 
from Ridgefield (Conn.) High, arrived 
on campus the first week of classes but 
decided to return home amid Florida’s 
coaching turnover.
“I just thought it was better to come 
back here while all this was going on 
and they figure out how it is all going 
to work,” Jordan told the Ridgefield 
Patch. 
Jordan said he plans on taking the 
semester off before enrolling at Flori-da in May, adding that he was excited 
about the staff new coach Will Mus-
champ was putting together with of-
fensive coordinator Charlie Weis and 
offensive line coach Frank Verducci.
Hounshell, from Lake Catholic 
(Ohio) High, decided against enroll-
ing early because he didn’t want to 
rush an important decision and had 
not built much of a relationship with 
Florida’s new coaches.
At the same time, he started consid-
ering Notre Dame, where the coaches wanted him to play defensive end.
“I was never really high on enroll-
ing early,” Hounshell said. “It was 
always what Florida wanted, and I 
kind of had to do what they wanted. 
… When Steve Addazio left, I really 
didn’t become much of a priority to 
Florida.”
The 6-foot-5 Hounshell is listed 
by Rivals.com at 242 pounds but said he is now pushing 260. At his cur -
rent weight, he said, he would not be physically ready to play offensive line 
for at least two years and would have 
had to redshirt at Florida.
After receiving a visit from Notre 
Dame coaches Monday night, Houn-shell switched his commitment to 
Notre Dame, where he will enroll in 
the summer.
“It was rough,” Hounshell said 
of Meyer and Addazio leaving UF. “When they both left, it was almost 
like I had to start over completely.”
Oral commitments are non-binding 
until a national letter of intent is signed 
on or after National Signing Day on Feb. 
2.Former Gators 
OL commitment Hounshell opts for Notre Dame
RECRUIT , from page 14
Humility impresses coaches
and issues acclimating to her role 
on the team.
“I felt like I was always ready 
to play in the [Southeastern Con-ference] once I got here,” Allen 
said. “But in the beginning of 
the season, I felt like I wasn’t in 
my groove as an individual, and I didn’t really know how to dis-
tribute my talent.
“When I do get that chance 
out on the court, I give it my all,” 
she continued. “I just had to find 
my groove. And now that I did, 
I’m going to show my true self 
from here on out.”
As the season has progressed, 
Allen’s health improved and she 
became more comfortable in her role. Her confidence has grown, 
and she is finally starting to max-
imize her potential.
“For the first time, I think 
she’s completely healthy,” cap-
tain Jordan Jones said. “She’s in 
shape, and she’s really putting in 
the time and work that it takes to 
be successful in SEC. I commend her for it. She’s really stepped 
up.”
Allen dropped 13 points against Alabama State on Dec. 20, and her minutes have re-
mained steady ever since.  She 
scored in double-digits in back-to-back games against FSU and 
Arkansas.  Her 12 points in the 64-53 win over the then-No. 22 
Razorbacks were a team-high 
and instrumental to the upset 
victory. 
Despite her recent success, 
Allen stays grounded. Citing late giveaways, Allen said she 
takes the blame for the collapse 
at Georgia. And that display of 
maturity is earning points with 
her coaches. 
“I really like where she’s at 
mentally,” Butler said. “She’s ex-
pecting more of herself than she 
was in November or December, 
and that’s really crucial right now. I think you want your great 
players, and Deana is certainly 
one that I count in the descrip-
tion of one of our great players, 
to feel accountable in a loss.”
When asked about her slow 
start and recent emergence, Al-len chuckled and answered sim-
ply.
“I had to apologize to the 
team a couple days ago for hold-
ing out so long.”W-HOOPS , from page 14n THE GATORS WILL FACE 
AN EARLY CHALLENGE.
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer
 
The Gators will play host to 
the U.S. Junior National Team today, with action beginning at 4 p.m. at the Ring Tennis Complex. 
Coach Roland Thornqvist 
said the young Gators will get a good test from the visiting team, which is comprised of some of the most talented 16- and 17-year-old tennis players in the nation.
“It gives us an early look at 
our team and gives us an op-portunity to compete as a team for the first time,” he said.
Allie Will and Claire Bar -
tlett will be the only Gators sitting out, as Bartlett has been dealing with a hip injury for several months and just start-ed hitting the ball on Tuesday. Sophomore Lauren Embree, 
who played in the No. 1 posi-tion for the Gators last season, is still working her way back 
from a wrist injury that pre-
vented her from competing in 
the fall. 
Embree played 
only doubles last 
weekend in the 
Freeman Memo-
rial Champion-
ships and is still not at 100 
percent, but Thornqvist is cau-
tiously optimistic she will be 
healthy this spring. 
Despite Embree’s absence, 
the Gators had a strong fall season and enter the spring 
ranked No. 2 in the nation, 
largely due to their excellent 
singles play. 
“We’re actually ahead in 
singles development than our 
doubles,” Thornqvist said. “At 
this point in the year, we’re 
playing better tennis in Janu-
ary than I could have expect-ed.”UF to host junior 
national team
Tennis
“When Steve Addazio left, I 
really didn’t become much of a 
priority to Florida.”
Chase Hounshell
Former Florida commit
Donovan
16, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2011
JUMPBALL
The Gators got their man.
No, I’m not talking about 
Adam Berry’s return from his 
little hiatus from the Alligator, or UF 
hitting on some recruit, or even Janoris 
Jenkins’ surprising decision to return for 
his senior season. I’m referring to John Brantley, a quarterback who threw for nine touchdowns and 10 interceptions 
while leading Florida to a five-loss sea-
son last year.
Now, before you chastise me for my 
stupidity, hear me out.
Brantley is the only pro-style passer 
on UF’s roster heading into next season.
Sure, Jordan Reed was the popular 
choice last year in Urban Meyer’s spread 
offense, but when Will Muschamp was hired, Reed’s chances to start went out the window. And we all know Trey Bur -
ton’s throwing ability is limited.
That leaves fans with superstar 
recruit and incoming freshman Jeff 
Driskel, who is the No. 1-rated quarter -
back, according to Rivals.com. But he 
ran a spread offense in high school, so the transition to college will be a little 
rougher under Charlie Weis’ pro-style 
scheme than Driskel expected when he 
committed to Meyer.
Adam should know that after getting 
back into covering college teams follow-
ing some time reporting on high school 
sports for part of 2010. But I guess that experience went to waste for the alliga-torSports editor.
Brantley’s decision to return to Flor -ida means Weis can install his of-
fense right away 
with the presence of a quarterback who can execute it.
Think about if 
Brantley had de-cided to transfer. Weis would be 
like a cowboy without a gun in his hol-ster. He would have his choice of Reed, Burton and Driskel. That would have been unfortunate. 
And don’t hold Brantley’s poor 
showing last season against him. 
As my former colleague, Mike Mc-
Call, would say , Brantley was a “round peg in a square hole.” He deserves a chance to run a scheme built around him instead of being pulled every other 
play in an offense that was designed for 
a dual-threat signal-caller. 
Look at the list of quarterbacks who 
have been under the tutelage of Weis. 
It starts with Tom Brady and continues 
with names like Brady Quinn, Jimmy 
Clausen and Matt Cassel. 
So, give Brantley a chance. 
Chants for Driskel to play are likely 
to begin in Florida’s season opener, and 
Brantley will probably be under heavy 
scrutiny the whole season. But at least be thankful for his return. 
I can only imagine Muschamp and 
Weis are.Is John Brantley the right QB for Florida’s revamped offense next season?
John Brantley proved to be no strang-
er to speaking in clichés last season, and he is about to learn the value of 
another one: Timing is everything.
Maybe if Urban Meyer had actually 
left after the 2009 season and Florida had brought in a new coach with a pro-style offense, Brantley could have put togeth-er the year everyone expected of him.
But he simply can’t do that in 2011. 
Not after what happened last season.
Brantley is certainly a talented foot-
ball player. As much retroactive grief as UF’s coaches took for choosing him over Cam Newton, the excitement for No. 12 
was unbelievable before the season.
But it is hard to make the argument 
that, based on what we saw from him 
in 2010 (158.5 passing yards per game), 
Brantley can be a serviceable quarter -
back for a good Florida football team.
It’s easy to point to the change in 
coaching and play-calling, as Anthony 
does, and say those numbers can im-
prove overnight.
But Brantley’s problems at this point 
run deeper than stats, systems and 
schemes. After a disastrous season full 
of bad snaps, poor decisions, all the 
check-down passes you can imagine 
and one historically bad negative-10-
yard completion to himself, it’s not fair 
to expect a magical, 180-degree turn into 
a high-caliber quarterback.
His coaches had no confidence in him 
as the leader of the offense — something 
made evident when his playing time 
was basically cut to third-and-longs by the bowl game.While the 
Gators continued to say all the right 
things, it was 
clear that affected Brantley in the long run.
For the rest 
of the season, he 
showed little con-
fidence in him-
self. By the end of the year, Jordan Reed had become the more effective option, and even Brantley’s body language por -
trayed a quarterback poorly equipped to 
take charge and succeed.
As if the memories of last season 
won’t be bad enough come fall, Brantley 
will face pressure from more than just 
the defensive line, which rattled his con-
fidence early and often this season.
He will face just as much heat from 
the sideline and especially from the stands. 
People are, perhaps unfairly, already 
building up Jeff Driskel as the heir appar -
ent — as everything Brantley couldn’t be — and the fans will have a short fuse for 
bad quarterback play this time around. 
Back in 2006, Florida fans booed 
Chris Leak and demanded Tim Tebow 
take his starting job, and Leak finished 
that season with 210.1 passing yards per 
game, 23 touchdowns, a 144.94 efficien-
cy rating and a national championship. 
Is there any reason to think Brantley 
can get away with a few more subpar 
games before the “Dris-kel” chants start booming out of The Swamp?Editor’s Note: 
The “Jump-
ball” feature 
is a debate 
between two 
of our sports 
columnists. 
In this edi -
tion, Anthony 
Chiang and 
Adam Berry 
discuss the 
impact of John 
Brantley’s 
recently 
announced 
decision to 
remain at 
Florida. To tell 
us who made 
the most 
convincing 
argument, log 
on to alligator -
Sports.org and 
cast your vote.
Adam Berry
Bad News Berry
aberry@alligator.org
Twitter: @adamdberry
Anthony Chiang
Chiang Reaction
achiang@alligator.org 
Twitter: @Chiang_Reaction