Today
visit www.alligator.orgPublished by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
We Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011 VOLUME 105 ISSUE 28
n  Florida junior 
guard Erving Walk -
er (right) made a 
late layup to seal 
the Gators’ 61-60 
win over Tennessee 
on Saturday night. 
UF swept UT this 
season for the first 
time in nine years.
See Story, Page 16.Authorities in Florida Keys say teenage ‘Twilight’ fan lied about bite marks
MARATHON — Authorities say a Florida 
teen has told police that bite marks on her body 
came from “Twilight”-inspired vampire role playing — not from someone who attacked her while she was out jogging.
The South Florida Sun Sentinel reports 
that the Monroe County Sheriff’s Office has charged the 15-year-old girl with making a false report.
Authorities say the girl is a fan of the 
vampire-based “Twilight” movies and books. The sheriff’s office says the girl had engaged in “fantasy biting” with a 19-year-old man in August and worried her mother would see the marks. She told her mother she had been at-tacked while jogging.
When deputies couldn’t find evidence of 
the attack, the girl eventually revealed what really happened.
No charges have been filed against the 19-
year-old man.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSBy MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer
After 18 days of shouting, Egyptians 
could finally cheer Friday as President 
Hosni Mubarak transferred power to the 
military, ending his nearly 30-year reign.
Although the nation’s future remains 
uncertain, it is a time of celebration for 
many Egyptians living across the globe, 
including those in Gainesville. 
For Ahmed Mohamed, a 47-year-old 
assistant professor of geomatics at UF who lived in Cairo for 28 years, the re-
volt in Egypt has made him proud to call 
himself an Egyptian.“It’s led by the people,” he said. “The 
brain, the head, the power, the enthu-
siasm — all the tools were tools of the 
people of Egypt.” 
When Mubarak re-
signed, the streets of 
Cairo swelled with 
people shaking hands, 
hugging and setting off 
fireworks, said Mah-
moud Rushdi, a Cairo 
resident and brother of 
UF Ph.D. student Mu-
hammad Rushdi. 
Sunny
70/40FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD 15
SPORTS 16 HAPPY VALENTINE’S DAY 
Alex Orlando / Alligator
Rooster Roberts flips a rack of ribs at the Santa Fe College Boots-N-BBQ Cook-Off. He was one of 63 pit 
bosses competing for a $2,550 grand prize.
n 63 TEAMS COMPETED IN A 
COOK-OFF THIS WEEKEND.
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer
It’s 6 a.m., and Rooster Roberts is 
first to rise.
Before sunup, he’s outside, piling 
meat into his smoker. In the 30-de-
gree air, he rigs each slab of brisket and every rack of ribs with a ther -
mometer. 
Wrapped in a brown canvas jack-
et under his wide-brimmed cowboy hat, he preps his spices next to the smoker, more for warmth than con-venience.
Then, he waits. Good brisket 
takes time.
Closed and wired, the smoker 
looks more like a space shuttle dash-board than an appliance. 
But in that metal box could be a 
championship win.
By 10 a.m., most other contenders 
at the Bradford County Fairgrounds have gone through the same rou-tine. It’s Saturday morning, the last day of the Santa Fe College Boots-N-BBQ Cook-Off. Judgment day.
Some of the 63 barbecue teams 
have set up shop, catering to the 8,000 people who came through the festival over three days.Roberts and his crew, known as 
Skin and Bones BBQ, are one of the vendors. Above the service counter 
are 30 banners showcasing the ac-
colades of his six-year career. Those include 27 different state champi-onships and two world champion-ships. For 37 weekends a year, bar -
becue is his life.
His secret: no sauce.After a handful of his own spic-
es and a 15-hour bath in hickory 
smoke, he said most of his meat 
doesn’t need it.
That’s his best advertiser, too.The weekend-long cold front 
blew the rising smoke down U.S. 301 so you could smell it from the Waldo speed trap 15 miles north of Gainesville.
“You get that smell — that aroma 
— in there, and people go crazy ,” Roberts said.
Two lots over, Gordon Bryant, pit 
boss for GB’s BBQ, leans over a rack of ribs with a paintbrush.
He stacks them in a Styrofoam 
box and paints on the sauce with the precision of a makeup artist.
He wipes away the sauce drip-
pings around the ribs, eases the lid shut, then sends it to the judges five minutes before the noon deadline.
In an aluminum-sided building 
at the front of the fairgrounds, Den-Top pit bosses show BBQ is an art form
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
Two UF students died Saturday 
while rappelling into a cave in north-
west Georgia during a weekend trip with some friends.
Michael Pirie, a marketing freshman, 
and Grant Lockenbach, a sociology se-nior, were going down into Ellison’s Cave in Walker County when they stopped responding to their friends’ calls.
One of the friends called 9-1-1 at 2:19 
p.m.County officers speculated the cause 
of death was hypothermia but won’t know for sure until autopsies have been completed. The coroner’s report will be released early this week.
More than 300 people gathered at 
Abundant Grace Commu-nity Church on Sunday night to remember them in a prayer service. 
Pirie, of Ocoee, was a drummer in 
the UF Drumline. Lockenbach, of De-Land, was the president of the Fellow-ship of Christian Athletes and a mem-ber of UF’s ROTC program.Two students die on trip
Mubarak
INTERNATIONALLocals with ties to Egypt 
rejoice after revolution
SEE EGYPT, PAGE 8SEE BBQ, PAGE 8
NewsLocalNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 28 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Spencer Christen,  
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Indonesia Scholarship 
Information Session Today, 4:30 p.m.Hub Room 170
The Freeman Foundation is 
offering a fully funded, nine-week summer internship study abroad opportunity in Indonesia. Internship fields in-clude economic development, public health, art, education and environmental protec-tion. Interested American and 
Indonesian sophomores and 
juniors are encouraged to ap-ply. 
RUB Entertainment Presents The 
Love GameToday, 8 p.m.Orange & BrewVisitors can participate 
in RUB’s own version  
of “The Dating Game.” 
Contestants of the game will win special prizes to share with each other.
Get Your Mind Right
Tuesday, 7 p.m.Ustler Hall 2nd floor
This Black Woman’s Image 
Initiative session will address-es the importance of psycho-logical issues, how to go about seeking help, how to recognize symptoms and how to become healthy inside and out.
Community Advocates’ 
Roommate MixerTuesday, 7 p.m.Graham GalleryCome to the Roommate Mixer to meet some new people or RUB Entertainment Local Brew 
SeriesThursday, 8 p.m.Orange & BrewRUB Entertainment presents The Righteous Kind with lo-cals Pseudo Kids and The Footlights for free. For more information about the Local Brew series, as well as other 
events, become a fan of RUB 
Entertainment on Facebook and follow rubentertain on Twitter. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject 
line to ebehrman@alligator.
org. Please model your sub-missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.even a potential roommate. 
There will be free food. To 
RSVP or for event details, look for the Facebook event, “CA Roommate Mixer.” This event is sponsored by the Community Advocates and UF’s Office of Off-Campus Life.
PEM Debate on Health Care 
LegislationWednesday, 7:30 p.m.Reitz Union Room 276Pre-Med AMSA’s Politics and Ethics in Medicine (PEM) is having its first de-bate on health care reform, specifically whether the U.S. 
should adopt a single-payer 
system. Please e-mail pem@ufpremed.org to RSVP .
Psychology Club & Psi Chi 
MeetingWednesday, 7:20 p.m.Little Hall Room 101The group will be discussing 
the interviewing process for 
graduate school. This is the last meeting to turn in dues and donations for the Arbor House. As always, come early for pizza. For more in-formation and updates, go to www.psych.ufl.edu/~psichi 
FRIDAY
SUNNY
74/49SUNNY
76/50THURSDAY WEDNESDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
69/47SUNNY
70/48SUNNY
70/40TUESDAY
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
February 14, 1964: UF stu-
dents are surprise stars when 
the  production crew for “Can-did Camera” hits campus. A fake invite to have dinner with Presi-
dent Reitz and sudden splashes 
from sprinklers comprised a few of the pranks caught on tape dur -
ing the week of the visit.
February 14, 1968: Dr. James 
Cade, the man behind Gatorade, announces he’s created a com-panion beverage called Gator-
Go. The drink is designed as a 
pregame beverage that helps muscles store carbohydrates “to keep the player’s endurance up.”
Gator-Go, which is similar in 
texture to milk, comes in malt, vanilla, chocolate, strawberry and rum-maple.
February 15, 1994: Gainesville 
gets some closure as Danny Roll-ing pleads guilty to the murder of five college students, about three and a half years after the killings.
“I’ve been running from one 
thing or another,” he said. “Prob-
lems at home or with the law. 
Some things you just can’t run from — this is one of them.”
 — KAT BEINn STUDENT TICKETS COST $11.
By KRISTIN LOPOPOLO
Alligator Contributing writer
To mark the end of Black History Month, 
UF’s Student Government Productions spent $120,000 to bring rappers B.o.B, Wale and J. Cole to the O’Connell Center on Feb. 26.
Student tickets go on sale at noon today.Kyle Calhoun, the SG Productions music 
and entertainment chairman, said the con-cert will be an event students will not want to miss because the performers are reach-
ing the peak of their musical careers.
The headline act, B.o.B, also 
known as Bobby Ray, is a rap-
per, singer and music producer who be-came well-known for his single “Airplanes” featuring Hayley Williams of Paramore.
The artist was nominated for five Gram-my Awards, including Record of the Year and Best Rap Album. 
“It’s incredible that this star agreed to 
come to campus,” Calhoun said. “B.o.B may be out of reach next year because he is be-coming a big star.”
UF students can purchase tickets for $11 
plus service fees. They will be sold at the 
University Box Office.
Everyone else can purchase tickets on 
ticketmaster.com for $32.65 starting at noon 
Tuesday.B.o.B to headline O’Connell Center show
UF ADMINISTRATION
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
Michael Cornwell got into 
UF after all.
After worrying for weeks, 
the 18-year-old’s anxiety turned 
into excitement after he checked his status online and saw “Con-gratulations!” on the screen of 
his Toshiba laptop Friday.
Though the Gainesville High 
School senior originally planned 
a victory lap around his neigh-
borhood, he instead dashed 
around his sister’s apartment complex in Altamonte Springs.
Some 11,423 high school se-
niors celebrated Friday as UF 
announced the students accept-
ed for the 2011 freshman class.
UF spokesman Steve Orlan-do said he expects 6,400 of those 
accepted to enroll.
“I know it’s hard for some 
people to believe, but not ev-
erybody who is admitted comes 
to the University of Florida,” he 
said.
The university received 
29,269 applications. Students who were admitted had an av-
erage GPA of 4.3, SAT score of 
1963 and ACT score of 30.
Since 2000, the university has 
accepted an average of 11,443 
students and had an average 
freshman class size of 6,684.
However, the percentage of 
students accepted versus the number of students applying 
has declined steadily over the 
past 10 years. UF accepted 62.5 percent of its applicants in 2000, 
but in 2009, accepted 41.9 per -
cent.
Orlando credited the selec-
tivity to an increase in the uni-versity’s prestige.
“Maybe a few years ago, the 
students we 
were admitting were deciding 
between UF, 
FSU and the University of Georgia,” he 
said. “But now, 
the students 
are decid-
ing between UF, Stanford and MIT.”
However, the university 
isn’t being as selective as it once was.
The university was begin-
ning an initiative to fix its stu-dent-faculty ratio. Its solution was to take less students.
But to offset the $150 mil-
lion the university has lost due to budget cuts, it has had to freeze the cut-down on incom-ing freshmen, Orlando said.
“We’re not bringing in more, 
we’re just not bringing in less,” he said.
Still, the university’s admis-
sion process remains a competi-tive ordeal, and Orlando said the students benefit.
“When it comes time to grad-
uate, we’re being recognized for 
the quality of students we turn 
out,” Orlando said.UF adds newest members of Gator NationOnCampu s
Orlando
LOCAL
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
It’s an axis of activism, a core of counter-culture  and a 
hub for all things left-winged in Gainesville. The Civic Me-
dia Center, 433 S. Main St., is a library where self-described 
liberals and anarchists meet to organize, network and un-
wind.
In this building, the wheels of rebellion turn.“The CMC plays a role in our lives somewhat in the way 
the church plays a role in a religious person’s life,” said store coordinator James Schmidt. “There’s no other place like this in Gainesville, that’s for sure.” 
The center is the only “info shop” in the city, a place that lends out books, DVDs and other materials public or univer -
sity libraries don’t have.
About 10,000 books on protest case studies, theories 
of power and tales of life outside the social norm line the shelves seven levels high.
A heart-shaped bowl that holds free Crown condoms and 
an accompanying bilingual how-to pamphlet sit on the main desk.
Schmidt, 40, said the Alachua County Public Library is 
slowly starting to update its database to include the store’s 
books, everything from “Communists, Cowboys and 
Queers” to “The Peasants’ Revolt of 1381.”
Romy Newbold, a 22-year-old store volunteer, said the 
center tries to weed out well-published items to make room for rare ones.
“It sucks,” she said. “We just don’t have room for every-
thing.”
Stop by at 2 p.m. when the store opens, and it will feel 
like a library — quiet and calm. Stop by at night for an event, and it’s a different story.
One of the stranger events the Civic Media Center held 
was a nude drawing class, Schmidt said.
In the late 1990s, the City Commission instituted an ordi-
nance against nudity within a certain radius of downtown. 
The ordinance was meant to prevent a strip club from being 
built, but a Gainesville nudist decided to protest.
The center blocked out its windows and set up stations 
where people could draw him.
“Anyone who walked in the space would encounter a 
live, nude human,” Schmidt said.
He said the library originally opened on University Av-
enue in the building that houses Mochi Frozen Yogurt and 101 Cantina.
Activist groups came together and realized there was one 
thing they were lacking — a place of their own. Usually, the activists met in a house or a church, but they needed some -
thing more.
They decided on a library and filled it with stacks of books 
and other periodicals that Charles Willett, the founder of the alternative magazine Counterpoise, kept after his magazine reviewed them.
“He didn’t know what to do with the stuff, but he was 
excited about the material,” Schmidt said.
While they were planning, the group decided it would be 
inspirational to have Noam Chomsky, a well-known politi-cal activist, speak in Gainesville. They booked his appear -
ance two years in advance.
Members of the group scheduled the store’s grand open-
ing to coincide with Chomsky’s visit, Oct. 18, 1993.
Six months later, the center moved to 1021 NW Univer -
sity Ave., right next door to Gator Dawgs.
About 10 years later, the center moved to its Main Street 
location.
Schmidt said the library stays in business because of the 
community.
“Frankly, for most of its existence, the center has existed 
from month to month,” he said, holding a donation record that read “How to Feed the Civic Media Center.” “For the first time in a few years, we have money in the bank again.”
Visitors and volunteers said the center is just too special 
to them. They couldn’t bear to see it go under, so they give time and money.
“People bend over backwards for this place,” Newbold 
said.Civic Media Center plays role of city’s liberal library 4, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011
Alligator File Photo
Dewayne Slightweight plays a song she wrote during an event called FINGERS at the Civic Media Center in Gainesville 
on May 31, 2009. 
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Family and friends gather to honor and remember Officer Scott M. Baird behind Gainesville High School 
during the 10th Annual Officer Scott M. Baird memorial on Saturday. 
 NO SUSPECTS WERE 
EVER NAMED.
By SARAH POSER 
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
More than 100 people gath-
ered Saturday night behind 
Gainesville High School to honor 
the memory of former Gainesville Police Officer Scott M. Baird. 
Baird died Feb. 12, 2001, af-
ter responding to a call about a large metal batting cage blocking Northwest 16th Terrace. He was waiting for a tow truck to move the cage when a passing vehicle 
collided with the cage, knocking 
it into Baird and killing him in-stantly.
Police believe the cage was 
placed in the street as a prank but never charged anyone in connec-tion to the accident.
“This service is a reminder 
that all he did is not in vain,” said 
Kelly Gaudet, Baird’s mother. 
She said she wants people to 
remember that Northwest 16th Terrace, which was renamed Of-
ficer Scott M. Baird Boulevard, is not just a street but also the place where her son lay down his life. 
A new stone monument was 
placed at the site  Thursday to mark where Baird lost his life. 
Cpl. Tracy Fundenburg, who 
organizes the candlelight vigil 
each year , said Gaudet is a hero 
for the way she’s persevered and triumphed over the tragedy.  
Fundenburg  said the vigil 
helped to remember Baird’s life 
and honor his service to the de-
partment.
“Scott was a good guy, and 
you can tell how well-liked he 
was by this turnout,” she said.
Gainesville Police Chief Tony 
Jones said he can empathize with 
Baird’s family as he lost a son years ago.
Jones said his department is 
still committed to finding those responsible for Baird’s death. 
“We would like to bring those 
individuals to justice one day,” he said.Memorial honors 10th anniversary of officer’s deathMONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
n THEY ALSO PROMISED TO HOLD 
ELECTIONS, BUT DID NOT SET A TIMETABLE.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
CAIRO — Egypt’s military rulers took 
sweeping action to dismantle the autocratic 
legacy of former President Hosni Mubarak on Sunday, dissolving parliament, suspend-ing the constitution and promising elections in 
moves cautiously welcomed by pro-democra-
cy protesters.
They also met with representatives of the 
broad-based youth movement that brought down the government after an 18-day upris-ing that transfixed the world.
The caretaker government, backed by the 
military, said restoring security was a top pri-ority even as labor unrest reflected one of the 
many challenges of steering the Arab world’s 
biggest nation toward stability and democ-racy.
On Sunday , prominent activist Wael 
Ghonim posted on a Facebook page he man-ages notes from a meeting between members of the military council and youth representa-tives, which he described as encouraging.
The military defended the caretaker gov-ernment, stocked with Mubarak loyalists, as necessary for now in the interests of stability but pledged to soon change it, said Ghonim and another protester, Amr Salama, in the statement.
“They said they will go after corrupt people 
no matter what their position current or previ-ous,” the statement added. Amendments to the much reviled constitution will be prepared by an independent committee over the next 10 days and then presented for approval in a popular referendum to be held in two months, they said.
The military also encouraged the youth to 
consider forming political parties — some-thing very difficult to do under the old system — and pledged to meet with them regularly.
“We felt a sincere desire to protect the 
gains of the revolution and an unprecedented respect for the right of young Egyptians to ex-press their opinions,” Ghonim said.
Even amid the efforts to build a new sys-
tem, Egypt’s upheaval has splintered into a 
host of smaller grievances, the inevitable out-
come of emboldened citizens feeling free to speak up, most for the first time.
Egypt’s state news agency announced 
banks would be closed Monday due to strikes and again Tuesday for a public holiday. Doz-ens of employees protested against alleged cor -ruption at the state television building, which 
broadcast pro-Mubarak messages during the 
massive demonstrations against his rule.
The caretaker government met for the first 
time, and employees removed a huge frame photograph of Mubarak from the meeting room before they convened.
The crowds in the protest encampment that 
became a symbol of defiance against the gov-ernment thinned out Sunday — the first work-
ing day since the regime fell. Traffic flowed 
through downtown area for the first time in weeks. Troops cleared most of the makeshift tents and scuffled with holdout activists.
The protesters have been pressing the rul-
ing military council, led by Defense Minister 
Hussein Tantawi, to im-mediately move forward with the transition by 
appointing a presidential 
council, dissolving parliament and releasing 
political prisoners. Thousands have remained in Tahrir Square and some want to keep up the pressure for immediate steps, including repeal of repressive emergency laws that give police broad power.
As Egypt embarked on its new path — one 
of great hope but also deep uncertainty — the 
impact of its historic revolt and an earlier up-
rising in Tunisia was evident in a region where democratic reform has made few inroads.Yemeni police clashed Sunday with pro-
testers seeking the ouster of the U.S.-backed president, and opposition groups planned a rally in Bahrain on Monday. Demonstrators have also pushed for change in Jordan and Al-geria, inspired by the popular revolt centered in downtown Cairo.
The 18-member Supreme Council of the 
Armed Forces allayed some concerns by dis-missing the legislature, packed with Mubarak 
loyalists, and sidelining the constitution, used 
by Mubarak to buttress his rule. Activists said they would closely watch the military to en-sure it does not abuse its unchecked power — something that is clearly starting to make some uneasy.
The council “believes that human freedom, 
the rule of law, support for the value of equal-ity, pluralistic democracy, social justice, and 
the uprooting of corruption are the bases for 
the legitimacy of any system of governance that will lead the country in the upcoming pe-riod,” the Council said in a statement.
The military council, which has issued a 
stream of communiques since taking power, said parliamentary and presidential elections will be held, but did not set a timetable. It said it will run the country for six months, or until 
elections can be held. It said it will represent 
Egypt in all internal and external affairs and proclaimed the right to set temporary laws.
Egypt’s military rulers dissolve nation’s parliament
NewsInternationalThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
76 TOTAL VOTES51% YES49% NOFriday’s question: Do you think Detroit should install a RoboCop statue?Today’s question: Do you have a Valentine?
Seeking a Spectacle
The game’s over, and 
our team won. 
It’s time to turn 
off the TV and remember it could have gone either way but that our guys came back and snagged a victo-
ry. When’s the next game, 
anyway? We’re not talking 
about the last Gators bas-ketball game. 
This is the American 
mentality toward the tran-sition of power during and after the revolution in Egypt. 
The structure our media 
follow made the revolution both possible (How many stories did we hear about Twitter in Egypt?) and too 
slow for our tastes. 
Our news anchors 
seemed to tire of the events 
far before the 18 days of 
protesting ended; they 
spared no time asking if the neighboring countries were due for revolution them-selves. We know our collective 
attention span is short, but a complete overhaul of a 
government central to a 
key political region of the world should command our attention for more than 
a few minutes.
Beyond that, until jour -
nalists started disappearing 
and our beloved Anderson Cooper got roughed up, we 
usually received informa-
tion with a tone of spec-tacle. 
Now that the interest-
ing photo opportunities are gone and cars aren’t burn-ing through the night in Tahrir Square, we’ll see less about the country on its 
way to a more democratic 
future and more about oth-er countries in the Middle East gearing up for marches 
and protests. 
Why cover the civil re-
sults of revolution when 
you can go elsewhere and find its chaotic roots?Penney Pincher
Search engine abuse 
skews results
Think for a moment about how much trust we put into Internet search engines like Google. They are our springboards to the otherwise nearly impenetra-
ble expanse of information available online.
That’s why it’s a bit disturbing that a single company — 
JCPenney — manipulated the largest search engine in the world for months on end without Google noticing. When 
The New York Times saw the department store showing 
as the top Google search result for everything from bed-ding to dresses, they brought in an expert who explained the devious means companies use to attain higher results.
JCPenney planted links in abandoned sites to boost its 
standings— and it worked, to Google’s dismay. The search engine has since tried to correct the problem manually, but the damage to our trust is done. With as enormous a place to patrol as the Internet, how are search engines supposed 
to stop people from breaking the rules and falsifying the 
results? The simple answer is that they can’t: People al-ways will find a way around the guidelines.
That leaves us, the searchers, questioning the order in 
which results are presented to us. We’re left wondering if 
the top result is really the most popular website for a given 
term or if its placement comes as a result of some string-pulling. If nothing else, the problem proves once again that we’re making the rules up as we go with the Internet.
Boycott hurts conservative movement
It may be “the economy, stupid,” but this weekend, the first shots were fired in the looming civil war among members of the GOP. 
The growing rift between “fiscal” and “social” con-
servatives was on full display during this year’s annual Conservative Political Action Conference.
Better known as CPAC, the event allows conserva-
tives across the nation to come together to meet like-minded individuals and mingle with potential presi-dential candidates.
However, this year’s event was more noticeable for 
groups attending – and not attending – than for any-
thing else put forth at the conference.
Due to the inclusion of and participation of GO-
Proud, a group that openly advocates for the ideas of 
gay conservatives, several socially conservative groups 
and individuals boycotted the conference.
By doing so, they made known their opposition to 
GOProud’s laissez-faire positions on social issues, and, 
initially, they created a buzz in the media.
However, this coverage rarely went beyond stating  
these groups were not attending, and it seldom focused on the reasoning behind their decisions not to attend. 
It is common knowledge that the best test of a politi-
cal position is its ability to gain acceptance in the mar -
ketplace of ideas. 
By boycotting the conference, socially conservative 
groups allowed GOProud and its allies to have unfet-tered access to this marketplace. 
They gave them the ability to advocate their ideas 
with little opposition. 
The marketplace of ideas functions effectively only  
if all ideas are equally represented. For instance, some attendees  
and politicians at CPAC suggested  social issues weren’t as important 
in the current tough economic 
times. 
They hinted these issues should 
be minimized because they serve 
only as divisions within their oth-
erwise unified conservative move-
ment.
Whether one agrees or disagrees with this statement 
is unimportant. 
The fact that the most vocal socially conservative 
groups were not present to rebuff this assertion de-prived other attendees from hearing the other side of this message. 
Their stance is that social issues are still important 
even in these tough economic times because they define who we are as a nation. 
Because this side of the debate was not put forth at 
the conference, social conservatives run the risk that 
others would fail to grasp this important concept and 
would decide to accept the other side’s arguments as the truth.
While boycotting a few high-profile events might be 
an effective strategy to raise awareness for an issue in the short term, it is fraught with peril as a long-term strategy.
Social conservatives must put forth their ideas on an 
equal footing with others or risk losing their access to 
the marketplace of ideas altogether. 
Zack Smith is a first-year law student. His column ap-
pears on Mondays.
Zack Smith
letters@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Facebook — it’s a great tool to keep in touch with 
friends and family. It’s useful for employers to profile prospective employees.
And now, it’s become a great tool for police depart-
ments and prosecuting attorneys.
“It’s the 21st-century version of a private investiga-
tor following you,” said Trevor Wells, an attorney with Lexington’s Miller Wells.
Wells explained that while conducting research 
about the use of social networking sites in court cases for a continuing legal education seminar for the bar, 
he found that “every couple of months the number doubled with the cases involving Facebook.”
While larger police depart-
ments and law firms use Facebook 
and other social networking sites to find evidence for domestic relations, gang-related and personal injury cases, smaller PDs use the networks less aggressively.
“We’ve used Facebook in the past to gather informa-
tion related to crimes,” said Joe Monroe, chief of the University of Kentucky Police Department.
Monroe explained that, contrary to popular belief, 
the UKPD does not use Facebook as a way to locate student parties. He said that not only would that pro-cess be a fulltime job, it would be a waste of the UK-PD’s resources, manpower and time.
Currently, the UKPD operates one Facebook page. 
It represents the organization as a whole and, accord-ing to Monroe, is used simply as another way to com-municate with the public.
However, more than a year ago, UKPD detectives 
used Facebook as a means to an end in cases related to theft, robbery and drugs.
Monroe said the process didn’t involve a random 
search or fake profiles — instead, the detectives had suspects in mind and simply conducted a search to see public information, which was displayed on unblocked profiles. From there the detectives followed trails of ev-idence and submitted documentation to the courts.
“As long as people post things blindly, Facebook 
will be a useful tool,” Monroe said.
Northern Kentucky University Police Department 
Sgt. Will Love said, similar to UKPD, that the only Fa-cebook page they operate is one for community rela-tions. However, he said in previous years it has been useful to locate students who had otherwise been un-reachable by concerned parents.
“We use it if it helps, but it’s not the first place we 
go,” Love said.
“Social networks in general are a great way to give 
and get information. It’s a wonderful way to open a dialogue with the community,” said Sherelle Roberts, the public information officer for the Lexington Divi-sion of Police.
She said that social networking sites have been used 
in Lexington investigations. Most incriminating infor -
mation has been posted to public profiles via video or photos on Flickr, YouTube, Facebook and Myspace.
“It’s impossible to quantify Facebook’s use in cas-
es,” Roberts said, adding that over the last decade the 
Internet has been a tremendous tool in gathering infor -
mation and identifying criminal activity.
Monroe said nearly 75 percent of police departments 
use Facebook in some fashion. Developing undercover 
Facebook or Myspace pages is nearly beyond the scope of necessity for campus police departments, but not en-tirely out of the question for larger organizations.
Wells explained that private profiles aren’t entirely 
out of the reach of the law either.
“More and more we’re seeing formal requests (be-
ing filed) for Facebook page activity,” he said.
Other realms of the legal system are using social 
networks for cases as well, and it most likely will con-tinue to grow in this day and age.
Ally Rogers is a student at the University of Kentucky.Facebook may 
be useful as law enforcement tool
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Servic-es announced a new plan to extend coverage to an additional 3 million college students through 
the Affordable Healthcare Act of 2010 by adding addi-tional benefits to the student health care plans.
In a conference call with college media outlets 
Wednesday, the HHS discussed the effect of new provi-
sions in health care reform legislation.
HHS Division Director Steve Larsen opened the dis-
cussion by saying the new proposal provides extra pro-tection to college students not currently protected by the national health care law.
“One of the most vulnerable groups in our old health 
care system was young adults, especially those in col-lege,” said Larsen. “When our young people graduated from college they not only looked for a job, but they were also looking for a job with benefits.”
Jessica Moore, spokeswoman for HHS said as of Jan. 
1, 2012, pre-existing conditions and medication exclu-sion policies would be discontinued. The ban on life-time benefit caps will take effect on Jan.1, 2014.
“In addition to the restrictions being lifted on medi-
cations like insulin, the proposal requires that college and universities health care plans meet an 80 cents per dollar ratio with 80 cents going to pay for health care, not for administration costs,” Moore said.
According to HHS statistics, Larsen says he felt like 
college students were ignored and often fell through the cracks of the old health care system.
“America’s young people are more than 20 percent 
more likely to go without health insurance,” Larsen said. “This means that there are thousands of young people wondering about how they are going to pay for their next doctor’s visit, who do have the medicines they need. This new proposal will provide coverage 
and answers to those students.”Larsen pointed out students 
impacted by the new proposal are 
those who receive health insur -
ance through their university’s 
student health care plans.
“Nationwide, 1,500 to 2,000 colleges and universities 
offer their students a student health care plan,” Larsen said. “The Affordable Health Care Act did nothing to impact these students. This proposal will allow those 3 
million students who participate in student health care 
plans to receive coverage that every other American re-ceives through the new health care law.”
Aaron Smith, of Young Invincibles, a Washington 
D.C. lobbyist firm for young Americans, says this is not a new issue or even a win-lose issue but a win-win for all young Americans.
“As a whole this debate over universal health care 
is nothing new. This is not a debate where one side has to win and another has to lose,” Smith said. “Instead this is a win-win, because this proposal will result in extended coverage for college students.”
Larsen said the proposal reinforces the new guide-
lines about restrictions and makes them applicable to all students with student health care plans.
“For every 20 schools offering coverage, eight had 
exclusion principles in place like pre-existing condi-tions, lifetime benefit caps, medication exclusion — the list goes on and on,” Larsen said.
Steve Bloom, of the American Council of Education, 
which represents the interests of higher education in-
stitutions, says the ACE is extremely pleased with this 
result.
“Our primary concern for our students is always 
quality health care, access to health care and affordabil-
ity,” Bloom said.
Ethan Colbert is a student at the University of Missouri.Department of Health announces plan 
to extend coverage to college studentsUWire
Ethan Colbert
UWireUWire
Ally Rogers
UWireApple has just announced 
the biggest thing since The Beatles (on iTunes, at least): 
The iPhone 4 is coming to Verizon.
Buzz has been surrounding the 
iPhone and Verizon for the past two years, but nothing was an-
nounced until earlier this month. 
The iPhone 4 is going to be released  Feb. 10 under conditions that are still not exactly spelled out by Ve-rizon. Should consumers eagerly 
wait for Verizon stores to open that 
day, or should they wait until the deal is clearer and possibly better?
While new and shiny technol-
ogy is always exciting, consumers probably should be aware that, while Verizon has announced the cost of the iPhone — between $199.99 and $299.99 for two-year 
plans and $649.99 to $749.99 full 
retail price, the company has yet to state the cost of a data package for the iPhone.
Verizon’s website vaguely refer -
ences the data package, but a real answer is elusive. The company’s FAQ reads, “Customers will also be required to activate a data package, 
pricing will be announced at a later 
date.”
If the pricing is similar to other 
smart phone data packages, it will 
be $15 or higher, as initially priced 
on the Verizon website, although the cost of a package for the Black-
berry with 
unlimited email and web is $29.99 
per month according to Verizon’s online shopping assistant. This 
price does not include a phone plan 
itself, which can run up to $69.99 for unlimited calls.
For a buyer who can afford the 
phone itself, standard monthly fees 
and a data package plan, the iPhone 
is a good choice. Otherwise, buyers might want to hang in there until prices go down.
According to the company’s 
FAQ, they conveniently have cov-ered all the bases of the iPhone. For example, people who purchased a smart phone for the holidays and 
weren’t aware of the iPhone release 
are “eligible to receive up to a $200 Visa debit card when they purchase an iPhone 4 at full retail price.”
With a full retail price of $649.99 
or $749.99, a $200 Visa debit doesn’t seem like too much of a bargain. Also, while the iPhone has strong consumer loyalty due to branding 
and marketing by Apple, it is not 
come recommended by profession-als.
In July, Consumer Reports maga-
zine stated it could not recommend the iPhone 4 in several articles, cit-ing signal loss issues when an area on the left side of the phone was blocked by a hand or finger. While 
Apple grappled with this issue and 
made recalls, the iPhone 4 has still not received the stamp of approval from Consumer Reports.
Verizon’s iPhone is different 
from AT&T’s, so the signal loss is-sue might be fixed, and Apple went to great lengths to give customers a free case for the faulty iPhones, 
but Consumer Reports further criti-
cized Verizon for releasing a mid-
year replacement when the release of a new iPhone is expected in the 
summer.
While buyers can’t base every 
decision on the magazine, which 
recommends waiting until a new-er iPhone comes out to make the 
purchase, they have to weigh the 
options. Owning the newest tech-nology may be important to some people, but maybe not when they 
are paying for a new phone, a 
calling plan and an undisclosed amount for a data plan. On top of that, consumers will have to pay a trade-in fee to get the newest iP-
hone in the summer.
The verdict: You probably can 
survive for six more months with-
out buying the latest iPhone.
Kait McNamee is a student at the 
University of Colorado-Denver.
Final verdict on Apple’s iPhone 4UWire
Kait McNamee
UWiren TEAMS COMPETED FOR 
$14,000 IN PRIZE MONEY FOR CHARITY.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
Imagine recess on steroids. 
That’s what the Alachua County 
Emerging Leaders created when 
they took a childhood classic — kick-
ball — and infused it with 32 teams 
composed of adults competing for $14,000 in prize money . 
After about eight hours and sev-
en matches, the Nationwide Insur -
ance team, playing for the American 
Heart Association, took home the 
top prize of $5,000 in the fifth annual ACEL Champions for Charity Kick-
ball Tournament, held Saturday at 
Diamond Sports Park. 
Team Nationwide, which was 
playing its first tournament and had held only one 45-minute practice be-fore the event, captured the title with 
a 1-0 victory over Frankel Media 
Group, the defending champions. 
 “I thought we’d be lucky to get 
in the top four.  That was our goal,” said J.W. Scott, a member of Team Nationwide. “Winning it was just ic-
ing on the cake.”
Scott said his team owes the vic-
tory to “rover” Joe Pizzimenti, who Scott said would have been the 
team’s most valuable player if they gave out such an honor. 
Pizzimenti led a defense that 
gave up just four runs in its last five games as Team Nationwide cap-
tured the championship in front of 
dozens of fans. 
For its effort, Frankel Media 
Group will receive $2,500, which goes directly to the Sebastian Ferre-ro Foundation. In all, half the teams 
walked away with prize money . 
Even with such large sums on the 
line, the majority of teams were able to keep their cool and focus on what 
was most important. “Some are more competitive 
than others, but it’s for charity , so fun is the key,” said Reu Woodruff, a three-time member of the former-
champion Gainesville Jaycees. 
“Most people have a focus on what the real aim of the whole thing is.”The juxtaposition of competition 
and entertainment  at the event pro-vided a little something for all the uniform-clad participants. 
“It was top notch — an A-plus 
effort by ACEL,” Scott said. “We’ll definitely be back next year.”8, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011
Andrew Avila / Alligator
Members of Leadership Gainesville play kickball during the ACEL 
Champions for Charity Kickball Tournament on Saturday afternoon.
Adults play kickball for a cause
By CHRIS GLIDDEN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two days before the year’s biggest celebration of love, one 
group of individuals decided to show love to the homeless.
Saturday morning, 110 volunteers flocked to Bo Diddley 
Community Plaza to treat the homeless community to a spe-
cial Valentine’s Day present of makeovers, haircuts, profes-
sional pictures, food, clothing and games. 
The celebration lasted from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m., and between 
150 and 170 homeless people attended, said Jennifer Smith, who planned the event. 
Smith wanted to make sure the homeless knew they were 
loved, too.
She said her message to the homeless was simple.“You’re beautiful, you are accepted and you are loved,” 
she said.
Smith was homeless for eight years of her life 
and said she knew many of the individuals she 
was serving. She said she hoped the event would 
brighten up Valentine’s Day for those who at-tended.
“We’re going to try to make it special for them,” she said. 
“It gets lonely on the streets.”
The homeless were invited to participate in various ser -
vices Smith and the group offered. 
The makeover station consisted of five chairs lined up in 
front of a table decked with products ranging from L’Oreal 
to Mary Kay.
The homeless were free to sit while someone trimmed their 
hair and offered different beauty products for other needs.
After a makeover, they had the choice of being profession-
ally photographed. Several background choices and flowers 
were provided.
Volunteers interacted with the homeless by playing Con-
nect Four, hula-hooping, throwing a Frisbee and offering to help them select free clothing and jewelry from a table of do-
nated material. 
UF sophomore Christa Goad said her decision to volun-
teer at the event was simple.
“We can bless because we’ve been blessed,” she said.Volunteers show 
Valentine’s love to area homeless
As thousands of Egyptians raised 
their signs and voices Jan. 25, the first 
day of protests,  Muhammad waited by 
the phone for news of his brothers Mah-
moud, 26, and Mustafa, 20. 
For nearly 24 hours, Muhammad 
could not reach his family by phone. He 
couldn’t help but worry about his broth-ers’ safety.
By the end of the night, he had heard 
from Mustafa, who reassured him he 
was all right. Mahmoud didn’t get home 
from protesting until the next day, when 
he called Muhammad with similar news.
Muhammad said he was proud of his 
brothers for joining the revolution.
“Many people who haven’t partici-
pated in protests in their whole life are 
participating today,” Muhammad said Thursday, one day before Mubarak ced-
ed power to the military. “From what I 
see, the people are never going to give up, and, actually, they are going to gain in numbers.”
While Egyptians protested across the 
nation, there were others in Egypt who chose not to join the demonstrations but 
rather to protect their neighborhoods 
as the threat of violence hung heavy on 
their minds. 
Ahmed Mohamed urged his brother 
Mahmoud, a 54-year-old pediatrician in Cairo, to join the protests.  
“I told him basically that this is a 
moment in history that’s not going to 
happen again in our lives,” Ahmed Mo-
hamed said. “I told him [that] if I were 
in Egypt at the time I would have gone 
because that’s history in the making.”
But Ahmed Mohamed’s brother com -
mitted himself to a different effort during the revolt: protecting his neighbors.
Ahmed Mohamed said said his broth-
er wasn’t afraid of being killed during 
the conflict. He knew if he were killed, it 
would be as a martyr for the cause.Egypt’s president resigned Friday
EGYPT , from page 1Suwannee River Smokers won title
nis Schmitz, lead contest representative for 
the Florida BBQ Association, labels Bry-ant’s and other contestants’ boxes with a number so only he knows its owner. 
Tables of FBA-certified judges chatter 
in the back of the room while they wait for their samples. When volunteers hand out the samples, the room falls silent. Sounds of chewing fill the building.
One judge tugs a bite off a rib, grimaces, 
then slams it on his paper plate, splattering barbecue sauce on his score card.
“They need to quit smokin’ mullet a 
weekend before the damn contest,” said 
Richard Wolfe, a contest judge. “Don’t 
cook mullet before the contest, guys, Jesus Christ!”
Because of an off-choice of grill meat, 
the flavor’s completely off on this one, he said. Plus, it’s mushy.
Pit bosses walk fine lines when it comes 
to their cooking. It’s a balance between sweet and smoky, tender and firm, spiced 
and sauced. Too much of anything and 
they’re done.
Judging lasts most of the afternoon. 
Some of the pit bosses wander over to the main stage where comedian Alex Ortiz jokes with the crowd and Jimmie Van Zant chimes a chorus of “Freebird.”
By 5 p.m., it’s time for awards. Volun-
teers roll out a table of trophies to be pre-sented by girls wearing tiaras, cowboy boots and “Miss Bradford” sashes.
After the superlatives — best chicken, 
best brisket, best ribs and best pork — are announced, the crowd piles in to hear who will be the grand champions.
With the highest scores in each category, 
Craig Thomas and his crew, Suwannee River Smokers, trot up to the stage, chuck-ling and slapping one  anothers’ backs.
They get a three-foot trophy and a 
$2,550 prize.
That doesn’t matter, though. Most pit 
bosses throw away their trophies, anyway.
Until his next competition, Thomas 
knows he makes Florida’s best barbecue.BBQ , from page 1StudentLife
“They need to quit smokin’   
mullet a weekend before the 
damn contest.”
Richard Wolfe
contest judge TEN DENTISTS AND ABOUT 60 VOLUNTEERS 
PARTICIPATED.
By RACHEL STEPHENS
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 200 people formed a line for free dental services in 
the Millhopper Family Dentistry parking lot Saturday morn-
ing. The dental office collaborated with local endodontists, periodontists and oral surgeons for the event Care to Share, which offered free fillings, extractions and cleanings. 
Tickets were handed out at 7 a.m., but people started lin-ing up at 5:30 p.m. Friday to ensure a spot. The temperature dropped to 34 degrees during their wait. 
The first 100 people who arrived received free care.Ten local dentists and about 60 volunteers worked to make 
the event a success. Tim Murphy , an administrative assistant for the office, said 
Care to Share was created to help out the community in this tough economic time. 
Milly Ruiz, her husband and her 16-year-old son showed up 
at 6:15 p.m. Friday and set up a tent. They were fifth in line. 
She said she’s grateful that Care to Share allowed her fam-
ily members to get the dental work they needed. She and her husband hadn’t received a cleaning in more than a year, and her son needed to get his chipped tooth repaired.
“Dental insurance – that’s usually on the back burner,” she 
said. “You brush your teeth and you wish for the best, and many families just can’t afford it. That’s a luxury for some fami-lies.”By C.J. PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
With the voter registration dead-
line for city elections a day away , 11 City Commission candidates from three races converged on the Mill-hopper Branch Library on Sunday 
in an effort to shore up votes for 
their March showdown. 
The central focus of the forum, 
which was divided into three one-hour sessions for each respective race, revolved around the city’s pocketbook.
One of the main points of con-
tention involved the city’s fire as-
sessment fee, which helps fund fire 
services in the city . 
Some, such as District 3 can-
didates Susan Bottcher and Ozzy Angulo, said the measure was nec-essary to ensure the city’s fire de-partment received financial backing in times of economic malaise. 
“It’s unfortunate that we had to 
come to that point, but the fee was necessary to fund it,” Angulo said.
Other commission candidates 
didn’t see it that way . 
“I thought it was quite disgusting 
how they put this out in front of us,” said at-large candidate Don Marsh. In regard to the city’s overall 
budget, which is projected to run into $8.3 million shortfall within the 2011-2012 fiscal years, candidates preached the importance of efficien-cy and fiscal responsibility . 
District 2 candidate Robert 
Krames said in order for Gaines-ville’s economy to grow, lower taxes and sharper cuts are necessary .  
“It’s going to be painful and 
hard, but we need to reduce the size of government,” he said. “It can’t be sustained any longer.”
His opponent, James Ingle, ex-
pressed reservations toward swift cuts, especially regarding the city’s work force.
“I don’t think we can lay off 
people and think we can get out of this problem,” Ingle said. “The more people we cut, the more work we’re piling on people already working for us.” 
Commissioner Thomas Hawk-
ins said that while tough decisions needed to be made, the city was not in a “world of deficits” as some may 
imply . Nevertheless, he reiterated 
there was more work to be done.
“We can’t wave a magic wand 
and have change,” Hawkins said. “It takes hard work.”MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 9
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
District 3 City Commissioner candidate Jimmy Harnsberger speaks to a group of residents during a com-
mission forum Sunday afternoon at the Millhopper Branch Library.
Commission candidates debate finances at forum 
“You brush your teeth and you wish for the 
best, and many families just can’t afford it. 
That’s a luxury for some families.”
Milly Ruiz
patientGAINESVILLE CITY COMMISSION
Local dentists host event to provide free treatmentMONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011n ALLIGATOR, 11 10, ALLIGATORn MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011
13Page 1
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
113Page 2
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
Congratulations on your engagement,
Adam R. and Dorothy S.!
I wish you only the best with your future. 
Good luck in Texas! I’ll miss you both.
I love you, ❤ Daniella G. 
=] ❤ :)
To my Knight in a Raincoat; 
Thank you for riding the updraft (instead of 
damaging my long locks) and rescuing me 
from my tower. Let’s celebrate our fairytale 
love story! With all my love, respect and faith-
fulness - Your Princess in the Chem Tower.
Marsheen ❤ and ❤ Kayne
Thanks for all of your love and support.
I LOVE you both very much.Love Always Zackery ❤
To the yeguaiest yegua of all the yeguas. 
The best yegua in yegua hitstory. Also, the 
worst yegua, but that’s only because you are 
the only yegua.
Christy, I love you sooo much!
Happy Valentine’s Day babe!Oh, and one more thing...PROM?? :) ❤
-Timmy’s father ;)
rjcg8r - happy valentine’s day!
love you forever! only 3 more days until our vacation! fl, al, ms, la, tx, nm, az, ca, nv!viva las vegas! we’ll have so much fun!to infinity & beyond! hi Colt! ❤ brenda
Haley,
You’re the most amazing boyfriend and best friend I could have ever asked for.Here’s to our 34 month anniversary!I love you! ❤ Katelynn
A scientific evaluation of our relationship:
The purpose of this experiment was todetermine why you are still with me.Preliminary data suggests that you areneither fooled by my act nor mentally insane.So, new empirical question:
Am I actually worth all your trouble?
And in conclusion:
I hate you for using science against me.
I love you for using science against me.
Happy Valentine’s Day - don’t die.
You and I are meant to be.
We fit together so perfectly.My love for you will never cease.4 I have found my missing piece.I love you Matt! ❤ Love, Liz
LYLAnF
You have always been there for me, and I just want to let you know that I will always be there for you. I love you Lingxi H.: I look for-ward to the many adventures to come as we live our lives together. From: David P.
Happy Valentine’s Day Cassie!
I am not with you right now, but I truly wish that I could be! We can’t enjoy it today but we can enjoy it exactly a year from now, in the same spot you’re standing in right now.I can’t wait! I love you baby! Love, ❤ JasonTo my Gator boy in VA:I ❤ how quickly we alternate betweenintellectual and silly. You are the perfect boy 
for me. Cub,I ❤ and miss you. Toodles, Llama
Jess,
You’re the most amazing woman!
You’re beautiful, smart, funny, witty, & gor-
geous. I want to spend the rest of my life with you & share every low and every high. No matter what obstacles we will face I know we 
can stand side by side & do anything. I trust 
you & love you with my whole soul, heart & mind. You help make me the man I am to-
day. I never take a single moment with you for granted.
I will love you always and forever, Nico
To my ❤ly Baby Momma!
Happy Valentine’s Day! I can’t believe Xavier 
is going to be here next month. You are the 
best wife and cannot imagine how wonderful 
you are going to be as a mother!Love :) Your Baby Daddy/Husband
Morgan,
You’re the most beautiful girl in the world and I love you ❤! :)
-Alex 
Yvonne,
“You & me, & me & you.
No matter how they tossed the dice...”
Wanna serenade the world with me some-time in the future?           Brother Four.
Babe,
I could jumble with you forever ❤
I love you.Love, Your Lobster
Roses are Red
Violets are BlueCherry Coke is the sweetest soda in the breakroom,But none to compare to all of you!To all the Lovely Ladies of the Alligator❤ Brandon
In dreams and in love,
there are no impossibilities.
Happy Valentines’ Day, Tyler.
Love, Steph ❤
To all my lovely Dancin’ Gators:
Thank you for all the opportunities and grea friendships that you have given to me. I love you all! Happy Valentines Day!❤ Jackie T.
Hey There!
Wondering what I was doing on my computer that one evening? I was writing this!Anyway, have a good day in Heat Transfer. :)Have a nice Monday-day.
TO THE CREATOR OF CLUB SNUG...
I LOVE YOU MORE THAN CHEESE.
-ME ❤Happy Valentine’s Day Teddy L.I love you. ❤
Dear Darla,I hate your stinkin’ guts. You make me vomit. 
You are the scum between my toes.
Love, Alfalfa
To the Dancin’ Gators,
Love you all so much!Happy Valentines’ Day!
Love,Ally XOXO
To my fab interns,
You both are amazing!
8 & 9 dream team for life!Love,
Ally XOXO
To my amazing Phi fam,
I love you all so much!
Happy Valentine’s Day!!Love always,
Ally XOXO
Dear My Beautiful Roomie:
Thanks for the late night talks, stupid jokes, 
and the cuddle sessions. We wuff you (even 
when you yell at us for our messes)
Love, your wonderful besties(Serina and Willis) ❤ ❤ ❤I love you always and forever, my princess.
HS ❤
Our dearest Vicki,
You are far from icky. You keep us out ofsituations that are very sticky.
So roses are red, violets are blue,You’re Wonder Woman and we ❤ you!
Love, Serina & Steph ❤ ❤ ❤ ❤
Rayven,
The past 3 years and 5 months have been 
the best of my life because of you. Thank you 
for helping me to get where I am today.Happy Valentine’s Day. Love always, Sean
Booshwa,
You are the most amazing person and I 
couldn’t imagine being with anyone else!I love you infinitely,
Cozybear ❤
To Laura,I love you so much!You’re the only Lady that I’m Gaga for!❤ - Michael
BSW,
I can’t envision what college would have 
been like without you. I wouldn’t trade the past four years for anything, and spending them with you has definitely made me a bet-ter man.Love, BCSI love you Jesus!
Thank you for dying for my sins, saving me 
from eternal death and filling me with real love! This is a beautiful day that you have made. May your love shine through it!
- Your daughter, Vonecia
4 My Baby Girl - Brittany.
You are the greatest joy in my life...you lift me up when I’m down. Smile cause I am so 
proud of you.Always, Daddy
Dear Katia -
Some give flowers: yellow, red or blue, but I 
want 2 dedicate this lil piece of paper to you. 
As this 1 message is spread all across the 
city, it represents the bond we share: grow-
ing, never ceasing.
Love - Jerry
Mr. BCS -
We’ve visited many places: Charleston, New 
Orleans, Asheville, to name a few;and I’ve realized there’s nowhere I’d rather 
be...but with you!❤ Moira
To the most amazing Bigs and Co-Littles in 
the world:Tammy, Lili, Taps, Cheryl, Jenny, Amanda & Peter ❤ and BFFs Yanica and Chris!ILY guys!❤ DaniellaTeej.. you are the best thing that has ever 
happened to me. I honestly can’t describe 
how amazing our relationship is, but I can easily describe how I am the happiest girl 
in the world! I never want to be wthout you. Will you be my Valentine again and stay my 
Valentine forever? I love you TJ ❤
Dear girlfriend-in-chief (Allie),
You’re smart, sweet, gorgeous and so much fun. You make me the happiest boy in the world. We have such a bright future. You 
mean the world to me baby. Love, Paul.
dear fsa,
i ❤ you and always will. thank you for loving 
me back :) happy valentine’s day!yours truly, dorothy
Pineapple,
Since I have met you I wake up with a smile. Somehow you broke down my walls and I’m so happy you did. Thank you for being my rocky road ice cream!           Love, KiwiJeff-
Spending college with you has been wonder-
ful in every way. We have grown so much in the past four years, and I have had many 
amazing times with you - I cannot wait for the ones to come! Happy Valentine’s Day to my 
best friend, I will always love you.
XOXO, Kate
J-Cal!!!
For your message read Jer 31:3. Now start 
your day off right! There is a cup of coffee 
waiting for you at the CSC! Pick it up first 
thing today, just tell them your name!
Love, your secret valentine friends :)
Mom, Dad, and Chris-
Thank you for being my supportive, loving family. Happy Valentine’s Day!P.S. Chris- Welcome to the Gator Nation!Hugs, Kisses, and Love, Kate
Happy Valentine’s Day Jessie!
Can’t wait to celebrate with you babe :) Maybe I’ll even cook for you!Xoxo Cutie ❤Kiwi,
You are the chocolate to my chocolate cake. Without you it’d just be cake, delicious!BUT just not as good...
I ❤ you.           Pineapple
Brayam,
The limit of my heart as you approach me 
is undefined, infinity. I differentiate it, my thoughts race. I do it again, my heart acceler-
ates. (delta)S introduced us, (delta)H fused us together, so integrate me by parts and I 
will calc-u-later… oh yeah!
Rebecca,
You don’t marry someone you can live with, 
you marry the person who you cannot live without.Gary
Wild Bradganoe appeared.
Alex used confusion. It’s super effective.Wild Bradganoe used attract.Alex fell in love.Happy Valentine’s Day!
Alligator Advertising Staff,
Go Ad Sellers #1! Just do it! Simply the Best! There’s nothing like the real thing!❤ Vicki, Shaun & GarySHANE
Another Valentine’s DayAnother chance to say
I love living next door
Each day I love you more!
Happy Valentine’s Day, Tricia
Wendy,
You are the best little sister ever!I love you with all my ❤
❤ Vicki
Carly, Jesse, Serina & Stephanie,
You 4 are so awesome! Each of you is always there to help whenever I need anything!❤ Vicki ❤P.S. I would catch a grenade for you!
Alligator Production,
We almost missed yet another deadline to get our Heart Line in, but it was very important to let you know how much we appreciate you.❤ Alligator AdvertisingValentine’s Wishes
I can’t have a hug from my Doodle bug, but 
as I sit here, brings me cheer from friends far 
and near, so say good wishes and make my 
Valentine’s Day.
Oh facebook wife
Without you I’d surely be
Exterminated
Spaghetti, Ziti,
Ramen, Udon- none can beat
My Noodle Stroodle
Mom,  I can’t even begin to tell you
what this last year has meant for me.You have taught me to be a strong personand for that I could never repay you.So much love, Ashley
Even though you drive me crazy sometimes...
I wouldn’t trade my menfolk for anything!
I love you all. ❤First place winners: 
Rachel Powell |  Vonecia Carswell |  Jerry Chau |  Briana Ryan |  Alexander WebberHEARTLINES 2011Congratulations
Heartlines winners! 
Grand prize winner: Michael Andrews
$100 gift certiﬁ  cate to Manuel’s Vintage Room, two Hippodrome tickets, and roses and candy from Prange’s Florist
Roses and candy from Prange’s Florist
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Now Leasing for 2011-2012!
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
Text "GP" to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
OPEN HOUSE
THIS SATURDAY
10AM-8PM
Come check out our 2 & 4 bedrooms.
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @  $399***
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-11-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
42” TV included in every apt
$444 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. 
Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus 
Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-
205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-22-
11-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In Closet
Full size W/D • Pet Friendly
Prem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
FREE iPad WITH THIS AD!!
*12 Month Lease required.
Hampton Oaks Apartments
352-333-8643
2-17-11-5-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!
·         Available NOW and August!
·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-21bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
Starting at $409 per person!
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625
·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779
·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!4-20-10-70-2
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-16-10-40-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$439
2/1 *$558
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    2-28-11-36-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●3/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         929 nw 22 street     $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1400
●2/1  apt     2nd floor 204 nw 18  st    $1200
●2/1  apt     1st  floor 204  nw 18 st    $1100
●2/2   apt     2515  sw  35 place          $1200
2-18-11-20-2The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
No move in fees and $500 off March!
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA very nice house. 
Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game 
room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets 
ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-15-11-24-2
AVAILABLE  AUG 1st. 4BR/3BA beautiful 
4-year-old house, washer/dryer provided. 
Open floor plan, vaulted ceilings, fireplace, 
large rooms. 2108 NW 8th Ct. $1575/mo 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-15-11-19-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-15-11-19-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $625/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    2-17-11-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $410, 2 BR $500. 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $450, 2BR $550 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-11-42-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
1BR/1BA NW. $475/mo.
Available now. Pets ok.
Call 352-359-1644 or 352-332-8481     2-28-11-20-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living 
room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-15-11-9-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 5BR/2BA BIG, big 
yard for dogs, bonfires, etc. W/D provided. Fireplace in living room & game room w/ bar area. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1650/mo. 352-339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-15-11-9-2
Immaculate small efficiency Quiet.Wash/
dry on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No pets.1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus routes.$399/m.352-262-2871. Owner agent.   2-21-11-14-2
Summer Place
One Bedroom *$439
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-49-2Condominiums 2 & 4 Bedrooms now or 
summer and fall. Popular locations such as 
CountrySide, Southwest and Shands area. 
Call for details Bristol Park Realty 352 367 
2669 Bristolparkrealty.com   3-14-11-21-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 
920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. 
postj@bellsouth.net   2-18-11-10-2
3/2 Available Fall!
4 Blocks to UF
***48 Hour Special***
352-371-7777                      3-4-11-20-2
$360-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo 
in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins 
from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, 
W/D included, furnished common area. 
352.514.3398.   2-28-15-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.
Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com2-15-11-4-2
Cozy, Private and Close to Campus!
2-Bedroom Apartments available for rent im-
mediately!!! Close to Butler Plaza, UF and 
bus routes.Short leases available.
For more info, please call 786-512-0628   
2-15-5-2
The Price You Want, The Convenience You 
Need! $650 - 2BR/2BA apartment walking 
distance of UF, shopping center and bus 
routes. Open Floor Plan - Small Pets allowed. 
Available for rent immediately 352.262.2828   
2-15-11-5-2
***NICE AND SPACIOUS APARTMENT 
TWO BLOCKS FROM BEATY TOWERS****
920 SW Depot Ave apt. 15. Great location 
and great price. Pets allowed. Parking and 
laundry. camipizano@yahoo.com   2-16-5-2
3BR APTS 1/2 block to Tigert Hall. 1227 SW 
4th Ave. 2-story brick quad, w/ 3BR apts available. Convenient, clean, & energy effi-cient. 3BRs for $1350/mo. August 1st. Call 352-514-5060 for appointment    2-17-11-5-2
Eff Barn Apt, Newberry & 143rd area, 14 
Ac prop, A/C&Heat, well water, loft queen, shower bath, microwave, full size fridge, TV, washer/dryer $400 954-610-0006 Horse Board Stall or Field Extra   3-3-11-15-2
***FALL RENTAL***
4,5,6+ Bdrm Houses for Rent
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Ask abt Family Discounts
Immediate Move-In Available
2-17-11-5-2
Sublease a 2/2 roommate style apt with 
W/D for $650/month in Treehouse Village Apartments from May 1st to July 31st. Option to renew lease. Call Treehouse office at 352-372-3096 RE: I303 sublease.   2-18-5-2
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-20-70-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $395/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79292-28-10-82-4
14, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 or
jfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-
cluded. $350/mo. No deposit required. 863-
634-1893. Available immediately.   2-14-10-
4
1 or 2 male roommates needed. 2BRs avail 
in 3BR/2BA house. Close to UF campus, on 
bus route, large fenced-in backyard. Cent H/
AC, pets welcome. $400/mo + elec. Call 561-
706-5378    2-15-11-10-4
Looking for roommate in a 3/3 apartment in 
Hidden Lake. Current roommates are easy to 
get along with. Pet-friendly. Easy bus routes 
to campus. Nice pool and gym with free tan-
ning $440/mo. Contact (352) 346-5459
2-18-8-4
Female seeks roommate for furnished house 
in Starke on SR 100. $350/mo + $100 dep. 
305-972-7849 cell. Call day or night.    2-17-
11-5-4
we need a roommate who doesn't watch 
much tv,likes outside>inside,digs live music. 
knows how to clean up after themselves. 
Nice spacious house off University. Call for 
details. Rachael 303-601-9656    2-15-2-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  GraniteCounters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
2-28-10-98-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $149997 Pontiac Transport $149996 Chevy Blazer $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $199998 Ford Expolorer $199997 Lincoln Town car $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $499999 Ford F150 $599998 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit checkMove  vehicles $500 & up!352-375-9090     4-20-70-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-20-70-13UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
2-25-11-70-13 
Social Media/Marketing Student to assist on 
establishing F, Twitter & Linkedin sites and 
maintaining with regular postings. Must be creative. Part time. Ofice in Haile. Email to sklehrer@cox.net    2-18-11-6-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 15
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Summer availability is a 
MUST. Please submit resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org AND
dkradolfer@alligator.org,
or Fax: 352-376-3015.
No phone calls please.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-
noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF 
Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers 
welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   
2-15-10-35-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-ning & overnight shifts currently available email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-3617   2-28-10-39-14Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
3-16-20-14
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available 
Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.25/hr, experience 
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 
for more info and interview.    2-16-25-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
MEDICAL RECEPTIONIST:
Full time.   Responsible for scheduling, 
phone calls, verifying insurance and coordi -
nating office activities.  E-mail resumeafn22025@bellsouth.net    2-17-20-14
Web Programmer (P/T)
Programming websites and applications 
using Classic ASP and SQL Server. Small 
company in G’ville, great work environment. 
About 20 hrs/wk. www.oandp.com/careers   
2-25-11-17-14
P/T Administrator for Non-Profit
Local nursing home outreach program seeks P/T admin coordinator to handle inquiries, monitor volunteers, coordinate projects, etc. About 10 hrs/wk, www.acrosstheages.org/job   2-25-11-17-14
ATTENTION SMOKERS!!!
Smokers are needed to participate in a study
assessing the effects of various activities
on smoking. Compensation provided.
336-406-3706 or uflsmokelab@gmail.com
2-15-7-14
Summer Camp Counselors Needed
Trail's End & Chestnut Lake Camps - PAGuaranteed Experience of a Lifetime; Limited openings for Sports Specialists, Crafts Specialists, Lifeguards & Bunk Counselors; June 17th - August 14th Gain experience working with kids. SUBMIT AN ONLINE APPLICATION NOW! www.trailsendcampjobs.com   2-18-11-10-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. $7.50/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 NW 13th St   2-18-11-10-14
Gator Dining Services, located on the 
University of Florida Campus, has an imme-diate opening for experienced cooks. We offer flexible schedules, competitive pay, and a great working environment. Those interested in joining this dynamic team can apply online at www.gatordining.com or in person in room B-73 of the Reitz Union.   2-14-11-5-14
Family CARE GIVERS is Looking for RN's 
for Home Visits to give Meds. Immediate opening competitive pay please call today! (352) 307-8044   2-15-11-5-14
Delivery Drivers needed,
Must know the area and the grid system, with open avialibility.apply at Five Star Pizza downtown. 210 sw 2nd ave.                 2-18-11-7-14GLAUCOMA in your family? FREE SCREENING available for all. Participants who qualify & wish to participate in research will receive financial reimbursement. Call Dr. Levy or Cathleen Courtney 352-331-2020.   2-16-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-20-70-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
If you witnessed a collision between a Publix 
truck (semi/tractor-trailer) and a pick-up truck on August 23, 2010 at the Publix located at SW 34th Street and University Ave, please call (352) 240-9006. REWARD.2-16-11-7-19
●Free Self-Hypnosis Classes ●
Take charge of your life, eliminate negatives, 
maximize your positives. 2pm Saturday at Books, Inc. 505 NW 13th St.    2-18-11-5-20
CHOW NOW FOOD TRUCKTuesdays 11am till 1:30pm
Behind Emerson Hall   2-15-11-2-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
McintoshWorld.com. Your Botique in a barn. 
Gifts-Reggae-Music-Drums-Shoes-Sandals-Boots-Stickers-Posters-Paintings-Cards-Books-Counter culture-Greatful Dead-LP's- HWY:441. 15 min. South. Spend some time. Formerly Environmental Circus - Key West    2-14-11-2-21
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25DRIVERS WANTED
For flower shop for valentines day
Must have own car. Bring us a copy of driv-
ers license and insurance card
Apply in person at 635 nw 13th st, suite C    
2-14-2-14
Part Time Receptionist needed in the 
Gainesville area. 35 hours every 2 weeks. 
4:30PM - 8:00PM 2-3 evenings per week, ev-
ery other weekend. Contact Administrator.
(352) 376-2461.   2-16-11-3-14
NEED RIDE FOR STUDENT
to (8:30am) & from (2:30pm),
betweem UF area & East Side High School.Call 318-8780     2-18-11-5-14
D licensed Security Officers needed at a 
hospitality site. 10 hour overnight shift. Pays $9.75-$10.00. Please call 941-554-8210 to inquire or send resume tocareers@alertprotectiveservices.com.   2-18-11-5-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
INSURANCE WE REPRESENT
OVER 100 COMPANIESHOME, AUTO AND LIABILITYWHY PAY MORE? 371 9696www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-27-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-0069 to schedule an appointment todayprogreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Sports
ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org monday
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
Facing yet another must-score 
situation with the clock winding 
down, the Gators turned to the 
same man they have all season: Erving Walker.
Trailing by one with 20 sec-
onds remaining, Walker received a pass from Alex Tyus and drib-bled across half court. 
The junior guard hesitated for 
a moment, crossed from his right 
hand to his left, split three Ten-
nessee defenders and hit a lefty layup high off the glass, propel-ling the No. 17 Gators (20-5, 9-2 
Southeastern Conference) to a 
61-60 win over the Volunteers on Saturday night in the O’Connell Center. 
“I was just trying to make 
the best play that was avail-able,” Walker said. “When I went through the lane, the lane kind of opened up, and I saw I had to 
take this.”
Tennessee (15-10, 5-5 SEC) 
held a comfortable lead for the 
first nine minutes of the second half and had one last chance to 
win in the closing seconds, but 
Melvin Goins’ step-back three-pointer caught only iron at the buzzer.
“It’s a good sign when you can 
still win a game and play how we played today,” Walker said. “This definitely wasn’t our best basket-ball, but we were able to get a 
win, and any time we can string 
together wins in this league, it’s a great thing.”Although Vernon Macklin was 
on the bench in the closing mo-ments, Florida’s comeback would not have been possible without the senior center’s contributions. 
Macklin was forced to sit due 
to foul trouble after just 1:39 of the second half. 
Shortly after the senior re-
turned to the lineup with 10:53 remaining, he recorded four points, a steal and an assist, ignit-ing an 11-2 Gators run.
“That was huge,” Macklin said. 
“Coach (Billy Donovan) wanted us to bring the spark. He came to me at halftime and told me, ‘Let’s go, step up, be a man.’”
The senior attributed his most 
impressive play — a steal at the top of the key followed by a fast-break dunk — to observing Ten-nessee’s tendencies as he watched from the sideline.
The run Macklin sparked co-
incided with a rise in defensive intensity, as UF held UT to just 13 
points in the final 10 minutes. 
That included just one from 
Scotty Hopson, who had scored 
21 prior to that stretch.
Hopson’s size, speed and 
quickness gave defenders Scot-tie Wilbekin, Chandler Parsons and Kenny Boynton fits all night before UF finally ratcheted up its 
defense to close the contest.
“It’s definitely tough trying to 
guard Scotty Hopson,” Boynton 
said. “He’s a driver and a shoot-
er. When he jumps up for a shot, 
it’s like I’m not even there.”
Despite the win, Florida’s 
POLL RESULTS ONLINE alligatorSports Video Show alligatorSports Podcast
n Head over to alligatorSports.
org for all our full stories as well as podcasts, video shows and Twitter updates. And don’t forget to “Like” our podcast on Facebook.n Wondering what you missed as the Rowdy Reptiles lined up at the crack of dawn last Saturday? Want a behind-the-scenes look at ESPN College Basketball GameDay? Check out our fifth show at alligatorSports.org.n Keep an eye on your iTunes feeds this afternoon, as we will have a new podcast up featuring plenty of talk about the Florida basketball team.Previous question:  Which spring sport’s opening day are you most looking forward to?
 Percent (Votes)
Baseball 63% (17)
Softball 19% (5)
Lacrosse 19% (5)
27 TOTAL VOTESAP Photo
Florida guard Erving Walker goes to the hoop against Tennessee’s Steven Pearl in UF’s 61-60 win Saturday in the O’Connell Center.
Walker’s late layup seals win
If basketball is a metaphor for life, Billy Donovan de-
livered one of the most melodramatic lines about love I’ve ever heard.  
“You can’t really win, and win big, until your heart 
really gets broken,” he said last week. “You find out how important winning is to you.”
The Gators should not have won Saturday. Tennessee 
shot a higher percentage from the field, had seven more steals and out-scored Florida 34-24 in the paint. 
Donovan even said he was un-
happy with his team’s performance. 
But the Gators did win, because 
this group understands heartbreak — as much heartbreak as you can experience playing a sport, at least. 
With the exception of the fresh-
men, this group has seen its share 
of disappointments, seen too many games it should have won slip away in crunch time. 
But when it mattered most on Saturday, the Gators 
outplayed the Vols and walked off the court with a W. 
More than anything else, there is one glaring difference 
between this year’s team and the three previous squads: Resilient Gators learn to 
overcome heartbreak
Tyler Jett
The Jett Stream
tjett@alligator.org
Twitter: @JettStreaminUF sweeps UT for first time in nine years
UF SOFTBALL
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
 
It didn’t take long for the 
Gators to hit their stride. 
The No. 5 Florida softball team 
wrapped up its first weekend of 
the season with an impressive 
12-0 win against South Florida at 
the USF-hosted Wilson DeMarini 
Tournament in Clearwater. 
Led by senior Stephanie Bro-
mbacher, who pitched the second 
perfect game of her career Satur -
day against North Carolina State, 
the Gators went 5-0 during their 
opening weekend. 
Florida scored 53 runs, 
slammed a whopping 14 home 
runs and recorded an .803 slug-
ging percentage. 
The key to the offense? Getting 
started early. Center fielder Michelle Moul-
trie and second baseman Aja 
Paculba both went 9 for 18 at the 
plate and scored a combined 16 
runs as the Gators outscored their 
opponents 53-3. 
Paculba was the spark plug 
again Sunday 
as she ignited 
the offense with 
a solo home run 
in the first in-
ning. 
Left fielder 
Kelsey Bruder added a two-
run homer in 
the fifth, her third of the season. 
The senior also hit a triple and 
is tied for the team lead with 10 RBIs.Ace throws perfect 
game in 5-0 weekend
Brombacher
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 19
SEE SOFTBALL, PAGE 19SEE TYLER, PAGE 19
“It’s a good sign when you 
can still win a game and 
play how we played today. 
This definitely wasn’t our 
best basketball, but we 
were able to get a win, and 
any time we can string to -
gether wins in this league, 
it’s a great thing.”
Erving Walker
UF junior guardBy JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
The goal post got in the 
way of glory for the No. 17 
Gators on Saturday.
In the final five seconds 
of a tie game against No. 
3 North Carolina, Florida sophomore Ashley Bruns 
hurled one last desperation 
shot at Tar Heels goalkeep-er Lauren Maksym. 
“I didn’t even think I 
had enough time to rip the shot off, but yeah, it defi-nitely hit the pipe,” Bruns said.
The near miss would 
haunt the Gators in over -
time.
North Carolina’s leading 
scorer, senior Corey Dono-
hoe, split two Florida de-
fenders with seven seconds left and capitalized on her 
final chance to be the day’s 
hero, downing the Gators 10-9 in overtime.
“We knew she would 
be the one to take the last 
shot,” UF coach Amanda 
O’Leary said. “Unfortu-nately, we weren’t able to get the double team down 
there fast enough, and 
that’s something we defi-nitely had to talk about af-ter the game.”
While she wasn’t hap-
py with the way her team handled the final seconds of its upset bid, O’Leary was impressed by Florida’s 
ability to battle back after it 
fell behind by three goals in the first 14 minutes.
Florida crumbled 
against UNC last season 
when the Tar Heels put on the pressure in the second half with a 12-1 run.
This time around, the 
Gators returned the favor 
by going on an 8-3 charge. The run was led by sopho-
more Kitty Cullen, who 
scored four goals, includ-ing two  in less than a min-ute.
“Once we finally got 
the ball, we just focused on keeping a little bit of pos-session and taking a couple of deep breaths before we 
went in and tried to start 
scoring,” Cullen said.
Florida proved through-
out the afternoon it has 
progressed in many of the 
areas that plagued the team last season against ranked competition.
The Gators had fewer 
turnovers, more shots and drew even on penalties 
with the Tar Heels. The 
glaring issue to O’Leary, though, was how poorly her team reacted to free-position shots, which are 
comparable to penalty 
kicks in soccer.
Florida came up score-
less in four attempts and 
twice missed the goal alto-
gether, while UNC scored three goals off of nine tries.
“That hurt us. You can’t 
have those free opportu-nities at the goal and not take advantage of them,” O’Leary said. “That was 
one of the things I was 
most disappointed in. …There’s no excuse.”
Florida practices free 
shots during every prac-
tice, O’Leary said, so she 
couldn’t understand how it came up short on all of them. Cullen, who had the 
hot stick on the day, went 
0 for 2 on free-position at-tempts.
As UF goes back to the 
drawing board before its 
next game Feb. 16 against 
Jacksonville, O’Leary said her team’s emotions after 
this loss differ from last 
year’s embarrassment. 
And the frustration 
from not getting its first 
win against a top-five team 
has turned into anger for many of the players. 
“We’re just going to 
be really excited and will want to go out and just kill 
them by even more just to 
show everyone that we are really here this season,” Cullen said.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 17
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida sophomore Ashley Bruns had a chance to secure a win against No. 3 North 
Carolina in the final five seconds Saturday, but her shot bounced off the goal post.
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
The Gators’ ninth loss in Southeastern Confer -
ence play, a 64-59 defeat in Tuscaloosa, Ala., on Sun-
day, was a microcosm of their season.
Florida led by 10 points at halftime, only to once 
again squander a good 20 minutes of basketball with 
an abundance of mistakes in the second half.
Eleven turnovers preceded the first field goal 
for Florida coming out of the break, and Alabama 
quickly turned the double-digit deficit into its first lead since a 4-2 advantage in the opening minutes.
“Just an absolute lack of composure in turning 
the ball over,” Florida coach Amanda Butler said. “In the second half, (we) came out and did every-thing we possibly could to ensure that we weren’t 
going to win.”
The Gators (14-13, 4-9 SEC) controlled the flow of 
the game in the first half and seemed poised to win 
a tough game on the road in the inaugural contest held at Alabama’s newly renovated Foster Audito-rium.  
Utilizing a completely different strategy from the 
teams’ first meeting, Florida fed the low block with success early. Instead of chucking it up from out-
side, post players Azania Stewart, Ndidi Madu and 
Jennifer George keyed the offense and combined for 24 of the team’s 34 points at halftime. 
But Florida couldn’t even hold on to the ball 
when the second period began and didn’t have a chance to establish a rhythm on offense. 
“We turned the ball over before we could throw 
it into the paint,” Butler said. “We just seemed de-termined to throw the ball where they were or let 
them take it out of our hands.”
Both teams mixed it up on 
defense throughout, and Florida actually held the turnover ad-vantage at the half (12 to 11). But Alabama’s half-court press and on-ball traps gave UF headaches. 
The Crimson Tide (13-12, 2-10 
SEC) accrued an astonishing 19 steals, easily com-
pensating for a 44-27 beating on the boards. 
“I just thought we had absolute mental collapses 
… and acted like we didn’t expect their pressure,” 
Butler said.
Following eight field goals in the first half, the 
Tide turned defense into offense and shot 12 of 25 in the second, including a three from guard Jasmine Robinson that sparked a 14-4 run.
After trailing by 10 at half, Alabama built its own 
10-point lead with less than nine minutes to play , and it appeared the Gators were ready to fold.
Then, guards Deana Allen and Jaterra Bonds 
drilled three-pointers on successive possessions, and Florida put together a 7-0 run to pull within two. 
But again, turnovers struck.Allen and Bonds gave it away on the Gators’ 
next two trips down the floor, and Alabama pulled away . 
The loss is Florida’s fourth straight and eighth in 
its last 10 games. The Gators were in position to win five of those contests and now have lost eight games by six points or less. 
Despite an RPI of 62, the Gators’ chances of 
reaching the NCAA Tournament for the first time since the 2008-09 season fade with each loss. And with a week off before facing Mississippi State at home, Butler said the team has plenty to work on. 
“Unity, togetherness, work on our chemistry 
— we looked very disjointed,” Butler said, before moving on to the common buzzword of Florida women’s basketball. 
“Toughness,” she said. “We were awful soft to-
day.”Gators blow 
first-half lead 
against Tide
Women's
Bask etballUF LACROSSEFlorida drops close game to UNC
 THE SENIOR AND FRESHMAN WERE INSPIRED 
BY FAMILIAR FACES AMID A HOSTILE CROWD.
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer
 
The Florida gymnastics team walked into Stegeman 
Coliseum on Saturday with a loud, barking crowd out-
numbering its supporters by the thousands.
But coming from the sold-out stands, senior Maranda 
Smith heard a familiar voice.
“Let’s go, Gators!”Whenever Smith’s father walks into a gymnastics meet, 
he makes his presence known when he shouts three com-forting words. While her parents travel from California and usually come to every home meet, they told her that they wouldn’t be able to make it to UF’s road meet in Ath-ens, Ga.
As it turned out, that wasn’t exactly true.
“My parents surprised me,” she said. “It was funny be-
cause I heard my dad yell. I just figured, knowing my par -
ents, they wouldn’t ever miss a competition like this.”
The Bulldogs are one of the Gators’ biggest rivals, and 
No. 1 Florida overwhelmed them in a 197.725-196.600 win.
Smith said she was fired up knowing her parents were 
there before the meet kicked off, and she carried that fire 
over into her competition.She nabbed first place on vault, tying teammates 
Ashanée Dickerson and Alaina Johnson.
But Johnson had a cheering section of her own, too.Her mother’s side of the family hails from Georgia, and 
a crowd of more than 40 relatives turned out to support the freshman gymnast.
“There were people in my family that I haven’t even 
met, like my mom’s cousins,” Johnson said. “I didn’t know 
that there was that many.”
The three-time SEC Freshman Gymnast of the Week 
didn’t disappoint as she tied with two other teammates 
for first on vault, tied for second on floor, 
was part of a three-way tie for third on beam. 
Most notably, she tied for first on bars, 
earning the magic “10” score from one half of the judging panel.
“I usually don’t look at my scores,” 
she said. “I actually didn’t even know that I got a 10. The other girls were all go-
ing crazy telling me about the 10, but I 
put it to the side and got ready for vault.”
Her scores propelled her into the No. 1 spot for the all-
around competitors with a final tally of 39.675, the nation’s top total.
Fellow all-arounder Dickerson also shined against the 
Bulldogs, placing second overall while tying for first on vault and beam and sweeping the floor exercise.Smith, Johnson lead UF to key win
Smith
By MELISSA PENDER
Alligator Writer
 
After a record-setting weekend, 
Florida senior Monica Dodson ap-
peared to be losing her grip on a Southeastern Conference title Sun-day.  
The race for first place in the 
women’s platform finals at the SEC Championships was a close one, as Dodson once again battled Auburn divers Vennie Dantin and Anna Aguero, whom she had beaten for first place in the 3-meter competi-
tion just two days before.
It seemed Aguero might take 
the title until the fourth round, 
when Dodson overtook her with a dive that made UF coach Donnie Craine pump his fists in the air and left him speechless.
“Monica winning, I don’t have 
words for it,” Craine said.
“I’ve always loved my back 
two-and-a-half pike. It hasn’t al-ways been my best dive but my most consistent,” Dodson added. “I knew if I could get over my nerves, I’d be OK.”
Dodson finished with two more 
high-scoring dives to once again bring the gold medal home for the Florida women’s team.
“Top three on these two boards 
was definitely my goal,” Dodson said. “I knew I had a shot to win, but it was going to be a hard con-test.”
Her score of 325.2 was, for the 
second time in three days, a per -
sonal, school and SEC record. 
Junior Kaylee Doback and fresh-
man Danielle Risley also scored points with 10th- and 11th-place finishes in the preliminary round.
The men had three scoring fin-
ishes, taking seventh, 10th and 14th in the prelims. Junior Antho-ny Lewark finished seventh in the finals despite an injured shoulder that prevented him from practic-
ing his platform dives.
“He did a real good job pulling 
it all together,” Craine said.
The SEC honored Craine with 
his second straight and third ca-
reer SEC Women’s Diving Coach of the Year, and Dodson received SEC Women’s Diver of the Year.
“It’s unbelievable,” Craine said. 
“Monica did a lot of it, but the other two also had a lot to do with it.”
The men earned 49 points 
throughout the weekend, which puts them in a distant third place behind Auburn and Tennessee go-
ing into Wednesday’s swimming 
championships. The women are in second place behind Auburn with 89 points.18, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
UF senior Monica Dodson won the Southeastern Conference Wom-
en’s Diver of the Year on Sunday for her gold-medal performance.
UF SWIMMINGDodson reels in gold at SECs
By THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
 
With two sophomores playing at the top of the lineup, one 
junior who sees regular playing time and no seniors on the ros-
ter, one might expect the Florida women’s team to get rattled on the road.
But the No. 2 Gators (7-0) had their most impressive stretch 
of the season over the weekend, toppling No. 4 North Carolina on Saturday and No. 6 Duke on Sunday.
The team carried momentum from its 5-2 win over the Tar 
Heels into Durham, N.C., with a furious pace, resulting in a 4-2 victory against the Blue Devils.
With his team fresh off two wins over undefeated oppo-
nents, coach Roland Thornqvist said this was about as tough as it could get for the Gators.
“We had three freshmen go out there this weekend and got 
tossed into the fire for the first time,” he said. 
While the freshmen had mixed results over the weekend, 
Thornqvist said he wasn’t panicking about his young players 
and thought the experience would help in the long run.
Freshman Sofie Oyen, ranked No. 96 in 
singles, rebounded after two straight losses to 
upset No. 71 Elizabeth Plotkin of Duke.
The other two freshmen, Alex Cercone and 
Olivia Janowicz, lost in singles but were carried by the Gators’ leaders.
No. 7 Allie Will, a sophomore, continued her dominance on 
Court 1, beating No. 25 Nadine Fahoum in straight sets a day after topping No. 13 Zoe De Bruycker of UNC.
Junior Joanna Mather clinched the victory with her second 
straight three-set win, leaving sophomore Lauren Embree’s match against No. 4 Reka Zsilinszka unfinished with the two tied at one set apiece.
“Allie, Joanna and Lauren all play at an elite level and make 
clutch decisions late in matches,” Thornqvist said. “That poise is what you need on the road.”
The Gators will now head into a short week of preparation 
for the ITA National Indoor Championships, which kick off Friday in Charlottesville, Va.
“We scheduled this trip to get some meat on our bones,” 
Thornqvist said. “We learned some things, won two tough matches and we’re ready to compete.”UF beats two top-
10 foes on road
TennisMONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF senior right-hander Stephanie Brombacher threw the second perfect game of her career Saturday 
against North Carolina State and followed that up with a four-hit, nine-strikeout performance Sunday.
Walton pleased with new infielders’ intensity during opening weekend
“Every season starts differently 
for me,” she said. “I never walk to 
the plate thinking ‘I want to hit a 
home run,’ but right now, I’m see-
ing the ball really well.” 
While Brombacher said there are 
some expectations after pitching a perfect game, she didn’t let that 
pressure affect her mentality. She 
also said she and her teammates didn’t realize she was pitching a 
perfect game until it was over. 
Following the perfect game, 
Brombacher shut down the Bulls 
lineup Sunday, allowing only four 
hits and recording nine strikeouts. 
As for the new left side of the in-
field, highly touted freshmen Kasey Fagan and Cheyenne Coyle did not 
disappoint. 
Coach Tim Walton was pleased 
with the way they maintained their intensity over the long weekend 
and was particularly happy with 
the way freshman Hannah Rogers pitched right out of the gate. 
Coyle homered in her first col-legiate at-bat against Marshall and 
added two more during the week-
end. 
For a player who prides herself 
on defense, she attributed her early success at the plate to UF’s coach-
es. 
“I’ve always been known for 
my defense as the strongest part of my game,” she said. “Now, I have 
a better approach when I go up to 
bat. Coach Walton taught me you 
don’t hit the inside pitch the same as the outside pitch, where before I 
used to go up just swinging.” 
Although Fagan only managed 
to go 3 for 11, she recorded two 
stolen bases and did not commit an 
error. 
The early success of the team’s 
young players didn’t surprise Bruder. 
“I really don’t even consider 
them to be true freshmen because a lot of them are more mature than 
typical freshmen are,” she said. 
“We’re really counting on them to 
do a lot for us this season, and I think that’s a role they can fulfill.”SOFTBALL , from page 16
These Gators have onions. Big onions.
Since dropping a 72-69 contest to South Carolina 
on Jan. 15, UF is 5-0 in games that were decided by 
fewer than six points or went to overtime. 
The previous two seasons, the Gators were 9-12 
in those games. 
More revealing, Florida was 3-7 in tight games af-
ter January during that stretch.
When the Gators received a No. 9 preseason rank-
ing in the coaches poll, the consensus was, “Surely 
this group has finally put it together.”
“We’ve been there, done that. We’ve lost a lot of 
close games in the past,” senior Alex Tyus said. “Our hunger is a lot stronger now than [it] had been when we were younger.”
In recent years, Donovan tried everything from 
stripping the team of its practice uniforms to bring-ing in fire-breathing velociraptor Joakim Noah to motivate them. But no ploy really worked.
Which brings us back to heartbreak. Since Donovan won back-to-back championships, 
his teams have always flashed potential before fad-ing down the stretch, leaving a nasty taste in the mouths of the few hardcore basketball fans in this football-centric town. With the exception of Vernon Macklin, who trans-
ferred from Georgetown as a junior, no current Flori-da player has won an NCAA Tournament game.  
Judging by their last five nail-biters, the upper -
classmen are tired of wondering what could have been. 
Senior Chandler Parsons has been the team’s 
most effective option as of late. But even when he was hampered with a deep thigh bruise, other veter -
ans stepped up.
In the last 15 minutes of the game, Walker, Tyus 
and Macklin scored 20 of the team’s 28 points. Walk-er deservedly received the most credit for hitting the 
game-winning layup. 
But earlier in the second half the momentum 
was shifted when Macklin and Tyus — Macklin and 
Tyus, of all people — intercepted Tennessee passes and scored fast-break slams.
Macklin’s jam came with 8:30 left and capped a 
10-4 UF run. Tyus’ dunk came with 4:17 left and gave the Gators a two-point lead.
“I love coaching these guys, I really do,” Donovan 
said. “There is a fighting mentality in them. They have a fighting spirit. Even when things aren’t going well, they never quit on me. 
“They never, ever quit on each other. They battle. 
They fight. They’re resilient. … That, to me, is an in-
credible quality.”TYLER , from page 16Parsons’ hot streak 
ends due to thigh bruise suffered vs. UT
players came away from the game unhappy with their 
intensity level in the early going.
The Gators allowed the Volunteers to shoot 53.6 per -
cent in the first half and turned the ball over 10 times, creating a six-point halftime deficit.
“Maybe these last two games, we’ve been kind of 
feeling like we’re going to get an easy 
win,” Wilbekin said. “But we pulled through in the end, so that’s all that matters.”PARSONS HAMPERED BY INJURY: Par-
sons came into Saturday’s contest on 
one of the most prolific hot streaks of 
his career. But he recorded just three points, three 
rebounds and four turnovers against UT as he dealt with 
a deep thigh bruise suffered when he collided with Tyus 
early in the game. Donovan said he will likely keep Par -
sons out of action until Thursday. 
He added that he is “hopeful” the senior forward will 
be able to play in Florida’s next game Feb. 20 against 
LSU.HOOPS , from page 16
Parsons
20, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011
By JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
 
Florida coach Mike Holloway says the 
Gators are gunning for the 2011 national 
championship this season, not defending their 2010 crown.
After a weekend that saw eight Florida 
track and field athletes post automatic-qualifying marks, the Gators have made that perfectly clear.
One Gator who added to his NCAA 
Indoor Championships workload was jumper Will Claye, who automatically qualified in the long jump with a fourth-place finish Friday.
“I wasn’t expecting to jump that far,” 
Claye said. 
Claye recorded a 7.95m/26-1 mark in 
the long jump, but The Bowerman award 
candidate’s triple jump effort may have 
been even more impressive.
Claye posted a 17.02m/55-10.25 mark, 
the second-best effort in school history.
Sprinter Tony McQuay enjoyed a suc-
cessful weekend as well, recording an au-tomatic-qualifying mark in the 400-meter 
dash Friday and nearly doing the same in 
the 200-meter dash Saturday.
“I was kind of surprised at my time 
because I haven’t really been training as hard as I have in the past because I pulled my hamstring,” McQuay said. 
In addition to Claye and McQuay , 
sprinter Jeff Demps posted an automatic-qualifying mark in the 60-meter dash Sat-
urday, finishing second in 6.58 seconds.
Meanwhile, distance 
runner Dumisane Hlaselo 
made school history Satur -
day in Seattle, as he became the first Gator to ever run a sub-four-minute mile. 
Hlaselo ran the mile in 3:56.84, earning a trip to the national meet along with wom-
en’s distance runner Cory McGee. 
McGee ran her mile in 4:36.53, which 
was a personal record for the freshman.
“Definitely the two highlights,” dis-
tance coach Todd Morgan said. “A lot of 
good things happened in about a 15-min-ute span.”Eight reach NCAAs for UFn ANDRES ECHAVARRIA WON THE 
INDIVIDUAL TITLE AS UF TOOK THE TEAM CHAMPIONSHIP.
By ALEX PECKHAM
Alligator Writer
 
Florida coach Buddy Alexander found 
himself in an unusual position Sunday af-
ternoon on the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
Four players ended up tied with even 
par scores for the 54-hole tournament, and 
three of them were Gators. 
“I was really happy with it,” Alexander 
said. “It really says something about our 
depth that we can have three players con-tending that late in a tournament.”
Florida senior Andres Echavarria was 
the last man standing in the four-hole, sud-den-death playoff. 
Echavarria ousted sophomore teammate 
Phillip Choi after the first hole, senior stand-out Bank V ongvanij after three holes and finally, Florida State senior Drew Kittleson on the deciding fourth hole. 
It was a gutsy performance by Echavar -
ria, who made up a two-stroke deficit to Kittleson in the last three holes before out-lasting the three other competitors in the playoff. 
Florida won the Gator Invitational by 
a dominant margin, beating second-place Auburn by nine strokes. Despite a 4-over-par score for the tournament, Alexander was not impressed by the Gators’ play . 
“We played well enough to win, but not 
good by our standards,” he said. “We let Auburn back into it in the middle of the fi-nal round, which I was really disappointed with. We definitely have a lot to work on.”
The win is Florida’s 
second this spring and its third in five events going back to the fall. They will 
look to continue their re-
cent run of success at the 
John Hayt Invitational at the Sawgrass Country Club on Feb. 27. 
According to Alexan-
der, UF’s depth will be the key to its contin-ued success.
At his weekly press conference, Alexan-
der said his No. 4 player would be the best in 
the nation at the position, no matter who he 
chooses. That bold statement proved to be a fitting prelude to the weekend’s events. 
Listed as the Florida’s No. 4 golfer for the 
tournament: Andres Echavarria, 2011 Gator Invitational Champion.No. 4 golfer finishes No. 1
Alexander
Track