We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 13 MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Florida guard 
Kenny Boynton 
(right) scored 20 
points and shut 
down Arkansas’ 
leading scorer as 
UF put together a 
complete perfor -
mance, winning 
75-43 on Saturday.
See Story, Page 13.Armed robber hits banks in Austria using Obama mask as disguise
VIENNA — Say, isn’t that the president 
with a gun in his hand? Actually, no, but it 
sure looks like it.
Austrian authorities are searching for a 
bank robber who uses an unusual disguise: He wears a Barack Obama mask during his holdups.
Police say the man, nicknamed the 
“Obama Robber” by local media, is wanted for six heists since 2008. 
The most recent took place Thursday in the hamlet of Handenberg.
There the Obama-resembling suspect 
made off with an undisclosed amount of money after threatening bank employees with a gun.
Austrian police official Markus Mitloeh-
ner said Friday that the man is thought to be a local since he speaks the regional dialect — with nary a trace of Obama’s more professo -
rial accent.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Sunny
66/47FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 13
Aundre Larrow / Alligator 
Encore For More
Fans clamor for folk/reggae/acoustic artist Zach Deputy at Common Grounds during a 24-minute encore Friday 
night. Deputy was opened by local band Janna Pelle and the Half-Steps.
 THE BILL WOULD ALLOW ANYONE WITH A 
CONCEALED WEAPONS PERMIT TO CARRY A HANDGUN IN PLAIN SIGHT.
By SARAH POSER
Alligator Contributing Writer
As some lawmakers propose tighter gun legislation in 
the wake of the Arizona shooting, one Florida state senator is pushing for a bill to loosen gun control in the state as well as the classroom.
Last month Sen. Greg Evers proposed an open carry gun 
law under Senate Bill 234. The bill would allow anybody with a concealed weapon permit to carry a handgun in plain sight. Individuals with a concealed weapon permit would also be able to practice open carry at college campuses, ca-
reer centers and private schools. The bill will take effect July 1 if it is approved.
UF Police Chief Linda Stump said the bill would cause a 
“major shift” in the way UFPD conducts business. 
For Stump, the bill presents a larger issue. 
“This is an educational setting where 
we hope people have rational, open dis-
course,” Stump said. “We oppose legis-lation that would put guns in that situa-tion.”
Brian Malte, director of federal mobili-
zation for the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, is working with students across the country to defeat legislature 
such as Senate Bill 234. 
Malte said he believes open carry could contribute to a 
culture of fear and intimidation.
“More guns in the mix just create more of a problem for 
public safety,” he said. “This is no time to bring the Wild West to Florida.”
Sean Caranna, executive director of Florida Carry, a 
movement supporting the right to bear arms, said people are playing up the “Wild West” idea. In the 43 states that allow some form of the bill, those scenarios just do not hap-pen. 
Caranna said the bill would deter crime and could pro-
tect students in the classroom.
“You go to college to prepare for the rest of your life,” 
he said. “You shouldn’t lose it because you couldn’t defend yourself.” 
Florida is one of seven states that do not currently allow 
open carry gun rights.
Malte encourages everyone to reach out  to  legislators, 
no matter his or her stance on the issue. 
“The more outrage there is, the more the gun lobby starts 
to retreat,” he said. “Without a lot of protest, there is a chance the gun lobby could shove it through.” State to consider allowing guns on campus
LOCAL
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer
Officer Doug Williams walks through the 
grass to the tune of middle school boys shout-
ing.
Lined up in rows of seven or so, the boys 
stand straight. A man stands a few paces away . 
“Lock it up!” he says. 
The boys echo his command, straightening 
their arms and snapping their fists out in front 
of them.
They begin to count.“One, sir!” shouts the short boy , no more than 
12, in the front, far left row. He snaps his fist to his side.
“Two, sir!” yells the next in line.
“Three, sir!” “Four, sir!” “Five, sir!” “Six, 
sir!” 
Williams stands a few yards away , watching 
the boys count off. 
This is how employees take attendance here 
in the middle school sector of the Reichert House 
Youth Academy, a nonprofit organization sup-ported by the Gainesville Police Department and other local groups, that serves more than 
130 at-risk boys in grades five through 12.
Williams, a GPD officer for 10 years who used 
to patrol downtown Gainesville, has worked at Program 
keeps teens on right path
SEE REICHERT, PAGE 4Evers
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 13 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011
TODAYFORECAST
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen, Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,   
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Reading and Writing the Face: 
Portraiture from Realism to Modernism
Today, 2 p.m.Dauer Hall 215
In this talk, Kamilla 
Pawlikowska, of the University of Kent at Canterbury , U.K., will compare representations of human faces in realist and mod-ernist texts focusing on English, Russian and Polish writers. By analyzing representations of the human face, we can identify 
strategies employed by artists 
to evoke its significance. 
UF Phi Beta Lambda General 
Meeting
Today, 6:15 p.m.
MAT 118Interested in developing leader -
ship, communication and team 
skills, or looking for a way to 
meet and network with others at the local, state or national lev-els? Then join Phi Beta Lambda, the collegiate division of Future 
Business Leaders of America. 
SA V ANT Meet and Greet
Today, 7 p.m.
101 Cantina
Meet and greet with the cur -
rent members. Come out to 
learn all you need to know 
about SAVANT.door. All clothes will benefit St. 
Francis House and Goodwill. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper.
CORRECTION
On Friday, a story we pub-
lished about the Safe Run program included the incorrect contact phone number.  The correct num-ber is 352-577-2RUN.RISK Cinema Film Screening 
by Peter Hutton Tuesday , 7 p.m.  Harn Museum of Art 
Peter Hutton creates ma-
jestic cinematic portraits of cityscapes, landscapes and seascapes around the world. Produced without sound and almost exclusively in 16 mm film, his images capture the subtle poetry and rhythms of nature and culture. Admission 
is $5 for the public and free for 
members. 
Poker Tournament
Friday, 7 p.m.The VaultJoin Pledge 5 Foundation for 
its second annual “Taking 
It Off for Charity” Poker Tournament. Play for free or donate $20 for a VIP wrist-band that gets you free wings and beer, a tournament T-shirt, participation in the raffle and access to the band. Get $5 off if you donate your 
gently used clothing at the 
PARTLY
CLOUDY
59/36PARTLY
CLOUDY
59/35PARTLY
CLOUDY
61/34SUNNY
66/47RAIN
69/51TUESDAY WEDNESDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
Jan. 24 
The Career Resource Center presents em-ployer resume critiques. 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Career Resource Center. Free and open to UF students. Call 352-273-2338 for more information.
The Caleb and Michele Grimes Fund presents 
“Why Is Haiti So Poor?” with guest speaker UF professor David Geggus. 7:30 p.m. Ustler Hall Atrium. Free and open to the public. Call 352-846-2032 for more information.
Jan. 27 - 28
UFPA presents California Guitar Trio. 7:30 p.m. Squitieri Studio Theatre. Reserved seating: $30 admission. Open to the public. Call 352-392-2787 for more information.
Florida Museum Exhibit: “Dugout Canoes: Pad-dling through the Americas.” Florida Museum 
of Natural History. Monday to Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sunday, 1 to 5 p.m. Free and open to the public. Continues through Nov. 11 2012. Call 352-273-2028 for more information.
Jan. 29 – 30
The Veterinary Graduate Student Association and the Aquatic Animal Health Program pres-ents the Marine Mammalology symposium.  College of Veterinary Medicine.  Saturday, 4 - 8 p.m.; Sunday, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Open to all undergraduate, graduate and professional students with an interest in marine mam-malology.Your 
campus 
news 
sourceView these stories and more at www.insideuf.ufl.edu 
InsideUF is produced by the  University 
Relations Office for faculty, staff and students. 
Editor - Ron Wayne
For more event details, or to submit an 
event to the calendar, click  
“UF Calendar” at www.insideuf.ufl.edu.
UF Calendar of EventsWalkers on their way
University of Florida First Lady Chris 
Machen will host the Walking Ga-
tors spring kickoff at noon today to 
introduce the program’s new Milers 
Club. The event will take place 
at the Plaza of the Americas. The 
first 100 walkers will receive a free pedometer. For route maps, visit 
HealthyGators.ufsa.ufl.edu or call 
352-273-4450.
Report on spill
The co-chairmen of the presidential 
commission investigating last April’s oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico will present their ex-clusive findings at 6 p.m. Thursday in Pugh Hall’s Ocora. “Deep Water: A Special Re-port to the University of Florida by Oil Spill Commission Co-Chairs Bob Graham and William K. Reilly” is open to the public.
School stages drama 
The University of Florida College of 
Fine Arts School of Theatre and Dance presents Frank Galati’s stage adaptation of John Steinbeck’s “The Grapes of Wrath,” from Friday to Feb. 6 on the Constans Stage in the Nadine McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion. Tickets are $13 for UF students, faculty/staff and $17 for the gen-eral public. Tickets are available through the UF Box Office at the Reitz Student Union Colonnade.Showcase attracts employers who want to hire
Students scared of the thinning job mar-
ket will be relieved to hear that this week’s 
UF Career Showcase is expected to bring as many employers as last spring to campus.
About 175 employers are split between 
T uesday and Wednesday.  More than 10 of those employers are newcomers to the showcase.
T uesday is the nontechnical day, when 
employers search for candidates in fields such as accounting, communications, health care, sales and retail. On Wednesday, employers look for candidates in the computer science, construction, engineering and scientific research fields.
Wayne Wallace, director of UF’s Career 
Resource Center, said that although the economy is at a low point, many employers still need workers.
“The companies that come today are 
doing well,” Wallace said. “They are aggres-sively looking for employees.”
Angel Iverson, the assistant director for 
career events, said students should come prepared and know what companies they are interested in. They should also be ready for two-minute interviews with each com-pany. Information about all the companies, including the positions they’re seeking to fill, can be found on the Career Resource Center’s Web site.  
“The employers want 
to create a presence on 
campus,” she said. “They 
want students to know they are 
hiring, and they want face-to-face time where the students can ask questions.”
The showcase will be held in the O’Connell 
Center from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on both days. Normal parking restrictions still apply.
Additional information about the UF 
Career Showcase can be found at:  http://www.crc.ufl.edu/showcase.
By Larry Truong    
 
University of Florida First Lady Chris 
Machen will host the Walking Ga
tors spring kickoff at noon today to 
introduce the program’s new Milers 
Club. The event will take place 
at the Plaza of the Americas. The 
first 100 walkers will receive a free 
pedometer. For route maps, visit 
HealthyGators.ufsa.ufl.edu
352-273-4450.
?
The Career Showcase 
is open to UF students 
and alumni only.
Machen will host the Walking Ga
?
The Career Showcase 
The Career Showcase 
Did you
KNOW
Sustainability Speaker Series
Lynn Scarlett
Former Deputy Secretary  
of the Department of the Interior
“Conservation in an  
Era of Scarcity”
Tuesday, January 25, 2011
8 p.m.
JWRU Grand Ballroom
Hosted by the UF Office of Sustainability, 
Florida Climate Institute, UF Water Institute,  
and the Bob Graham Center for Public ServiceON CAMPUS
  By LINDSAY DECARLO
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  When the University of Kentucky 
Wildcats come to the O’Connell Center, 
they will not only be competing in bas-ketball but also in a blood drive.
  LifeSouth Community Blood Centers 
of Gainesville will be kicking off its semi-annual “What Colors Do You Bleed?” blood drive Monday . 
  The competition is a tradition be-
tween the schools to see which can collect the most donations for their local blood banks in a week.
  The winner will be announced fol-
lowing the basketball game Feb. 5. 
  Kentucky has won the contest the 
past two years.  According to Clay Gibbons, the com-
munity development coordinator for LifeSouth, this event is the organization’s largest of the year.
  After a holiday season shortage, these 
extra donations will help fulﬁ  ll an emer-gency need. 
  LifeSouth anticipates more participa-
tion this year because a Champions Tro-phy will be awarded for the ﬁ  rst time. All student organizations can compete in dif-ferent divisions for this award.  “We’re hoping people will bring out 
their friends, not just to beat Kentucky but help their organization win the tro-phy ,” said Claire Lovell, a student intern for LifeSouth.
  Remy Kimes, a Santa Fe College stu-
dent, plans to participate in the drive be-cause he knows his O-negative blood is desperately needed, he said.
  “For me, donating could potentially 
save a life,” he said. “That’s all the moti-vation I need to go out and give blood.”
  Bloodmobiles will be at the Hub, 
Gator Corner Dining Center, Broward Dining Center and on Turlington Plaza between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. Monday through Friday . Donations will also be accepted at LifeSouth donor centers and Gainesville Health & Fitness centers.  UF, Kentucky blood drive starts today  By REBECCA DANTA
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  In an effort to raise support for a medical 
clinic in Tanzania, the faith-based student or-ganization Hope Global Mission held a concert Friday at the Baptist Collegiate Ministry.
  A Night for HOPE featured musicians, 
speakers and students who had been to the clin-ic. The performers shared their personal experi-ences through songs.
  Admission was $5 or the donation of a used 
textbook, which Hope will re-sell online.
  Paul Emery, executive director of U.S. Cen-
ter for World Mission in Gainesville, spoke from ﬁ  rsthand experience about the struggles chil-
dren face in Africa. 
  “These kids are going to be 
lucky if they get to sixth grade,” he said. 
  The event raised $440 for 
Hope.
  Kelley Williams, Hopes treasurer, estimates 
the group will raise between $700 and $800 through its online textbook sales. 
  Williams said the group has been so suc-
cessful in its efforts, raising $4,970.80 in the past year, that it now is expanding its partnerships.
  “The clinic was telling us we were almost 
overwhelming them with funds,” Williams said. “They didn’t have enough stuff to spend the money on, so they told us to consider look-ing into new partnerships.”  Concert helps 
fund clinic    January 25, 1968: Planners for the ﬁ  fth annual Gra-
ham Area Playboy Party on campus announce they’re 
looking for Gator girls to don the bunny ears.
  “If you are a cute coed who likes to mingle and 
doesn’t mind being stared at, Graham Area wants you,” 
said committee chairman Bob Glidden.
 January 23, 1974: A series of back-and-forth dorm 
raids culminates in a shouting match among 200 stu-
dents from Broward and Rawlings halls until UPD of-ﬁ  cers arrive to keep the peace.
  Women from Broward Hall stormed the Rawlings 
ﬂ  oors armed with shaving cream, talcum powder and eggs.  The Rawlings boys trashed the girls’ ﬂ  oors with shaving cream and shampoo. Police patrolled the area to break up smaller retaliation attacks throughout the night.
 
 January 30, 1985: The Gator football team is honored 
for its ﬁ  rst Southeastern Conference Championship with 
a $25,000 grant from the Florida Coca-Cola Bottling Co.
  The money, used to establish a permanent scholar-
ship for the program, was raised through the sale of 250,000 commemorative Gators bottles, of which the program was awarded 10 cents from each sale. 
 — KAT BEIN
“For me, donating could       
potentially save a life.”
Remy Kimes
Santa Fe studentOnCampu sReichert House for five years. He 
was originally an intervention spe-cialist who counseled the kids and is now the program’s operations director. 
He offers advice and help to all 
the boys at Reichert House, but for some he becomes a close mentor. He 
tells them when they’re messing up 
in school, and he helps them work through their problems. 
If a boy needs to get out of the 
house to clear his mind, Williams might take him fishing on a week-
end. Sometimes, the best thing he 
can do for a boy is to call him out on 
his mistakes and talk with his par -
ents about how to help. 
Najuan Williams, a 19-year-old 
alumnus of the program who still volunteers there, received support from Officer Williams that helped him control his anger. Shorter than many boys, Najuan would often lash out when someone tried to mess with him. 
To help him release his anger 
without slugging an-other kid, the older Williams had him lift weights or practice boxing. This helped 
Najuan work out his emotions physically without pressing his fist to another person’s face.
Originally for boys involved with 
the Florida Department of Juvenile Justice, Reichert House now serves at-risk boys in general. A boy who qualifies for the program can have a variety of risk factors, from living in a single-parent home to getting poor grades. 
Reichert House works with mul-
tiple organizations to develop and maintain its programs, including the city of Gainesville and UF. It is funded by donations and local and state money, according to the Re-ichert House website. Businesses can also contribute by becoming site sponsors that receive recognition for their support.
The after-school program runs 
Monday through Thursday . The middle school section focuses more heavily on discipline and preparing them for high school, while the high school portion encourages personal responsibility and free-thinking. Reichert House also has a summer program that runs all day on week-days.  During the school year, the boys 
are picked up from their schools and brought to Reichert House. The pro-gram provides academic advising, counseling, paramilitary exercises and other services, Williams said. 
Sherry Estes, assistant principal 
of student services at Eastside High School, provides academic help for the high school sector along with student volunteers from UF and Santa Fe College. 
Estes has been involved with 
Reichert House for three years. She teaches math, advises students on 
academics and encourages them to 
study for the ACT and SAT.
In some ways, she and the other 
adults in the program are surrogate parents for the boys. They help them make decisions and don’t sugarcoat the truth.
As she shuffles papers on a desk 
in a Reichert House office, a boy in 
orange-and-black pants walks in the 
door to ask her about logging onto the ACT website. 
As she answers his questions, 
another boy leans against the door frame.
“I got a 13,” he says of his ACT 
score. Estes looks over at him sternly. 
“You’re going to take it again,” she says.
The boy mumbles and looks 
down, frowning. 
“Hey . Not an option. OK?” Estes 
says. 
No answer.“Yes, Ms. Estes,” she answers for 
him. 
The boy looks up. Not an op-
tion.
In addition to academics, Reich-
ert House boys meet with interven-tion specialists who provide coun-
seling and representatives from local 
organizations that teach them about health, finances and other subjects, Williams said. They also have time for recreation and get a meal before they are taken home in the evening.
The program meets the individ-
ual needs of each child and keeps them off the street during prime 
crime hours. In the last four years, 
100 percent of the program’s senior classes have graduated from high school, Williams said. While some do end up in jail, most go on to col-lege or junior college. 
At Reichert House, Williams is 
the “silent hammer,” the fail-safe, the last line of defense. If a boy gets out of control, Williams steps in to handle the situation, whether that means calming the boy down, dis-ciplining him or both. 
On the lawn in front of the mid-
dle school phase of Reichert House, Williams talks with a young boy and his mom. The boy , Arkeem Bennett, has been getting poor grades.
Williams tells him he needs to 
do something proactive instead of mouthing off. 
“Grades man, first and fore-
most,” Williams tells him, placing a 
hand on his shoulder. “Everything 
else will take care of itself.” 
Arkeem, wearing a red T-shirt 
and carrying a backpack, looks at the ground. 
“If you’re going to be a smart al-
eck, be one all the way and in there, too,” Williams says, tapping the textbook in the boy’s arms. 
It’s time for Arkeem and his 
mother to head home, so Williams gives his shoulder a squeeze and smiles. 
Arkeem’s mom turns to leave 
with her son but looks back at Wil-liams. “Thanks, sugar.”
Williams is no stranger to what the boys of Reichert House are go-ing through in their lives. He may be a police officer, but he’s also a Gainesville native with a rough past. He can relate to these boys because he’s been through it all himself. 
Growing up in a single-parent 
home like many of the Reichert House boys, he did poorly in school and was often just seeking attention from anyone who would notice. 
By 14, he had been shot and 
stabbed. He watched his best friend die from a gunshot wound right in front of him. When a boy like 
16-year-old James Nixon, who was 
previously involved in gangs, joins the program, Williams understands the pressures he faces because he faced them, too. 
“I don’t want them to go through 
what I went through,” Williams said. “If I reach one, I’ve done some-thing. That’s one less I have to wor -
ry about being a tax-taker instead of a taxpayer.”
By working with the boys on 
a daily basis, Williams hopes to change their views of police officers. Many grow up seeing cops as the enemy , often because their parents view law enforcement that way . He wants them to see him, as well 
as other officers, as people who can 
help rather than hurt. 
If a Reichert House boy runs 
into trouble, other officers know to call Williams to come work things out as long as the offense doesn’t require the boy’s arrest. He isn’t there to punish the children but to discipline them when necessary and 
help them handle the daily trials of 
home, school and tough neighbor -
hoods.
For James, Reichert House be-
came a place to learn leadership skills and to help others. When James first joined the program, he was still in the mindset of being a “knucklehead” and didn’t want to 
listen. 
But as he became familiar with 
the children and adults involved 
in the program, he realized that he could embrace Reichert House and learn how to be successful in life, or he could just “come out dumb.” He decided to be successful. 
James knows that when he needs 
Williams, he can call, and Williams will be there. In return, James will do any job Williams asks of him at Reichert House. They help each other.4, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Officer Doug Williams poses in front of a Reichert House sign. He serves as a mentor for many of the 
program’s students on a daily basis.
ONLINE GAMING
By AMANDA EATMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Tyler Reed, coordinator of UF’s colle-
giate-league “StarCraft II” team, can play 
nonstop, skip meals and justify spending 
seven to eight hours on the computer a day.
“If I wasn’t doing this, I would probably 
be watching television or raging,” Reed said, 
“and neither are preferable.” 
Reed said he believes Internet gaming 
like this shares symptoms of addiction. 
“You will skip meals,” he said, “especial-
ly when you aren’t living at home, and your 
parents don’t bug you to go eat.”
The Counseling and Wellness Center at 
UF will offer a new group for students who 
consider themselves dependent on comput-er games, video games and the Internet.
The group, called Unplug Yourself from 
the Virtual World, is free for students and will meet every Wednesday from 3 p.m. to 
4:30 p.m. starting the first week in February.
Fred Shueh facilitates the group as a psy-
chology intern at the Counseling and Well-
ness Center. He said the group aims to pro-
vide a safe place to explore issues regarding 
Internet use. 
Shueh said group therapy helps par -
ticipants in several ways. They realize they aren’t the only ones dealing with the prob-
lem. They can hear other students’ stories 
about how they struggle and how different 
people deal with their problems in different 
ways. Finally, group therapy helps partici-pants become motivated to make changes in their lives with the support from group members. 
Shueh said the group is set to be inclusive 
and welcomes all Internet users, including those who chat, shop, use Facebook, play games and more.
Dr. Timothy Huckaby, physician and 
clinical assistant professor in psychiatry and addiction medicine at the Florida Recovery 
Center, said Internet dependency is consid -
ered a process addiction, which is an addic -
tion to an activity like eating or gambling.
Addictions can interfere with a person’s 
social life, family, work and school, Hucka-
by said. People use the Internet as a way to escape their problems and can lose control.
Shueh said many people won’t admit 
they have a problem with computer use.
 “I didn’t make this group to merely fo-
cus on fixing Internet dependence but to help students understand what is going on 
and to help them balance their life and their 
computer and Internet use,” he said.
For more information about the group 
Unplug Yourself from the Virtual World, 
contact Shueh at shueh@ufl.edu.Counseling center to offer support for Web addicts
The Reichert House offers guidance, academic advising to at-risk boys
REICHERT , from page 1
NewsLocal“If I wasn’t doing this, I would prob-
ably be watching television or rag-
ing, and neither are preferable.” 
Tyler Reed
coordinator of UF’s collegiate-league    
“StarCraft II” teamMONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
 Meredith Rutland / Alligator
  Randy Reid, Alachua County manager, and Bennett Brzychi, a UF sophomore, look 
through folk and acoustic CDs on sale for $1 each at the CMC sale Saturday. 
n BOOKS AND CDS COST $1 EACH.
  By MEREDITH RUTLAND
 Alligator Writer
 
  Folk CDs and books about censorship and 
birth control stacked the shelves at the Civic 
Media Center sale  Saturday.
  Customers looked through about 1,500 
folk, acoustic and rock CDs, all $1 each.
  Any books the library had duplicates of 
were on sale too. About 200 books ranging from “Young Radicals: Notes on Commit-
ted Youth” to “Exploring Human Sexuality: 
Making Healthy Decisions” to “Feng Shui for Apartment Living” were also $1 each.
  James Schmidt, a store coordinator, said the 
sale brought in about $1,000.  “That’s huge for the CMC,” he said.  He said it has been tough for the library the 
past two years, but it’s staying aﬂ  oat. 
  “I think it’s a crying shame when we lose 
those businesses,” Schmidt said, “because 
they are the bedrock of the culture.”
  As customers ﬂ  ipped through the boxes of 
CDs, Schmidt explained the loss behind the li-
brary’s gain. A “much-loved” folk and acous-tic radio show was canceled by WUFT, so the disc jockey donated about 1,000 CDs that she used to run her show to the library . 
  Randy Reid, the county manager for the 
Alachua County Commission, bought about 
25 CDs from the sale, taking a sampling of 
genres from the former show. He said he didn’t know all the artists he was buying, but, for $1 per CD, the price couldn’t be better.
  “I can risk a dollar just to try it,” he said.  Media center book, CD 
sale raises $1,000
  By STEPHANIE SCHWARTZ
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  About 160 students participat-
ed in Alpha Phi Omega’s third 
Campus Cleanup Extravaganza 
on Sunday which was followed by a celebration on Flavet Field with free food, games and an award ceremony. 
  The participants split into 
teams of eight to 10 and picked up trash in various areas around campus, ﬁ  lling about 100 bags.  “I like making a difference to 
the campus, and it is a great way to meet new people,” said Katie Kafer, a mem-
ber of the coed service fraternity.
  Alpha Phi Omega members represented about 30 of the peo-ple who took part in the cleanup. 
The rest were students who 
wanted to get involved and help.  
  Alpha Phi Omega gave awards 
to teams for the categories of most spirited, best dressed, most gar-bage collected overall and oddest 
object found. The winning teams received 
medals and sunglasses. 
  “Carrying the trash bags may 
get heavy for some people,” said 
Amber Danielecki, the organizer of the event. 
“But in the end, it is such a re-
warding experience, and it makes you a happier person.”  Students get together for campus-wide cleanup event
They picked up 100 bags of trash
OnCampu sThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Have you ever donated blood?Friday’s question: Are you excited about the new Magic Kingdom section?  48% YES52% NO
48 TOTAL VOTESSchool on Crutches
Maybe a little strug-
gling does the mind good.
Students remember 
material better when they take tests on it rather than merely studying it, accord-
ing to new research in the 
journal Science. We’re used to studying textbooks and reviewing notes until our eyes beg for mercy, so this 
is a breakthrough. 
The study, which evalu-
ated how much students 
retained about a passage a 
week after reading it, dis-
misses the idea that popu-lar studying methods such as creating diagrams of in-formation make informa-
tion easier to remember.
Taking a test – even a 
practice test – isolates stu-
dents from crutches such as 
textbooks and forces them 
to rely on memory. So an exam doesn’t just force stu-dents to regurgitate what they’ve learned; it embeds the information deeper into memory.
Of course, this is just one 
study. The results make sense, though, because stu-dents generally prepare for important exams such as the SAT, LSAT or just the 
Microeconomics final in the 
same way: practicing with old tests. This research sug-gests taking exams not only 
gives us experience with 
the specific test’s format but also helps to store the information we know.
The technique comes 
with a downside, however.Students feel less confident in their memory while test-ing and may be tempted to 
study with the book con-
stantly beside them.
With that in mind, for 
our next exam, we’ll con-sider giving the crutches a 
break to see if we can stand 
our own.
Hail to the Tweet
Social media connects 
public to White House
We got a little preview of the State of the Union 
address this weekend, but for now we’re more intrigued that the White House is embracing 
technology in the lead-up to the speech Tuesday night.  
Concerned Americans can pose their burning questions 
to President Obama via Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. 
Given that the president owes much of his 2008 cam-
paign success to social media, his effort to make citizens feel more involved via the Internet comes as no surprise.
On one hand, we are all for broadening the horizons of 
political interactions, allowing voters to come face-to-face with their leaders and express themselves. 
The nation stands on the cusp of a new era when nearly 
anyone, regardless of age, income or location, can ques-tion the people who are supposed to look out for their best interests. We understand there will be a vetting system 
to weed out people without legitimate questions and to 
throw the president some soft ones. But that’s how most political discussions occur now.
On the other hand, we have to wonder how someone 
could pose a pertinent and important question that’s still 
specific enough to elicit a thoughtful response in only 140 
characters.
All problems aside, anything that gets people thinking 
about what our elected officials are doing and saying con-
tributes to the good of our society.
Parties overlook immigration solution
“Give [us] your tired, your poor, your hud-
dled masses yearning to breathe free.” For more than a century, these words have been 
America’s call to the world, and the world has answered eagerly. 
Unfortunately, those on the left have perverted these 
same words during today’s debate over immigration reform. They recklessly wield them in support of abso-lute amnesty for illegal immigrants and deceptively de-nounce conservatives as being in favor of detention and deportation of all those here illegally. Obviously, neither 
of these solutions embodies the true meaning or spirit of 
Emma Lazarus’ powerful words.
But if neither approach works, how can we fix the 
problem of illegal immigration? 
It’s simple. We can confront it with common sense and 
a basic understanding of the law of supply and demand.
In order to reform the immigration system, decrease 
the number of illegal aliens and increase overall Ameri-
can prosperity, the federal government must tighten bor -
der security, streamline the legal immigration process, in-crease the number of immigrants legally allowed into the country, create a guest worker program and place those who are here illegally in line with everyone else while holding them responsible for any fines or back taxes they might owe.
If lawmakers follow these five simple policy prescrip-
tions, they will be well on their way to solving a pressing problem facing our nation.
Unfortunately, many lawmakers on the left refuse to 
realistically confront this problem. Rather, they push for amnesty, even limited amnesty, without any of the ad-ditional remedies.
Limited amnesty was tried in 1986 and failed. In fact, it only encouraged more illegal im-migration in the following years. 
The same would be true today, 
and passage of the DREAM Act would surely create a nightmare along America’s borders.
It is important to remember, 
however, that even though those who are in the country illegally 
broke the law to get here, most did so for good reasons. 
They were pursuing the American dream of a better 
life for themselves and their families. While we cannot 
reward their illegal activity, we must take this as a clear 
sign that there is a demand for their services as well as an ample supply of immigrants willing to meet this de-mand. 
If the immigration process is streamlined and the 
number of immigrants legally allowed into the country is increased, most who are pursuing work would follow this path. Not only would this reduce strain on the bor -
der, but it would allow more resources to be devoted to preventing those who truly wish to harm America from coming into the country.
Immigration reform is a necessity. We are a nation of immigrants and should welcome 
with open arms any who wish to come here to pursue the American dream. Comprehensive reform would create opportunities for millions of citizens and immigrants to have better lives for themselves and for their families. 
This is the hope that America provides to millions, and 
what could be more American than making this hope a reality for millions more?
Zack Smith is a first-year law student. His column runs 
on Mondays.
Zack Smith
letters@alligator.orgMONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
$8 OFF
5 area locations. 
For the Jiffy Lube nearest you please visit jiffylubesoutheast.comJiffy Lube 
Signature Service®
Oil Change
See store for more details. Not valid with any other offer. Restrictions may apply.  Jiffy Lube, the Jiffy Lube design 
mark and Jiffy Lube Signature Service® are registered trademarks of Jiffy Lube International, Inc.
©2010 Jiffy Lube International, Inc. All rights reserved.No Coupon Needed! No expiration date to remember!  
Just bring in a valid student ID to any Gainesville Jiffy Lube. 
Taxi sting shows benefits of UF Student Government
I was extremely uplifted to read about Student Gov-
ernment and Ben Meyer’s recent role in investigating taxi 
price gouging. 
I, too, have been a victim of overpriced taxis while at-
tempting to get home safely at night. 
Like with other victims, my taxi driver did not run his 
meter, nor was the flat rate I was later charged displayed 
on the cab. 
My ride cost a whopping $35, far more than I had spent 
while out that night.
This is a confusing situation for students to be in, par -
ticularly when trying to get home late at night. 
I had never taken a cab ride until arriving in Gainesville 
and thus knew nothing about the way they charge. 
Without prior knowledge, I was unable to stand up to 
the taxi driver. 
I believe this is the same situation most students find 
themselves in. They are simply glad to arrive home safely, 
so they do not argue with the overcharging. 
It appears that most cab drivers understand the situa-
tion that students are in and have unfairly taken advan-
tage of it. 
Thankfully, we are blessed to have such an active stu-
dent government and student leaders, like Ben Meyers, 
who take matters into their own hands. He took it upon 
himself to spend a night riding in taxis in order to inves-
tigate. 
That is the kind of leader students at UF need — one 
who willingly will do whatever possible to ensure the safety and fair treatment of students.
Michelle Lanier
UF student
n n n
Columnist fails to examine valid opposing opinions
I’m guessing that Bob Minchin is one of those closed-
minded individuals who thinks   “The Colbert Report” is conservative.
You are correct on the “unpopularity of liberal ideolo-
gy” in the media, though. I mean who watches ABC, NBC, CBS or CNN? Or reads the silly New York Times? 
However, with my hypothesis regarding your igno-
rance of “The Colbert Report” message, sarcasm may have been a poor choice here.
I’m just saying to open your mind up a little bit and 
think about why the Fairness Doctrine might be a good idea.
A persuasive paper should concede oppos-
ing views and argue them down, something you  
completely ignored in your opinion article. 
One-sided thinking and reporting will not get us any-
where. 
Howard Moore
UF studentLetters to the EditorRegarding Bob Minchin’s 
Friday column, a few things need to be cleared 
up.  
For the record, talk of reinstat-
ing the Fairness Doctrine was advanced by one Democratic 
congressman, not the entire par -
ty, nor any other broad group of 
liberals. 
No piece of legislation has 
been drafted, either. 
Additionally, President 
Obama and representatives for his administration have repeat-edly made clear their belief that 
the Fairness Doctrine should not 
be reinstated. 
But those facts didn’t really 
matter to Minchin, who capi-talized on typical conservative 
paranoia about a vast mass me-dia conspiracy as a rhetorical ve-
hicle to drive his column’s side argument that the Tuscon Trag-edy was — wait for it — caused by liberals. N e v e r 
mind that the shooter’s reading list 
featured a blatant anti-govern-ment strain. 
Never mind the shooter’s 
YouTube videos about illegal cur -
rency are essentially a stripped-down version of a typical Glenn 
Beck program. 
Never mind that most of our 
country’s leaders have rightly 
declared that the shooter wasn’t exactly a crazy far leftist or a cra-
zy Tea Partier but was rather just 
crazy. 
As in apolitically deranged. Further, to address Minchin’s 
contention that “liberalism can-not survive in the arena of ideas,” which, let’s face it, is like calling your momma fat in the world of politics, I’d like to remind him 
that it has been the progressives 
from both parties that have ad-vanced the best ideas of the past few generations. 
Be it women’s suffrage, civil 
rights, clean water standards, higher education standards, reg-ulations to ensure fairness and equity in the marketplace or so-
cial safety nets that have lifted 
millions out of poverty and into the middle class, liberal ideas have fared pretty well in every 
intellectual arena that they’ve 
been tested. 
The more astute readers out 
there might notice that Repub-licans advanced some of these 
ideas. 
Unfortunately, it seems that 
intellectuals are increasingly be-
ing turned away from the GOP . 
But rest assured, they’re al-
ways welcomed at a gathering of the UF College Democrats.
Matthew Christ is a third -year 
advertising and political science 
major. He is also the vice president 
of community outreach for the UF College Democrats.Liberalism stands test of time in USGuest column
Matthew Christ
Speaking Out
Bob Minchin claims “liberalism is an emotive 
ideology. By nature, it relies more on feelings than intellect.” 
Then I guess conservative “intellects” Glenn 
Beck and Rush Limbaugh are actually liberals in disguise. 
Here are a few in a long lists of quotes that prove 
they rely on emotions rather than rational thinking:
“We’re not sexists, we’re chauvinist — we’re male 
chauvinist pigs, and we’re happy to be because we think that men were destined to be. We think that’s what women want.” 
“I could give a flying crap about the political pro-
cess.... We’re an entertainment company.”
“Every night I get down on my knees and pray 
that Dennis Kucinich will burst into flames.” 
Unfortunately for Minchin’s logic, conservative 
radio hosts are no intellectuals and neither are their liberal counterparts. 
If you’re going to make such an argument, you 
have to support it with facts, not just a petty, one-
sided political agenda. 
Minchin also claims that conservatism is win-
ning because people are voting some Democrats out of office. 
Then what happened in 2006? 
What happened in 2008? Anyone who has the most basic education about American politics knows well that there are cycles.
 Some cycles benefit 
the Democrats, and some 
benefit Conservatives. 
There will always be both a conservative and a 
liberal base, but the truth is most Americans fall in 
the middle and despise these extremes. 
They despise liberalism just as much as conser -
vatism. 
And just for the record, Mr. Minchin, without 
some liberal ideas, we would not have Social Secu-rity or Medicare. 
Just ask a bunch of 70-year-old Tea Party mem-
bers to end their Social Security and Medicare ben-
efits and see their reactions. 
In all fairness, without conservatism perhaps our 
income tax rates would be what they were under  presidents of the 1960s or 1970s (70 to 90 percent for the highest brackets). 
I guess what I’m trying to prove is that our coun-
try is neither conservative nor liberal but a constant political mix, where different ideas from different ideologies are blended to form this beautiful coun-
try that — with all its problems — I dearly love and 
adore.
Nicolas Sayavedra is a senior psychology student.Blend of political views necessaryGuest column
Nicholas Sayaverda
Speaking Out8, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011
LOCAL
  ALLIGATOR STAFF REPORT
  
  While the weather continues to 
waver between chilly and cold, the 
race for District 3 City Commission is heating up as the candidates pre-
pare to make their push toward 
City Hall. 
  The race for the commission 
seat is chock-full of candidates, each with varying backgrounds and political experiences. For the next month and a half, they will be making their case to voters as to why they are qualiﬁ  ed to serve 
Gainesville. 
  The election, which will be 
March 15, will be a ﬁ  ve-way con-
test among Susan Bottcher, Ozzy Angulo, Jimmy Harnsberger,  Ra-mon Trujillo and  Rob Zeller.
  Bottcher, who graduated from 
UF with a degree in anthropol-ogy in 1979, said she decided to 
run because she saw certain politi-
cal movements, such as the “Tea-publicans,” start to trickle into Gainesville. She said she doesn’t want those viewpoints to choke the spirit of the city.
  “It’s all very negative. It’s not 
solution-based,” she said. “They’re backward-looking. The traditional 
character of Gainesville has been 
forward-looking.”
  After graduating from college, 
Bottcher, 53, worked for Nation-wide Insurance as a claims writer for about 10 years. Then, after mar-rying her husband, Del,  she chose to be a stay-at-home mom. 
  She became involved with Lit-
tlewood Elementary School’s PTA and then joined the East Gainesville Development Task Force. Before long, she was president of a non-proﬁ  t organization dedicated to bringing a childrens museum to Gainesville.
  She’d volunteered in about 
eight educational and political or-ganizations before she volunteered 
with the Alachua County Demo-
cratic Executive Committee during the 2004 election. 
  Bottcher said the extent of her 
political involvement previously had been yelling at the TV during newscasts. She quickly learned the ins and outs of campaign planning, she said.
  “That was kind of my political 
education,” she said.
  Angulo, 30, is no stranger to po-
litical campaigns. Last year, he ran for city mayor, ﬁ  nishing ﬁ  fth in a ﬁ  eld of ﬁ  ve.
  While some may see Angulo’s 
performance as discouraging, he saw it as a learning experience. 
  “I’ve learned that solutions to 
a lot of the challenges that we face are within the community and in our city,” Angulo said.  “The per-ception that it’s difﬁ  cult for certain businesses to get established is ac-tually a reality.”
  Angulo has assembled a staff to 
assist him with his campaign. 
“He likes to pick local busi-
nesses; he likes to have a feel of what Gainesville is,” said David Arreola, the media coordinator for Angulo’s campaign. “He’s very committed and has very strong convictions. From what I’ve seen, we have very intelligent staff members and we’re going to make 
sure the right man gets elected to 
the chair.”
  In order to bolster his political 
presence, Angulo, a former U.S. Marine and a current theater stu-dent at Santa Fe College, is offering to do chores for Gainesville resi-dents for political donations.
  “I’m willing to work for cam-
paign donations because that is what I intend to do as a commis-sioner — work,” Angulo said. 
  While Angulo is using mediums 
such as Craigslist to get his name out there, Harnsberger, 40,  is tak-
ing a more “super” route.  Across 
town, signs line yards that portray Harnsberger ripping his T-shirt to reveal a superhero-like “J” written underneath. The slogan: “We need Jimmy in the city.”
  “I’m running now because I 
think we’ve got some very serious issues before the commission,” he 
said. “And I think we need a fresh 
perspective on how to tackle those problems.”
  Harnsberger, who is an assistant 
professor in the  linguistics depart-ment at UF, said he ﬁ  rst became involved in politics when he and other residents in his neighbor-hood worked with the City Com-
mission to close down a nearby 
drug house.
From there, he quickly became 
involved in other community ef-
forts and became president of the 
University Park Neighborhood Association in 2006. 
  As the city faces budgetary 
problems and a tough economy, Harnsberger believes the answer isn’t more taxes but less spending. The city government, he believes, should focus on tightening its op-
eration while still providing neces-
sary public services, he said. 
  Harnsberger is also concerned 
with ensuring the city government supports urban neighborhoods and business districts.
  “It’s all connected,” he said. “If 
we let our neighborhoods decline, the businesses don’t have custom-ers [and] they close. Schools, busi-nesses, neighborhoods — they all have to be healthy.”
  For Trujillo, 44, the election rep-
resents an opportunity to provide 
a counterbalance to the “liberal 
establishment,” which he believes has taken over the City Commis-sion.
  Currently unemployed and liv-
ing on disability insurance,  Tru-jillo has previously worked in a ministry and with various market-ing and advertising jobs in South 
Florida.
  He said he wants to represent 
the people of Gainesville “on a 
values perspective.” He said he supports “innovated projects” and stands against Amendment 1, the equality for employment and anti-discriminatory law put in place in 2008 that gave protection to trans-
gender, gay and lesbian people in 
Gainesville. 
  He lists two former presidents 
as his political idols: Abraham Lin-coln and Ronald Reagan.
  “They’re men of character,” he 
said.
  While he may be considered a 
political neophyte, Rob Zeller is 
no stranger to Gainesville. Having 
received his undergraduate degree in chemical engineering and MBA from UF, Zeller, 39, owns Grog House, Gator City Sports Grill, Copper Monkey and :08 Seconds. 
  With his background in busi-
ness, Zeller said he wants to treat city government like a business 
while trying to lower regulation 
and going after what he sees as ex-cessive fees. 
    In terms of ﬁ  nances raised, 
Zeller leads the pack with $11, 996.56. Bottcher is right behind him with $8,490, followed by Harns-berger at $1,395 and Angulo at $618.50. Currently, Trujillo shows 
no ﬁ  nances being raised.  
 Field set for City Commission election
Susan 
Bottcher
Ozzy 
Angulo
Jimmy 
Harnsberger
Ramon 
Trujillo
Rob 
Zeller
“I’m running now because 
I think we’ve got some very 
serious issues before the 
commission.”
Jimmy Harnsberger
City Commission candidateClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011
$380 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Gainesville Place
Now leasing for 2011-2012!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
 (352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $399***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
Student Friendly 4/4's 
$424 for EVERYTHING
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
Call for current specials!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-8-15-1
$675(Price Negotiable). CLEAN. Spacious. 
1 Bed/Bath. Minute walk from UF. Nice view. Quiet. New Kitchen Floors. Painted Nicely. Washer/Dryer. Pets allowed. Moving out of town. You can keep the furniture! If interest-ed feel free to call or text (304)218-1628 or email stever0@ufl.edu    1-27-11-5-1
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        
4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-21 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe-NW 23rd Blvd
1s-$699 2s-$789 3s $859.
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400  madisonpointe.org4-20-70-2
●ONE MONTH FREE●
Available for Immediate Move-Ins
1,2, and 3 Bedrooms
(352)335-7656
www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
1/1 $599 *2/2.5 townhouse $779*
4/2.5 townhouse $1099*Washer/Dryers*
352-332-7401 www.thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted. Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
● Amazing Rent on 1 and 2BR apts.
Ranging from $390 to $545.Sorry no pets or Section 8.Madison on 20th. 335-7066      4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625
·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779
·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!4-20-10-70-2
Renting Now!!
We have REAL 1/1s
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE-1 MO FREE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
3Blks to UF- GATOR NEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS 1 MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
1-31-10-68-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's f rom $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-22/2 & 3/3 Roommate Matching
Walk In ClosetsPrivate BathroomsCable w/HBO & ShowtimeFull size W/D
Pet friendly
352-374-3866                  4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-2-10-
30-2
CALL TODAY!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free!
Sundowne Villas
Studio *$430 and 1/1 *$457
Located behind Butler Plaza
Pet friendly No weight limits!
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$447
2/1 *$548
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free
Sunrise Villas
One Bedroom Villa *$428
Near UF and Shand's
Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Ph. 372-4835  www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
First Month Free
Campus Walk Apartments
All Inclusive Individual Leases
4 Bedroom Townhomes and flats
Located on UF campus
$350 per bedroom All Inclusive
Semester Leases available!
(352) 376-0828
(Rental office at Homestead Apts.)
www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
10, ALLIGATOR  n MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/
shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-
closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year 
lease, $700/mo
●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr lease
●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida 
rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and 
tennis courts. $1000●Downtown 2 BR at the Lofts at W. University.  This modern designed unit in-
cludes cable, internet, washer/dryer, and 2 
onsite parking spaces. Minutes from UF and 
Shands, $1050/mo●Mallorca Square,Large 2br,2.5 ba town-house convenient to Oaks Mall and UF/hos-
pitals, many extras,$895/mo
●Treehouse Village- 2/2  New Carpet,D/W, 
W/D incl.,on covered bus line close to down -
town, UF/Shands. $595●BIG 3/3 in SW, Ceramic/Carpet, D/W, W/D 
includes clubhouse, pool, comp lab, volley -
ball, tennis, basketball, MUST SEE $900
★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
4-20-10-70-2
Immaculate small efficiency,quiet.Wash/
dry on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No pets. 
1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus routes.Avail 
Dec 27.$399/m 352-262-2871 Owner agent. 
1-24-11-14-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    2-28-11-36-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●3/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         929 nw 22 street     $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1400
●2/1  apt     2nd floor 204 nw 18  st    $1200
●2/1  apt     1st  floor 204  nw 18 st    $1100
●2/2   apt     2515  sw  35 place          $1200
2-4-11-10-2
Studio for rent. Bedroom, kitchen, full bath-
room, total privacy. 3 miles from Butler plaza near Tower Square. $475.00 per month includes Utilities, Cable TV, & Internet Call 352-378-4626 or 352-262-4290    1-28-11-15-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shady lot. From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No pets. Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887    1-24-11-10-2The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2s with vaulted ceilings $999
3/3 Townhomes w/Private Baths $1089
Garage included, Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
www.madisonpointe.org          4-20-66-2
Available Aug 1st. 3BR/1BA very nice house, 
short bike, cent H/AC, dishwasher, disposal, 
W/D provided. Very private backyard with 
small garage. 924 NW 9th Ave. $1100/mo. 
Call 352-339-2342 Other houses available   
1-25-11-9-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA very nice house. 
Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game 
room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets 
ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-
339-2342 Other houses available   1-25-11-
9-2
2BR/1BA cabin, 20 acres. Fixer-upper. 
Horses/dogs welcome. 27802 SW 120th 
Lane, Newberry. $555/mo. Comes with 
horse. Long driveway. In Gothe State Forest. 
Call 330-329-8834    1-26-10-2
3 bd 1 ba in NE Gville . Beautiful, restored 
hardwood floors, stainless steel appliances, 
W/D, front porch, back deck, fresh paint. 
Lg fenced property, Pets OK. Great loca-
tion. Available now. $900/mo 516-459-7654.    
1-24-11-5-2
AVAILABLE  AUG 1st. 4BR/3BA beautiful 
4-year-old house, washer/dryer provided. 
Open floor plan, vaulted ceilings, fireplace, 
large rooms. 2108 NW 8th Ct. $1575/mo 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
1-25-11-4-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA house. 
Beautiful wd flrs, fireplace, good size rooms. W/D provided, fenced yard. Pet ok. CH/AC, DW, 830 NW 16th Ave. $1400/mo. 352-339-2342  gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-25-11-4-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-25-11-4-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.
Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com     1-25-11-4-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $625/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160    2-17-11-20-2
Really nice and spacious 1 BR. Walking 
distance from UF! Two blocks from Beaty Towers! Pets are welcome. $460/month. With parking & laundry services in the com-plex. Call 352-6725479 to move in today!  1-27-5-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.825 NW 13th St       352-372-1494 x10www.merrillmanagement.com●**ST. CROIX APTS:$475 per Month, 2BR 1BA Apts, 3  BLKS TO UF! 840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms,  Plenty of Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  ●**CIRCE APTS:2BR 1BA Apt  3 BLKS TO UF, New Carpet $450/Mo  $600 Deposit Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht. 216 SW 12th Street.●**EFFICIENCY -2 Rooms(not bedrooms)Shared Bathroom, Window A/C, Carpet, Across from UF Stadium, 1830 NW 1st Ave  $295/Mo, $300 Deposit●** ROCKWOOD VILLAS:5542 SW 8th Place $750/Mo, $800 Deposit. Pets Ok, 2BR 2BA, Newly painted, New Carpet, Tile Floors in LR, Inclds Washer/Dryer, Pool, Tennis Courts, Bus Line to Shands & UF.     1-24-11-1-2****  HOUSE 4BR/2BA  ****
Avail 8/1. Remodeled, W/D, bike to UF. NO Pets. Drive by 3532 NW 7th Ave, pick up flyer. $1200/mo. 373-1558 or 246-8645    2-18-11-20-2
Walk to Midtown 1536 NW 3ave
$545 2br/1bth pet friendly
356-260-8925                 1-24-3-3
Ml needed to sublease 1 br in 2br/1b apt. 
Within walking distance of campus: 130 N. 
W. 9th Terr, apt. 206. $325. Jan. rent pd. 
Sublease from 2/11-7/11. Email gatorgal24@
gmail.com OR contact Mitchell Realty 352-
374-8579 for details.    1-25-11-4-3
Live in the CLOSEST apartment complex 
to UF! Price is all inclusive with: Hi-Speed 
Ethernet, Extended Cable Package, Water, 
Sewage, Garbage, Parking, Pest Control & 
Electric. Enjoy a private bedroom, spacious 
kitchen and living room.. Pool on-site! Free 
Parking! Townhouse layout. Rent is $504 
and available from Feb. 1 2011 to Aug. 9th 
2011. If interested email me at
ssuarez5@ufl.edu    1-27-11-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-38664-20-70-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, 
W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & 
pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $425/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79291-31-10-42-4
1st month free. Grad student looking for fe-
male roommate in fully furnished 4/4 condo 
at Countryside. $425/month. Short term 
lease available. Cable/internet, utils, W/D, 2 
bus routes. Contact Megan 727-542-8155.   
1-28-11-16-4
Female looking for same to share a furnished 
3BR/2BA condo. 10 mins by bus to UF cam-
pus. $400/mo including utils. Great Location! 
Call 850-974-0686   2-4-11-20-4
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks form campus. 814-440-3325 or
jfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
2BR/1.5BA newly renovated townhouse. 6134 SW 8th Lane. You have to see it to appreciate it! Come see it and make an of-fer. Call 352-281-7411 or 786-537-2963 and make an appointment   1-31-11-17-5Rent to Buy. 2BR/2BA Capstone Quarters 
Condo Near Shands. Private porch, back-
yard, new carpet, paint and appliances. 
Community Pool, $650/mo. $54,900 Call 
352-378-4626   1-28-11-15-5
Treehouse Village
2 beds/2baths condo incl washer & dryer.
Pool & tennis court.Bus stop opposite con-
do.954-9186425   1-28-11-5-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 11
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
WATERBED FOR SALE
Willing to deliver. Pictures available. Asking $150. MUST GO TODAY. 352-377-5560    1-26-5-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
iPad Owners
www.CaptureNotes.com
is the BEST note taking app for the iPad
Created by Gators for Gators!
G8R Software, LLC - GO GATORS!
1-28-8-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
★★★GatorMoto★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit 
shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275 GatorMoto.com  4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
1-31-10-78-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $149997 Pontiac Transport $149996 Chevy Blazer $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $199998 Ford Expolorer $199997 Lincoln Town car $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $499999 Ford F150 $599998 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESCertified vehiclesNo credit checkMove  vehicles $500 & up!352-375-9090     4-20-70-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948    
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
What's black and white & read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Summer availability is a 
MUST. Please submir resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org AND
dkradolfer@alligator.org,
or Fax: 352-376-3015.
No phone calls please.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   2-8-10-30-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Flexible, minimum 20 
weekday hours. Excellent Word, Excel, typ-ing, internet skills. $7.25/hr. Indicate, major, graduating semester, available schedule.  siva1950@yahoo.com   1-28-11-22-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-ning & overnight shifts currently available email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-3617   2-28-10-39-14
An awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-dren’s summer camp, has positions available in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront (sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.   2-11-10-26-14
Smokers are needed to participate in a study assessing the effects of various activities on cravings, withdrawal, mood, and smoking. Compensation will be provided. If interested, call 336-406-3706 or emailuflsmokelab@gmail.com    1-28-14-14
12, ALLIGATOR  n MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011
GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND 
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS 
FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY 
PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT 
JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-6300
2-4-11-20-14
University Athletic Association - Accounting
Currently seeking flexible individual for part-
time (OPS) filing clerk. Varied duties includ -
ing data entry and filing. Experienced in Microsoft Excel & good organizational skills 
required. Minimum wage position averag -
ing 20 hour per week. Please fax resume to 
(352) 375-5182.     1-26-11-12-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys 
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
Computer tech, Skills to repair comps. Must 
have car. Be honest, available, dependable. 
Part time, make own hours. hr@blue4.com    
1-26-11-10-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
2-9-20-14
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available 
Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.25/hr, experience 
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 
for more info and interview.    2-2-15-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
Lot person, Polaris of Gainesville. Clean 
machines,load, and unload for customers, clean building, very minor mechanical, hours1p-6p M-F apply in person[students prefered]12556 NW US HWY 441 Alachua Fl 32615   11-20-11-5-14
CNAs who believe in compassionate care & 
uncompromising services are encouraged to apply on-line at http://ck546.ersp.biz/employ -
ment. Strict background checks/drug screen. 12hr shifts, days, nights & wkends avail.1-24-11-7-14
CONSTRUCTION SUPERINTENDENT
ASSISTANT
Full or part time student. Responsibilities - 
AutoCAD, SketchUp. Assist with planning hanger, putting green, guest house, swim-ming pool, fountain construction and main-tenance of multiple business and residence properties. Back up Shipping, yard main-tenance. Apply at http://www.gleim.com.    1-27-11-10-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm & 3:30-9:30pm, M-F & wkends. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax resume & availability to 373-2230    1-27-11-10-14MEDICAL ASSISTANT
PT or FT for a doctor's office. Experience 
preferred. Email resume to:snpohani@gmail.com          1-24-11-5-14
Looking to have fun while working hard and 
staying in shape? 1800GOTJUNK is hiring outgoing gals/guys to cover mainly Tu, We, or Th morning Truck Team shifts. Other shifts 
available. +21 age req'd for insurance. $8.50 
- $11/hr. Email cover letter and resume to 
cameron.lansdell@1800gotjunk.com1-24-11-5-14
AFTER SCHOOL SUPERVISOR for
2010-2011 school year, $9.00 hr+ to start. Apply 8505 NW 39th Ave. GNV    1-24-11-
5-14
EARN UP TO $300/DAY! Bartending!!! No 
experience necessary. We train you! 888-
575-TIPS (8477)           1-25-11-5-14
SERVERS
Experienced & Friendly. Evenings & week-
ends. Apply in person, NAPOLATANOS - 606 NW 75th St.    1-25-11-4-14
MEDICAL RECEPTIONIST:
Full time.   Responsible for scheduling, 
phone calls, verifying insurance and coordi -
nating office activities.  E-mail resumeafn22025@bellsouth.net    2-17-20-14
NANNY NEEDED NOW  28hrs/wk; $10/hr 
10 month old; MWF 8:30-12:30; T/TH 9-5 
clean bkkg; exp + refs; long term commit; 
email resume, sched, pix, + hello to NOAH'S 
ARK NANNY:  gnv@nanoneone.com   1-28-
11-6-14
HELP WANTED: Student caregiver/assistant 
for woman with Parkinson's Disease. Needs help with administering pills, proper fluid and food intake, basic house cleaning, Dr appts, and errands. Knowledge in physical therapy a plus. Late morning and early afternoon. Min 10 hrs/wk. lisak0905@gmail.com1-28-11-5-14
Dependable,experienced Nanny needed to care for newborn; M-F; 35 hrs/wk; occasion -
al travel with mom; $9/hr. FL Driver License, background check, and excellent references required. Email resume toabtwbutler@gmail.com.   2-4-11-10-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
INSURANCE WE REPRESENT
OVER 100 COMPANIES
HOME, AUTO AND LIABILITY
WHY PAY MORE? 371 9696
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-
27-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Reading and 
Writing Center offers this workshop Monday 
- Thursday, January 24 – 28.  Verbal ses-
sions on M&R, Math sessions on T&W; each 
session from 5:00 – 7:00 p.m. Call 392-
2010 to register and learn the room location.    
1-24-3-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
GLAUCOMA in your family? FREE 
SCREENING available for all. Participants 
who qualify & wish to participate in research 
will receive financial reimbursement. Call Dr. 
Levy or Cathleen Courtney 352-331-2020.   
2-16-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
Sports
ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org monday
MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011
TEEING OFF WITH ADAM BERRY ONLINE alligatorSports on TwitterBy GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
After weeks of playing well 
in only one aspect of the game 
at a time, the Gators finally put 
together a complete performance 
Saturday night. 
Florida (15-4, 4-1 Southeastern 
Conference) had what may have 
been its best contest of the year 
as it shot 50 percent and kept Arkansas (12-6, 2-3 SEC) under wraps, notching a 75-43 blowout victory in the O’Connell Center. 
“We put it all together,” se-
nior Chandler Parsons said. “We played well on offense, we exe-cuted and we played very unself-
ish. And on the defensive end we 
also locked up.”
Saturday’s performance served 
as a microcosm of what many be-lieved this Florida team would be 
coming in to the season. 
UF has played games in which 
it showed flashes on either of-
fense or defense, but Saturday it 
proved what it is capable of when 
it does both for 40 minutes. 
“I thought from start to finish 
it was a real complete game for us,” coach Billy Donovan said. 
Coming off a putrid offensive 
performance against Auburn in which they shot just 28.3 percent in a 45-40 win, the Gators had one 
of their strongest scoring outputs 
of the year. 
While the offense was entirely 
different from the way it played at Auburn, the defense looked 
like the same unit that held the 
Tigers to their lowest point total in the shot clock era, this time limiting Arkansas to just 29.4 percent shooting. 
“Everyone put that game 
Thursday behind us, and we re-ally just wanted to come out and 
play defense,” sophomore guard 
Kenny Boynton said. 
Boynton was UF’s best de-
fender, as he played a major role 
in shutting out junior guard Rot-
nei Clarke, who came into the game averaging a team-high 13.5 points per contest.  
Clarke mustered just three 
shot attempts for the game, in-cluding two air balls from three-point range. 
“That was my focus coming 
into this game: trying to shut him down,” Boynton said. “He’s a great player, great shooter, and I just wanted to do my best to dis-rupt anything he had going on.”
Although Boynton’s focus was 
on defense, he also played a ma-jor role in an offense that needed less than 19 minutes to make as 
many field goals (15) as it did in 
the entirety of Thursday’s game. 
UF established an interior 
presence in the early going to open up the outside, and Boyn-
ton responded by hitting a trio of 
shots from beyond the arc in the first 20 minutes.
Florida opened the Auburn 
game just 3 for 24 from long dis-tance, but Boynton never shied away from an open three, con-necting on four of his seven         
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida sophomore guard Kenny Boynton led the Gators offensively 
with 20 points and helped shut down Rotnei Clarke in a 75-43 rout.
UF dominates all phases vs. Hogs
In a moment of brutal honesty, Florida basketball coach 
Billy Donovan hopefully put an end to all the specula-
tion, all the guessing games and all the “if only” think-
ing.
When asked if his team was “mystifying” to him, Don-
ovan quickly answered, “Yes.”
“Don’t fall in love,” he added, smiling, after a perfor -
mance worth falling for. The Gators dismantled Arkansas 
75-43 on Saturday, something they 
needed in light of the borderline-
humiliating 45-40 win at Auburn on 
Thursday.
Perhaps the only consistent as-
pect of Florida’s season has been its inconsistency, and that has never 
been more clear than it was in the 
Thursday-Saturday Southeastern 
Conference swing. 
The Gators were horrid offensive-
ly at Auburn, scoring the fewest points in the Donovan 
era, and they were unexpectedly dominant in all phases 
Saturday against Arkansas. 
“It shows us what type of team and upside we have 
if we just keep being focused and coming out, executing 
our game plan,” sophomore guard Kenny Boynton said. Gators’ inconsistency 
defies explanations
Adam Berry
Bad News Berry
aberry@alligator.org
Twitter: @adamdberry
UF WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
Before Sunday’s game, LSU 
coach Van Chancellor said he 
was worried by how hard the 
Gators play. 
But the trademark toughness 
coach Amanda Butler demands from her team was absent until 
late in a 72-58 shellacking in Ba-
ton Rouge, La., against the Ti-gers.  
Already on a three-game 
snide, Florida held a lead for only 13 seconds, and Butler said 
the team showed a “complete 
lack of readiness” in the loss. 
“We’ve been through a lot 
emotionally in the past week,” 
Butler said afterward in a radio 
interview. “But that’s life. And 
that’s life in the [Southeastern Conference].”
Going on the road to face the 
SEC leader in scoring defense 
proved to be too large a task.
The Gators’ offense was hand-
icapped all night by the Tigers, who routinely forced Florida (12-
9, 2-5 SEC) out 
of its element 
into long pos-sessions and 
half-court sets. 
UF,  a team 
that likes to run the floor and 
set up offense with aggres-
sive defense, had zero fast-break 
points and took multiple bad shots as the shot clock expired.
Coupled with the poor of-LSU pushes Florida’s 
losing streak to four
Butler
Offense bounces back in win
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 14
SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 14SEE HOOPS, PAGE 14
n Jaguars RB Maurice Jones-Drew tweeted the following Sunday regarding Bears 
QB Jay Cutler: “ Hey I think the urban meyer rule is effect right now... When the 
going gets tough........QUIT..” Much like everyone else in Jacksonville, Urban won’t be attending any Jags games in the near future. ... Billy Donovan’s quip to the media Saturday night — “Don’t fall in love” — immediately brought to mind Ron -
nie from Jersey Shore saying, “Don’t fall in love at the Jersey shore.”n Follow @alligatorSports for live 
updates and links. Subscribe to columnists @adamdberry, @Chiang_Reaction and @JettStreamin. And “Like” our podcast at facebook.com/alligatorpodcast.nKeep an eye on alligatorSports.org tonight for a new alligatorSports Podcast, and if you haven’t already, watch the second install -
ment of our weekly video show for segments on Gators basketball and gymnastics.“That was my focus com -
ing into this game: trying to 
shut (Clarke) down. He’s a 
great player, great shooter, 
and I just wanted to do my 
best to disrupt anything he 
had going on.”
Kenny Boynton
UF sophomore guardfensive showing, Butler said the 
Gators also showed lackluster ef-fort on the other end of the court.
“We got crushed on the boards today and really just had very little 
pride in our defense,” Butler said.
From the opening minutes, 
Florida allowed open looks off 
LSU ball screens.  
Adrienne Webb, who scored a game-high 18 points, and Taylor 
Turnbow knocked down wide-
open jumpers to give LSU an im-
mediate 5-0 lead. The Tigers took 
advantage of similar easy oppor -
tunities all afternoon, shooting a 50.9 percentage. 
Sunday is only the second time 
all season Florida has allowed an 
opponent to shoot 50 percent from 
the floor. Auburn made exactly 
half of its shots in a 17-point vic-
tory over UF on Jan. 6.  
Despite LSU’s hot hand, Flori-
da still had its chances.  
Jordan Jones (15 points, team 
high) and Lanita Bartley hit late 
threes to cut the Tigers’ halftime 
lead to eight. LSU went more than 
four minutes without a field goal. 
But the Gators scored just five 
points in the first 12 minutes of the second half and the Tigers extend-ed their lead to 18 points.
Florida led a small charge to 
cut the lead to single digits with 
just over two minutes left to play, 
but LaSondra Barrett answered with three of her 14 points to put 
the game away. 
“We’re just having crucial 
breakdowns at crucial times,” 
Butler said, referring to a missed 
rebound opportunity that led to 
a Kentucky three. “When you’re 
playing (like that) on the road, 
then you’re going to get beat by double-digits by good teams.”
UF shot 41.5 percent, inflated 
by a 48-percent first half, and at-tempted 19 shots from beyond the arc for only the fifth time this sea-
son. 
Butler, reeling after four straight 
losses, was asked afterward if she 
thought the small comeback late in the game was a positive the team 
could use going forward. 
“That’s what you’re supposed 
to do,” she said. “That’s not some-thing you should get a medal for. 
You’re supposed to keep fight-ing.”14, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011
Saj Guevara / Alligator Staff
Florida junior Jordan Jones led the Gators with 15 points in a 72-58 
loss to LSU on Sunday in Baton Rouge, La.
Gators come up short despite late charge
W-HOOPS , from page 13
“If we have more games like that, the same result will 
come.”
Entering the weekend, fans had all but given up on see-
ing those results. This morning, hope once again springs eternal. 
It’s almost become unfair to say it’s been a “rollercoast-
er ride” for the Gators the last two years — at least it’s possible to see what’s next on a rollercoaster. This team, 
on the other hand, is completely unpredictable.
“They are in a lot of ways,” Donovan said. “I love coach-
ing them, and they’re great kids, and they work hard, and 
there are so many elements of them that I enjoy.”
There have been innumerable complaints, plenty of 
wishful thinking and certainly no shortage of quick-fix 
suggestions regarding what would turn this squad into 
the preseason top-10 team it was predicted to be.
It was said the Gators had to fix their shooting to win 
games. Auburn is a bad team, but Florida still pulled off a 
win despite a historically bad shooting night.
The common consensus before that was UF had to play 
great defense or it wouldn’t stand a chance against qual-
ity teams. Almost on cue, Ole Miss and Tennessee each scored more than 70 points and lost to the Gators.
I’ve even played the “what if” game as well. Three 
weeks ago, I wrote that Chandler Parsons’ offensive suc-cess was necessary for the Gators to play up to their po-tential. 
Parsons scored five points Saturday night. He took only 
six shots in 30 minutes. But he was involved everywhere 
else on the floor, grabbing a career-best 15 rebounds and 
leading the team with five assists.
Anything else? Free throws? Turnovers? Offensive re-
bounding? Sound familiar?
Despite everyone’s best attempts to find a quick fix, 
there is none. UF will play above its potential (see: Kansas State, Xavier, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Arkansas), and it will play far below it (see: Jacksonville, UCF), with no rhyme or reason why either happens when it does.
To his credit, Donovan has avoided putting the blame 
on his team for its inconsistency. Instead, he often speaks about his players’ need to worry about the things they can control.
Entering every game not knowing whether the Gators 
will play that way, however, has left Donovan — and any-one who follows the team — mystified.ADAM , from page 13
Arkansas’ man defense leads to easy scoring opportunities for Florida
attempts on the way to a team-
high 20 points. 
“He’s already done with 
Thursday,” Parsons said. “That’s over with so he moved on. He’s a scorer, he’s going to shoot the ball no matter if he goes 0 for 9 
or 9 for 9.”
Rather than playing a zone 
scheme like the 
one Auburn employed to 
great success, 
the Razor -
backs opted to stay in a man-
to-man defense for most of the contest. 
This allowed the Gators to 
make easy post feeds and attack early, as they attempted just five 
threes in the first half. 
Center Vernon Macklin and 
forward Alex Tyus combined to 
score the team’s first 12 points. 
The frontcourt duo finished the 
game with 13 points apiece.HOOPS , from page 13Hot Shots
1. Kenny Boynton, So.
 2. Chandler Parsons, Sr.
3. Alex Tyus, Sr.
Tyus had an efficient and consistent week, shooting 50 per -
cent and finishing in the top three in scoring in both games. 
The senior also helped UF in one of its biggest problem areas, hitting 8 of 10 free throw attempts on his way to 20 points. Tyus also contributed in other aspects, snatching nine rebounds and notching three blocks.Parsons snagged a career-high 15 rebounds Saturday on his way to a team-best 21 for the week. The forward only scored nine points in the two games but led the team with eight assists. Parsons filled the “point-forward” role Donovan had hoped he would assume and put together an all-around week that led him to say, “I don’t think there’s another player out there more versatile than me.”
Boynton followed his game-tying three with 1:51 left in Thursday’s 
game at Auburn by scoring a team-high 20 points in a blowout win against Arkansas. Boynton also played well on the defensive end, forcing a critical miss in the closing moments Thursday before shut-ting out Arkansas’ leading scorer, Rotnei ClarkE. The sophomore was not just a scorer and a stopper, but also a distributor, recording seven assists and just one turnover on the week.
Standings
(Through Jan. 24)
1. Chandler Parsons               T2. Erving Walker   T2. Kenny Boynton               T4. Vernon Macklin                   T4.  Alex Tyus
         4 POINTS                          3 POINTS                                 3 POINTS              1 POINT            1 POINT
Rosa Taveras / Alligator StaffBask etballMONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
UF GYMNASTICS
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer
The Gators hit the road for the 
first time all season, and the un-
familiar mats served for just an-other victory.
Florida experienced more of 
the same as the squad traveled to Baton Rouge, La., and swept LSU on Friday, posting its third con-secutive win to open the season. The 196.425 to 194.000 victory 
was the first road meet of the sea-
son for the top-ranked Gators. 
Without the usual home atmo-
sphere of the O’Connell Center, the team was greeted in a man-ner they hadn’t experienced this season.
“It was a lot different,” sopho-
more Ashanée Dickerson said. “We had the crowd booing us when we came out.”
Unshaken, Dickerson snagged 
her 10th career all-around title with her performance. 
“Unbelievable,” coach Rhon-
da Faehn said. “Phenomenal. She just continues to shine. She shows everybody that she’s the real deal.”
Dickerson posted a 9.800 on 
uneven parallel bars, a 9.900 on vault, a 9.950 on floor exercise and a 9.825 on balance beam. She 
became the first Gators gymnast 
to sweep a meet’s five event titles since Chrissy Van Fleet did so in 
2000.
“It was amazing,” Dickerson 
said. “I just went out there and 
did what I did every day.”
On floor routine, fellow soph-
omore Marissa 
King edged just behind Dick-
erson, scoring 
a 9.875 for her performance  — the second-
highest score for 
both teams in 
the event.
“I had a great floor routine to-
night,” King said. “Every time I do, I just get better and better.” All-arounder Alaina John-
son, the two-time SEC Freshman Gymnast of the Week, returned to four-event action against the Tigers after sitting out on balance 
beam last week due to an injured 
toe. 
In her return to beam, she 
pulled out a 9.775. 
Freshman Mackenzie Caquat-
to also competed in an additional event as a fresh addition to the vault roster. She has only per -
formed in bars and beam in her college career up until Friday’s meet. Though Caquatto earned an impressive 9.850 on vault, her 
performance on bars fell short at 
a 9.400. “She had an absolute per -
fect routine, but she went over,” Faehn said. “She was trying so hard for perfection. It’s a mistake that she’s very upset about.”
Although Faehn said the team 
did fabulous in some areas, such as Dickerson’s title and King’s floor routine, overall the team 
didn’t reach its full potential. She 
said Florida’s biggest struggle was nailing stuck landings — something the team has been suc-
cessful in its first two meets of the 
season.  
“I think we did decent,” Faehn 
said. “Nowhere near our capabil-
ities. It’s going to be a great learn-
ing experience.”
Dickerson sweeps event titles, Florida wins third straightn UF’S MEN’S AND WOMEN’S TEAMS 
FELL TO AUBURN ON THE ROAD.
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
Florida couldn’t spoil Auburn’s Senior 
Day celebration on Friday afternoon, even 
after notching a season-high 24 NCAA quali-
fying times and swimming one of their fast-est meets of the year.
Despite trailing in both men’s and wom-
en’s events for most of the meet, losing by a combined 64 points, the Gators still received the same solid output from the top two swimmers on each team.
For the No. 5 men, senior duo Conor 
Dwyer and Brett Fraser combined for seven NCAA cuts, five season-best times and two individual wins. 
Their No. 6 female counterparts, fresh-
man Elizabeth Beisel and junior Sarah Bate-man, were also dominant with six qualifying times, including two season-bests and three 
individual victories.
The Gators ran into trouble early on 
when they tried to replace the points usually grabbed by injured junior diver Anthony 
Lewark and women’s relay swimmer Shara Stafford.
“We weren’t as fresh as we would’ve liked 
to have been for the meet, and unfortunately, 
Auburn has a lot of depth in the sprints and 
the relays,” Bateman said.
Coming into the Auburn meet, Lewark 
had racked up a team-high seven diving wins. In his absence with a shoulder injury, 
Florida missed out on winning either the 1- 
or 3-meter dive for the first time this year in a dual meet.  
While missing a key diver was an issue, 
the Gators also struggled in the relays.
Stafford, a junior, has been a part of sea-
son-high times in four different relays and is the team’s third leading points scorer. With-out her help anchoring the 400-yard freestyle 
relay and 200-yard medley relay, Florida dropped both events, leaving 22 points in the pool.
Coach Gregg Troy could not be reached 
for comment Friday night as to why Stafford was not at the meet.
“She can really swim anything so it took a 
lot of us to fill in for what she usually swims,” 
Bateman said.
Even with their struggles in the dives and 
relays, the Gators drew close to the Tigers’ lead by the 15th event of the evening.
The men’s team (4-3, 
2-1 SEC) swept the 200-yard butterfly led by 
sophomore Sebastien Rousseau’s NCAA “B” cut time of 1:46.04, and Bateman’s win 
in the 50-yard freestyle for the women to cut 
Auburn’s lead on the Gators to six and seven points.
But just when Florida thought it had 
clawed back in reach of the No. 6 Tigers. 
Adam Brown, the defending SEC Swimmer of the Week, swept Florida’s juniors Karl Krug and freshman Marcelo Chierighini in 
the 50-yard freestyle. All three of their times qualified for NCAA “B” cuts. 
The Tigers’ lead was then back to 20 and 
continued to swell onto a 34-point victory for their men’s team on Senior Day.
The women’s team fared similarly after 
Bateman’s win. Their single-digit deficit last-
ed for just one event as Auburn responded 
with four straight wins in the 3-meter dive, 100-yard freestyle, 200-yard backstroke and 200-yard breaststroke.
Sophomore Jaime Bohunicky finally 
stopped the Tigers’ run with an NCAA “B” cut win in the 500-yard freestyle, but by then, Auburn had a 19-point cushion on the Gators.
The Tigers increased their advantage with 
wins in two of the last three events of the af-ternoon. Florida dropped to 0-2 in Southeast-ern Conference play with the 165-135 loss but will host Auburn and the rest of the league at 
the SEC Championships Feb. 11-19.
Gators post eight season-best times in loss to Tigers
Swimming
Dickerson
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer
The No. 9 men’s tennis team 
may just move up the rankings af-
ter defeating No. 7 Baylor 5-2 on Sunday.
Playing at home, the Gators bat-
tled the Bears throughout the day, winning six close matches.
“It was no surprise,” coach 
Andy Jackson said. “We felt like we could win against them, but we 
also felt like we could lose against 
them. Right now, it looks like we’re ahead a little bit.”
In doubles action, the Gators’ 
No. 11 pair of Alexandre Lacroix and Nassim Slilam earned a vic-tory against the Bears’ No. 4 team of Roberto Maytin and John Peers.
Lacroix and Slilam’s experience 
playing together paid off as their 
win gave the team a lot of momentum, Jackson said. 
The Gators earned 
their first point of the day after Sekou 
Bangoura Jr. and Andrew Butz de-feated Sergio Ramirez and Jordan 
Rux (9-7).
“Sekou was just fantastic,” Jack-
son said. “He showed why he is 
one of the best doubles players in the country.”
Butz’s strong play continued 
in singles action, where his win 
against Julian Bley gave the Gators 
the decisive fifth point. 
Only a freshman, Butz entered 
the fall under the radar, but he has the potential to be a key player now 
and in the future, Jackson said. 
The Gators’ other singles wins 
came when Slilam defeated May-
tin (7-6(2), 6-2) and No. 52 Bob van 
Overbeek defeated Ramirez (4-6, 6-4, 6-1). 
Lacroix also earned a two-set 
win on the day as he defeated Rux 
(7-6(7), 6-1). 
Although the senior did not 
play his best this weekend, Jackson remained confident in the team’s 
No. 1 player. 
“We know the team rests on his 
shoulders,” he said. “I think he can 
play better, but he’s 4-0 so far and 
you can’t do better than 4-0.”16, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011
PETER HUTTON | January 25, 7 p.m.
Hutton is known for creating majestic cinematic portraits  
of cityscapes, landscapes and seascapes around the world.  
PHIL SOLOMON | February 15, 7 p.m. 
Solomon uses photochemical manipulation and re-photography to construct compelling and haunting abstract images.  
He is also known for “experimental machinima,” digital art based on video game software. 
JEANNE LIOTTA | March 22, 7 p.m. 
Liotta’s body of work titled “The Sublime is Now” takes place in a constellation  
of mediums investigating the cosmic landscape, at an intersection of art,  
science and natural philosophy.  
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA CULTURAL PLAZAhHA R N  MUSEUM  OF  ART Located at SW 34th Street and Hull Road across from the SW Rec Center
www.harn.ufl.edu | 352.392.9826 | facebook.com/HarnMuseumofArt
RISKCinemaAVANT-GARDE FILMMAKERS  
Award-winning Artists Screen a Selection of Their Works  
and Discuss Their Productions and Creative ProcessADMISSION
public: $5  
Harn members: free
HARN MUSEUM OF ART
image credit above: Jeanne Liotta, 
self-portrait after Eratoshenes  (#7) 
2008, digital printSteven H. Keys / Alligator
Florida sophomore Sekou Bangoura Jr. teamed up with freshman 
Andrew Butz for a doubles victory as No. 9 UF defeated No. 7 Baylor.
Gators men top No. 7 Bears
FORMER 
GATORS IN THE NFL PLAYOFFS
Pittsburgh Steelers cen-
ter Maurkice Pouncey left Sunday’s AFC Championship Game against the New York 
Jets with a left ankle sprain. 
The absence of the Pro Bowl rookie was heavily felt, as the Steelers averaged 5.6 yards per carry before his injury and 
just 3.5 yards per carry afterwards. The Steelers advanced to Super Bowl XLV with a 24-19 win, but Pouncey’s status for the game is unknown
Maurkice Pouncey
Major Wright
Chicago Bears safety Major 
Wright recorded a career-high six solo tackles in a los-ing effort against the Green Bay Packers during Sunday’s NFC Championship Game. For the season, Wright ap-peared in 12 games, includ-ing both of the team’s post-
season contests, and made 32 tackles.
Jocelyne Sanchez / Alligator StaffTennis