VOLUME 106 ISSUE 38 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF Supreme Court discusses authority in SG elections
Justices will suggest changes to the SG Constitution, pg 3.  
Not-so-slick Rick Scott
Editorial discusses his remarks about higher education, pg 6. Occupy Gainesville hits the streets
Protesters marched on Wells Fargo and 
Bank of America on Wednesday, pg. 4. 
88/65Matt and Kim 
will join more than 
70 other music 
performers at this 
weekend’s DeLuna 
Fest. See story in 
today’s Avenue. 
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 8CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD  15SPORTS 17Haley Stracher / Alligator
Big Pink Truck
Pink ﬁ  retrucks sit on the Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium north lawn as part of the Pink Heals Tour Wednesday afternoon. The 
trucks made their way to Gainesville from Glendale, Ariz., to raise awareness for breast cancer. See the full story at alligator.org.
  AYANA STEWART
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  The Regional Transit System has released its record-
breaking ridership report for 2010-2011, with 10,021,824 pas-
sengers transported from October 2010 to September 2011.
  Chip Skinner, the RTS Marketing and Communications 
supervisor, said he sees a number of factors behind the in-crease. 
  “In the last few years, we’ve been seeing, on average, 
about a 3 percent growth,” he said. “A lot of different stud-ies have shown that it costs between $8,000 and $10,000 to have a vehicle for one year. With the bus system, you’re only paying approximately $420 a year.”
  The RTS employee-bus-pass program is another boost. Employers buy employee bus passes that provide work-
ers with unlimited access to the bus system.
  An additional cause is Santa Fe College’s new transporta-
tion fee. 
SFC students are now able to receive free transport on a 
bus after showing a student ID. 
  “They have that prepaid unlimited access now because it’s associated with each credit hour, just like UF’s transpor-tation fee,” Skinner said. “That increased our ridership out to that particular area.”
  As ridership grows, full buses become an issue for stu-
dents, especially in the early morning blocks. 
  “If [students] are encountering full buses now, they may 
want to explore other options later in the day,” Skinner said. “We are in the people-moving business, and we don’t want to leave anyone on the road, if possible.”
  Skinner doesn’t see the growth stopping anytime soon.  RTS is anticipating 10.3 million riders next year.  RTS bus ridership reaches record-breaking high this year� ALL BUT ONE WILL BE REMOVED.
AMANDA COHEN
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  Last July, telecommunication senior Ash-
ley Stout was walking by the Reitz Union 
when she saw something out of the corner of 
her eye that caused her to do a double take. 
  Students last summer 
and returning students this fall could probably ﬁ  nish 
her sentence. 
  “It was just a statue,” 
Stout, 21, said. 
  Since July, when UF 
and the Gainesville Community Redevelop-ment Agency put together “Crossing Paths,” students have been fooled into thinking stat-Life-sized 
statues to leave today
SEE STATUES, PAGE 5
  EMILY MORROW
 Alligator Writer
 
  If you’re not studying science, engineering 
or technology , Gov . Rick Scott may not think 
your degree is worth funding.
  In an interview with the Sarasota Herald-
Tribune on Monday, Gov. Rick Scott laid out his plans for higher-education reform — one of his top priorities for the state legislature when it convenes in January.
  In addition to rethinking faculty security, 
Scott said he hopes to move more funding to programs that promise the best job opportuni-ties after graduation, namely the science, tech-nology , engineering and math departments, or “STEM” disciplines.   This would ideally draw more high-tech companies to the state, thereby increasing job opportunities.
  The governor cited liberal arts degrees like 
anthropology and psychology as examples of those with poor job prospects, saying he hopes to come up with more ways to incentivize stu-dents to pursue the STEM disciplines while discouraging them from liberal arts tracks.
  “If I’m going to take money from a citi-zen to put into education, then I’m going to take that money to create jobs,” Scott told the Herald-Tribune. “So I want that money to go to degrees where people can get jobs in this state.  Is it a vital interest of the state to have more anthropologists? I don’t think so.”  UF President Bernie Machen said he agrees 
that the state should emphasize and support STEM disciplines, noting UF is a very science-intensive university . 
However, Machen said he would not sup-
port funding STEM degrees at the expense of liberal arts programs. 
  Scott also told the Herald-Tribune that he 
wants universities to provide their students with information about the average salary for each degree program.
  According to 2011 salary data from Pay-
 Rick Scott questions value of liberal arts degrees in workforce
SEE SCOTT, PAGE 5Sikes
“Is it a vital interest of the state to 
have more anthropologists? I don’t 
think so.”
Rick Scott 
GovernorTRANSPORTATIONNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 38 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011
TODAYFORECAST
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tyler Jett, Greg Luca,
  Corey McCall, Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Kathryn Milstein, Adrianna Paidas,  
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Amber Hughes, 
  Allison Klempert, Kyle Mueller,   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Edit
orial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Alexander Silva, Natalie TeerThe Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening
Adopted: Stories Untold — Film 
Screening of “Operation 
Babylift”
Today, 6:30 to 8:30 p.m.Pugh Hall Ocora Room“Adopted: Stories Untold” is a film and guest speaker event that will focus on Operation Babylift and the lives of Asian adoptees in America. Operation Babylift was an event in 1975 when more than 2,500 babies were lifted out of Vietnam during the Vietnam War and brought to America. The film “Operation Babylift: The Lost Children of Vietnam” portrays the evacu-ation of the orphaned children and their lives as adoptees in the United States. Following the screening will be a ques-tion-and-answer session with special guest speaker Lyly Thanh Koenig, who was one of 2,500 babies lifted out of Vietnam. 
Gators for Haven Hospice 
MeetingToday, 6:30 p.m.Little Hall Room 109  
Get involved in a unique and rewarding volunteer expe-rience that involves patient interaction, especially for pre-professional students. Many students who volunteer with hospice say that their volun-teer experience has helped them decide whether or not they want to pursue a career in the medical field. Find the group on Facebook and come 
to the meeting to learn more.
Theatre Strike Force Chomps 
GatorNights
Friday, 9 p.m.Orange & BrewGet to Orange & Brew early to get a seat for a show from the improv and sketch com-edy group. Check out the-atrestrikeforce.org for more 
info.
Nae Day Fundraiser to Benefit 
Lynnae Foundation for Ovarian Cancer Research
Saturday 12 p.m. to 2 a.m.Boca Fiesta, 232 SE 1st St.  
Boca Fiesta will be hosting “Nae Day,” a fundraiser to benefit the Lynnae Hottinger the best Filipino-American dancers in the nation. They will be speaking about being Asian-American in the world of dance at a breakfast and meet and greet with the cho-reographers. Later in the day they will be teaching their 
own hip-hop pieces.
Heal the World Kickball 
Tournament
Sunday, 12 p.m.Flavet FieldHeal the World will be hosting its annual Kickball Tournament to benefit the Interface Youth Mentoring Shelter (a temporary shel-ter for youth ages 10-17). Registration Fee is $5 per in-dividual or $25 to register a team of seven. Teams must be co-ed. To register please e-mail Ruchi Shukla at ruchi-shukla108@ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORReCtiOn
In Tuesday’s edition of the 
Alligator, an article incorrectly 
referred to Gainesville Police Sgt. Tscharna Senn as a corpo-
ral.Foundation for Ovarian 
Cancer Research. The day-long event is presented by the numerous friends and family members of Lynnae Hottinger in celebration of her life. The event fea-tures a day-long  barbecue, 
bake sale, thrift store, fash-ion show with silent auc-tion, art and craft fair, face painting and raffle. About $3,000 in gift certificates from local businesses will be raffled. Evening and night-time entertainment will be provided by local fa-vorites Grabass Charlestons and Whiskey & Company. All proceeds go to  Lynnae 
Hottinger Foundation for Ovarian Cancer.
Beat the Quakes 5K
Saturday, 8:30 a.m.UF Commuter LotGators United for Haiti, Hope for Japan and Phi Alpha Delta present “Beat the Quakes” 5K as part of Asian Kaleidoscope Month to continue the groups’ re-spective relief efforts. Come help support Haiti and Japan. Register online at: http://www.active.com/running/gainesville-fl/beat-the-quakes5k-run-walk-2011 Top 5 female and male run-ners will win a prize.
  
Rhythm Defined: Dance 
Workshop with Filipino American Heritage Month 2011 
Sunday, 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.Reitz Union Room 286 (Meet & Greet)O’Connell Center Dance Studio (dance workshop)Asian Kaleidoscope Month and the Filipino American History Month have teamed up this year to present Rhythm Defined, a dance workshop featuring two of FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY
SUNNY
87/65SUNNY
86/61PARTLY
CLOUDY
83/57SUNNY
85/56PARTLY
CLOUDY
88/65
 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
Olivia Muenter / Alligator  
CNN national security analyst Peter Bergen discusses his opinion and knowledge Wednes-
day night of national security, terrorism and the hunt and eventual capture of Osama bin Laden.
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
Four of the UF Supreme Court 
justices outlined measures for fu-
ture elections cycles at a meeting Wednesday night. 
The justices asserted the 
court’s authority in elections with an outline that limits the author -
ity of the Student Senate, details the responsibilities of the court and touches on the fall elections procedures, which prompted the meeting.  None of these limits are set until the final court opinion is published. The court has no set publication date.
The court lifted an injunction 
Monday that had postponed the Senate’s vote to validate the elec-tions. The decision came after an investigation into elections pro-cedures that the court ordered the Election Commission to carry out.Chief Justice Matt Michel and 
Associate Justices Tim Mason, Georgia Buckhalter and Cecily Welsh agreed that they did not have the authority to directly tell the Senate what rules to make to govern future elections. 
Michel said a direct order 
would be “inching [the court] closer to party politics.” 
The justices decided the Senate 
has the power to validate the elec-tions in terms of counting votes and assuring accuracy. However, they agreed the Supreme Court determines the fairness of the elections. 
Mason pointed out that because 
members of the Senate are chosen in these elections, having the Sen-ate determine fairness would be a conflict of interests.
If a student claims the vali-
dation should be postponed, as members of the Students Party did in the fall elections, justices confirmed the court can issue an injunction to delay the validation.
Future elections complaints will be assessed using the ques-tion: “Were the students materi-ally prevented from expressing their political will?”
The justices will make sug-
gestions on procedures to fix and point out what would have cor -
rected some of the errors in this cycle’s elections.
The justices agreed it will be up 
to the Senate as to whether it will take the suggestions. Mason said he did not want to see the same issues he saw in past weeks.
“I’m going to be less forgiv-
ing,” he said.
UF Supreme Court addresses authority over SG elections
JENNA BOX
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 200 people showed up Wednes-
day evening at the Buddy & Anne Mac-
Kay Auditorium to hear CNN national security analyst Peter Bergen speak about the United States’ hunt for Osama bin Laden. 
The Bob Graham Center for Public 
Service organized the event, which was free and open to the public. The center paid $8,000 to bring Bergen to speak, ac-cording to Ann Henderson, director of the center. 
After 10 years of simply not knowing 
where one of the biggest terrorist leaders in the world was, Bergen said, he is now dead, and there is reason to be comfort-able with the future security of America and the rest of the world. 
Bergen, who is an author and journal-
ist as well, met bin Laden face to face in 1997 when he conducted an interview for CNN.
After meeting bin Laden and study-
ing his actions, Bergen said he was a paranoid, secretive man who was very concerned with being relevant to the world. While he was in hiding, he pro-duced multiple video and audio clips to keep himself known. 
Bergen attributes the war on terror to  
religious fanaticism. If bin Laden were here today, Bergen said, he would say the war was waged in the name of reli-gion.
Henderson said she thought Bergen’s 
perspective was interesting.
“We often don’t discuss religion in 
public light,” Henderson said, “and yet it has a real effect on our security, of course, but also on the making of our public policy.”
Today, the war on terror is over, Ber-
gen said.
What is of importance is the domestic 
issue of the economy, he said. The econo-my as it stands can pose a long-term na-tional security problem. 
“The death of bin Laden is a way of 
saying it’s time to move on,” he said. “We didn’t kill every Nazi in World War II to end World War II. There will be no surrender with al-Qaida, but they will slowly fade into history.”CNN analyst discusses Osama bin Laden at Bob Graham CenterJustices to suggest improved procedures4, ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011
Occupy Gainesville
 Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff 
   The occupation is a result of frustrations over the economic state, medical 
care situation and the government’s relationship with corporations.  
 Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff 
   Protesters try to bring drivers’ and pedestrians’ attention to the movement. 
Roadside demonstrations started at 8 a.m.  
 Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff 
   A protester sits in the Bo Diddley Community Plaza bus lane in 
support of the Gaia Gro and its focus on living green. 
 Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff 
   Ahren Tsacrios, 30, a Gainesville resident, plays the 
djembe drums while protesters chant and march. 
 Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff 
   Diana Moreno, a 24-year-old UF alumna, chants at 
the corner of Main Street and First Avenue.  
 Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff 
   The Occupy Gainesville general assembly meets at 7 p.m. to discuss its overnight plans for the occupation. The 
general assembly members decided to fulﬁ  ll its permit and stay overnight Wednesday evening. 
Protesters march 
on Wells Fargo, Bank of America
   BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  Gainesville is ofﬁ  cially occupied.
  Occupy Gainesville started its occupation of 
the city Wednesday at 8 a.m. at the Bo Diddley Community Plaza.
  Protesters peacefully marched to Wells 
Fargo and Bank of America to persuade people to close their bank accounts and educate them about banking in America.
        Protester Eddy Arenas, 32, said he found 
out about the Occupy Wall Street movement from videos on the Internet.
  “We have a personal responsibility,” he said. 
“We can’t just keep pointing ﬁ  ngers at the rul-ing elite … we put ourselves in this position.”
  Arenas said he understands the Gainesville 
Police Department has city ordinances to fol-low when the time comes, and he appreciates how cooperative GPD has been.
  “The most important thing we are getting 
from this is the connections we’ve made from so many great people who care about ﬁ  xing the problems that affect this world,” he said.
  UF students are joining the occupation 
movement across all college campuses.
  Skye Schmelzer, sophomore psychology 
major, organized Occupy UF along with two other students.
  Schmelzer also got UF included in the Oc-
cupy Florida Colleges coalition.
  “People are pissed off and they are taking a 
stand,” she said.
  At time of publication, Occupy Gainesville 
had a permit that allowed protesters to stay overnight at the plaza Wednesday night.
  Occupy Gainesville’s general assembly de-
cided to fulﬁ  ll the permit, said protester Maya Garner.  Since the general assembly fulﬁ  lled the permit, it has forfeited its ability to reapply and receive a longer permit, she said.  
  Occupy UF will have its ﬁ  rst meeting at 5 
p.m. Thursday at Turlington Plaza to orga-nize. ues were people and even people 
were statues.
Starting today, the removal 
process of the 15 on-campus stat-ues will begin, with the exception of “Whispering Close.” 
The 20-foot-tall sculpture in the 
Plaza of the Americas will be here to stay until March. 
The rest will return to the art-
ist’s studio in New Jersey and will likely become part of other inter-national exhibitions over the next year, according to Paula Stoeke, director of The Sculpture Founda-tion, which is based in California.
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes 
said the initiative was brought forth by the College of Fine Arts and funded with $35,000 from the Provost Discretionary Fund, which uses donations funneled through the University of Florida Founda-tion.
The other 10 statues in down-
town Gainesville, which cost $21,000 and were funded by city sponsorships, will be removed Tuesday, said Sarah Vidal-Finn, senior analyst of Gainesville Com-munity Redevelopment Agency.
College of Fine Arts spokesman 
Andy Howard said the program “Crossing Paths” was designed to bridge Creative B, an opportunity to explore arts and culture during the Summer B semester, with Na-tional Arts and Humanities month in October. 
The role of the statues down-
town and on campus is to begin conversation about public art and start dialogue about what the city should look like, Howard said.
“It’s about public participation.
It’s made to be interacted with in a way a lot of other art isn’t,” How-ard said. “The point of it wasn’t to curate. The point was to have a discussion.”
Lucinda Lavelli, dean of the Col-lege of Fine Arts, said compared to other major universities UF is lack-ing in its sculpture holdings. 
“I hear a lot of comments that 
‘we never get to see the arts, they’re always going on inside, behind theaters, in galleries,’” Lavelli said. “The sculptures are part of mak-ing the environment more creative and interactive.”
Scale, a company that tracks 
employee salary information, the major with the highest me-dian starting salary was petro-leum engineering, with a start-ing salary of $97,900. 
Chemical and electrical en-
gineering took second and third with starting salaries of $64,500 and $61,300, respectively . 
The median starting salary 
for anthropology majors was $35,600. For psychology ma-jors, it was $35,000.
Paul D’Anieri, dean of the 
College of Liberal Arts and Sci-ences, said in an email that a liberal arts education gives stu-dents a versatility that allows them to adapt to a wide vari-ety of jobs, including ones that haven’t been invented yet.
“Educating people with 
the creativity and aptitude to invent new jobs and to adapt to new jobs is what a liberal arts education is all about,” D’Anieri said. “And the record of success is obvious.”
A 2008 study by Duke Uni-
versity and Harvard University surveyed the CEOs and heads of product engineering at 502 technology companies. 
The researchers found that 
while 92 percent held bach-elor’s degrees or higher, only 37 percent held degrees in en-gineering or computer technol-ogy.
D’Anieri also said Scott has 
failed to recognize some of the crucial roles anthropologists play in the state of Florida. 
For example, tourism, one 
of Florida’s largest industries, relies heavily on anthropolo-gists who preserve and explain historical sites.
He also pointed out the importance of forensic and biological anthropology to law enforcement during criminal investigations, as well as the cultural anthropologists who work with the military to help them develop construction re-lationships with foreign civil-ian populations.
The College of Liberal Arts 
and Sciences is the largest at UF, with 42 majors and about 13,400 students.
In 2010, 3,220 students 
graduated from CLAS with bachelor’s degrees. Of those graduates, 257 had anthropol-ogy degrees.
The largest degree pro-
gram at UF is psychol-ogy with 485 graduates in 2010. This is followed by finance with 405 and po-litical science with 362.
D’Anieri pointed out that 
many of the liberal arts gradu-ates will not go on to work in the same field as their under -
graduate degree.
Students with liberal arts 
degrees often dual major or use their undergraduate degrees to apply to law or medical school.
This is the case with Jessica 
Branston, a 21-year-old psy-chology senior who plans to attend medical school.
She said she understands 
the importance of scientific or technical majors but thinks tak-ing away funding from liberal arts programs would be akin to taking away the arts.
“Through those majors, we 
learn so much. We learn about cultures, languages, behavior,” she said. “We learn about our -
selves.” THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Amanda Cohen / Alligator
The removal process of the 15 “Crossing Paths” on-campus statues 
will begin today, including Seward Johnson’s “Nice to See You,” which can be seen from inside Einstein Bros. Bagels in the Hub.
SCOTT , from page 1College of Liberal 
Arts is largest at UFStatue in Plaza of Americas will remain
STATueS , from page 1
“It’s about public         
participation. It’s made to 
be interacted with in a way 
a lot of other art isn’t. The 
point of it wasn’t to curate. 
The point was to have a    
discussion.”
Andy Howard 
College of Fine Arts spokesman
Scott
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR52 TOTAL VOTES23% YES
77% NOFriday’s question: Has anyone ever 
hacked into your Facebook or Twitter account?Today’s question: Are you glad the statues are being 
removed from campus and around Gainesville?Not-So-Slick Rick
Governor should leave 
liberal arts alone
For Gov. Rick Scott, the preparation of a competent work-force should be the sole purpose of a college education. 
Who needs to ask questions about our role in the uni-
verse or the meaning of justice or the epistemological founda-tions of truth or the philosophical basis of our legal system? 
No, Scott believes we go to college to get a job. His goal for the state is to pull the focus (and the funding) 
away from liberal arts and direct resources toward “degrees where people can get jobs in this state.”
Yes, many of us enter college with the ambition of one day 
doing something we love. But during this journey, it is our chance to really find out who we are. 
College presents an opportunity for all of us to question 
the foundations upon which our entire belief systems stand. 
Although the goal of liberal education should not be to 
make you forgo your beliefs or leave you with the conclu-sion that there is no right way to look at the world, it should attempt to present alternative views throughout a variety of disciplines. 
It should force you to justify modern ideas that are often 
taken for granted. Is democracy the best political system? Should pure gender equality be a desired goal for society? 
By answering these questions and more through the ex-
amination of ancient and modern philosophy, literature and scholarly work, students (should hopefully) enter the “real” world with a truly well-rounded understanding.
They should also graduate with the ability to support the 
ideas on which they base their personal behavior and politi-cal beliefs.  
Scott’s top-down approach to education makes the claim 
that he is for smaller government laughable. He has shown a complete disregard for the purpose of a university educa-tion. Instead, he has used GOP talking points to try to “re-form” the university system. He should let those closest to the “front lines” of Florida’s university system determine the proper course for educating our students, not legislators in Tallahassee. 
By ridding the university system of liberal arts programs, 
he would be flooding the professional, technical and scien-tifically focused sectors with an overabundance of labor. This will create a huge bubble that will lead to higher unemploy-ment in those sectors. 
There is already a huge higher education bubble getting 
ready to burst, and this move by Scott will only increase its self-destructive growth. 
There are more than 12,000 undergraduates and 2,000 
graduate students at UF’s College of Liberal Arts and Sci-ences. 
There is a demand for these fields. Someone has to study 
the idiotic behavior of politicians like Scott.
Anger is not enough to change the world
It appears that Occupy Gainesville is ready and raring to 
go. 
I hope that its demonstrations Wednesday will have 
proven this column wrong. 
Despite the lack of media coverage that accompanied its 
first several weeks in process, Occupy Wall Street has man-aged to become big news. It’s drawn in thousands of protest-ers, all willing to vehemently picket and, in some instances, face arrest and police abuse for their actions. It has extended outside of New York City , sweeping the nation as it calls upon the beleaguered 99 percent to stand up for its beliefs.
But what is it the protesters believe?That hasn’t been made clear. Surely we know what 
they’re protesting against, in an abstract form. They’re pro-testing against the wealthy elite. They’re protesting against the conservative right. They’re protesting against a govern-ment that provides for the rich and defrauds the poor. And as their clever (and at times devastating) Tumblr website reflects, they’re protesting against the wealth gap that exists in our nation.
Don’t get me wrong, those are good reasons to protest. 
The top 1 percent currently earns 21 percent of the income and, more importantly, maintains 57 percent of the non-housing wealth. The divide is egregious, and it’s certainly worth complaining about. 
But that doesn’t make a good case for a revolution. In-
stead, it’s a problem, and in order to fix a problem, you need a solution. Try as I might, I can’t find a solution among the Occupy Wall Street movement.
The more-or-less official blog for the protests, occupy-
wallst.org, lists no agenda, no demands and no purpose. Oc-cupy Orlando’s letter to Central Florida outright states, “We acknowledge that we have yet to offer a comprehensive plan to fix this mess.” 
This isn’t just a leaderless movement. This is a movement 
without direction or aim.
I won’t deny it’s done a damn good job of getting atten-
tion and getting people riled up. The now famous YouTube video of NYC protestor Jesse LaGreca bashing Fox News went viral at rapid speeds, making up for the fact that it was never aired on the network in the first place. But nowhere did it mention what Occupy Wall Street is actually trying to achieve. It was a well-articulated, effective attack aimed at the corporate news media. And 
unfortunately, that’s all it really was.
As fascinating as it is to see a diverse group of people 
yelling its grievances at the top of its lungs, invading the national consciousness and taking the media by storm, it’s nothing more than an interesting sideshow unless it finds some sort of common purpose. At the moment, it doesn’t have one.
Ironically enough, perhaps one of the clearest and most 
helpful explanations of the Occupy Wall Street agenda came from a major American corporation, Ben & Jerry’s. On its official site, it outlines not only the issues it joins the move-ment in lambasting, but it specifically details the ways in which it is working to fight the corporate evil that exists in the country.
Basically, Ben & Jerry’s is doing Occupy Wall Street’s job 
for it.
The fact is, it’s easy to get people mad. And there are 
some damn good reasons to be angry . We should be furious. And we should be doing something about it.
But anger is not enough. You can decry the way the na-
tion functions all day and all night for weeks and weeks on end. But that’s not good enough. That’s not going to get us out of this mess.
To be frank, without a proposed solution, all you’re do-
ing is taking a dump on the government and big business.
Or, rather, police cars, as the case may be.Alex Guilmartin is a psychology and pre-law senior at UF . 
His column appears on Thursdays.
Alex Guilmartin
opinions@alligator.org THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
UF College Democrats begins 
voter registration
Gators for Obama, a committee 
of the UF College Democrats, began the organization’s voter registration project Wednesday. It is registering voters from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Tur-lington Plaza as a start to an ongoing effort to ensure students are regis-tered to vote in Alachua County for upcoming elections.
The College Democrats had pre-
viously delayed registration opera-tions due to barriers established in the controversial new voting laws passed by the Florida legislature this year. 
Now, the organization has com-
pleted measuring the new risks and has affirmed the proper safety precautions needed for another suc-cessful year of voter registration on campus. 
Of course, the College Democrats 
understands that students more of-ten give their votes to Democratic candidates.  
In fact, the student vote was criti-
cal in the election of President Ba-rack Obama and in the large, across-the-board Democratic victory in 2008.  The  College Democrats hopes to get a head start in time for the presidential election in 2012 so that students at UF may have their voice heard once again. 
The College Democrats is a stu-
dent organization representing the Democratic Party at UF. We seek to promote party ideals, campaign for candidates and issues, hold demon-strations, provide political opportu-nities and unite students who share our beliefs.
Ford Dwyer 
Editorial Director 
UF College DemocratsLetters to the Editor
I am writing this in response to Travis 
Hornsby’s column, “Why I am no lon-ger liberal-minded.” With no disre-
spect to Hornsby (I agree with everything he said, in fact), he is not saying anything about the big picture. And I have to hand it to him for working for Kerry, the least likable and least articulate Democratic candidate in living memory.
Like Hornsby, I grew up lower-middle-
class. My dad was a middle school teach-er, and my mom raised us kids. We had enough to eat and a decent house in the country but had no disposable wealth at all. I grew up in another swing state, New Hampshire, which you may recall was the sole New England state to cast its electoral votes for Bush in 2000.  
Like Hornsby, I was raised a Demo-
crat — a social and fiscal liberal. Unlike Hornsby, I am not an economics major; I studied mechanical engineering in New Hampshire and worked for five years in the defense industry before coming back to school. And unlike Hornsby, I have become more liberal over those last five years.
I share his outrage when I see a man 
get an unemployment check who does not need one. I share his disgust with unions that keep wages equal for good and bad employees and who keep a co-worker em-ployed when he should be let go as soon as possible.  I would critique the government further and say that I saw many a  tax dol-lar frivolously spent at my workplace.
But I have also seen a few things Travis 
has not. I bought a house at the market’s peak and saw my life savings evaporate overnight. I have seen health insurance costs (read: insurance company profits, not health care costs) soar over the last decade while personal income stagnated or fell.  
I have seen the gap between rich and 
poor grow. I have seen friends and family struggle through the worst job market in a century.
So, I ask a few 
rhetorical ques-tions to all Alliga-
tor readers:
What is more outrageous:  a misguided 
government official awarding a small wel-fare check to an unworthy recipient or a multibillion dollar, multinational corpora-tion writing off all of its profit for the 2010 tax year (General Electric)?  Which one is a  result of a liberal agenda, and which one a result of a conservative agenda?
What is more infuriating:  The officers 
of Goldman Sachs raking in hundreds of millions, if not billions, of dollars in per -
sonal income by creating and selling credit default swaps while the mortgage inves-tors and mortgagees alike see their invest-ments go up in smoke or little brother Hornsby getting a modest Social Security check for having an old dad? Which one is a result of government policy and which one a result of  personal greed? 
Do the direct causes of our present fi-
nancial crisis bear any resemblance to the events leading up to the Great Depression? Which U.S. president presided over the dissolution of much of the financial regu-lation put in place directly following the recession? Which Federal Reserve Board chairman presided over the same? 
Would you rather pay insurance premi-
ums directly into the back pockets of the officers at Kaiser Permanente or United Health Care and later be denied coverage when you develop pancreatic cancer? Or would you start to realize that maybe, just maybe, this is something that the govern-ment can do cheaper and more equitably.
What do we as a society think about 
(liberal) regulation to protect the environ-ment, which the GOP seems so ready to tear apart on its campaign trail?  Do we think these are impediments to business and economic growth? Or are they valu-able checks on corporate greed that allow us all to breathe the air, drink the water, and eat seafood safely?
What do we as a society think of the Oc-
cupy Wall Street movement? I will tell you what I think: These people are not out there because they’re lazy; they’re out there be-cause the economic reality of Reaganism, Greenspanism and Credit -Default -Swa-pism has left them with nothing.
As a liberal, I believe that the political 
(social) system is here to (try to) protect us from the greed of individuals who control the means of production and finance. There are two Americas. The first is comprised of those who either come from money or through a combination of luck and a busi-ness major landing a really good job in the financial sector. The second America is basically everyone else. The former is re-sponsible for keeping yacht clubs nation-wide in business; the later is responsible for most, if not all, of the actual produc-tion. If you are truly lucky, you own your own business and belong to both groups, but that is very rare in today’s economy.  
Without a liberalized government, I do 
believe this country would and is in the process of regressing to something resem-bling the laissez faire social injustice of the early 20th century, or perhaps the serfdom of the early second millennium.  While I do not recommend anyone without a rag-ing case of insomnia try to read Karl Marx, his ideas are just as relevant today as when they were first penned.
I look forward to Hornsby’s rebuttal. I especially look forward to an explana-
tion of who Michael Mankiw is and what exactly (in layman’s terms) he is trying to convey when he tells us that the marginal tax rate is 100 percent on $40,000 or less.  I have no doubt it’s true, but I don’t know what he is getting at.
Travis Pettengill is biomedical engineering 
masters student at UF.
Political system should protect citizens from greedGuest column
Travis Pettengill
Speaking OuttheAvenue    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_AVENUE
Blog On 
Check out the Alligator blogosphere for the skinny on Paris 
Fashion Week, innovations that improved the travel world and the return of great pumpkin beers at alligator.org/blogs. Head online for He Said, She Said, a look into GainesvilleNightOut.com and Cirque du Soleil’s Dralion.  Twit Pick
@WhitneyCummings: “Just when I got a handle on drunk dialing now I’m drunk following people on twitter. Nothing like a Sunday a.m. shame unfollow sesh.” ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Avenue Writer
“From humble beginnings 
come great things.” This cli-
chéd saying rings especially true for the band Ra Ra Riot. 
The group, which consists 
of vocalist and keyboardist Wes Miles, bassist Mathieu Santos, guitarist Milo Bonacci, cellist Alexandra Lawn, drum-mer Kenny Bernard and vio-linist Rebecca Zeller, is set to perform tonight in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom at 8 p.m.
“When we started the 
band, it was never a conscious decision to make it a career by any means,” Lawn said of the indie rock group. 
She said many members of the band were about to com-plete their final semester at Syracuse University , so Ra Ra Riot was more of a small proj-ect that they used to somewhat 
end this era of schooling with a bang. 
From  
p l a y i n g p a c k e d house shows around Syra-
cuse to performing at the Col-lege Music Journal Music Mar -
athon just six months after its formation, you could say it ex-ploded onto the music scene. 
From the band’s very start 
at Syracuse University in 2006, Ra Ra Riot established its indie 
KATE FELDMAN
Avenue Writer
What’s twice as frightening as a ghost?
Two ghosts.The Hippodrome Theatre’s latest pro-
duction, “Turn of the Screw,” based on the 1898 novella by Henry James, tells the sto-ry of a governess (Nichole Hamilton) who, while caring for 10-year-old Miles and his sister, Flora, faces the ghosts of her prede-cessor and her lover.
Director Lauren Caldwell said she 
chose to work with “Turn of the Screw” because of the theatricality involved in the production, as there are no props or cos-tume changes.
“It’s a real actor’s piece,” Caldwell said. 
“It’s magical to watch without relying on outfits.”
Rather than one actor being assigned 
to each character, Caldwell’s performers pose as different characters; Christopher Swan plays the master of the Bly manor, the housekeeper (Mrs. Grose) and Miles.
“There’s a lot of theatricality when the 
governess is the only constant character,” Caldwell said. “The male character makes up her entire world; he threads the charac-ters together.”
Although his roles are male and female, 
young and old, Swan said he has no dif-ficulty maintaining his characters.
“The play is totally actor-driven,” he 
said. “I just inhabit the truth and let my body follow suit.”
Hamilton said that while the language 
of “Turn of the Screw” is still dense, this adaptation is more accessible for a con-temporary audience.
“The book gives more answers, but 
the play gives more questions,” she said. “That’s what makes it so exciting.”
According to Caldwell, part of the ap-
peal of “Turn of the Screw” is its ambigu-ity.
“The journey is left up to the person 
riding on the tailcoats of the governess’ outfit,” she said. “The audience decides the legitimacy of her visions.”
In a timely fashion, Caldwell said the 
show fits into the Hippodrome’s Hallow-een theme based on its eerie nature and ghost motif.
“Turn of the Screw” opened preview 
shows Wednesday and runs through Nov. 6. Ticket prices range from $12 to $32. For more information, call 352-375-4477 or visit thehipp.org.Photo courtesy to the Alligator 
Tunes Among the Tide 
Girl Talk will be one of the more than 70 performers featured in this weekend’s DeLuna Fest. See story 
on page 12. 
Indie rock group  
Ra Ra Riot perform-ing locally tonight
see RIOT, PA ge 9
Michael A. eaddy / Alligator 
Actress Nichole Hamilton and actor Christopher Swan star in the Hippodrome Theatre’s 
production of “Turn of the Screw.” 
Hipp’s “Turn of the Screw” spooks with eerie nature, ghosts   
“The audience decides the legiti-
macy of her visions.”
Lauren Caldwell
director
chamber-pop sound — not your 
stereotypical rock band. 
Its first album, “The Rhumb 
Line,” truly honed in on the band’s chamber-esque sound with eerie lyrics that played perfectly into the intense violin and cello pieces. 
Ra Ra Riot’s new album strays 
slightly from its signature eerie air with more upbeat pop-dance tunes, but don’t fret. Ra Ra Riot’s signature soft, sentimental sound can still be found in its newest re-lease, “The Orchard.” 
Lawn jokes when she is asked 
about how she felt contribut-ing vocals to the track “You and I Know” off “The Orchard.” Her soulful voice makes this song one of the true stars of the 11-track re-lease. 
“I am not a singer by any 
means,” she said. “I’ve always sung in the car and the shower. My brother and sister have got-ten to the point where they get annoyed riding in the car with me ‘cause I apparently sing to every single song no matter what.” 
She explained how the band 
enjoys playing at universities. 
“Playing schools is always fun, 
too, ‘cause it is like a little piece of college. We always just hope that our audience has a really good ex-perience with us; we really try to make that happen,” Lawn said.
Lawn, one of the youngest 
members of the band, never ob-tained her music performance degree from Syracuse because she deferred her enrollment at the university to continue touring and working with Ra Ra Riot. 
She said she never thought her 
involvement with the band would lead her to a career. 
The band will take the stage 
tonight fresh off of a performance on NBC’s “Late Night with Jimmy Fallon.”
How often do you get to see a 
cello and violin fuse with an elec-tric guitar to create this sensation-ally electric music that urges you to move, free of cost? Not too of-ten. Take it from someone who has attended a Ra Ra Riot concert be-fore; you want to go to this. 
Doors open at 7:30 p.m. and at-
tendance is first-come, first-served on terms of capacity limits.  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 9
Photo courtesy to the Alligator 
Indie rock band Ra Ra Riot will perform tonight at 8 p.m. in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom. 
It performed on “Late Night With Jimmy Fallon” on Tuesday
RIOT , from page 8
“When we started the 
band, it was never a con-
scious decision to make it 
a career by any means.”
Alexandra Lawn
cellist for Ra Ra Riot
10, ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011
  DIANA LOPEZ
 Avenue Writer
   Try as you might, there is no winning 
against Lady Luck. The house always wins.
  This year at Universal Orlando’s Hallow-
een Horror Nights 21, Lady Luck has meddled with eight lives, creating ruin and bloody de-spair. 
  According to T.J. Mannarino, show direc-
tor of the entertainment team for Universal Orlando, this year will feature eight haunted houses, six scare zones and two live shows. 
   Here’s the Avenue’s breakdown of the 
event, beginning with the haunted houses.      Edgar Allen Poe is faced with the decision 
of traveling to Baltimore or Boston after ﬂ  unk-ing out of military school. The seller of his ticket, and secret goddess of misfortune Lady Luck, comes into the picture, and Poe’s sanity dwindles.
  While walking through the house, you are 
descending into the madness of Poe’s mind, and his greatest works come to life.  
  The fourth ship of Christopher Columbus 
will be put to light this year as the sailors of the condemned voyage whisper in your ears and wreak havoc on passers-by. A mutinous and cursed crew roams through the walls of their watery graves, seeking vengeance.   
  In this dark comedy-type of haunted house, 
H.R. Bloodengutz will be presenting his annu-al televised SCARE-athon. This year, however, his frustrations of being canceled as a televi-sion host take form, and each national holiday is given a new coat of horror. The Feaster Bun-ny, evil leprechauns and dead presidents will join H.R. Bloodengutz on his ﬁ  nal day on the air, according to Mannarino.    Based on Universal Pictures’ upcoming 
thriller “The Thing,” an abandoned research facility in Antarctica is infected with an alien phenomenon as the team encounters the shape-shifting alien. 
    In this utopian society, the water is gone, 
and people chop up body parts and put them into grinders to suck out the water for the city, Mannarino said.
For the rest of our rundown of Halloween Hor-
ror Nights, visit alligator.org/the_avenue. 
 A breakdown of Halloween Horror Nights XXI’s haunting 
The ForsakenNevermore: the Madness of Poe
H.R. Bloodengutz Presents: Holidays of HorrorThe Thing
Saws N’ Steam: Into the Machine THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 11
� THE MUSIC FESTIVAL WILL RUN FRIDAY THROUGH 
SUNDAY ON THE SHORE OF PENSACOLA BEACH.  
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Avenue Writer
 
In 1559, Spanish conquistador Tristán De Luna y Arellano 
and his shipmates landed on what is now know as Pensacola, 
and they celebrated their arrival with an enormous beach par -
ty. This tradition lives on with the perfect beach party: DeLuna Fest. 
The second annual DeLuna Fest will be held from Friday 
through Sunday on Pensacola Beach and will feature a lineup of more than 70 bands, including Jane’s Addiction, Weezer, The Shins, Girl Talk, Cut Copy , Diplo, Big Boi, Matt and Kim, Ra Ra Riot, Cold War Kids, The New Pornographers, The War on Drugs, The Limousines and Wanda Jackson.
Gregg Michael Gillis, otherwise known as Girl Talk, creates 
experimental electronic music mash-ups, or as he likes to de-scribe it, “digitally mangled pop music,” and will take the stage Friday . 
Gillis, a biomedical engineer turned experimental music 
sensation, is a true nerd. He Saran-wraps his laptop before each of his wild performances. 
“I always have people on stage at shows; that kind of devel-
oped as the etiquette of the shows. About five or six years ago, I started to break computers on a regular basis from people standing on the table and a high heel going through the laptop or sweat or blood or beer or alcohol or whatever flying around. It was very chaotic and messy, so I started covering [my] com-puter to protect it from any fluids flying around,” Gillis said.
When asked if he had anything special planned for DeLuna, 
Gillis said:
“Every show to me is unique. The people (who) are there 
will govern what the surprise will be.” 
So, DeLuna attendees, get ready to get wild with the coolest 
ex-engineer in the music business. 
On the other end of the musical spectrum, The War on 
Drugs will perform Saturday.
“It’s kinda psych and kinda classic, like running classic rock 
radio through a lot of psychedelic effects,” The War on Drugs bassist and guitarist Dave Hartley said of the band’s sound. 
Hartley also weighed the differences between performing at 
festivals versus small club shows. 
“The advantage of a festival is that you are playing for peo-
ple who didn’t come to see you, by definition some people did but probably at least half didn’t. It’s a totally different thing. It’s a little bit tougher of a crowd, but I think it’s better,” he said.
Matt and Kim will bring even more genre variety to the fes-
tival with its performance Friday . 
“We’re not exactly in a single genre; we are sort of a ener -
getic, dance-y, fun kind of music,” said vocalist and keyboard-ist Matt Johnson.  
“I remember we played this one festival in Coney Island; 
during the last song I egged the audience to follow me into the ocean, and after the last song finished, we jumped off the stage and started running to the ocean with a huge crowd of people behind us. Maybe we’ll have to pull something like that out again,“ Johnson said about plans for DeLuna.
Guests can either choose to attend single days or all three 
days of the festival. A single day pass costs $75 while a three-day general admission pass costs $189.95 or $215 if purchased on the day of the show.  
However, students were offered a bit of a sweeter deal 
just weeks ago. On Sep. 22, DeLuna representatives hit UF’s campus, giving away free DeLuna swag and offering students three-day passes at the discounted rate of $105. 
“We did this because of what our lineup is. We want to get 
young people interested, and we want them to stay and attend the festival for years to come. Plus it’s hard to be a student these days,” said AshleeAnne Palmer, DeLuna VIP hotel coordinator and local event organizer. 
Palmer and her team, consisting of local Florida radio sta-
tions, visited Florida State University, the University of Central Florida and the University of South Florida with this deal as well. 
“UF stuck out to us because we had so many people asking us to come out here. It has been really successful; people who didn’t know about the concert get really, really excited once we tell them about the lineup. I just love that,” Palmer said. 
To view the complete list of killer performers, for more in-
formation or to purchase tickets, visit delunafest.com.12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011
Caleb Kuhl / Alligator
Dance punk duo Matt and Kim will be performing at De-Luna Fest on Friday.
DeLuna Fest features stacked lineup for beats  on the beach
“We want to get young people interested, and 
we want them to stay and attend the festival for 
years to come.”
 AshleeAnne Palmer
DeLuna VIP hotel coordinator and local event organizer
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
$389 3/3 All-Inclusive
$359 4/4 All-Inclusive
Rooms Available for January
Call us today at 352-336-3838!
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $339
w/$100 credit!
3/3’s @ $429 with 42” TV
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
1BR/1BA available in 4/4 SW condo
$375/mo. Close to everything, bus line.
All utilities included. Furnished.Call Nalini at (352) 514-3398           10-14-11-2-1
Professional/Grad Student.
All amenities. Must be studious & quiet,safe & secure. $390/mo.Leave message 333-8300 or 514-3320    10-17-11-10-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 East at $469, 1/2 off 2nd month*
$99 Move In SpecialFrederick GardensCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2
A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.Great pools • Fitness • TennisCall for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’sBivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   12-7-11-74-2
3BR, 2BA, Condo Unit, Ground Floor, Kitchen 
& living area; Swimming pool & tennis courts; The Sparrow; $700.00 per month.Call Cristen at 352-514-6222    10-17-11-40-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. 
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1st month half price! Vacant lots alsoavailable. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-588710-31-46-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
GIGANTIC 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority/Norman/Shands area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Was $2400 re-duced to $1780 OBO. 352-665-8166 lv msg.   10-25-11-30-2
1BR/1BA Apt,. Large screened-in porch, 
W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499. Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #2. Please call 352-371-3473    10-31-11-33-2
● 2BR2BA HOUSE, w/carport, W/D hk-ups. 
Pet ok. $750/mo● 1BR/1BA APT Pet ok. $475/mo.Call 352-332-8481 or 352-359-1644    10-14-11-20-2ATTN: UF and Shands Employees 
2 BR 1 Bath homes in Gainesville. 
Spacious fenced-in yards, bring your pets! 
Brand new energy upgrades. $570-$660/mo
Near 6th St. on 39th Ave. 336-9477   
10-17-25-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-155011-2-11-20-2
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7129 SW 45th Place. $525/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114    10-20-11-10-2
●●● One Mile to UF ●●●
 Home 2br 1 bath. New A/C Hardwood Floors, 
Tile in kitchen & bath & Florida room $900.00 mo.  Call Andree Realty 352-375-290011-4-10-2
Close to UF, $595/month plus security de-
posit, 2BR with 2.5Bathroom townhouse. New floor/paint. Fenced backyard with W/D hookup. 1310 SW 61st, GNV, 32607. Call 352/332-4088 or 352/514-7098   10-25-11-10-2
4/2.5 2000sqft home built in 2000, 2 blks to 
Stadium 3 min walk to Campus. Free $1300 security deposit! $1550/mo! W/D Garage. Avail Dec/Spring. Rmmate matching. Call 870-7304. jeremybolton0@gmail.com   11-23-11-30-2
MOBILE HOMES AS LOW AS $500 DOWN
We Finance - Payments as low as $425./mo
Nice, quiet community near airport.
Buy now - sell after you graduate!
Lamplighter MHC 352-372-4207
www.mhcomm.com
10-13-11-1-2
SPACIOUS 1BR APT
for rent. Walk to Oaks Mall. New appliances. 
Call 404-323-9338    10-18-4-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
1 BR/1 BA furnished in 4/4 at 2ND Ave 
Centre for Spring 2012. Asking $479/month. Includes utilities, cable, wifi, parking. No de-posit. Walk to campus & downtown. Contact Cal at (954)940-2118    10-17-5-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $650/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    10-26-11-97-4
roommates wanted in 4/2 on sorority row. 
$350 inc Utilities, cable, and internet. easy walk to UF, close to downtown. close to buses. jfidorra@hotmail.com 814-440-3325   10-25-11-10-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 15
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
MUSIC STORE NEAR UF-Buy-Sell-Trade@
Discounts We also offer music classes in all instruments & dance. We are the only chari-table music & dance school. Scholarships available. studiopercussion.org 352-338-8302     10-20-20-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
10-31-11-42-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
HOT, SEXY convertible 2000 Mercedes SL. 
White w. both tops,blue soft leather inter. 46,800 miles. PS, PW. AM/FM, CD. New Michelins. Garage kept. Mint. 15,800. 377-2538    10-24-10-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      10-20-11-74-13 
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
ANY HempFest Video Footage, Photos,
Articles, Memorabelia,Testimonials...Confessions of the DoobieTosser from 1990-2000! PLZ Call352-278-5698   10-21-10-13
Southeast Car Agency is looking to hire 
a Lot Porter for approx. 35 hours a week (or more if needed). Must have clean driv-ing record, your own reliable transporta-tion, and be available to work on Saturday. Please apply in person only, we are not accepting calls regarding this position.  Location: 310 NE 39th Ave Gainesville, FL 32609    10-19-7-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
 The Smartphone Club needs data entry 
workers to help update our membership list. Must be able to work at home online with-out any supervision. Guaranteed pay for Guaranteed work.www.thesmartphoneclub.com/Colleges/FL    10-25-11-25-14
MOVIE EXTRAS
To stand in the background for a major film. Experience not required. Earn up to $300/day. All looks needed. 877-568-7065    10-31-11-20-14Website Design Paid Internship
with small publishing company in Alachua. 
$11.00/hr, 8 hrs/wk. Send resume to
biopressinfo@gmail.com.
10-13-11-7-14
Nanny needed, 2-8pm, 5 days. Girls age 10-
15. Take to sports/our car; hmwk; lunches; & help out. Fun job! BC/refs req'd. Resume to: masonwoodorchids@hotmail.com     10-14-6-14
Phone survey for UF research center, temp 
position. 30-40 hrs/wk, 9-5. Must be friendly on phone and detail-oriented. Excel, Word skills preferred. $12/hr.Contact kbs@ufl.edu     10-13-11-5-14
Extra income. Become a Sales Buddy from 
your computer. Earn $5 for every book sold. www.thegiftofwisdom.com, select Sales Buddy.     10-20-11-10-14
Molly and Friends looking for dilligent, quality 
oriented PT workers to build our high qual-ity cat furniture.  Good pay for good working.  See Holly at 337-1535 and come down to 1847 South Main Street    10-14-6-14
Insurance marketing firm is looking for in-
side wholesalers to develop life, annuity and med sup agents throughout the country. This person will be making 90 to 100 calls a day. Other duties require developing product knowledge and establishing relationships with the agents. Basic computer skills re-quired. Located in Haile Village. Hours are from 8 to 6. Salary is $10.00 hour plus com-missions. Email resume to marketing@aim-2comp.com   10-14-11-5-14
PHP/Web Developer: Full-time multipurpose
position working with our engineering team to develop web interfaces. Self-motivated, able to work within a team dynamic, and be comfortable working with Linux, Mac OS, Windows, etc. Expertise in PHP, JavaScript, XHTML, and CSS. For more details or to apply visit http://www.monetra.com/content/careers.html                10-24-11-10-14
Tenor section leader $225 a month
Thursdays, 7:30 p.m.-9;30 p.m.Sundays, 10:00 - 12 noonTo audition email music@1stpc.org10-17-11-5-14
Earn $10 to take a Questionnaire. Previous 
sales experience using salesforce.com or similar software/web app to keep track of leads and accounts. Call 352-219-7958    10-19-11-5-14
App designer needed.
Both Apple and Android OS capable.$$ TBD. Apply at gatorapps@gmail.com10-17-11-3-14
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) $99 
and Basic Life Support (BLS)$35. Classes run continuously to fit your schedule. American Heart Association Card issued. Call Cardiac One at 352-494-4217.    10-14-11-30-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696   11-9-11-30-15
GET FREE WIRELESS SERVICE AND
SUPPORT STARVING COLLEGEATHLETES: Simply purchase your nextsmartphone and send 5 of your friends tothis website to qualify:www.TheSmartphoneClub.com/Colleges/UFL   10-14-11-5-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   10-19-11-100-16WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM... A boutique, 
KEY WEST 1970's style. We got it all for you, from all the world, imports you can believe in. Clothes, Gifts, Art, Books, Music, Plants... Hwy 441S.... 15 min that could change you.   10-26-31-21
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM a boutique in 
a barn! Used books,old thoughts and new things. The existing order of surfdom can-not remain unchanged. It is better to abol-ish surfdom from above than to wait until the surfs begin to liberate themselves from below. Alexander II. Hwy.441S. 15 min. to change what you thought a store could be.11-22-30-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.THE NATIONAL ALLIANCE
ON MENTAL ILLNESS (NAMI)
Peer-to-Peer Program
A FREE 10-week recovery education course 
for adults living with mental illness who would like to achieve and maintain wellness. NAMI-certified Peer Mentors who are successfully managing their own conditions teach the course. We meet once per week for two hours, and use a combination of lecture and interactive exercises in a confidential setting. Each participant receives materials related to course topics, such as mental illness and the brain, coping skills, decision-making tools, and relapse prevention. Class size is limited and pre-registration is required. Classes be-gin January 25, 2012.
For more information,
contact the NAMI information line at
(352) 374-5600 ext 8322,
or email info@namigainesville.org
www.namigainesville.org/P2P_Gville_Site.htm
10-14-10-16
ADOPTION. Choose a loving & secure family 
waiting to adopt. Living & medical expenses paid. Updates on your child.Call 24hr/7day. 1-800-280-6155. Amy Eichman(Bar#830011)    11-14-11-30-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Great gift (and inexpensive!) for any occa-
sion: birthdays, holidays, graduations, first job, weddings. Or simply because someone is special! www.thegiftofwisdom.com.    10-20-11-10-18
www.GoGoGators.com
Totally awesome shirts with a gator attitude10-17-11-3-18
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
HEMPFEST IS BACK! SAT. NOV.5 High-
Noon 'til Midnight! Gainesville's Bo Diddly Plaza! Wanted: Local Bands, Vendors, Volunteers! For Info Call: Jodi at FL C.A.N. 321-253-3673 www.gvillehempfest.com   10-21-10-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Poll Results
Do you think UF still has a shot at winning 
the East division and making a run at the SEC Championship?Driskel or Brissett
Who do you want to start at quarterback this Saturday against 
No. 24 Auburn? Vote online at alligatorSports.org. Incoming freshman guard Brad Beal brings with him an accomplished résumé, but he is also keeping an even keel. See Story, Page 18. 
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Backup linebacker Dee Finley will transfer from Florida, the school announced in a release Wednesday. Finley 
came to Gainesville as a four-star prospect out of Auburn, Ala., but he played sparingly in two-plus seasons.  
� RECORDED JUST 12 
TACKLES IN TWO YEARS.
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Linebacker Dee Finley has 
decided to transfer from Flor-
ida, the team announced in a statement Wednesday.
Finley, a sophomore from 
Auburn (Ala.) High, was sus-pended for one game after he was charged Sept. 12 for driv-ing with a suspended license and resisting arrest. He saw limited action in Florida’s oth-er five games, recording four tackles.
“Although I’ve enjoyed my 
time here at Florida, I think it’s best for me to move on and get a fresh start somewhere else,” Finley said in the statement.
Coach Will Muschamp said 
Wednesday that he and Finley “talked the other night” about the linebacker transferring, but Muschamp did not elaborate on why Finley wanted to leave. Defensive coordinator Dan Quinn said he did not know why Finley was transferring.
“I wish him the best,” Quinn 
said.
Rated a four-star safety by 
Rivals.com, Finley signed with Florida in 2008, but he arrived a semester late after failing to qualify academically. Once on the field, his Gators career was unremarkable, registering 12 tackles in 19 games.
Finley missed the final sev-
en games last season after frac-turing his collarbone. 
He will continue to take 
classes at Florida until the end of the semester, according to the release.   
Powell underperforming: 
Quinn said he has been dis-appointed in Buck linebacker Ronald Powell’s performance this season. The sophomore was expected to be a leader, but he has only 14 tackles in six games.
Powell had one tackle 
against LSU, though he sat out the second half because of an injury.
“For us, at 
that position, we would 
certainly want the production to be higher,” Quinn said. 
Powell needs to get a better 
jump off the ball when rushing the passer, Quinn said. He has two sacks and three quarter-back hits this year.
Quinn said Powell also 
needs to play the run better.  When teams run to Powell’s side, he has not been able to Finley transferring from Florida, looking for ‘fresh start’
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
After unloading three big bodies 
to graduation and the NBA Draft, the 
Gators are trying to pick up some speed.
With an enviable amount of depth 
at the guard position compared to past years, coach Billy Donovan feels Florida has the athleticism to press more on defense and become a more dangerous team in transition.
“I think because we have speed and 
quickness in our backcourt, that we re-ally need to try and get up the floor and be more of a full-court defensive team,” he said.
While Donovan doesn’t expect the 
Gators to hold a pressing defense for a full 40 minutes, he has the man power this year to entertain the notion. 
UF returns its top two defensive 
guards in junior Kenny Boynton and UF looking for balance 
with guard-heavy roster
After posting the worst back-to-back 
losses in the last 40 years, it would be easy for players and coaches to point 
fingers.
With John Brantley out, the offense has been 
atrocious, and the defense not much better. 
On Saturday in Baton Rouge, La., the 
Gators held the ball for just 5:59 in the second half. They didn’t have a drive longer than three plays and recorded only one true first down. In all, LSU held the ball for 35:40. 
Against Alabama, it was just as bad: two 
first downs in the second half, and the Crim-son Tide had 18:40 time of possession in the third and fourth quarters with a total of 34:41.
Poor field position, more often than not, has 
also hampered the defense. Alabama’s aver -
age starting position was its own 36-yard line, and two of the Crimson Tide’s scor -
ing drives began in Florida territory . LSU also benefited from the Florida offense 
not being able to move the ball and switch the field, as it had an average starting position of its own 35-yard line. Five of the Tigers’ seven scoring drives started at their own 43 or bet-ter.
Blame the losses on the offense, you might 
be saying. With plenty of blame to 
go around, who’s at fault?See POWeLL, PA ge 19
See HOOPS, PA ge 18
See W AttS, PA ge 19
Matt Watts
twitter: @wattmatts“We’re going to be a lot of 
run-and-gun and pass the ball 
and swing the ball around a 
lot.” 
Patric Young
UF sophomore centerteLLINg YOU WA ttS UPPowell
54% NO
46% YeS
137 total votessophomore Scottie Wilbekin, to go with senior Erving 
Walker, who led the Gators in scoring last season.
  Junior Mike Rosario, a 6-foot-3 combo guard, is also 
eligible to play after sitting out a year following his trans-fer from Rutgers, and highly touted freshman Bradley Beal is being welcomed into the fold. 
  “Certainly the last few years, I think with our depth 
in the backcourt, really Erving and Kenny Boynton log-ging so many minutes, it made it very, very difﬁ  cult for us to extend the ﬂ  oor like we need to,” Donovan said.
  Walker said he doesn’t quite know how the Gators’ 
on-court product will take shape until practice starts, but he anticipates they will be able to force more turnovers. 
  Last year, Florida was in the bottom half of the South-
eastern Conference in both steals and turnover margin.
  “Knowing that we have a lot more depth, and know-
ing in the past that coach Donovan liked to press a lot, so I think we’ll be a much more fast-paced team and try to get up and down the court a lot,” Walker said.
  With the departures of 
6-foot-10 senior starters Ver-non Macklin and Chandler Parsons, as well as 6-foot-8 
Alex Tyus, Donovan said the current down-low com-bination of three sophomores, a junior and a redshirt freshman will also have to play an aggressive role in running the court.
  “Any time that you get into a situation where you’re 
pressing like that, you’ve got to have depth in your frontcourt,” he said. “And right now, that’s probably one area that we don’t know what kind of depth we’re going to have.”
  Though some of the team’s post players will have to 
ﬁ  ll new roles, no one has a bigger chance to take a step forward than 6-foot-9 sophomore Patric Young.
  As a consensus ﬁ  ve-star recruit coming out of high 
school, Young faced high expectations last season, with some billing him a favorite to become the SEC’s Fresh-man of the Year — an award that went to Kentucky for-ward Terrence Jones.
  Young averaged 3.4 points per game in 2010, but 
Donovan said it’s not the center’s offensive game that must progress in his second year.
  “He’s got a great motor, and he’s got great energy,” 
Donovan said. “He needs to utilize those things. Patric doesn’t need to be a guy that’s totally consumed with his offense around the basket as much as he needs to be consumed with the fact that we lost about nine-and-a-half, 10 rebounds a game from last year.”
  Between Summer B and the beginning of the fall, 
Young said he worked out three times a day on his ﬁ  n-ishing skills, running the ﬂ  oor and conditioning. 
  “We’re going to be a lot of run-and-gun and pass the 
ball and swing the ball around a lot,” Young said. “We’re a really heavy guard team this year. It’ll be really impor-tant for those guys to be able to get open and get their shots off. It deﬁ  nitely helps me as well, because I want to be one of the best rebounders in the country .”  
  Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alligator.org. 18, ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011
 Alligator File Photo
  Returning center Patric Young has big shoes to ﬁ  ll 
in the wake of the departures of Vernon Macklin, Chandler Parsons and Alex Tyus.   
Young to play important role for UF
HOOPS , from page 17
  JOHN BOOTHE
 Alligator Staff Writer
   
 When Bradley Beal stepped 
on Florida’s campus this sum-
mer, coach Billy Donovan soon realized he was not only get-ting his highest-rated recruit in the last 10 years, but also one of the most mature freshmen he’s ever had at UF.
  As the No. 4 overall prospect 
in the nation, Beal could have come into the Gators’ locker room with the stereotypical sense of entitlement attributed to some big-named prospects.
  He could have made it clear 
he was gunning for his team-mates’ jobs and tried to get under the skin of older, expe-rienced UF guards like Kenny Boynton or Erving Walker.
  “When he came in, I didn’t 
know what to expect,” Boynton said.
  But Beal didn’t do any of 
those things. Instead, the 6-foot-3 guard lauded for his sweet stroke  chose to defer.
  “He’s got a really good un-
derstanding of team chemis-try ,” Donovan said. 
“The one thing I admire is 
when you have a high-proﬁ  le guy like that come in, when there’s a level of humility and respect and understanding that there are some guys here before you.” 
  If anything, Donovan would 
like to see Beal become more aggressive on the court.
  With a crowded back court 
featuring two returning starters in Boynton and Walker, Beal said he prefers to sit back and absorb everything he can.
  “He’s got the little freshman 
jitters now,” sophomore center Patric Young said. “He’s very mature though, I’ll give him that. He’s a little nervous still, trying to ﬁ  gure out his role and what coach wants him to do.” 
  During Beal’s senior year 
at St. Louis (Mo.) Chaminade College Prep School, he was anything but shy on the court. He was named to the McDon-ald’s All-American team after averaging 32.5 points during his ﬁ  nal season and was also the Gatorade National Player of the Year.
  “Honestly , all of that doesn’t 
matter anymore,” Beal said. “You know it’s high school and now I’m moving onto college. Coach D told me that before, all that McDonald’s All-American stuff doesn’t matter anymore.”
  Since his prep days, Beal 
said he has bulked up about 20 pounds, which he notices is al-ready allowing him to be more physical on defense — a part of the game in which he believes most people underestimate his ability.
  “I’m probably going to be 
considered one of the biggest guards that we have, so I’m going to have to guard the big-ger offensive players,” he said. “Hopefully my body is well-developed to the point to where I can be more physical.”
  Contact John Boothe at 
jboothe@alligator.org.  Beal leaving past 
accolades behind
UF Bask etballBut there’s also been plenty of cause for concern on 
the other side of the ball.
Florida has given up 79 points and 819 yards of total 
offense the last two weeks, and the defense has allowed 
big play after big play, regardless of field position.
The Gators have also had plenty of problems stop-
ping the run. That has to get better going forward. There’s no question about it. 
So which unit is at fault for the losses? The answer 
is simple: both. 
Dan Quinn isn’t making excuses for his defense, 
saying its job is to stop the offense, no matter the situa-tion it’s put in.
“I kind of look at it from a different angle,” he said. 
“We’re firefighters, and let’s go put out the fire.”
Quinn said a lot of the defense’s struggles have been 
a result of not getting off the field on third down, as opposed to being put in bad positions by an inept of-fense. To a degree, he’s right, as the Gators allowed a 50-percent conversion rate the last two weeks. 
More concerning perhaps, the unit did not force a 
single turnover. 
“That’s one of the things we’ve been disappointed 
in the last two weeks: not creating opportunities for the offense,” Quinn said.
But Florida has scored a combined 21 points in the 
two games, and Charlie Weis is also holding the offense accountable, saying putting up that few points simply won’t get the job done. 
“Obviously we can’t be scoring 10 and 11 points and 
winning football games,” he said. 
Florida has to play better in every facet, including 
special teams. And until that happens, there will be plenty of reasons why not. 
Just be happy the Gators aren’t pointing fingers. Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@alligator.org. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 19
GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Who starts at quarterback? 
That’s been the No. 1 question not only in Gainesville but 
also in Auburn, Ala., where speculation has been rampant that freshman Kiehl Frazier could replace junior Barrett Trotter. 
But unlike the way UF coach Will Muschamp has handled 
his dilemma, Auburn head man Gene Chizik put the issue to rest early on.
“Barrett is our quarterback today, and he is our quarterback 
on Saturday ,” Chizik said. 
Trotter has come under fire after he completed just 6 of 19 
passes for 81 yards and an interception in Saturday’s 38-14 loss at Arkansas. 
He misfired on six of his final seven throws and has increas-
ingly split time with Frazier, who came to Auburn as the No. 5 quarterback in the country, according to Rivals.com. Frazier took 28 snaps against the Razorbacks and was just 2 
of 4 with a pair of interceptions. But he ran the ball effectively , carrying 13 times for 54 yards and a touchdown while adding another dimension to Auburn’s already potent running game. 
“We don’t see it as a two-quarterback sys-
tem, we see it as a changeup,” Chizik said. 
“It’s really no more complicated than 
that.”
How much the Tigers use Frazier will be 
based on their matchup, Chizik said, putting the ball back in Muschamp’s court. 
While Florida’s Jeff Driskel and Jacoby 
Brissett play a very similar style, Auburn’s two options are nearly polar opposites. 
That poses a challenge for Muschamp and defensive coordi-
nator Dan Quinn, who have to prepare game plans to combat two very distinct signal-callers. 
Muschamp has one advantage: Auburn has already named 
its starter.“That helps if the two quarterbacks are different,” Mus-
champ said. “When you’re talking about two totally different, talented guys as far as doing different things, then yes, that poses some problems.”
But Trotter starting doesn’t rule out the chance of Frazier 
playing significant time. Auburn’s offense is very good at changing gears and utilizing a number of unique formations, especially with Chizik and offensive coordinator Gus Malzahn at the helm. 
The Tigers can play offense at various tempos and often like 
to apply pressure with their quick-hitting, no-huddle attack. To prepare, the Gators have scrimmaged their defense against a unit with two huddles, giving the offense the preparation ad-vantage it needs to simulate Auburn’s speed. 
“That was a really important part,” Quinn said. “To understand, watch tape together and see how fast the 
action went and how fast you have to get back to the line of scrimmage.”
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org.Two-quarterback situation not limited just to Florida
Watts , from page 17 Muschamp wants one 
quarterback to emerge
contain the edge.
According to Quinn, Pow-
ell will still start against No. 24 
Auburn on Saturday.
Looking for a QB leader:  
Muschamp did not name a starting quarterback Wednes-day morning, though he wants Jacoby Brissett or Jeff Driskel to establish himself as the starter going forward.
“I’d love for one of them to 
really step up and play really well and go from there,” Mus-champ said. “But, again, we will manage that as we roll through this season, and I couldn’t think of anybody’s better hands to be in than (those of offensive coor -
dinator) Charlie Weis.”
This is the second straight 
w e e k Florida has been unde-
cided about its starting quar -
terback midway through the week. Muschamp said after Saturday’s loss that he chose Brissett on Wednesday night.
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@
alligator.org.POWELL , from page 17Chizik
UF Fo otball20, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011
Alligator File Photo
Senior guard Deana Allen said Florida is not new to anything 
this year. After having six newcomers join the team last sea-son, the Gators struggled with turnovers.  
� UF LED SEC IN GIVEAWAYS.
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
 
With every key player returning 
from last season, Florida will not ex-
perience much change in its lineup.
And the Gators hope that experi-
ence can help them avoid a chronic problem from the 2010-11 campaign — turnovers.
Coach Amanda Butler’s squad 
ranked next to last in the South-eastern Conference last season with a minus-1.23 turnover margin per game.
One of the contributing factors to 
that issue was Florida’s switch to a more up-tempo style on the court.
While Butler does not like to see 
mistakes from her team, she tends to be more forgiving if her players slip up while playing aggressively.
“Mistakes are going to happen, 
and when you play fast, then you’re trying to force the action, which we try to do on both ends of the floor,” Butler said. “Turnovers are some-times the negative byproduct of that.”
Florida was ultimately undone 
by turnovers last season, leading the SEC with 614 giveaways.The Gators’ inability to effective-
ly take care of the basketball partial-ly stemmed from the squad’s lack of experience playing together.
Half of last season’s roster played 
for Florida for the first time in 2010-11, but the team is in a much better position one year later, returning 10 players.
“Everybody just knows that 
there’s no more excuses,” sopho-more guard Brittany Shine said. “No more time to say, ‘Oh, we’re young, we’re not experienced.’”
With a full season and summer 
workouts under their belts, the Gators now have increased confi-dence.
Time has allowed the players to 
learn about each other’s strengths and weaknesses on the court.
“We’re jelling together, our com-
munication is better, and I just feel like we’re going to be a solid core this year,” senior guard Deana Allen said. “We’re not new to anything.”
Defensively, the Gators racked up 571 takeaways last season, which is an adequate mark considering they ranked seventh in the conference.
But the defense still needs work, 
as Florida surrendered 64.5 points per game, the third-worst mark in the conference.
“Our intensity, especially on de-
fense, is more of an emphasis this year,” sophomore guard Jaterra Bonds said. “Dead balls (are) kind of like the emphasis.
“When somebody picks up the 
ball, [Butler] wants all the lanes closed off, so nobody else can get it.”
Deaundra Young transferring:  
Sophomore forward Deaundra Young is transferring from Florida, making her decision on Oct. 6, ac-cording to a UF spokesperson. 
Young, who averaged 4.2 points 
and 4.2 rebounds per game last sea-son, missed the final nine games due to a foot injury, which required surgery in the offseason.
“She’s a good person and a good 
teammate, and we wish the best for her,” guard Jordan Jones said. 
“Obviously, she wasn’t happy 
here.”
“We’re fine with where we are 
— this is what we’re going to have this season and this is what we’re excited to be playing with.”More experienced Gators looking to 
minimize turnovers, stay aggressive
“We’re jelling together, our 
communication is better, and I 
just feel like we’re going to be 
a solid core this year.” 
Deana Allen
UF senior guard