We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 77 TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgSnakes on a train terrify passengers in Vietnam; owners apparently escaped
HANOI, Vietnam — Railway officials 
have discovered snakes on a train in Viet-
nam — highly venomous king cobras in bags under a seat.
Railroad official Pham Quynh says 
passengers were terrified when four cloth bags containing the writhing cobras were spotted Friday. The snakes were alive but had their mouths stitched shut.
Quynh says the exact number of snakes 
was unclear but the bags weighed 100 pounds (45 kilograms).
Security staff removed the cobras, 
which were likely destined for restaurants in Hanoi. Their owner apparently escaped in the chaos.
Snake meat is considered a delicacy in 
Vietnam, but cobras are protected by law.
Quynh says the cobras were given to 
forest rangers who released them into the wild Saturday after no one claimed them.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSn  Florida short-
shop Nolan Fonta -
na and the Gators 
baseball team cap -
tured their first SEC 
Tournament title 
since 1991 after 
beating Vanderbilt 
5-0 on Sunday in 
Hoover, Ala.
See Story, Page 13.
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Staff Writer
A broken air conditioning sys-
tem, a hole in the roof and a busted 
water chiller.
The cost of these would-be re-
pairs, after Gov. Rick Scott vetoed 
roughly $12 million in funding for 
UF Thursday, would not come out of state funds.
Instead, the university will have 
to somehow foot the bill.
“We might have to make some 
very tough decisions,” said UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes.Scott vetoed a record $615 mil-
lion dollars from the state budget before signing it, including about $5.3 million for routine maintenance and repairs  at UF and $500,000 for a 
statewide brain tumor research pro-
gram based at the McKnight Brain Institute.The veto includes $6 million for 
a research and academic facility at Lake Nona in Orlando — a project that has already broken ground.
UF President Bernie Machen is-
sued a statement Thursday stress-ing the importance of these projects and disappointment that they won’t be funded.
He also acknowledged the diffi-
culty of budgeting in tough times.
“However, we recognize the 
State of Florida is in a very difficult economic situation, and the Legis-
lature and the Governor faced hard 
choices,” he said. “Hopefully, these projects will be funded when the revenues return.”
Partly 
cloudy
93/69
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 8
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 12n VETERANS FOR PEACE ERECT MEMORIAL. 
By MICHAEL SYKES
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Gainesville chapter of Veterans for Peace erect-
ed more than 6,000 tombstones along a mile of North-
west Eighth Avenue between Northwest 34th Street and 
Northwest 23rd Street this Memorial Day weekend. 
The tombstones, which stood in rows of four, with 6 
inches between columns and 4 feet between rows, were part of a memorial to United States soldiers who have 
died in the wars in Afghanistan since 2001 and Iraq since 2003.
This is the fifth year the memorial has been displayed, 
and as the number of casualties continues to climb, it will not be the last, said Scott Cam-
il, president of Veterans for Peace Chapter 
14.  
There’s nearly 200 feet of space between the last stones 
placed and a sign that reads “Afghanistan 2012” in ex-pectation of next years’ victims.
It took about 30 minutes for some to walk the trib-
ute, stopping every so often to look at unfamiliar names and handwritten messages along the way. But for Anita High, it took longer.
“Your mom misses you like crazy,” High wrote on the 
stone of her nephew Randolph A. Sigley, 28, who was killed April 18, 2010 in Afghanistan.  Locals remember
those who died serving the U.S.Scott to UF: It’s time to tighten your belt
NewsLocal
SEE MEMORIAL, p AgE 12Gov. Scott’s Vetoes:
$5.3 million  for maintenance and repairs of existing facilities
$6 million for Lake Nona Research and Academic Facility 
$369,000  for WUFT-TV and WUFT-FM, UF’s public television 
and radio stations
$500,000 for Statewide Brain Tumor Registry Program at the 
McKnight Brain Institute
$34,000 for Southwest Alachua County Primary and Com-
munity Health Care Clinic, a project run by the UF College of 
Nursing
UF sees $12 million slashed  
“However, we recognize the 
state of Florida is in a very 
difficult economic situation.”
Bernie Machen
UF President
Jonny Shiver / Alligator
Walking tall
Leah Gaddis, 10, left, and Kelsie Mizzell, 8, middle, play around as Summer Gaddis, 11, slaps five with a 
festival volunteer on stilts during the Palatka Blue Crab Festival on Sunday. See more, page 12.
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 77 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, 
  aorlando@alligator.org
 University Editor Alex Klausner,
  aklausner@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Editorial Board C.J. Pruner, Joey Flechas, Josh Isom
 Photo Editor Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Thomas Nassiff,
  tnassiff@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Corey McCall, 
  Briana Seymour
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Brittany Fink, 
  Kelli Folse, Bryan Holt,
  Lily Parkinson 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Johal Baez, Serina Braddock,
  Allison Klempert, Claire Grady,
  Alex Schultz, Justin Scott
  Brandon Stern, Lauren Tami
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stevens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
PARTLY
CLOUDY
96/71PARTLY
CLOUDY
94/70SUNNY
92/70PARTLY
CLOUDY
92/70PARTLY
CLOUDY
93/69
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.NATIONAL
No good humor in frosty Pa. 
frozen treat feud 
UNIONTOWN, Pa. — Police 
are hoping the threat of losing their 
permits will be enough to thaw the frosty relationship of two Pennsyl-vania ice cream truck drivers ac-
cused of trying to run each other 
off the road.
The Herald-Standard of Union-
town reports police told the rival vendors to chill out after a dispute Wednesday night.
Authorities say the wife of one 
vendor told police the other man tried to run her husband off the 
road.
The implicated ice cream driver 
disputes the woman’s account, 
saying it was her husband who tried to force him off the road. 
He also claimed the man had 
returned his good humored hello by shouting an expletive.
Patrolman Thomas Kolencik 
says he warned both drivers the city could explore revoking their 
permits if they can’t get along.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Wash. board nixes colon cancer ‘butt’ billboards 
KENNEWICK, Wash. — A 
health board in Washington state 
has reversed itself and voted 
against endorsing a colon cancer 
awareness campaign that uses bill-boards saying, “What’s up your butt?”
The Tri-City Herald reports that 
Wednesday’s vote by the Benton Franklin Health District in Ken-newick, Wash., was in response to complaints the ads are in poor 
taste.
The butt billboards were earlier 
displayed in Yakima to raise col-
orectal cancer awareness and en-
courage people to get screened for 
the disease.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Pa. man knocks out wall, 
pulls plane from basement 
CAMP HILL, Pa. — Lots of 
houses have a two-car garage. Dan 
Reeves’ had a one-airplane base-
ment.
Until, that is, the central Penn-
sylvania man knocked out a wall 
to get it out.
Reeves spent the past nine 
years building a two-seat airplane in the basement of his Cumberland County home. 
The plane arrived in pieces via 
mail but eventually it became way too big to get up the steps.
So Reeves dug a trench down 
to the foundation and took out a 
wall. Reeves pulled the plane out 
Wednesday using a truck, a chain and some neighbors.
Onlookers were drawn to the 
spectacle by the “Airplane Re-
moval Wednesday” sign put up on 
Reeves’ porch.
Reeves tells The Patriot-News 
of Harrisburg he spent $40,000 on 
the plane and about $5,000 on the 
excavation.
-THE ASSOCIATED PRESSbusiness, damaging a plywood 
display.
Deputies said one passenger 
fled the scene. Three others in the car were arrested.
Authorities are looking for the 
fourth suspect.
Deputies said they also re-
covered two guns that had been thrown from the vehicle.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Miami slam poet killed 
outside his cafe 
MIAMI — Authorities are in-
vestigating the death of a poetry 
slam champion who was gunned down outside his North Miami café.
The North Miami Police De-
partment says Willie Lee Bell Jr. had just closed The Literary Café and Poetry Lounge early Sunday when he was shot repeatedly.
 Police say the men did not take 
any of Bell’s possessions, which in-cluded cash and jewelry . Police do not currently have a motive.
The 47-year-old Bell, whose 
stage name was Will Da Real One, has been featured on Def Poetry Jam.
Police are asking anyone with 
information about the shooting to call Crime Stoppers at 305-371-8477.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Orlando installs meters for 
donations to homeless 
ORLANDO — The city of Or -
lando has installed 15 meters in-
tended for donations to the home-less.
The red, orange and blue digital 
stations look like parking meters, but they’re not. Coins dropped into them go to the Central Florida Commission for Homelessness. The nonprofit group aims to end homelessness by helping people become self-sufficient.
The stations were donated by 
a parking-meter manufacturer. 
They can be found in high-traffic 
downtown spots like Amway Center and Lake Eola Park, areas frequented by panhandlers.
Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer 
says the donation stations give people an alternative way to con-
tribute.
But Cathy Jackson, an advocate 
for the homeless, says the meters 
wrongly equate homelessness with panhandling. She says the meters should be part of a bigger plan to help the homeless.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSSTATE
400-plus stung by jellyfish 
on central Fla. beach 
COCOA BEACH — More 
than 400 people have suffered 
jellyfish stings over the holiday weekend on a central Florida beach.
Brevard County Ocean Res-
cue Assistant Chief Eisen Witch-er says legions of jellyfish called mauve stingers washed ashore from the Atlantic, primarily around Cocoa Beach.
Witcher says more than 200 
people suffered stings to their legs, arms and torsos on Satur -
day . More than 200 more people suffered similar stings Sunday . No major health problems were reported.
The reddish-colored jellyfish 
have purple barbs that sting. Life-guards offered victims sprays of vinegar to neutralize the stinging cells. Witcher recommended that swimmers apply Benadryl to 
itching or painful welts.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Teen accused of stabbing man at N. Fla. mud bogs 
INGLIS — North Florida au-
thorities say a 15-year-old boy fa-
tally stabbed a man fighting with his father over engine revving at a mud bog.
According to the Levy Coun-
ty Sheriff’s Office, 24-year-old Roderic Sparks was stabbed Sat-urday at the Horse Hole Creek mud pits in Inglis.
Deputies say the teen’s father 
had been arguing with Sparks about revving his engine when the two men began physically 
fighting. The teen allegedly 
joined in and stabbed Sparks in the upper torso.
Sparks died at a hospital. 
Deputies say bystanders blocked the teen’s vehicle to prevent him from leaving before authorities arrived.
The teen faces a manslaugh-
ter charge. Deputies say they re-
trieved the knife from the mud.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Police: Drive-by shooting leads to chase, crash 
CLEARWATER — Authori-
ties in the Tampa Bay area say 
a vehicle involved in a drive-by shooting led police on a chase be-fore crashing into a building.
The Pinellas County Sheriff’s 
Office says deputies saw shots fired from the vehicle Sunday night at a 21-year-old man in Largo. He was hospitalized with a gunshot wound in the upper right thigh.
The deputies chased the ve-
hicle when it fled the scene. At 
one point, deputies deployed 
stop sticks which deflated the vehicle’s front right tire. The ve-hicle careened into a Clearwater 
TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
Trustee Talk
Members of UF’s Board of Trustees’ Committee on Education 
Policy and Strategy  held an informational conference call Friday to 
discuss academics and a tuition hike in anticipation of the Trust-ees’ June 9 meeting. The university will ask the Board of Trustees to recommend a 7 percent tuition increase for approval by the Board 
of Governors. This will bring the total tuition increase up to 15 per -
cent — the maximum allowable under state law — in an effort to 
decrease the current budget gap from $54 million to $30 million.
The Board will also be asked to approve a new bachelor’s 
program in international studies, approve applications for ten-ure and promotions, select someone to have access to the university’s classified material and approve UF’s work plan.  
The work plan is a new effort requested by the Board of Governors in which each public state university submit a report that includes information such as university statistics, a list of budget requests 
for the next legislative session and a list of five goals for the next 
two to three years.
UF’s five goals include:  
1. Improving baccalaureate retention and the graduation rate
w UF’s graduation rate improved from 58 percent to 64 percent from 
2008 to 2009. 
w UF Provost Joe Glover said the goal now is to understand that phe -
nomenon and try to maintain the upward trend.
2. Expanding distance education and electronic platform courses
w UF President Bernie Machen has cited the expansion of distance 
education as an important source of revenue for the university that 
may become crucial as state budget cuts continue to roll in. 
w Last year, UF made $58 million from enrollment in distance educa-
tion.w Glover discussed the possibility of creating 24 general education 
electives that will be available statewide on an electronic platform. This 
may be one of the requests made for the 2012 legislative session.
3. Improving access to education through the creation of the new 
spring/summer cohort of students
w This is a new group of students who will only be enrolled in on-cam-
pus classes during the spring and summer semesters. w The policy is expected to bring about 2,000 new students to UF and 
will begin in January 2013.
4. Completing the Florida Innovation Hub
w The hub is a facility that will support start-up companies based on 
UF research. It will be part of the 40-acre Innovation Square being con-structed near SW Second Avenue.
5. Completing the research center at Lake Nona
w Lake Nona is an estimated $61 million, 60,000-square foot research 
facility being constructed in Orlando. w Gov. Rick Scott vetoed a $6 million fund designated for the project, 
leaving UF searching for additional funding in order to complete con-struction. w Machen has previously addressed the possibility of putting the proj-
ect on hold in the face of recent budget cuts.n CONSTRUCTION TO BEGIN BY THE END OF 
SUMMER
  By GABRIELA ROSIAS
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 Student Body President Ben Meyers’ mission to ex-
pand free printing on campus is underway.
  The inaugural meeting of his Free Printing 
Task Force took place Friday in the Reitz Union.
Meyers said free printing has been a part of Student Government platforms many times before, and the initiative is something students have needed for a 
long time.
  “For the ﬁ  rst time, we not only have the motivation 
to complete it and see it done, but the ability to do so,” 
he said. “For the ﬁ  rst time, we [will] have the funding 
to pursue a project like this.”
  He stressed the importance of making sure every 
student’s needs were represented.
  He said his initial approach will be to research the 
areas on campus where access to computers and print-ing will be most critical. Then he will create a plan that 
addresses these needs and put the plan into action.
  The committee is led by co-chairmen Jacob King and Laser Kaplan.  Other members include seven stu-dent senators and the entire Student Government Ex-ecutive Committee.
  King and Kaplan assigned task force members to 
gather information from each college about its print-
ing and computing needs by talking to IT managers 
and students.   Once the requirements are assessed, the committee will also choose the best course of action to reach those needs.
  During a speech at the meeting, Meyers discussed 
sweeping changes to UF’s computer ser-vices. He explored options such as drop-ping CIRCA, who currently manage the computer labs and give student support, 
and equipping new facilities with Apple computers instead of the Dell machines that are commonly seen in the labs.
  The project will be funded from the $1.3 million 
attained from last year’s Activity and Service Fees, which saw a 15 percent increase. 
Although all student projects have to be presented 
to the Activity and Service Fee Committee before get-ting funding, Meyers said he was not concerned.
  He said the turnover time for the project will be 
minimal and hopes to begin construction by the end of the summer. 
  By CLARE LENNON
 Alligator Writer 
 
  Florida Ultimate failed to defend 
its Ultimate Frisbee national cham-
pionship, suffering two losses Fri-
day and Saturday at the 2011 USA 
Ultimate nationals tournament in Boulder, Colo.
  In pool play , the team lost to the 
University of Wisconsin 12-10 and Luther College 14-13 before knock-ing off the University of California, Santa Cruz 15-11. 
  A 15-12 loss to the University 
of Washington eliminated Florida Ultimate from the championship competition, sending them to the consolation rounds.
  In their consolation matches, 
Florida Ultimate lost to the  Univer-sity of Virginia 15-7 and the Univer-sity of Illinois 12-11,  ﬁ  nishing the weekend with a 1-5 record.
  Alton Gaines, a management graduate student at UF and team 
captain, said the team used the two 
following consolation matches to give the younger players more ex-perience and playing time.
  In the championship ﬁ  nal Mon-
day, Carleton College knocked off  the University of Wisconsin 11-5.
  Last year, Florida Ultimate de-
feated Carleton’s team 15-12 to win 
the championship. 
  Brodie Smith, the team captain at 
the time, was the runner-up for the 
Callahan Award, which is awarded to the most valuable player each year.
  Gaines said that repeating a 
championship is difﬁ  cult in any sport, including ultimate. He attrib-
uted the losses to a lack of energy 
and life in the play . 
  “We just came out ﬂ  at,” he said. 
“Against the level of competition we played, you can’t do that and ex-pect to win.”  Gaines said members of the team, 
including fellow captains Cole Sulli-van and Alex Hill, had been in Boul-der a week before the tournament to get used to the altitude change and practice. 
  Sullivan said the team couldn’t 
handle the altitude change. Florida Ultimate had won ﬁ  ve of six tourna-ments going into the championship. Sullivan said the team was expect-ing another championship and felt disappointed about the outcome.
  “Great year but horrible ﬁ  nish,” 
he said. Meyers pursues  printing pledge
 Florida Ultimate falls in tourneyUF ULTIMATE FRISBEE
Emily Morrow and Rosa Taveras / Alligator StaffNewsLocal
“Against the level of com-
petition we played, you 
can’t do that and expect to 
win.”
Alton Gaines
Team captainBy EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
UF broke ground Thursday on its new Clinical and Trans-
lational Research Building, a $45 million, 120,000-square-
foot complex expected to be completed by January 2013.  
The facility will work to streamline the transition of medical research from the lab to the doctor’s office by centralizing re-search currently scattered around campus. 
“Scientists working in the new building will accelerate dis-
covery and translate it into practice,” said Dr. Marco Pahor, director of the UF Institute on Aging, one of the programs that will be housed within the new building. 
The building will also contain the Clinical and Transla-
tional Science Institute and the departments of biostatistics, 
biomedical informatics, epidemiology and health outcomes 
and policy. 
The facility is expected to create about 175 new jobs.A $15 million grant from the National Institutes of Health, 
alongside $30 million of UF funds, will pay for the facility. The university expects to recoup its money through dona-tions and research.
The building’s design incorporates environmentally 
friendly features such as the use of low-emission building 
materials as well as light sensor and water conservation tech-
nologies.
These design features will exceed the Leadership in En-
ergy and Environmental Design program’s requirements to reach the highest rating for green building — Platinum Plus. 
Dr. David Nelson, the director of the UF Clinical and 
Translational Science Institute, said the facility will contain a broad range of research, including investigations on aging, cancer, cardiovascular conditions, diabetes, muscular dystro-
phy and rare diseases.
“[It is] an effort that will reach well beyond the corner of 
Mowry Road and Gale Lemerand,” he said.4, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2011
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
UF President Bernie Machen, with officials involved in the construction of the Clinical and Translational Research 
Building, pose for the groundbreaking Thursday at the northeast corner of Mowry Road and Gale Lemerand Drive.
UF RESEARCH
Officials break ground on new $45M research facility
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
JOPLIN, Mo. — Exactly a week after Joplin was 
nearly leveled by the deadliest tornado to strike the 
U.S. in decades, President Barack Obama visited the Missouri city to offer hope to survivors and promises of help.
Obama came face to face Sunday with the legions 
of homeless, consoling the community as it remem-bered the more than 130 people killed in the storm. 
The memorial service erupted in cheers when Obama 
said, “I promise you your country will be there with you every single step of the way,” a pledge he extend-ed to all parts of the nation raked by violent storms this season.
Hundreds stood in Joplin’s Cunningham Park for 
a moment of silence at 5:41 p.m. — to mark the first report of the tornado — surrounded by wrecked cars 
and twisted poles. Many in the crowd wore white T-
shirts emblazoned, “Joplin’s Heart Will Sing Again.”
“We will rebuild Joplin,” City Manager Mark Rohr 
told the crowd. “You have my word on it.”
The Joplin tornado was the worst to hit the United 
States in decades. Hundreds were injured, and 39 people remained unaccounted for as of late Sunday . There are four more people whom family members have reported as deceased, but those deaths haven’t 
been officially confirmed.
Air Force One flew over a massive swath of brown 
— a land of flattened houses and stripped trees — on 
its approach to Joplin. On the ground, the destruction was even more stark and complete. Obama confront-ed painful sights at every turn and said nothing in his life measured up to what he saw this day.
Yet he spoke, too, of redemptive moments, the 
stoicism of the community and tales of plain luck. 
He told a story of a man he talked to who had taken 
a chicken pot pie out of the oven, heard the storm was coming, hid in a closet and “came out without a scratch.” Obama celebrated the spirit of volunteers who have flocked to Joplin to help, the pickup truck owners who ferried people to the hospital and the citizens who lined up for hours to donate blood to people they don’t know.
“You’ve demonstrated a simple truth,” he told the 
service, “that amid heartbreak and tragedy , no one is a stranger. Everybody is a brother. Everybody is a sis-ter. We can all love one another.”
Obama got a notably warm reception in this con-
servative part of Missouri. His remarks were tailored for a religious service, with quotes from Scripture, references to the love that binds people to each other, and comments on the essential goodness of human-ity . The stories of the storm lead us to “put aside our petty grievances,” the president said. “There are he-roes all around us, all the time. So, in the wake of this tragedy, let us live up to their example: to make each 
day count.”
Before the service, Obama’s motorcade pulled 
into a neighborhood where downed 
trees cleaved open houses, roofs were stripped or blown off, cars were cratered and splintered wood was everywhere. He saw nothing in-
tact, but rather small domestic sights — a view into a room with a TV still in place, a recliner sitting amid 
rubble, a washer-dryer standing next to a decimated 
house. American flags were planted here and there in the mess.
To those working at the scene, the president said: 
“We appreciate everything you guys are doing. God bless you.” One volunteer told him that people were coming in from other states to help in any way they could.
“This is not just your tragedy ,” Obama said. “This 
is a national tragedy , and that means there will be a national response.” He said: “We are going to be here long after the cameras leave.” Back from Europe, Obama con -
soles tornado-ravaged Missouri n OFFICIALS HAVE UNTIL 
OCT. 1 TO DECIDE.
By LISA JARDIM
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Gainesville residents might 
have to wait a little longer to find out the day they are supposed to vote for their future leadership.
There has been talk of the 
city hosting its spring  elections in conjunction with the Florida presidential primary, which is slated to take place Jan. 31. Do-ing this, proponents say, would save the city money and  lead to a higher voter turnout for city elections, which have been dis-mal in recent years.
In a recent city commission 
meeting, Elizabeth Waratuke, an assistant city attorney, said having the city election with the presidential primaries could lead to a reduction as high as $200,000.
According to the city’s cur -
rent ordinance, a date for the city election must be selected by July 1. 
However, one of the provi-
sions in the  election bill signed by Gov. Rick Scott last week  may hinder the selection of that date. 
Normally, the date selection 
for the presidential preference primaries in Florida is decided by the legislative during the legislative session, but the bill 
stated that the date will now be 
decided by a selected commit-
tee. 
The committee has until Oct. 
1 to make a decision.
Alachua County Supervi-
sor of Elections Pam Carpenter said in a recent interview that 
the city could wait until the state 
decided on a date to make its 
decision.
“We are having an election 
whenever the state says we are 
having one,” she said. “If the city chooses to piggyback, they will need to have their informa-tion in to us in a time frame that will allow us to go to print with our ballot.”
A shorter time period, Car -
penter said, will tighten the time line to reserve polling locations and train poll workers, which could potentially increase the 
overall election budget.
Despite Tallahassee formali-
ties, the City Commission has 
unanimously passed an ordi-nance that puts the election date 
on Jan. 31.City officials talk 
two-in-one election  
NewsNational“We are having an 
election whenever the 
state says we are having 
one.”
Pam Carpenter
Supervisor of Electionsn BUSINESSES TURN TO 
USING PROMOTIONS.
By KELLI FOLSE
Alligator Contributing Writer
The summer heat has arrived. 
Students have fled the city, and the 
midtown business drought is on.
During the fall and spring se-
mesters, Tijuana Flats, located on University Avenue, normally makes $20,000 a month, said man-ager Nick Roland. When summer rolls around, the number plum-mets to $1,000. 
Since the restaurant is not open 
late, it doesn’t draw business from 
the bar scene, Roland said. So, dur-
ing these months, the business leans on its promotional tools: Taco Tuesdays, buy-one-get-one-free specials, an online newsletter and discounts for faculty and pub-lic servants. 
The Italian Gator, a small pizza 
stand just down the road, has been 
utilizing a new strategy to stop the 
summer bleeding — lots of free stuff.
The restaurant has started us-
ing tools like Groupon to try to lure customers to its service window, said general manager Damon Bai-ley.By doing so, he said, the restau-
rant is avoiding the same fate as its neighbors. 
They have also introduced a 
VIP Lunch Club Card, valid Mon-day through Friday between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m., which offers a free soda or bottled water with the pur-chase of two slices of pizza.
“It’s taken a bit of time for the 
steam to build up,” said Bailey, “but it’s been pretty good – a really big relief.”
Even a larger entity like Miller 
Lite is trying to find ways to boost sales during the slow season.
One way Miller Lite has tried 
to generate business is by creat-
ing a Taste Points system. Points 
are given out in bars or printed on cases of Miller Lite. Customers can redeem prizes online with a certain number of points. 
The company has also tried to 
promote sales by transforming its promotional models into “Liteg-uards” by having them wear com-
pany-branded bathing suits and 
whistles out to the bars.
One such model, Nicole Von-
derhaar, said the Liteguards have been a hit with bar-goers.
“People will get all excited and 
say things like ‘Are you guys real life guards? Because I think I need saving,’” she said.
SAN FRANCISCO — Instead 
of paying attention in high school, 
Nick Cammarata preferred to read 
books on whatever interested him. He also has a gift for coding that got him into Carnegie Mellon Uni-versity’s esteemed computer science program despite his grades.
But the 18-year-old programmer 
won’t be going to college this fall. Or maybe ever.
Cammarata is one of two dozen 
winners of a scholarship just award-ed by San Francisco tech tycoon Pe-ter Thiel that comes with a unique catch: The recipients are being paid not to go to college.
Instead, these teenagers and 
20-year-olds are getting $100,000 each to chase their entrepreneurial 
dreams for the next two years.
“It seems like the perfect point in 
our lives to pursue this kind of proj-
ect,” says Cammarata of Newbury-port, Mass., who along with 17-year-old David Merfield will be working on software to upend the standard approach to teaching in high school 
classrooms.
Merfield, the valedictorian of his 
Princeton, N.J., high school class, 
is turning down a chance to go to Princeton University to take the fel-lowship.
Thiel himself hand-picked the 
winners based on the potential of their proposed projects to change the world.
One winner wants to create a 
mobile banking system for the de-veloping world. Another is work-ing to create cheaper biofuels. One wants to build robots that can help out around the house.
The prizes come at a time when 
debate in the U.S. over the value of higher education has become heat-
ed. New graduates mired in student loan debt are encountering one of 
the toughest job markets in decades. 
Rising tuition  and diminishing pros-
pects have led many to ask whether college is actually worth the time and money.
“Turning people into debt slaves 
when they’re college students is re-ally not how we end up building a better society,” Thiel says.
Thiel made his fortune as a co-
founder of online payment service PayPal shortly after graduating from Stanford Law School. He then became the first major investor in Facebook. In conversation and as a philanthropist, Thiel pushes his strong belief that innovation has stagnated in the U.S. and that radical solutions are needed to push civili-
zation forward.
The “20 Under 20” fellowship is 
one such effort. Thiel believes that 
the best young minds can contribute more to society by skipping college and bringing their ideas straight to the real world.
And he has the shining example 
of Facebook to back up his claim. Thiel’s faith in the world-changing potential of Harvard dropout Mark Zuckerberg’s idea led him to invest $500,000 in the company, a stake that is now worth billions.
Still, the Zuckerbergs of the tech 
industry are famous because they are the exceptions. Silicon Valley is littered with decades worth of failed 
tech start-ups.
Vivek Wadhwa, director of re-
search at Duke University’s Center 
for Entrepreneurship and a writer for TechCrunch and Bloomberg Businessweek, has assailed Thiel’s program for sending what he sees as the message that anyone can be Mark Zuckerberg.
“Silicon Valley lives in its own bubble. It sees the world through its own prism. It’s got a distorted 
view,” Wadhwa says.
Thiel says the “20 Under 20” 
program shouldn’t be judged on 
the basis of his own educational background or even the merits of his critique of higher education. He urges his critics to wait to see what the fellows achieve over the next two years.
According to data compiled by 
the Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce, workers with college degrees were laid off during the Great Recession at a much lower rate than workers without degrees. College graduates 
were also more likely to be rehired.
But for fellowship recipients like 
John Burnham, 18, such concerns 
pale next to the idealism of youth. At his prep school in western Massa-chusetts, Burnham started an alter-native newspaper to compete with the school’s official publication.
Now his ambitions have grown.
Burnham believes that the 
world’s growing population will 
put an unsustainable strain on the planet’s natural resources. That’s why he’s looking to other worlds to meet humanity’s needs.
Specifically, he believes that min-
ing operations on asteroids could hold the key. For the next two years, he’ll be studying rocket propulsion technology and puzzling through the economics of interplanetary re-source extraction.
“This fellowship is so much of a 
better fit for my personality than I think college would be,” Burnham 
says. “When you get an opportunity 
of the magnitude of this fellowship, I couldn’t see myself being able to wait.”
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSTUESDAY, MAY 31, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Stephen Alford, with Alford’s Affordable Services, poses after touching up Tijuana Flats’ storefront. Tijuana 
Flats, as well as other midtown restaurants and bars, are seeing fewer customers in the summer months.
AP Photo
In this May 27, 2011 photo, John Burnham, one of two dozen recipients of a unique scholarship, walks 
past a space mural on display at the Kennedy Space Center Visitor Complex in Cape Canaveral. 
Midtown gets crafty as summer business slows
NATIONALTech mogul pays bright minds not to go to collegeThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
C.J. Pruner 
EDITORJoey FlechasJosh IsomMANAGING EDITORS
Today’s question: Do you believe Urban Meyer when he says he’s not eyeing the Ohio State job?Thursday’s question:  Do you wear a seat belt when you drive?
153 TOTAL VOTES94% YES6% NOHe Did It Again!
But then again, it’s Rick 
Scott (he tends to do this)
This isn’t even fun anymore.
Typically, we’d thumb our noses to authority over  
any kind of miscarriage of budgeting, but this one’s 
just too easy. It sucks the joy right out of it.
Now, Gov. Rick Scott is just pissing us off.
Scott, a member of the so-called “party of no,” solidified 
himself as the “governor of no” when he vetoed a record 
$615 million from the budget.
This translates into a loss of about $12 million of fund-
ing for UF, a figure that leaves some university projects in limbo. 
Money for a statewide research effort on brain tumors?  “Sorry, thanks for playing.”Some cash to help out a local community health clinic run 
by UF’s College of Nursing? 
“No soup for you!”A little dough to fix stuff when it breaks?“Nah trick nah!”The shocker was that $5.3 million for maintenance and 
repairs. That forces UF officials to make tough decisions should a situation arise where serious repairs to infrastruc-ture are needed. 
We better hope this unbearable heat doesn’t knock one of 
our air conditioning systems out, or this place may start to feel like a real swamp.
We know the tired logic behind his hatred of spending: 
You can’t just throw money at the problem.
Well, Mr. Scott, you can’t horde your way into prosperity, 
either.
We understand cuts have to be made and not everything 
is going to survive those cuts. Perhaps the research and aca-demic facility at Lake Nona can stand to be put on hold for 
now. 
But vetoing funding for programs that actually have some 
scientific standing is no way to go about digging a technolo-
gy-and-innovation-starved state out of the hole it’s in.
Focusing on the results, a method Slick Rick is quick 
to support, involves taking time and yes, spending a little coin.
So he refused to fund what he considers “wasteful spend-
ing.” But not only does he insult the importance of local 
projects, but he turns the signing of the budget into a mem-
bers-only party.
When he signed the budget at The Villages Thursday, a 
group of Democrats was unceremoniously ejected from the proceeding.
Sorry, liberals. No to you, too! Sumter County sheriff’s deputies said the event was “pri-
vate” as they kicked the group out.
Problem is, it wasn’t.
Scott’s people maintain that it was a public event. The Vil-
lages Daily Sun, the local newspaper, advertised it as such.
The deputies had received their instructions from a spe-
cial assistant to Scott, Russ Abrams, who refused to talk to 
the press on the issue.
Guess there is a new sheriff in town.A Scott aide made a stupid mistake that makes his boss 
look like partisan schoolboy sitting in his tree house with a big sign nailed on the side: NO DEMS ALLOWED! 
Well, Scott doesn’t really need much help with project-
ing that image. He’s already etched himself into Florida’s history as a incredibly unpopular man with stubborn and 
highly unreasonable beliefs about how to cope with budget 
issues.
For a man who daily rapes the state of Florida, “no” is 
just another word in the way of the red pen.Leave it to prophets to ruin a good  party
Impending doom arrived May 21, 2011.
Well, it’s May 31, 2011, and I see no demons rising 
from the ash mounts of hell. 
We have had our fair share of disasters in recent years: 
Y2K, anthrax scares, SARS, AIDS, Bird Flu, tsunamis, ty-
phoons, earthquakes and global economic meltdowns. Now 
we have tornadoes in the Midwest going completely Charlie Sheen. So maybe God is PMSing at least a little bit. Expect his wrath to be full-force once His menstruation starts, and trust me, God has quite a heavy flow.
What is the fascination with the world ending? Are our 
lives so boring that people actually “hope” for some type of cosmic shitshow to make things more interesting? What makes you think you are awesome enough to interpret His 
“Word” to the exact date? Don’t you suppose that God 
would be pissed at you for thinking you are arrogant enough to even consider the possibility that you could decipher His super-secret plan?
Give Him some credit. What point is there in divinity if 
there is no mystery or overarching badassery? A belief in a Christian God should support his eternal dominance, the type that turned jabronis into pillars of salt. 
And what about the surprise? God planned a surprise 
party for the past 7,000 years for Jesus on Earth with plenty of fireworks and demon smashing, and you have the audac-ity to ruin it?
Why don’t you just take the first piece of cake for yourself 
while you’re at it, ya big dick?
What is more frustrating is the fact that these are based 
on undeniable “proof.” Harold Camping has stated that one day for the Lord is obviously a thousand years. Since the flood occurred in 4990 B.C., the spiritual apocalypse would 
definitely come 7,000 years later in 2011. 
The date of May 21 is represented by 722,500 days af-
ter the crucifixion. Determined by 5 x 10 x 17 x 5 x 10 x 17. 
These numbers were selected of course because they were religiously symbolic. At least the Mayans give us an ex-
tension to Dec. 21, 2012 at 11:11 p.m. Personally, I give more credence to them. At least their guess is based on the sun’s alignment in the center 
of the Milky Way for the first time in 
26,000 years rather than the writings of old desert scribblings where num-bers written in the book by the author were meant to be interpreted differ -
ently than how they were written.
Fundamentalists, however, believe the Bible is meant to 
be taken word for word – except the numbers in it. Those are meant to be “interpreted.”
“Shea, wouldn’t the rest of the Bible be open to interpreta-
tion then?”
“Nope. Just the numbers in it.”“What about the Book of Numbers?”“Shut up or you will burn in hell!”I was under the impression that perhaps a miscalcula-
tion would instill Camping’s  followers with a little humility . They would have bought thousands of party hats and noise-makers only to be terribly disappointed at their inability to 
wear them proudly on their Savior’s return in May . 
Do they lose their faith? Do they continue going to work 
as if nothing happened? Of course not.  Obviously Jesus was 
busy, so he had to reschedule. No biggie.
Attention everyone. The physical Rapture will now be 
October 21, 2011. Make sure to set the event in your Google calendar.  
As for me, I cannot side with a group of people who try 
to avoid the fun of killing demons. Have fun floating up to 
Heaven naked while I curbstomp the spawn of Satan. 
Or perhaps I’ll wait for the Mayan destruction. At least 
there was an entertaining movie about that.
Shea Ford is a psychology senior at UF . His column appears on 
Tuesdays.
Shea Ford
letters@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MAY 31, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Gov. Scott is killing education one penstroke at a time
When Gov . Rick Scott announced his budget proposal in 
February, the word “education” was notably absent from the 
political event. And when he did roll out his education bud-get proposal, it called for slashing already underfunded public schools by more than 10 percent. 
The education budget approved by the Legislature did not 
cut schools as deeply as the governor recommended, but it was almost as irresponsible. Teachers and other school employ-ees will lose their jobs, programs will be drastically cut, and schools will be closed. Florida’s classrooms cannot be protected from these decisions.
On Thursday at his political event announcing what items 
he would veto out of the state budget, the governor made a big show of saying he was putting money back in the schools’ 
budget.  It was a politically expedient message for a governor 
with plummeting poll numbers but also a cruel suggestion for school employees who face layoffs and furloughs and for school children who attend Florida’s inadequately funded school systems.
This Legislature handed out more than $300 million in tax 
cuts in a year while the education budget was slashed. The governor lobbied hard for these tax cuts, but didn’t lift a finger to prevent the real harm that will be caused by cuts in educa-
tion and health and human services.  
Andy Ford is president of the Florida Education Association.Letter to the Editor
I gulp a frosty mug of Pabst, wink at Gerry and ask, “Hey 
Hank, when are you going to start serving blacks in here?”
Mueller’s steel eyes glare at Gerry and me. He sneers 
then spits out a robotic response.
“As soon as I find someone stupid enough to eat them.”
I give Gerry my “holy shit” look. 
Less than three miles from Charleston Air Base, Mueller’s is 
run, and owned, by two German racists, Hank and Jim. They won’t serve blacks and don’t like whites.  
It’s 1968 in South Carolina, yet nobody has heard of the 
Orangeburg Massacre.
     
n n n 
“Why not come to Jacksonville this weekend?” 
Gerry’s smile invites larceny. “My pal Waldo and me will 
take you to a joint that makes the best Singapore slings in Flor -
ida.” 
Blessed with teeth like Chiclets, premature-gray hair, and a 
tall athletic build, Gerry wows the chicks, but I’m not bottom feeding. I hang out with him because he drinks like a dying 
man.   
“I don’t know, Gerry,” I say. “I’m strapped.” “Don’t be a pussy,” he fires back. “Crash and eat at my 
house. You only need booze money .” 
“Besides,” he adds, “my sister’s a piece of ass”“You’re using your sister for bait?” 
“She’ll like you man. Take her to the movies. See how it 
plays out.”
n n n
Asleep on the couch at Gerry’s house, I hear a rumbling in 
the kitchen. I open one eye and spy Gerry’s drunken old man 
pissing into the refrigerator. 
I eat out the entire weekend.  
n n n
The next night finds Gerry , Waldo and I sitting on stools in 
the promised oasis. We’re pounding Singapore slings. Within 
two hours, it’s painfully obvious I’m out of my league. I can’t 
keep pace and am fading fast. 
When closing hour rolls around, I’m useless protoplasm 
that Gerry pours into Waldo’s car.  
For the second straight night, rumbling startles me out of a 
coma-like sleep.    
“This one’s alive. He’s moving.” A bright light hits my eyes. I try to make sense of that last 
sentence. My jaw feels as if Joe Frazier knocked me out. I regain 
my senses and spit out crumpled enamel like so many bits of 
sand. 
I see only the car’s roof. My head rests on the seat and my knees on the floor. 
An oak tree mushrooms from the 
car’s hood. The car’s fenders embrace 
the tree. To my left sits a mangled steer -
ing wheel, and the windshield has dis-appeared. 
Don’t move. Piece it together, what 
the hell happened? What did Waldo say 
before you passed out?
“You’ll like this baby. I got it for a 
song. Let me show you what it can do.” 
Tossed through the missing windshield like two duffel 
bags, Gerry and Waldo are dead. V eins that pumped gin and 
blood hours before are now wrapped in body bags and lifted 
into an ambulance.  
I start to feel each limb: delicately, slowly, hazily. My arms 
are fine. My legs are fine. No leaks. No sign of blood. 
I look at the paramedic examining my chest, then the E.M.S. 
bus. 
How can this be? My two friends are dead, and except for 
broken enamel, I’m unscathed.
                           
n n n
My drunkenness saved my life. When my chin hit the dash-
board, my teeth absorbed the full-force of the crash. Miracu-lously , I was knocked cold. 
“Fifteen years on the job, I never saw anyone walk away 
from a wreck that bad,” the state trooper said.
n n n
My disease won’t nourish mourning. Gerry got a bad break, 
the luck of the draw. 
After his death, I resume gambling, drinking and drug-
ging. 
In 1966, Truman Capote’s book “In Cold Blood” depicted 
two murderers hitchhiking. They’re determined to kill the next 
Good Samaritan who picks them up.
The book’s grizzly murders haunt my psyche the way 
“Jaws” haunts future generations.  One night after a bad bout with booze at Mueller’s, I hitchhike the short ride back to 
base. 
It’s well past 2 a.m., but cars still stop along this short strip 
for servicemen. So despite the rain, and imagined menace, I de-
cide to “thumb it.”
A pick-up truck pulls over. I leap into the passenger seat.“Thanks a lot man,” I tell the driver. “I really appreciate you 
stopping.”    
I size up my benefactor through bleary eyes and note the 
hands on the steering wheel look like canned hams. The driver 
doesn’t acknowledge my presence. He slowly accelerates back 
onto the main drag. “I was only out there a couple of minutes when you came 
along. I’m just going up the road to the air base,” I say.
Still the taciturn driver stares straight ahead.“I’ve been in Charleston almost two years, but I’m from N.Y. 
originally. You from around here?”
Still nothing, he just stares into the night’s deluge. The black-
ness smothers the deserted road. 
I begin to feel antsy . Most people pick up hitchhikers for company . They break 
up the monotony of a long trip, or, in my case, help out some-one in a jackpot. This guy’s different. He’s mute. He hasn’t 
turned his head or taken his two giant mitts off the wheel.  
F**k him. I combat silence with silence. It’s no skin off my 
ass. At least I’m out of the rain. Soon, I’ll be back in the barracks.  I resign myself to silence.
The stillness doesn’t last. “You really didn’t learn a thing from that accident in Jack-
sonville. Did you?” the stranger says.
What the f**k!?! What did he say? Did I hear this guy right?  
I gotta be f*****g drunk. He couldn’t have said that.”
“Excuse me? What did you say?”  The driver turns, his face stolid. He says nothing. Bug-eyed, 
he stares through me, not at me. 
My heart races, I’m terrified. I’m just a kid. I turn away. 
The windshield wiper’s cadence beats time with my heart’s 
palpitations. I calculate. 
If I jump out of a car moving 55 mph, can I survive? When I 
hit the ground, will I be all right to run?  
The storm worsens. The road ahead appears as sleek as a 
seal’s back. Momentarily , the stranger focuses on the curves of 
the road.  
Less than a mile from the base, I start to shake and sniffle. Finally the truck slows and comes to a halt outside the en-
trance to the base The driver turns again, stares then waits a month before he chants one bone-chilling sentence.
“Nice night for a murder.” I spring the handle on the door and bolt. I don’t offer him 
a  “ thanks” or a “f**k you.”  I never hear the truck accelerate. I don’t look back.
Nice night for a murder? Was he playing a game? What was 
that stuff about Jacksonville?  How did he know? 
Good or bad, my mania forbids lingering. My brain hops 
like a frog on speed. I reflect on both incidents but refute mysti-cal explanations. 
He said Jacksonville taught me nothing. He was right, but 
I’ll learn. 
Unfortunately , my new professors speak Vietnamese and 
wear black pajamas.     
Bill O’Connor is a Vietnam veteran, former Bronx firefighter 
and pub and restaurant owner. O’Connor is currently a journal-
ism major at UF and a standup comic. The irreverent and acerbic O’Connor performs free standup around Gainesville.Lost in the sauce: A hitchhiker’s (hazy) guide to alcoholism  Column
Bill O’Connor
letters@alligator.orgClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2011
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
8-15-11-25-1
The Landings
All-Inclusive 3/3’s
ONLY $459
$49 Signing Fees
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
8-15-25-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
8-15-25-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
8-15-25-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409 ***
Ask about our Apple TV  special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
8-15-11-25-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
8-15-11-25-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-1
The Polos
Roommate Matching Available
2/2 only $538/month per person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    8-15-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com8-15-11-25-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    8-15-11-25-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-1
Leasing 4 Summer & Fall
Great Specials & New Amenities!
All Inclusive & steps from SFC
Starting @ $359  352.379.9300
8-15-11-25-1
1 BR 1 BA furn apt on horse farm in Williston. 
Includes util, garb, water, pest, cable, park-
ing, cent H/A, W/D, tile. NS. Refs checked. 
$800/mo. Avail 1st/2nd week in May. Call 
Cindy 352-443-2016.    6-9-11-10-1
GREAT OPPORTUNITY FOR REDUCED 
RENT. Fully furnished or unfunished up-
graded 2 Bdrm apt w/ W/D Need mature, 
handy adult to occasionally show apts (other 
3 currently occupied) and do minor chores. 
Requires less than 4 hours/mo. Normally 
rents for $735/mo. Negotiable Sorry no pets. 
Call 727-423-9463.    6-9-11-9-1
4BR/4BA Countryside Apt furnished. Asking 
$375/mo. 2 brms avail. beg. 8/1. Rent inc. 
cable and wireless internet + util package for 
elec/water. Contact Chris at 941-726-2204 
or raginriv@ufl.edu w/ any questions.   5-31-
6-1
4br/4bath-$1400/month-All INCLUSIVE
Cable/Internet/Utilities($175 cap)Fully furnished-32" HDTV in Common roomCountryside Apartments- Available 8/1/11954.682.8352 or maggator@ufl.edu 6-2-6-1
Furnished,4bedroom,4bath,W/D,1st 
floor,$350/room, 3800 SW 20th Univ Terrace West, includes utilities Steve 352-586-6468; room-mate matching    7-5-11-10-1
$375-Well-maintained 4/4 SW Gville condo 
avail. starting summer or fall. Less than 10 mins. from UF/Shands/Butler Plaza! RMM match, indiv. leases, private bath, walk-in closets, W/D, on 2 bus routes. Internet/cable included. Call 352.514.3398.   8-26-11-25-1
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse.Walk to UF. Avail. 8/15
$850/mo. call 877-833-2865    6-14-11-5-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. 2br $400 372-6881, 213-3901        8-15-11-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
8-15-11-25-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
8-15-11-25-21/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    8-15-10-25-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $579
3br  for $729.
Limited Availability. 352-376-4002
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   8-15-10-25-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
8-15-11-25-2
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
8-15-11-25-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
8-15-11-25-2 
2 BR starts at $1029
3 BR starts at $1219Amazing townhome, includes:Cable w/ HBO and ShowtimeCobblestone Apts. Call Now!352.377.2801   8-15-25-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
8-15-11-25-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!8-15-25-2
One Month FREE!
Move In by June 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
8-15-11-25-22/2.5 TH • $699
4/2.5 TH • 1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • thegardensuf.com
8-15-25-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
8-15-11-25-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
8-15-11-25-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
8-15-11-25-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
8-15-11-25-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   8-15-11-25-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495 ● 3BRs $630
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          8-15-11-25-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * biketouf.com8-15-11-25-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
8-15-11-25-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    8-15-11-25-2Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 475
2.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
8-15-11-25-2
Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
8-15-11-25-2
Pine Rush Villas
Sign a lease by 4/30 and enter to
win a FREE YEAR OF RENT!!
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
352-375-1519
8-15-11-25-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
8-15-11-25-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   8-15-11-25-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    8-15-11-25-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.Garage included. Gated Community.2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         8-15-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
7-14-11-73-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$559 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   6-9-11-43-2
TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2011 � ALLIGATOR, 9
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     6-2-11-31-2
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. 
Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-
376-5887    8-15-25-2
****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, 
close to campus, all appliances, W/D,
hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2
****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, 
W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OK Avail Aug.1, $1295 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,
W/D, central heat/air
Avail. Aug 1, $1300 - 333-9874 or 317-7346
6-9-11-36-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/1.5BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/1.5BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $590-625. Gated patio, trees, flood 
lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-3937
6-2-34-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   8-15-11-25-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com8-15-10-25-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1700
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
5-31-11-32-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 
352-335-4455    8-15-11-25-2
STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
8-15-25-25
★WALK2UF.COM★
Location, Location, Affordable
352-375-8256
8-15-25-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**
Near GHFC vaulted ceilings, all appliances, 
W/D, garage, small pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1195 333-9874,  317-7346    6-9-11-31-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   8-15-11-25-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    8-15-11-25-2WWW.BELLAPROPERTIES.NET
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
8-15-11-25-2.
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    
7-28-11-22-2
CONDOS.JACKSONSQUARE.US
Luxury condos 3 blocks North of UF
352-870-9453
8-15-25-2
Walk or Bike to Campus!
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR houses & condos available. 
Campus Realty 352-692-3800rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    7-28-11-34-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW 
areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 
per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; 
Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com     
5-31-11-16-2
Clean small efficiency Quiet.Wash/dry on 
prem.Wat/Sew incl NS No Pets.1/2m south 
UF/Shands,2 bus routes.$399/m.Same fur-
nished $410/m 352-262-2871 Owner/agent    
8-2-11-30-2
Baxter House Near Campus 1013 SW 4th 
Ave. 4BR/2BA, custom designed, two story 
brick home, W/D, new H A/C, hardwood 
floors & walls. Much more $2,300/mo + util. 
275-1259 ATucker458@aol.com   5-31-11-
8-2
1103 SW 6th Avenue Rear, 2-story brick, 1/2 
block to UF, 4BR + 2/3BA, remodeled open design, W/D, Disp, 2 A/C units, DW,MW parking, backyard, NPets, NS. Fall $2,100 + util. 275-1259, ATucker458@aol.com   5-31-11-8-2
Post Apartments – 352 376 0080.  352 284 
3873. postj@bellsouth.netClean, spacious, private apts. for calm, quiet, stable, mature persons.●Duckpond duplex - 920 NE 6th Ave. $700 Carport, large yard, big trees, burglar bars, WDH, CHA, carpet. ●1808 - 1830 NW 10th St.- 1 and 2 bed-rooms. $500-$650. Private patio with lock gate, large yard, big trees, carpet.●1700 SW 16th Ct.- 1 and 2 br Condos $550 - $650 1 block from Shands   8-15-11-25-2Pinnacle Point large 2 bedroom townhouse 
just minutes from UF & Butler Plaza. All of our 
units are newly refurbished with all new ap-
pliances, tile, carpet, paint, light fixtures and 
more! Call today for specials 352-373-7578    
8-15-11-25-2
LUXURY 3/2 CREEK'S EDGE CONDO
Quiet upstairs condo. 1300 sf. Like New, lg. 
rooms, hardwood floors, upgraded 
kitchen and appl. W/D. Mins to campus on 
direct bus rt. $975 727-463-0560    6-30-11-
14-2
LUXURY DOWNTOWN CONDO!
Stylish City living in Regent’s Park
Beautiful, huge and quiet!
Two story, 3BR/2.5 bath, w/garage
Avail in Aug @ $1600/mo.
Call Union Properties at 373-7578.
8-15-11-25-2
507 NW 39th Rd 1/1 $725-hardwood floors, 
porch, w/d, pets-Y!, no pet fees, walk in 
closets, fence, close to everything Newberry 
& 39th rd, Avil now. MUST SEE beautiful 
unit. 305-586-8255 smwhite14@yahoo.com  
6-9-11-9-2
3BR/1BA house available August in SW 
Gainesville. Central heat/AC, hardwood/
tile floors, washer/dryer, carport, Florida 
room, private fenced backyard with patio, 
pet-friendly. $900/month. ph. 352-318-1053  
6-16-11-12-2
3&4 bedroom homes avail in NW Gainesville. 
Mins to UF and Santa Fe. Ideal for students/
families. Pets Welcome! Avail Aug 5.
3331 NW 30th PL 3bed/2bath $975 
3321 NW 30th PL 4 bed/2 bath $1175 
Call Ricky for more info 352-284-5119    6-7-
11-8-2
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
2 large rooms w/private baths. 10 min to UF. Large home, quiet neighborhood. $550/mo + utils per room. Cable, W/D, hardwood floors. 5 mins to busline. Call 352-284-0979    6-30-11-13-2
1 MONTH FREE ★ NO APPLICATION FEE
★ Apts Starting at $350 ★ Pets OK! ★
Call Today. 
Meadowcrest Apts. 352-378-3988
meadowcrest@wbsproperties.com
6-14-11-10-2
1/1 w/ private gated court yard in small quiet 
complex. Prefect for the serious student or quiet proffesional small pets ok. $450 mnth call: 352 377-2150    6-16-11-10-21/1 Campus Edge
3rd floor, very calm. Washer, dryer, dish-washer, stove, fridge, microwave, overlook -
ing the pool, gym. $699/m, Avail July 352-262-2871 Owner Agent    7-14-11-16-2
●Charming 2BR 1 BA Cottage Blocks to UF
2703 NW 2nd Ave. Central h/a, laundry 
with w/d, large private screened porch. No 
Pets, Avail August. Grandaddy oaks. $875/
mo. 1st last $500 security. 352-332-5836  
6-16-11-10-2
POOL HOUSE
4BR/3BA 2816 W Univ Ave 1 mi to UF. 
Fenced-in nice backyard. W/D, DW. Avail now.
$1500/mo summer, $1600/mo fall NEG.327-2931, 376-6183              6-16-11-10-2
The Landings
2/2.5 Townhome
ONLY $940
Includes Internet & Cable
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
8-15-21-2
Very nice Rockwood Villas Townhouse
3/3 for only $900.00/month-Great deal!
Large bedrooms, updated appliances, 
Washer/dryer, 2 pools, lots of parking
Call Jared at (941) 737-6997    6-30-11-10-2
Near UF. Beautiful 4BR/2BA home. Florida 
room w/ inground jacuzzi. W/D. All tile floor. 
2-car attached garage, storage shed. Walk 
to grocery & shops. Avail Aug 9. $1399/mo  
904-534-6982, kencarmgravs@comcast.net    
6-16-11-8-2
●●●●  HOUSE  ●●●●
105 NW 30th St, 2200 sq ft, 3BR/2BA+ bo-
nus rm w/ bath, carport, lg yard, pet-friendly, 
12 blks to stadium, bus rte 5, 34, 43. $1700/
mo  352-281-7932    6-2-11-4-2
2BR HOUSE. Super nice, tile floors, A/C, 
W/D hook-up, fenced yard, on bus route, close to UF & SFC. $650/mo, flex lease. 914 NW 40th Ave. Call for info         352-318-8822    6-7-11-5-2
Great 3/2 House w/crpt & w/d (1100sqft)
Rent $1050/month with leasePets allowed  :)  Available June 1stContact Kathryn: kesamai@gmail.com4102 NW 21st Terrace Gville, FL 32608    7-14-14-2
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7129 SW 45th Place. $525/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-11146-30-11-10-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/ 
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2175 352-665-8166 lv mssg 8-15-11-21-2
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice,
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dishwash -
er, ice, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. $1590/mo. 352-665-8166 lv mssg          8-15-11-21-2
1/1 POOLHOUSE
Across from Shands W/D Pets OKGym Tanning Utilities Gated Entry Incl.725 sq ft. Reduced Rate $925/moAvail August 937-626-9882    5-31-11-3-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm floor plans starting
at $635. Washer/Dryer, Fitness Center,
Tennis Court, Swimming Pool, Sauna etc.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat. 10-5, Sun 12-4
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvillas.com
text (Lakewood)@65586
8-15-11-20-2
10, ALLIGATOR � TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2011
SPYGLASS
Individual Leases. Furniture Pkgs. incl.
Washer/Dryer, FREE Hi-Speed internet.
Rates start at $399. Every unit an end unit.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 26nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass) 65586
8-15-11-20-2
UPPER WESTSIDE /
NANTUCKET
1 & 2 bdrm  Luxury Apts. Granite counters.
Parking avail. Walk to campus & stadium.
For info. call 352-872-4644
upperwestside@cmcapt.com
text: upperwestside@65374
8-15-11-20-2
2/2 ROCKWOOD VILLAS, $750, NEAR 
MALL & UF. LOTS OF PARKING, CORNER 
UNIT, HAS OWN W+D D.AGUIRRE.
AZOCAR@GMAIL.COM OR 347.878.9072   
AVAILABLE JULY 1.    7-5-11-10-2
2/1 duplex in Tower Oaks Glen
Cent A/C, laundry room w/ W/D, on bus 
route. No pets. $525/mo , 1st month + last month. 6900 SW 21st Lane (352) 514-9698   6-7-11-4-2
DOWNTOWN STUDIO/GARAGE APT
416 SE 2nd St. Off-street parking, privacy. 
Near main bus station. H2O/sewage provid -
ed, window A/C, space heat. $420/mo. 1st, last, sec.  Call 373-6551    7-5-10-2
2BR HOUSE
Private yard. Small dog OK. $650/mo 6200 
SW 13th St. 352-372-6881 or 352-213-3901   6-7-11-4-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE PERFECT FOR 
PROFESSIONALS/GRAD. 2BR/2BA pris-tine Bivens Arm condo. Large den/3rd BR, 
hdwd flrs, W/D, pool, canoe. Walk/bike to 
Shands/UF, bus stop. $1190/mo. 407-832-
1458    6-28-11-8-2
Quiet spacious 2 bed 1 bath house on large 
fenced corner lot,screen porch, washer/dryer hookup,pet fee,lease $750 available june 11123 NW 31st ave call 352 475 1586    6-9-4-2
4bed/4 bath condo available on
7/31. $275 per person.1.5 miles
from UF; on bus line. All appli-
ances &some furniture included.
Call J. Erney at 352-328-1266.   7-7-11-10-2
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38668-15-25-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house. Male 
or female. No pets/smoking. Free off-street parking $450/mo. Includes all utilities, wifi, security system, Available 8/1 yearly lease. 727-501-3485    5-31-11-33-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-729-1561   5-31-20-4
I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking $300/mo which includes util & Dish Network TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-682-9412    6-2-10-4
350/mo 2 blocks from campusClose to downtown
814-440-3325 or jfidorra@hotmail.com   6-30-11-14-4MATURE PROFESSIONAL Share 3BR/3BA 
pool home near UF. Safe area across from 
Plaza Royale. Bus rte. No alcohol or drugs. 
$325 + 1/3 util. 2 rms available 5/13. No pets. 371-3837                                 6-7-11-9-4
ROOMMATES WANTED! 2 student girl 
roommates looking for 1-2 roommates to 
share 4 bed/2 bath home. W/D,kitchen/din-
ing/living/family rooms, side patio, fenced in 
yard $500/month everything included. Great 
location within 5 miles of campus!
Call Megan, (386)441-8208.    6-7-7-4
$350 moves you in! No deposit or last months 
rent. Mature male student to share furnished 
4/2. FR, LR, W/D, maid service, yrd man, 5 
min from UF, new kitchen, big yard. No pets, 
non-smoker. (813) 362-7729 or 362-7881    
6-7-11-5-4
Male college student wanted for gated 
4BR/4BA Countryside condo, poolside, own 
BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed internet, ear-
ly stop on UF bus rte. Utils incl. $400/mo. No 
deposit  863-634-1893     6-30-11-10-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Countryside 
condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl.
Direct bus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless.Flo 352-357-9656, or 352-636-48146-30-11-10-4
Grad student looking for female students 
in fully furnished 4/4 condo at Countryside. $425/month. Includes cable/internet, utilities, 
W/D. On 2 bus routes. Contact Megan 727-
542-8155.    6-16-11-6-4
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  GraniteCounters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28798-15-25-5
Perfect 2/2 Townhouse 3.5 miles UF 
$135,500. Master bdrm upstairs. New A/C, kitchen appliances, siding, and much more. Pictures, ect at Realtor.com MLS #319897. 352-376-9756    6-16-11-9-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      8-15-11-25-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        8-15-11-25-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        8-15-11-25-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   8-15-25-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      8-15-25-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    8-15-25-6FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      8-15-25-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  8-15-25-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  8-15-25-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     8-15-11-25-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
8-15-11-25-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-15-11-95-7
A+ Mobile PC Repair
Our technicians provide fast and thorough
computer repairs, at an affordable price.
We come to you. (352) 212-1220 
APlusMobile@rocketmail.com
9-2-11-30-7
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 8-15-10-25-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03708-15-10-25-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       8-15-25-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    8-15-25-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
8-15-11-25-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  8-15-11-25-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  8-15-11-25-11
STAND OR SIT ● POWERFUL MOBILITY
15-20 mile range, 15-20 mph. Easy to take apart. 300 lb capacity, 500 watt - battery op-erated  Excellent for Campus & Fun $975 & up. Call today J&S Assoicates 352-339-5158    6-30-11-9-11★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr 
Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-
6275 RoadRatMotors.com   8-15-11-20-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    8-15-11-20-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
8-15-25-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    8-15-11-
25-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
8-15-25-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
6-30-11-65-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
92 Eagle Talon $1499
89 Ford Bronco II $129994 Ford Taurus $1299  
01 Mits Montero $2999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $199998 Ford F250 $250096 BMW 318TI $3999 352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
99 Ford F150 $3999  
02 Chevy Blazer $4999  
01 Chevy Silverado $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit checksMove vehicle $500 & up!352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay hereCars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans30 day warranty352-375-9090     8-15-95-1204 Ford Taurus $5999  
02 Chevy Camero $6999  
03 GMC Sonoma $6999
05 Chevy Monte Carlo $6999
352-375-9090       8-15-95-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
02 Nissan Xterra $8999
05 Chevy Trailblazer $9999
05 Toyota Camry $10,999  
352-375-9090      8-15-95-12
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Denise Fanning at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
8-15-25-13
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      6-2-11-25-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2011 � ALLIGATOR, 11
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            8-15-10-25-14
F/T Legal Secretary/Office Administrator, sal-
ary negotiable. Call Carrillo & Carrillo @ 352-
371-4000.   6-2-11-8-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-15-10-25-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 
372-1226  sandysresale.com  8-15-11-25-14●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
5-31-72-14
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonal
recreation and aquatics positions
Competitive pay in great work
environment! Apply online today
at www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
ATTN SMOKERS!!!!
Need participants for study assessing the
effects of various activities on smoking. 
COMPENSATION provided. Call 336-406-
3706 or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com
5-31-13-14FT prof NANNY needed NOW $15/hr;
3 kids under 5;M-F 48hrs;+OT/ wkds; grads
welcomed; refs/bkkg ch; billing. Span/Eng;
long term; Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail
resume, pix, to gnv@nanoneone.com  
6-7-11-14-14
Net Enforcers is looking for a FT Junior 
Applications Developer. Excellent
Benefits. Please email resume to
ahjobs@intersections.com. EOE.
www.netenforcers.com    6-28-11-14-14
SUMMER WORK
GREAT PAY, $14.50 base/appt 
PT/FT openings avail. 
Customer Sales/Service, 
Will train, conditions apply 
all ages 17+ CALL NOW 
(352) 505-9241
6-2-11-8-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617    8-15-11-25-14
Exp. PRESSURE WASHING person w/ truck 
to pull trailer, pc, internet, cell; flexible hrs, 
part or full-time 'as needed', good pay. Only 
serious/dependable candidates, please. 352-
870-6017 / shaneman@symo.com    6-16-11-
12-14
HTML Programmer (Part Time)
This part-time, entry level position primar-
ily involves working on websites and online 
publications for our clients using HTML, CSS 
and basic image manipulation. We code web-
sites by hand (no visual website generators 
such as Frontpage), so at least entry level 
to intermediate HTML and CSS skills are re-
quired. Graphic design and layout skills may 
be helpful, but are not necessary since most 
of the work involves adding content to exist-
ing websites. About 20 hours per week with 
flexible scheduling. The position does have the potential for long term growth into other positions within our company.
www.oandp.com/careers    5-31-11-6-14
BARN HELP
EXPERIENCE A MUST. In exchange for les-
sons or boarding; or will pay the right person.  Hunter/Jumper facility. 352-359-4149    6-2-11-5-14
LaFiesta Restaurant
Now hiring hostesses, servers, cooks & dish-
washers. Apply after 2pm 7038 NW 10th Pl    6-9-11-8-14
MARKETING POSITION – PT PERSON 
M-F DAILY – 20-30 HOURS WEEKLY – STARTING $8.00 HOURLY BASED ON EXPERIENCE. MUST BE DEPENDABLE AND HAVE EXCELLENT COMMUNICATION SKILLS. MUST BE PROFICIENT IN EXCEL AND WORD. 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS.  EMAIL:WELLS@RIDGWAYTRUSS.COM    5-31-11-5-14
AUTOCAD – PT PERSON M-F DAILY 
– 30-50 HOURS WEEKLY- STARTING $9.00 HOURLY BASED ON EXPERIENCE.  MUST BE DEPENDABLE AND GOOD KNOWLEDGE OF BASIC AUTOCAD.  1 MILE FROM CAMPUS.  EMAIL: WELLS@RIDGWAYTRUSS.COM    5-31-11-5-14
WAITPERSON NEEDED
Sawamura Japanese Steakhouse. Apply 
from 2:30 to 4pm at 1624 SW 13th St. No calls please   6-2-11-5-14
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.50/hr, experience and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 for more info and interview.    6-16-8-14
FT NANNY NEEDED JUNE 1ST: $13/hr;
5 kids 4-12; 45 hrs/wk; M-F;must be exp/prof/ref/ commit 1yr+Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com6-2-11-4-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
8-15-25-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
8-15-25-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
8-15-11-25-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses 
Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   7-22-11-100-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
8-15-25-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   8-15-11-25-18
LOCAL IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage Green Cards, H1B's, Employment 
Green Cards, & Natz
www.RuthImmigrationLaw.com
6-28-10-18
Peace begins with you.
Award-winning 'Words of Peace'Cox CH 21: Sun 7pm; Thurs & Sun1:30am; Sat 1am or www.wopg.org352-373-5578  floridaconnect.net       8-15-11-25-20
CPR/ FIRST AID/ WILDERNESS FIRST 
AID/ LIFEGUARDINGMeets internship and health majorrequirementsFloridaheartsaver.org 575-0119    7-28-11-15-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
McintoshWorld.com. Your Boutique in a barn. 
Gifts-Reggae-Music-Drums-Shoes-Sandals-
Boots-Stickers-Posters-Paintings-Cards-
Books-Counter culture-Greatful Dead-LP's- HWY:441. 15 min. South. Spend some time...Formerly Environmental Circus - Key West.    
5-31-11-7-21PT Assistant Manager position for non-profit 
organization's Thrift Shop. Some retail ex-
perience reqd. Must be able to work flexible 
days/hours. Refs reqd.  Please email resume 
to  office@gainesvillejrleague.org    6-9-11-
5-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT for real estate office. 
Approx 25 hrs/wk, afternoons and some Sat 
mornings. Tasks include taking rent pay-
ments, answering phone, filing, writing let-
ters. Min 1-yr commitment expected. Starting 
pay $7.50/hr. Good PT job for student. 
Please send resume and cover ltr to
rabell@atlantic.net  No phone calls please. 
8-15-11-20-14
CLERICAL/TECHNICIAN POSITION
Full Time
Please apply in person
Institute of Veterinary Specialists
3603 NW 98th St. Suite A        6-16-5-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   8-15-25-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  8-15-11-25-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
8-15-25-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
8-15-11-31-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
●●ADVANCED CLEANING & JANITORIAL●●
30 years exp. ● Prompt ● Dependable
Detailed cleaning at low rates. Call thepeople who really do care. 352-682-0800     AdvancedCleaningGainesville.com  
6-9-11-10-15
Med School Entrance Consulting
Resident Physician offering advice for PreMed Students!Call: 248-762-0712Email:gatormedconsulting@gmail.com    6-14-10-15
Gator Slide Farm horse boarding, $350/mo., 
day stalled, night turned out.  Barns chores done credited against board bill.  Dressage, x-country, stadium. Student recommended. 352-466-3538, gtrslfrm@aol.com5-31-11-6-15
CPR, First Aid, Basic Life Support,
Advanced Cardiac Life Support Classes
Offered at your schedule. Best prices in town. 
Call Cardiac One today (352)494-4217
7-5-11-10-15
By JONNY SHIVER
Alligator Contributing Writer
PALATKA — The salty aroma of fresh 
seafood churned in the cool breeze blowing 
across the St. Johns River as children laughed and screamed out of joy or fear — and some -
times both — as carnival staff pushed mo-bile thrill rides to their limits.
About 40,000 people enjoyed the sun-
shine, vendors, entertainment and rows of seafood at the 23rd annual Blue Crab Festi-
val in Palatka on Sunday. 
The festival, which occurs on Memorial 
Day weekend every year and lasts Friday evening through Monday, offers something 
for everyone, said event chairwoman Carla 
Jayne Morris.
Free entry, entertainment, parking and 
affordable food helped make this particular 
Sunday one of the best the festival has seen in years, she said. 
For $10, those in attendance could catch 
a quick glimpse of Palatka from a few hun-
dred feet above the St. Johns River in a he-licopter.
Five dollars bought a camel ride, with the 
option of choosing 7-year-old Joe or Lula-
bell, the 8-year-old camel. 
The camels were introduced last year and 
are back by popular demand, Morris said.  
“People flock down here to see the cam-
els,” she said.
The camels are the product of three gen-
erations of animal trainers. The Riders fam-
ily, from Citra, have been training animal stars for decades. 
The family has trained animal superstars 
that have appeared in movies such as “Ace Ventura: Pet Detective,” “Evan Almighty” 
and the upcoming “Zookeeper,” which fea-
tures a camel named Shorty. 
Entertainment wasn’t limited to just 
kids.
For the older crowd, the Budweiser beer 
tent sold ice-cold brew all day while popu-
lar tribute bands played under the adjoining 
tent.
The live music tent kicked off Sunday’s line-up with chef-hat-wielding Sauce Boss 
who not only fires up his guitar  but also 
cooks his own special recipe gumbo on stage 
for audience members.
Popular tribute bands The Hendrix Expe-
rience and Led Head rocked the stage in the evening, with Motor City Josh headlining 
the stage at 10:30 p.m.
The International Paul Bunyan Lumber -
jack Show, new to the festival, showcased 
axe-throwing, chainsaw-wielding, log-roll-ing lumberjacks as they chopped, sawed 
and balanced on a floating log in a show of 
precision and brawn.
The show, led by Lee LeCaptain, has 
traveled across five continents to show off the skills of the lumberjacks tossing axes at 
a target, carving tiny chairs from a log us-
ing only a chainsaw, and carefully balancing 
themselves on a floating log while running 
in place as if from a cartoon.
The lumberjacks raced manpower 
against machine in an epic battle between 
a gas-powered chainsaw and the 60-tooth wood-eating beast known as a crosscut saw in which two men, one on each 
end of the saw, push and pull as the razor-sharp teeth rip through the tough cedar log.
The man-powered saw won the round 
with a time of only 34 seconds to cut through the roughly 12-inch log. 
But people like Ron Ruggles and Mari-
anne Ferrara, of Orlando, didn’t drive all the 
way up to Palatka for the entertainment. 
Instead, they drove up for the thing the 
event is named for — the food. 
“We wanted to get up to our elbows in 
blue crab,” Ruggles said.
About 40 food vendors were on hand to 
serve up a hefty menu of crawfish, alligator, 
fish, traditional grease-pit fair food and sev-
eral versions of blue crab.
Ferrara said her only complaint was that 
most of the downtown shops were closed.
“This may be the only reason I ever come 
to the town,” she said as she broke apart an-other crab leg. 
At the sight of Ferrara standing up from her shaded table next to the main entertain-ment stage and a mechanical bull, 
Ruggles had only one thing to say: “More 
napkins honey, we’re running out.” 
About 200 vendors gathered to sell a 
wide variety of items from hair accessories 
to custom-built cedar furniture.
Youth baseball teams came to sell snacks 
and drinks, eagerly awaiting donations to 
help buy equipment or travel to tourna-ments.
Michelle Rider, the arts and crafts coordi-
nator, said the vendors, some of which will make upwards of $15,000 over the course of 
a weekend, are required to hand-craft most 
of what they sell.
Morris said the Palatka Chamber of 
Commerce estimates the festival to have a $4.2 million economic impact on the com-munity. 
“You can’t get a motel room in Palatka,” 
she said. “Last night you’d have to sleep in your car.”
People have traveled from as far away as 
Texas for the blue crab, she said.
The festival closed Monday with a parade 
and memorial service for veterans, along 
with the Ducks for Bucks duck race. 
The race proceeds benefit the Palatka 
New Vision Lion’s Foundation.
The festival’s turnaround, after nearly 
being axed last year due to a lack of funding 
has been a tremendous accomplishment for 
Morris and the nearly 75 volunteers it takes 
to host the festival, she said.
“Seeing the crowd – seeing everybody 
smiling and having a good time,” she said, makes all of the hard work worth it.”12, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2011
Jeanna Arroyo / Alligator
Six thousand tombstones line Northwest Eighth Avenue in memory of fallen 
U.S. soldiers from the Iraq and Afghanistan wars on Memorial Day. 
Crabs, camels and lumberjacks usher in summer
Visitors left pictures, flags and writ -
ten messages for fallen soldiers
When a person writes a message on one of the 
stones, the VFP knows the stone was visited and 
decorates it with a flag each year, Camil said. In 
the first year, there were 12 stones with flags for soldiers with local ties. 
This year, there were more than 70 stones 
with flags from around the country.  
Aymen Almarrani, 20, an Iraqi student study-
ing at Santa Fe College, put a picture and a poem at the stone of Peter Neesley, 28, of Grosse Point Farms, Mich., on behalf of Neesley’s mother and 
sister.    
Almarrani never met Neesley when he was 
alive but has a unique tie to him. 
Almarrani worked as a translator for the U.S. 
Army and the Iraqi Society for Animal Welfare.  
He said soldiers like Neesley often befriend 
stray dogs in Iraq and don’t want to leave them 
behind when they come home.  The ISAW works to get those pets shipped to the soldiers in the 
United States.
Neesley had mentioned his two dogs, Mam-
ma and Borris, to his family while he was in Iraq.
After Nessley was killed, the dogs were left 
behind without anyone to look after them.  Nee-sley’s family requested the dogs be brought 
home and Almarrani was the one responsible for reuniting Mamma and Borris with their fam-ily.
“It was piece of Peter,” Almarrani said.  “It 
felt great to bring them [home].”
Other people who visited the memorial had 
no direct ties to those on the stones, but said see-ing them all spread out along the mile of road gave the lives lost overseas a new perspective to 
people here.
“You drive past, and it just keeps going,” said 
Evan Webb Stuart, 22, a UF student.
Kirk Anthony, a VFP volunteer, said he un-
derstood some wars had to be fought, but he wished more people would come out and show 
respect for the people who fought those wars and paid the ultimate price.  
Anthony’s son, Mark DeFord, 25, did two 
tours in Iraq and has been out of the Marines for 10 months.
DeFord said he hopes the display will prevent 
the need for memorials like this in the future.
“When our generation’s making policy, their 
kids will be in a similar display,” he said, “if we 
allow it to happen.”MEMORIAL , from page 1
“You drive past, and it just keeps going.”
 Evan Webb Stuart
UF StudentJonny Shiver / Alligator
Riley Kennerly, 5, of St. Augustine, rides the back of Lulabell, an 8-year-old camel, at 
the Palatka Blue Crab Festival this weekend.NewsLocalSports
TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
ONLINE alligatorSports PODCASTMike Lupica shoots from the lip. Pat 
Dooley strokes the back nine, and Bill Simmons writes 10,000-word mail-
bags. 
Everybody has a gimmick. I want some of that 
action. 
So I bring you, “Musings Courtesy of A 
Mouth From The South.”
n n n
Not since Mr. Rogers has a dude in a 
sweater vest been on TV this much. Jim Tres-
sel disgracefully re-
signed from Ohio State on Monday, sending Shelley Meyer into an epileptic trance. 
Tressel may have 
eluded full-blown hu-miliation because the NCAA is expected to 
slam Ohio State, but someone needs to b**** slap the NCAA.
Tressel has more skeletons in his closet 
than Tony Soprano, but the NCAA refuses to admit they too are in cahoots with the mob. 
Tressel is a cheat, but he’s far from the 
only one. The NCAA has operated in back alleys with seedy characters just as long as Pat Dye, Ron Meyer and Tressel have been 
around. 
They’ve dragged their feet long enough, 
the time has come to address student versus 
athlete. 
n n n
Lauren Embree’s awe-inspiring effort to 
propel the Gators women’s tennis team to a NCAA Championship was as good as any performance Tim Tebow ever had at Flori-
da. 
Yeah, I said it. 
Embree’s valiant comeback from down 
4-0 against one of the country’s best players, 
in the chick’s home arena, was incredible. JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org
 
After a steamy , emotional, rollercoaster 
weekend, No. 1 Florida exited Hoover, Ala., 
with its first Southeastern Conference Tourna-ment trophy since 1991 and a No. 2 overall na-
tional seed in the 2011 NCAA Baseball Tourna-
ment.  
The NCAA announced the field of 64 on 
Monday , and the Gators, one of eight national seeds, will host the Gainesville Regional start-ing Friday in McKethan Stadium. 
Despite capturing the SEC Tournament 
Championship and reclaiming its top ranking, Florida was dealt an arduous draw as Miami 
and Jacksonville come to town this weekend. 
“This time of year it’s not who you draw, 
it’s how you’re playing,” Florida coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said. “Every Regional is tough.” 
UF will play No. 4-seed Manhattan at 4 p.m. 
Friday , while the No. 2-seed Hurricanes and No. 3-seed Dolphins play at noon. 
“Great teams,” senior second baseman Josh 
Adams said. “JU came in here and beat the 
brakes off of us. Miami is hot right now.”  
The Gators swept the ‘Canes in March while 
Jacksonville demolished UF (11-2) two weeks 
ago.
The Gators return home after a wild week-
end where they played five games in four days, watched one of their best players go down in a freak accident and looked on as two forgotten pitchers potentially threw themselves back into 
the mix. 
Florida beat Vanderbilt 5-0 for a school-re-
cord 11th shutout in the championship Sunday , 
winning the tournament with dominant relief pitching and aggressive base running. 
Gators relievers combined for 18 punch-outs 
and a 1.97 ERA over the five games, while Flor -
AP Photo
Florida shortstop Nolan Fontana celebrates UF’s first Southeastern 
Conference Tournament title since 1991 after the Gators shutout Van -
derbilt 5-0 Sunday at Regions Park in Hoover, Ala.  
UF BASEBALLGators win tourney, earn No. 2 seed
By BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
Michelle Moultrie was going to at-
tend Florida no matter what.
But instead of being just another 
finance major who graduated in the 
top 10 of her high school class, she de-cided to take a chance on one of the several sports she played growing up 
in Jacksonville.
“I came to [UF’s softball] camp just 
to get coach [Tim] Walton to see me,” 
the center fielder said. 
Walton had a gut feeling about what he saw from Moultrie and invit-ed her back to try out for the team. 
Three years later, the former walk-
on is now a leadoff hitter and one of 
the key components on a Gators squad making its fourth-consecutive trip to the Women’s College World Series.
But it didn’t always 
feel like the junior would 
reach this point.
Moultrie’s freshman year was filled 
with nerves and an ongoing battle to translate her raw athleticism into re-fined skills. 
She batted .261 and was nowhere 
near the defensive juggernaut Florida fans have grown to love in 2011.
“She was very, very unsure of her -
self when she first got here,” left field-er Kelsey Bruder said. 
“She would catch the ball and just 
let it pop right out of her glove.”
Now, Moultrie is a reliable fielder 
and an absolute pest for opposing teams both with the bat and on the basepaths.
She has hit in 55 of UF’s 62 games 
and reached base in all but two con-tests. Former walk-on vital to WCWS runSEE BASEBALL, PAGE 16
SEE SOFTBALL, PAGE 15SEE JESSE, PAGE 15Introducing a 
brand new spin on a sports-writing staple 
Jesse Simonton
Simon Says
jsimonton@alligator.org
POLL RESULTS
n After a well-received first edition featuring host Jesse 
Simonton at the helm, the alligatorSports podcast is 
back again this week. Stars Matt Watts, John Boothe and Bryan Holt are back to discuss Gators athletics and much, much more. Subscribe and download on iTunes.n The Florida men’s golf team heads 
to Stillwater, Okla., today for the NCAA Championships. Check out alligator -
Sports.org for a preview of the fifth-seeded Gators’ quest for a title. Previous question:  Of the five accomplished senior softball players, who was your favorite during her four-year career as a Gator? 
 Percent 
Megan Bush 31% 
Stephanie Brombacher 25% 
Aja Paculba 18% 
Kelsey Bruder 17% 
Tiffany DeFelice 8% 
99 TOTAL VOTESJunior tops UF in average, steals 
Softball14, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2011
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
Even though Florida’s track and 
field athletes only needed to crack the 
top 12 in each event to advance from 
the NCAA East Preliminary Rounds, UF coach Mike Holloway didn’t let the Gators run on cruise control.
With 26 slots filled for the NCAA fi-
nals held in 10 days, Florida not only secured a throng of potential scorers to send to Des Moines, Iowa, it also sent a message with how it qualified.
“You can’t coast, you get yourself 
in trouble trying to be cute this time of year,” he said.
Over the three days in Bloomington, 
Ind., the Gators had seven top qualify-
ing marks.
“We preach being ready at this time 
of year, the championship time of year, 
and so that’s what we’re doing now,” 
Holloway said. 
“It’s not a surprise to anyone in this 
program or anybody associated with 
the program or knows us well. This is the time of the year that we look to ex-
cel.”
The No. 2  men’s team goes into the 
outdoor championships with 16 scoring 
opportunities — four more than it did 
in 2010 when it lost by one point to No. 1 Texas A&M.
Athletes like senior sprinter Ter -
rell Wilks and jumpers Will Claye and 
Christian Taylor will be competing in 
multiple events. 
UF’s heavy-hitters will have to bal-
ance the team’s goals with individual 
glory.
“The main idea I have is winning as 
much as I can,” Taylor said. 
“But in the big scheme of things, it’s 
scoring as many points as I can towards that team title. So if I could get into 
many events, I can contribute. We’re all going for the national title.”
The top NCAA qualifier in the tri-
ple jump, Taylor will also bounce between compet-ing in the long jump and running the second leg of the men’s 4x100 relay 
team.
With fellow jumper Omar Craddock 
failing to reach the finals after battling 
through a bruised heel, Taylor said it’s 
going to be difficult moving forward 
without the third piece of Florida’s her -
alded jumping trio.
“We’re a strong group and whether 
we’re winning or losing, we’re sticking 
together,” Taylor said. “And it’s impor -
tant for him, and for us, to realize that 
this isn’t the end. We still have USAs and Omar is still going to be practicing with us.”
Holloway said the emphasis over 
the next week is to get the team rested 
up and mentally recharged to compete 
again for the fourth time in just over a month.
The No. 23 women’s squad also 
overcame a missed qualifier to close the 
weekend strong with eight slots filled 
for the finals.
In the final turn of the 400m run, 
freshman Ebony Eutsey made a rookie 
mistake, running outside her lane. 
She was immediately disqualified af-
ter advancing to the semifinals.
As Holloway coached Eutsey 
through the learning experience, fellow underclassman Cory McGee immedi-
ately picked up the slack with a runner-up finish of 4:26.53 in the 1,500m. 
“I think that some of the freshmen 
who came in this year, you look at Eb-ony, Darshay [Davis], Brittany [Harrell] and a few of us, we all just have atti-tudes where we get after it every day. … We’re definitely bringing something 
else to the table,” McGee said.
Florida had three freshmen athletes 
qualify along with junior Genevieve 
LaCaze, who tore through 3,000 meters 
of track, hurdles and water obstacles in the quickest time in UF history Friday for a fourth-place finish in the steeple-
chase.Gators finish strong in prelims, fill 26 spots for finals
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Christian Taylor will compete in three events at the 
NCAA Championships held in Des Moines, Iowa.
After sitting out a combined 110 games this season 
with injuries, the “Big Two” from Florida’s 2000 NCAA Final run ﬁ  nally hit the court to help out Miami’s “Big 
Three” against Chicago. Udonis Haslem had 23 points, 23 rebounds and ﬁ  ve assists in the Heat’s 4-1 series victory over the Bulls in the Eastern Conference Finals, while Mike Miller ﬁ  nished with 21 points, 25 boards and three assists. While 
Miller and Haslem’s playing time 
has increased, Corey Brewer’s impact with Dallas is hitting a standstill. The two-time NCAA Champion with 
the Gators was on the court for just ﬁ  ve minutes during 
the Mavericks’ Western Conference Finals series victory 
over Oklahoma City in ﬁ  ve games.
Haslem
As a member of one of the hottest teams in base-
ball, Matt LaPorta’s rise into Cleveland’s lineup 
has cooled recently. The Indians starting first baseman had only four hits in his last 28 at-bats be-fore going 2 for 3 with a homer against Tampa Bay on Saturday. Despite his streaky hitting, the third year pro is already over 
half-way to a career-high in RBIs 
with 23 on the season.
LaPorta
With the FIFA Women’s World Cup less than a month 
away, two former Gators on the team, Heather Mitts and Abby Wambach, will get one last shot to sol-
idly their roles in a tune-up game against Mexico on June 5. Mitts, a defender, will be making her first cup appearance after play-ing every minute in CONCACAF qualifying, while Wambach will be playing in her third. The for-
ward has started in each of the 
national teams last two games and scored in the first half against Japan on May 14.
Mitts
In his last competition two weeks ago at the Charlotte 
Ultraswim Grand Prix, former Florida swimmer and 
Olympian Ryan Lochte had his best showing in the pool during the 200-meter backstroke against U.S. teammate Michael Phelps. Lochte led Phelps going into the second- turn but was ultimately overcome by the 16-time gold medalist, who 
touched the wall just over a second 
faster. Lochte will next be competing in the Santa Clara Invitational from June 16-19.
Lochte
NBA
MLBWoman’s Soccer
Men’s SwimmingGators in the Pros
John Boothe and Rosa Taveras / Alligator Staff1. Oversigning – The practice commonly known as gray-shirting 
has become a hot topic among the conference. NCAA rules permit 28 enrollees from Signing Day until May 31, with 25 allowed to enroll for fall semester. But teams frequently oversign to counteract potential departures before the season, forcing some student-athletes to another 
school despite signing a letter of intent.
2. Adding money to scholarships – Following a Big Ten proposal, 
another item on the agenda is a potential addition of extra money to scholarships to cover expenses outside of room and board.
3. Basketball realignment and tournament seeding – An interesting 
topic likely to be approved is the elimination of divisions for basket-ball. Most every conference follows the same format, including the women’s side of the SEC. The coaches will also discuss the possibility of reseeding for the conference tournament by overall record and not division finish. Western coaches blocked the proposal last year, but things could change this time around.The Southeastern Conference is hold-ing its annual conference meetings this week in Destin and coaches, athletic 
directors and school presidents will 
discuss some important legislation pro-
posed by commissioner Mike Slive. Here are three of the biggest things to keep an eye on.SEC Spring Meetings
Slive
Rosa Taveras and Matt Watts / Alligator StaffTrackLaCaze sets steeplechase markTUESDAY, MAY 31, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
Matt Tripp / Alligator
Michelle Moultrie is on pace to break the single-season batting aver-
age mark. The junior has already set the steals record with 28.
Walton said Moultrie’s attention to de-
tail contributed to her speedy evolution 
She broke the program’s single-season steals re-
cord by swiping 28 bases and has not committed 
an error since Florida’s 16-3 loss to UCLA in last 
season’s WCWS. 
Walton credits her improvements to how well 
she absorbs coaching and instruction. 
About halfway through last season, he told her 
she was hitting too many fly balls.
“I don’t think she hit another home run, and I 
don’t think she hit but two more balls in the air the 
rest of the year,” he said. “She’s very literal.”
In 2011, the junior, hitting .431 on the year, is also 
on pace to shatter Ali Gardiner’s UF single-season batting average record of .407.
When asked to assess Moultrie’s performance on 
Saturday, Walton got emotional.
“You can’t assess,” he said before composing 
himself. “She’s better than anyone could ever ex-pect. … I just can’t believe that one individual could be that good in such a short period of time.”
Since Florida’s bats heated up in the deciding 
Game 7 of the regional matchup with UCLA, Moul-trie — along with sophomore Brittany Schutte — 
has been the primary fuel.
In three games, she has gone 6 for 11 with four 
stolen bases. 
Four of her hits and three of her stolen bases 
have come in the first inning.
“We can count on her to do what she needs to 
do,“ Bruder said. “Whether it’s bunt or slap, she’s 
going to get on base.”
Moultrie admits she has surprised herself during her three years at Florida. 
She said where she’s at now is the result of 
coaching and working on little things — aspects of 
softball she never previously thought could be part 
of the game.
“I’ve just got to praise God for the abilities that 
He’s given me,” she said. “I never thought that I’d come this far.” 
“To see her now, she’s a game-changer,” Walton 
said. 
“She makes every play offensively. She makes 
every play defensively. ... She’s someone special. ...If you could take five more Michelles, we’d never lose.” 
Gators get regional honors: Hannah Rogers, Brittany 
Schutte, Megan Bush and Kelsey Bruder were named 
first-team selections for the 2011 Louisville Slugger/National Fastpitch Coaches Association All-Southeast Region Team. 
Moultrie and Aja Paculba were selected to the 
second team.SOFTBALL , from page 13UF TENNIS
By THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
 
Lauren Embree pulled out a magical 
performance to will the UF women’s ten-
nis team to a national championship last 
week, but the sophomore ran out of steam just short of an individual singles cham-pionship.
Embree continued to steamroll oppo-
nents after her comeback win on Wednes-day sparked the Gators to their fifth na-tional championship. She advanced to the semifinals of the NCAA Singles Tourna-
ment against Stanford’s Stacey Tan before 
having to withdraw due to injury.Embree withdrew right before playing 
the third set.
Coach Roland Thornqvist said a nail 
had come off one of Embree’s toes, and skin issues on the toe were too painful for 
her to continue after splitting the first two 
sets.
“Lauren’s been such a warrior but [Sun-
day] she was forced to retire,” Thornqvist said. “She’s the toughest player I’ve ever 
had the pleasure of coaching.”
The loss ended a stellar 2011 campaign 
for Embree which saw her rebound from 
wrist surgery in phenomenal fashion. The 
loss Sunday was her first of the season, as 
she ended the year with a 28-1 mark.“She had a great run, with lots of things 
to be proud of this year,” Thornqvist said. 
“This is obviously dis-appointing, but I know she’ll be motivated to do 
even better next year.”
In Gators men’s tennis, 
Alexandre Lacroix’s ca-
reer at UF ended, but he 
didn’t go down without 
a fight.
Although he was upset early in singles 
action, Lacroix and partner Sekou Bangou-
ra Jr. made a deep run to the semifinals of 
the doubles tournament.
The Gators duo finally saw their season end Sunday to Stanford’s Bradley Klahn and Ryan Thacher.
“Like [Saturday’s match in the quarter -
finals], I felt like it was Alex and Sekou’s 
best match of the year,” coach Andy Jack-
son said. “Our guys played better than 
yesterday, but the level of the team we played was much better today.”
Jackson said Stanford was “just too 
good” in the end, as Lacroix and Bangoura 
fell despite winning the first set.
Lacroix ended his career as the win-
ningest player in UF history with 214 ca-
reer victories. The senior also tops UF’s 
record books for most doubles wins with 
104.Embree withdraws from semifinals with injured toe
Embree
Her performance epitomized and ex-
emplified what it means to never give up. 
If Muschamp is going to get the Gators 
back on top, he should show a highlight 
film of Embree’s performance and say, “This is guts. This is guile. This is how you respond when you get hit in the mouth.” 
Then he should turn the lights out and 
walk out of the room. Boom. 
n n n
The No. 1 Gators baseball team has a 
heck of a road to get back to Omaha. 
Miami sits in their Regionals. Knock 
out the ‘Canes for the third straight sea-son and a showdown with Georgia Tech is likely lurking in the Super Regionals. 
Florida won its first SEC Tournament Championship since 1991 but just one na-tional seed since 2000 has won the College 
World Series.
 I think that streak ends this season, but 
right now, I don’t see the Gators as being 
the ones to break it. 
Florida is as talented as any, but its tal-
ent is in numbers not sheer studs. 
Volume can win you 45 games — I don’t 
know if it can win you a title. 
The Gators have struggled against other 
team’s aces (Palazzone, Grey, Garvin, Bax-endale and Meyer all steam-rolled UF’s bats), and in the postseason, you rarely get to beat up on a bushel of relievers on 
a Sunday. 
Florida’s Back-End Boys are nasty, but 
as John Smoltz said watching the Braves 
flameout again and again in the playoffs, bullpens don’t win you championships, 
they only lose them. The team needs its offense to rediscov-
er its “Gators Swag.” (Their moniker, not mine.)
They won in Hoover without contribu-
tions from their big guns. 
But Florida will not get to Omaha if 
Zunino, Tucker and Maddox hit 10 for 57 
(.175) with no long balls and just four RBIs in a Regional. 
n n n
I do think juniors Nick Maronde and 
Anthony DeSclafani made themselves a heap of money this past weekend at the SEC Tournament. 
Maligned for much of the season, Disco 
had two strong outings in Hoover, Ala., lighting up the radar gun and flashing his powerful right arm. 
His career-best appearance against Georgia might have single-handedly moved him into the second or third round 
of June’s MLB Draft. 
The southpaw Maronde has been out-
standing all season (1.72 ERA), and he 
again displayed his electric stuff that 
teams salivate over. 
Maronde pitched three times in the 
tourney, mowing hitters down like they 
were fresh off a JV squad. 
Although I doubt he becomes a closer 
in the big leagues, he’s projected to get se-lected in the first three rounds. 
Pitching has dominated the majors in 
recent years and teams have put a pre-
mium on power arms. Both of UF’s hard-
throwing relievers should cash in.  
n n n
Scottie Pippen is an idiot. ‘Nuff said.JESSE , from page 13“She’s better than anyone could ever 
expect. … I just can’t believe that one indi -
vidual could be that good in such a short 
period of time. ...To see her now, she’s 
a game-changer. ... If you could take five 
more Michelles, we’d never lose. ”
Tim Walton
UF softball coachida played a small-ball approach, 
swiping 11 bases. 
But the weekend was marred by 
an emotional Saturday . 
Before Florida and Georgia squared off, UGA’s Jonathan Tay-lor — the outfielder who is partially paralyzed after a violent collision with a teammate earlier this season — was honored before the game. Moments later, UF lefty starter/
designated hitter Brian Johnson was involved in his own scary scene. 
The southpaw was hurt in a 
freak play in the first inning, taking 
a throw from catcher Mike Zunino to the back of the head. 
Johnson threw a wild pitch that 
skipped off Zunino’s mitt, and the SEC Player of the Year attempted to 
nail out a runner advancing to sec-
ond, but instead, drilled Johnson, immediately knocking him uncon-scious.  
The sophomore lay lifeless for 
several minutes, but he regained consciousness and was taken to a local hospital. Johnson suffered a mild concussion but all tests were 
negative and he was released. 
“It’s one of those accidents you 
never want to see happen,” said 
Zunino, who was visibly shaken af-ter the play and was comforted by Adams and Bulldogs coach Dave Perno. “It was very reassuring to see him in the hotel.”
Sunday, Johnson was in the dug-
out for UF’s title-game victory , and according to O’Sullivan, is day-to-day, and his availability this week-end is unknown. 
“We’re going to let the doctors 
handle it and the medical staff,” UF’s manager said. “I’m going to stay totally out of it. With these head things, there’s a process you need to 
follow. We’re not going to get in-
volved with it, and we’re going to let our medical staff handle it.”One silver lining for the Gators 
was that Johnson’s injury did set the stage for Anthony DeSclafani’s spir -
ited performance. 
After an inconsistent regular sea-
son, the hard-throwing junior was 
phenomenal in instant relief. The 
righty pitched a career-high 7.2 in-nings, frustrating a UGA team that had shelled him earlier this season. 
“It was great for [Disco] to have 
an outing like that,” Adams said. “It gets his confidence back up. That’s the thing about pitching in tourna-ment play, if you don’t have con-
fidence you’re not going to throw 
well.” 
In Sunday’s championship, Alex 
Panteliodis got the start and pitched with renewed vigor as well. After toying with mediocrity all season, the southpaw tossed 5.1 scoreless innings, looking his best since being UF’s ace in 2010.  
The junior displayed renewed 
velocity and veteran moxie, stifling the SEC’s best hitting team. 
“He definitely stepped up in a 
time we needed him” Adams said. “He looked like the old Alex. He was locked in.”16, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2011
AP Photo
UF’s Brian Johnson is day-to-day after being hit by a throw from catcher Mike Zunino on Saturday at the 
SEC Baseball Tournament. The sophomore was briefly knocked out and suffered a mild concussion.  
DeSclafani, Panteliodis toss solid appearances over the weekend 
BASEBALL , from page 13
Southeastern Conference All-Tournament Team
OF Daniel Pigott
.583, 7 for 12 with six runs, one RBI and six stolen bases
After a torrid weekend, the junior was named the MVP of 
the SEC Tourney, becoming just the ﬁ  fth player to receive the award in school history.OF Bryson Smith
.409, 9 for 22 with two runs, three RBIs and two stolen bases
In UF’s second game of the tournament, Smith went 4 for 5 and 
tallied all three of his RBIs in the 6-0 shutout over Alabama.
P Hudson Randall
1-0, 0.00 ERA, 8 IP, four hits and two strikeouts
In his lone start of the tournament, Randall dominated Ala-
bama and was compared to MLB great Greg Maddux by Crim-son Tide coach Mitch Gaspard after the sophomore toyed with the Tide’s bats for eight scoreless innings. SS Nolan Fontana
.187, 3 for 16 with ﬁ  ve runs, one homer and six RBIs. 
Fontana played ﬂ  awless defense and plated the game-winning 
RBI in a must-win 3-2 victory against Georgia, sending the Ga-tors to the championship game with Vanderbilt.
John Boothe and Rosa Taveras / Alligator Staff