We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 70 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  UF sophomore 
Lauren Embree 
(right) has returned 
from a severe wrist 
injury to help lead a 
young Gators squad 
to a No. 2 national 
ranking and a 
regular-season SEC 
championship.
See Story, Page 24.SANDY HOOK, N.J. — A record 
amount of trash was picked up along 
New Jersey beaches last year, including a kitchen sink.
Clean Ocean Action has been doing 
beach sweeps for 25 years and says in a report to be released Tuesday that more than 475,000 pieces of litter were removed from the shoreline last year.
They included a bag of heroin, a 10-gal-
lon gas tank, five pairs of underwear, a duck caller and a plastic cow, in addition to the sink.
There also were four televisions, a 
plastic Easter egg with $3 in it, a fire ex-tinguisher, a toilet seat lid and an MP3 player.
Also found were 84 whole tires, nearly 
1,400 aerosol cans and more than 1,300 strands of fishing line, which can kill sea life that gets tangled in it.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSGroup reports record trash haul from New Jersey beaches
Sunny
91/64FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 18
CROSSWORD 19
SPORTS 24
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Bee Informed
With the population declining, small-scale beekeepers are helping the European honey bee survive in 
the U.S. Through educational programs and word-of-mouth, people like long-time beekeeper Wayne “Chappie” McChesney are striving to inform the public about the importance of honey bees and why we need them. For more on this story, please go to www.alligator.org.
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
Every semester students at UF pay $13.94 per credit hour in 
“activity and service fees.” 
That’s about $200 for the average 14-credit hour student at 
UF.
But where does it go?
It’s used for things like making repairs in the Reitz Union, 
financing student groups and paying student employees at Southwest Recreation Center.  
The fees comprise the roughly $16 million Student Govern-
ment budget.  
It’s a budget larger than some small towns in Florida, such 
as Williston, which has a budget of $5.9 million. It is only 
slightly smaller than the $17 million SG budget at the Univer -
sity of Central Florida, which has the largest student popula-
tion in the state. 
UF’s SG budget is split three ways between RecSports, 
which uses $ 5.6 million; the Reitz Union, which uses $ 5.7 mil-lion; and SG, which  uses $ 4.8 million to fund student organi-zations and pay for SG officials’ salaries. 
According to the SG Officers Salary report for the 2010-2011 
school year, Student Body President Ashton Charles will have been paid $8,995.62 by June 30, and Student Body Vice Presi-dent Marcus Dixon will have made $6,746.82. Virlany Taboada, the Student Body treasurer, will have made $7,478.36.
The Senate president, who is elected by other members of 
the Student Senate, will have made $2,675.49. The Senate pro-Student fees 
pay for $16M SG budgetn SOME FINANCIAL AID 
ISN’T OFFERED IN SUMMER.
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer
“Congratulations, you have been 
selected for a summer internship.”
For many UF students, spring 
is a waiting game as they patiently 
— and often impatiently — wait to 
hear these nine words. 
But after some students get that 
phone call or email and finalize their 
plans to intern during the summer, they start to worry about their wal-lets. Summer internships, while of-fering professional experience, can be expensive. 
Many are unpaid positions, and 
some require students to get course credit for the internship. But stu-dents who depend on scholarships to pay for their tuition and fees during the school year can be left empty-handed during the summer when scholarship funds like Florida 
Bright Futures Scholarship Program 
don’t offer financial aid. 
While students may need to shell 
out money to pay for rent, food, transportation and other necessities during a summer internship, some financial options can help ease the burden on their bank accounts.
For students receiving course 
credit for an internship, federal loans like the Federal Direct Loan are available to help cover immedi-ate costs of the summer, giving stu-
dents time to pay off the loans at a 
later date, said Rick Wilder, associate 
director of UF Student Financial Affairs. 
Students can also 
check the UF depart-
ments for their respective fields to see if they offer any scholarship funds for the summer that can be 
used for internships, he said. 
There is substantially less finan-
cial aid available during the sum-
mer, Wilder said, so some students may want to consider doing an in-ternship in the fall or spring when they have more funding options. Scholarships are also available 
from various organizations, in-cluding Gator Clubs, which are UF Alumni Association affiliates based throughout the world. 
For example, the Washington 
DC Gator Club, or DC Gators, of-fers a scholarship specifically for UF students interning in the D.C. metro 
area, including Washington, D.C., 
northern Virginia and Maryland, ac-cording to the DC Gators website. 
This year, the club is offering two 
$1,500 scholarships to undergradu-ate and graduate students who have internships in 2011, whether in the spring, summer or fall, club member Tyler Moulton said. 
The club awards scholarships based on students’ academics, commitment to philanthropy and professional promise, he said. The deadline is April 30.
While many Gator Clubs offer 
scholarships,  some help students pay for the costs of attending UF rather than internship costs. But the DC Gators have many UF students 
interning in the area and knew this 
scholarship fund could help ease the financial strain of the internship pro-cess, he said. 
“The overwhelming majority 
[of students] have little or no com-pensation for internships,” Moulton said. “I actually haven’t seen an ap-plication that wasn’t deserving of 
some help.”
Students struggle to finance internships
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
SEE BUDGET, p AGE 14StudentLifeNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 70 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett, 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Safid Deen, 
  Olivia Feldman, Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, Julian Pothemont,   
  Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Floridance presents “The Time 
of Our Lives”Today, 7:30 p.m.Phillips Center for the Performing ArtsJoin Floridance for its spring 2011 dance showcase. The per -
formance will include original dance pieces in hip-hop, jazz, tap, contemporary, musical theater and ballet. Flowers will be sold at the performance benefiting Invisible Children. Admission is free.
Peace Corps Prep and 
Application WorkshopToday, 11:45 a.m. and 5:30 p.m.The Hub
Interested in the Peace Corps 
but unsure how the applica-
tion process works? The work-shops will answer any ques-tions and help students gain 
the knowledge to become suc-
cessful in the highly competi-
tive application process. UF students have a high rate of invitations to the Peace Corps. 
Dancin’ Gators Presents: Peace, 
Love, Dance!Thursday, 8 p.m.Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts
Come see a free show featur -
ing a variety of dance styles 
including jazz, swing, ballet, musical theater, modern, South Indian, lyrical, belly dancing, tap, Bhangra, hip-hop, Irish and more. Please bring a per -
sonal care item to donate to the St. Francis House.
Environmental Engineering 
Sciences Spring SocialThursday, 7 p.m. to 10 p.m.sic from movie soundtracks. Admission is free.
Balboa Swing Dance
April 28, 8 p.m. to 11 p.m.
308 W. University Ave.
Learn to dance the Balboa, a close-embrace swing dance. 
General admission is $10 and 
$5 for students. Wear shoes 
that slide. Heels are recom-
mended for ladies. No partner is needed and all ages and all 
levels are welcome.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to ebehrman@alligator.
org. Please model your sub-
missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
CORRECTION
A photo caption in Tuesday’s 
paper incorrectly identified Alan G. Weinstein.Reitz Union Arredondo RoomCome celebrate the end of 
another successful semester 
with students, faculty and 
staff. EES undergraduates, 
graduate students, faculty and staff are all invited and 
encouraged to attend. Guests 
are also welcome.   
Victoria’s Secret PINK 
Collegiate Showdown
Ends Thursday
The Collegiate Showdown 
is a bracket-style voting 
competition during which 59 schools compete to have 
Victoria’s Secret PINK host 
its annual Back-to-School 
Concert at the winning uni-
versity. Log in or sign up at vspink.com/pinknation. 
Votes can be cast once a day. 
Last year’s winner, West 
Virginia University, re-
ceived a concert with Drake, DJ Irie, PINK model Chanel 
Iman and tons of prizes.
Danza Dance Company 
Presents: Danza on the Big 
ScreenFriday, 8 p.m.Phillips Center for the Performing ArtsCome watch UF’s premiere dance company in its spring semester show. The show will feature a variety of styles with mu-SUNNY
91/64THUNDER
STORMS
91/62PARTLY
CLOUDY
91/62PARTLY
CLOUDY
91/63THUNDER
STORMS
89/63SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
n CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS 
CONTAINERS WILL BE PLACED IN RESIDENCE HALL AREAS AND ON FRAT ROW.
By GRIER FERGUSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
As the semester draws to a 
close, thousands of UF students 
will arm themselves with boxes, plastic containers and whatever 
else they can get their hands on 
to pack every possession they can find in their living space.
However, not all these odds 
and ends will be making the trip back home.
“Move-out time is crazy,” said 
Dale Morris, UF Recycling and Solid Waste coordinator. “When 
the students are leaving town, 
if there’s no room in the car for something, it goes.”
In anticipation of the onslaught 
of items left behind, 28 large con-struction debris containers will be placed in residence hall areas and along fraternity row.
When the containers are 
emptied, the contents are taken to a transfer station near the Gainesville Regional Airport. All garbage in Alachua Coun-
ty is ultimately sent to the New River Solid Waste Facility in Rai-ford, according to the Alachua 
County website. 
Based on the amount of gar -
bage collected in the last two 
years Morris expects there to be less garbage this year.
“You don’t see dozens of re-
frigerators in the garbage like you used to,” he said. 
Sharon Blansett, assistant di-
rector of housing for research and organizational development for the UF Department of Hous-
ing and Residence Education, said 
the Department of 
Housing is working 
on a Spring Check-Out Recycling Project to collect donations of 
items students no longer want.
Ashley Pennington, UF Office 
of Sustainability outreach coordi-
nator, said the Office of Sustain-ability works all year to teach 
students about the role they play 
in a sustainable UF. 
“We plant the seed of the idea 
so as we get near the end of the 
semester, when students are mov-
ing out, they can dispose of and remove their items carefully.” 4, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Bins for recycled items such as non-perishable food, clothes, small appliances, school supplies and electron -
ics sit in the Keys Residental Complex commons building as part of the spring check-out recycling project.
UF ready for trash left behind as students move out
LOCAL
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville Police have found them-
selves in the unlikely position of having 
caught the robbers but not the victim and 
are asking students to help identify the fe-male.
At about 1 a.m. Saturday, police saw 
Lavonte Cox, 19, Gena Paul, 24, and Laquit-
ta Robinson, 23, walk into an area of recent 
robbery activity and crouch between vehi-cles in the parking lot of 200 SW Second St.
Officers watched as the three came upon 
a lone woman, then suddenly ran away.Police caught up with the trio who gave 
conflicting stories during questioning. Of-
ficers with the K-9 Argos searched their car 
and found a loaded 9 mm handgun and a chapstick tube filled with marijuana and crack cocaine. 
The three admitted to police they were 
out looking for women with big purses to rob at gunpoint. All three said they ran away after the victim said she had no mon-ey and showed them her purse.
Though they’ve been charged with 
armed robbery, conspiracy to commit armed robbery, carrying a concealed fire-arm, possession of a firearm by a convicted felon, possession of a controlled substance 
and possession of marijuana, police need to 
find the victim in order to confirm no items were stolen and complete their investiga-tion.
“Normally we have a victim and no sus-pect but this time we have suspects with no victim,” said GPD spokeswoman Tscharna Senn. “It makes it a little harder to do the investigation and we may be looking at 
these suspects for other robberies.”
The victim is described as a white wom-
an in her 20s, with brown hair, wearing a 
knit cap, black dress or pants. She is thought to have walked northbound on Northwest 
First Street and Northwest Third Avenue 
after the robbery.
Anyone with information about the 
victim is asked to call Detective Courtnay 
Roberts at 352-393-7658, or may leave an 
anonymous tip at 352-372-7867.Police have suspects, still looking for victim in robbery
“It makes it a little harder to do 
the investigation and we may 
be looking at these suspects for  
other robberies.”
Tscharna Senn
GPD spokeswomanOnCampu sBy HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
UF President Bernie Machen an-
nounced Tuesday that planning is 
under way for two new buildings in Innovation Square.
Innovation Square is a 10-year 
plan to bring science, business op-portunities and technology together in one central area. It will consist of 
business, research and living areas 
as a hub for new ideas. 
The community , which will be 
on Southwest Second Avenue, is ex-pected to create 3,000 new jobs.
“Clearly , Innovation Square is 
becoming the vital, productive and vibrant area we envisioned,” Ma-chen said in a statement. One of the planned buildings, 
the Infusion Technology Center, will include custom-built laboratories, research and high-tech space. 
The other building will be a resi-
dence hall specifically geared to en-trepreneurial-minded students.
The Infusion Technology Center 
is expected to be open by late 2012. The dorm does not have a set date. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Special to the Alligator
An artist’s rendering of the new buildings at Innovation Square, which are scheduled to begin construc -
tion later this year. Innovation Square is a research environment along Southwest Secondnd Avenue.
Innovation Square takes shape
By STEPHANIE SCHWARTZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
From bowling to zumba, there will be many ways to de-
stress during finals.
De-Stress Study Fest is a 10-day event at the Reitz Union 
to help students cope with stress and give students a place to 
study. The event started Monday and ends April 28.
Meeting rooms and lounges will be open 24 hours for 
students. There will also be tutoring sessions available for specified classes.
Students can enjoy free zumba classes, yoga classes, 
meditation sessions, massages, movies, bowling, billiards 
and bingo. 
They will also be able to take advantage of 
the extended food service hours and extended hours for the printing lab. Many of the restau-
rants in the food court will be offering specials, and there will be free pizza.
John Duncan, the operations manager at the Reitz Union, 
said that in previous years, the union would stay open 24 hours only during finals week. Duncan said he thought it would be more beneficial to have de-stress programming and keep the union open 24 hours for finals week prepara-
tion as well. 
“We are envisioning that students come to the union and 
spend a couple hours studying, and then have something to 
break that up,” Duncan said. 
For a schedule of events and tutoring sessions, visit 
union.ufl.edu/studyfest.Activities designed 
to help with stress
StudentLifeThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Are you staying 
in Gainesville for the summer?31% YES69% NO
100 TOTAL VOTESTuesday’s question: Have you ever used prescription drugs to help you study?Net natives can revolutionize the world
For some of you moving on, up, out, wherever, this may be the last time you ever read this paper. If you’ve read my column every Wednesday, then I 
am stunned and flattered. Most of you probably glance for something interesting between classes and that’s that. 
All cynicism aside, to see people who once spent so 
much time together spread across the earth is a beautiful thing to be a part of.
The average UF student has great potential to change 
the world. This might sound fantastical, but you are the key to the future, and you have a choice to shape it. As I 
see it, the status quo cannot stand. It’s going to be up to us, 
as a collective human force of will, to do something about 
actually changing our world. You should be sick and tired of letting old guys in suits drive your world headfirst into oblivion. They won’t be alive to see it, and it’s hard to say 
what the tipping point will be. But it’s going to get ugly.
We live in a world where those in control seem so dis-
connected from reality, I’m pretty sure they’re drowning 
in their own gravy train. We see Tasers used on children in schools, and we’re asking how much a child should weigh before you can safely use a Taser on them rather than should we use them at all.
Every day there is less oil to fight over, more weapons 
being built, less potable water, expanding deserts, high-er international tension, mass deforestation, population growth and fewer pandas. That’s right, fewer pandas. The doomsayer is always written off as a hack, but eventu-ally, anyone who cares even slightly about people we’ve never met gets a desperate feeling that something has to change. 
Our generation harnesses an incredible amount of 
power. There was youth before us, and there will be youth after, but we are the first generation in the history of man-kind to have grown up with the Internet. That’s right, me, you, and if you’re on campus, most of the people you see around 
you, are Net natives. We have a unique adaptation.
Our minds are bombarded with relentless torrents of 
information in traffic, movies, interactive media, the In-ternet and nearly everything else unless we’re sleeping. More kids are being diagnosed with ADHD every year, and people wonder why. It’s so easy to get overwhelmed with stimuli, and sometimes it’s hard to even notice. But 
that jaded feeling creeps over all of us from time to time, 
and we talk with the bitterness of someone 30 years older 
as if we’ve actually experienced anything. The clenching of our minds in reaction to too much data closes us off to what really matters. What doesn’t matter is so shuffled 
and mixed with reality, it’s barely possible to determine if 
you’re more angry with social injustice or that ad trying to 
sell you flavored water. 
Does it not bother anyone else that you have to pay ex-
tra money to get truly clean water? 
If you actually don’t care and pray to talking heads that 
one day you will be one of the suits so you can ride the gravy train to the church of corporate worship, then few of these ideas are for you. In the end, as Net natives, we have the ability to quickly, collectively and cohesively stand be-hind ideas for change instead of standing around waiting for the next meme to laugh at. But it’s hard to do. We have to overcome ourselves, because our exposure to such high amounts of information is both a blessing and a curse. Maybe we’re too late, and we’ve already been inoculated beyond revival. Time will tell. Be the change.
Wesley Campbell is a fifth-year English major. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.For all the time we’ve spent poking fun at the religious 
nuts on Turlington during our time at UF, now we’re the 
ones saying, “The end is nigh.” 
We’re not buying all that 2012 garbage, but when it 
comes to both UF and this newspaper, today is the end of the line for many of us.
With that in mind, let’s wrap up the semester with the 
these-four-months-went-by-like-a-blur-so-let’s-queue-
the-instant-replay edition of...
Darts & Laurels
When we returned from winter break, we were greeted 
with the pomp of a new governor taking office. The irony 
of his extravagant inauguration amid these harsh econom-
ic times didn’t escape us in January, but we gave him a 
pass. 
Then we watched him go from silly to downright crazy. 
For giving other states more reason to look down on us, 
we’re slinging a we’ve-never-seen-voters’-regret-manifest-
quite-this-quickly DART at Gov. Rick Scott. Then again, 
he helped fuel some decent water-cooler talk, so we’ll give him that.
In the same few weeks, we watched Middle Eastern 
governments such as those in Libya, Tunisia and Bahrain begin to wear under pressure from their citizens. Some, like Egypt, crumbled. 
We’re still waiting for the dust to clear, and we’re hop-
ing it will reveal stable democracies in affected countries. But we’re not holding our breath. 
Cynicism out of the way, we’re giving a now-that-
takes-serious-cajones LAUREL to the protestors who are 
changing the world one anti-Gadhafi sign at a time. 
We thought we made it through February relatively 
unscathed, but then came Student Government elections. We’re used to the circus of writing stories, examining plat-forms and shooting photos on election night. But endorse-
ments were still difficult.
 We caught a lot of flak for our choice, but we’ve got to 
lob a we-didn’t-realize-we-were-so-stereotyped DART at  
campus pigeonholers. 
Contrary to popular belief, we’re not anti-Greek, nor 
are we required to endorse the minority party. We strive 
to be fair and keep an open mind. That’s what news orga-nizations are supposed to do.
Along those lines, we’re proud of how most news 
groups handled what was to become a nightmare in March. For turning their heads and denying Terry Jones and his church the platform they so desperately wanted, we’re throwing a keeping-it-on-the-DL-was-the-right-choice LAUREL around the necks of all the news outlets 
that skipped on the Quran trial story. 
And we’ve got a spare LAUREL in our pocket for our 
mayor, Craig Lowe, who has made it a point to condemn 
Jones as an unwanted voice for this nice town of ours. 
It was also in March when we saw the city helping relief 
efforts in Japan after a massive earthquake and tsunami. Although the ordeal is far from over, we’ve got to hand a lending-a-hand-never-goes-out-of-style LAUREL to ev-
eryone who donated to help Japan. 
Don’t worry. We also have a perennial LAUREL that 
goes to all our readers. 
We don’t care if you’re letting us interview you, sug-
gesting stories to us or writing us angry letters, you’re the reason we’re still putting out a paper after more than a century. 
And for that we offer our sincerest thanks.Wesley Campbell
letters@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Nobody is a stereotype
Stereotypes are not what they 
seem. They are ideas. They are 
not people. Nobody — no matter 
how predictable one thinks their 
behavior — is a stereotype. We are all dynamic individuals with back-grounds and attributes completely 
unique to ourselves. The problem 
with stereotypes is the generaliza-tion of the specific quality to all members of the group — not the quality itself.
We don’t want assumptions to 
be made about our character or ac-tions based on a specific trait. That is certainly understandable. How-
ever, when we demonize or reject 
a stereotype outright, we do so out of hate or disgust of that qual-ity. The quality associated with a stereotype does no actual harm to 
us.
 It is the negative connotation 
others apply to that quality that 
causes anger. In a society where 
drag queens are viewed by many 
with derision and mockery, we of-ten miss the opportunity to praise their creativity, talent and nerve.
A post to the website “Over 
Enthusiastic PFLAG Mother” lays out the problem very well: “Some-one called you gay and you got offended? That’s so straight.” Cer -
tainly, the post is almost as prob-
lematic as the attitude it’s decry-
ing. Not all heterosexual people are violently offended by being misidentified as gay. However, the message is simple. Taking of-
fense to being generalized by a 
stereotype, while natural, makes a harsh judgment against those who actually identify with that quality. 
“No, I’m not,” is just as effective a 
response as, “Hell, no!” 
Demonizing the quality of an-
other, possibly one that they take great pride in, because you don’t 
want to be associated with a ste-
reotype is a worse offense than plain bigotry. 
In a community — any commu-
nity — that has been historically marginalized, mocked and made inferior, the job of making oth-ers feel horrible about their iden-tity, personality, likes or dislikes 
should be left to racists, sexists, 
homophobes and other bigots — not other community members.
Donnie Fields
President, Pride Student UnionLetters to the Editor
There are a lot of things I want to do in my 
lifetime. None of them involve a newspa-per.
Don’t get me wrong, working at a newspaper 
is all I’ve ever wanted to do. Well, ever since I 
realized my dream of being the first person to 
simultaneously play in the NBA, NFL and Major League Baseball was not going to come to frui-tion – a tough pill for a 12-year-old to swallow.
My first exposure to newspapers came in the 
bathtub. In middle school, I decided to make use of my family’s subscription to The Gainesville Sun by reading the paper every morning while taking a bath. 
Since then, I’ve developed more normal 
newspaper-reading habits, but my passion for the news hasn’t died.
I know I’ll go on to a long, and hopefully suc-
cessful, career in the news business. I know it’s a career I’ll enjoy. That’s why I chose it.
But my career will never be what defines me.I bring this up because I am afraid of what the 
culture that permeates higher education is doing 
to some of my peers. No, I don’t mean the party-
ing, although that too is concerning.
I mean the rat race of everyone trying to get 
into the best program, then the best grad school, then secure the best job, all the while not taking the time to actually enjoy life. 
It troubles me because I know people who put 
so much pressure on themselves that they aren’t enjoying their time in college, which is supposed 
to be the best time of your life. If you can’t al-
low yourself to enjoy life now, do you honestly expect it to be easier when you have a mortgage and little mouths to feed?
People tie so much of their self-worth to their success. Now it’s academic; after graduation it will be our careers. But if it’s money we’re chas-
ing, how much will 
be enough? If it’s prestige, how many promotions will it take for us to be sat-isfied?
The good news is our outlook on life is some-
thing we have the power to change.
And it starts with counting the blessings we 
already have.
The reason I won’t tie my worth to my suc-
cess is because I already feel like I have every-thing I need. I have a wonderful family , great friends and a girl I love. Those people give me a fulfillment that no amount of success or material wealth ever could.
I enjoy every second I spend in the news-
room. I’m so happy to have found a career that 
will be fun for me. But a job is just what provides 
you with the means to live the life you want to live. It shouldn’t be what you live your life for.
I’ve loved opening the paper every day and 
seeing my name in print next to the word “edi-tor.” And maybe one day my name and that title will meet up again. But the titles I’ll strive for won’t be found at a newspaper. I’d much rather be known as “father,” “husband” and “friend.”
Those are the things that will bring me fulfill-
ment. Those are things I’ll choose to live my life for.
Paul Runnestrand is the editor-in-chief of The 
Alligator.Editor-in-chief says goodbyeEditorial Notebook
Paul Runnestrand
Editorial Notebook
letters@alligator.orgBy MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer 
E. T. York liked to say tall trees catch a 
lot of wind. Those who knew him said he 
was one of the tallest.
He died at the age of 86 Friday after a 
long illness.
He was born about six miles south of 
Mentone, Ala., and grew up during the Great Depression. He got his bachelor’s in agriculture and master’s from Alabama Polytechnic Institute, now known as Au-burn University, and received a doctorate from Cornell University.
He created UF’s Institute for Food and 
Agricultural Sciences and went on to be 
UF executive vice president, UF interim 
president and the chancellor of the State University System.
Marshall Criser, former UF president, 
said York probably would have become president of UF had he not taken the job as chancellor. He said York’s talents im-proved all of Florida’s public universities.
“He was a leader,” Criser said. “And 
he showed wisdom and integrity in ev-erything that he did.”
Donald Poucher, a family friend who 
worked with York for more than 40 years, said York pursued a goal with everything he had.
“He would move heaven and earth to 
get it done,” he said.
He said York’s reputation for accuracy 
intimidated him at first met, but he quick-ly learned that York expected a lot out of people for a reason. “If he touched your life, you were bet-
ter for it,” Poucher said.
He remembers the time York swayed 
Congress.
A Senate subcommittee on migratory 
labor investigated after an activist wrote a book condemning machine-picked toma-toes that IFAS created, saying they were inedible and put seasonal workers out of a job.
With less than a week to prepare, York 
and Poucher wrote and printed 100 cop-ies of an inch-thick rebuttal. They packed up the books in every suitcase they could 
find and flew to Washington D.C., meet-
ing with an employee who brought the tomatoes everyone was arguing about.
When York testified in front of Con-
gress, he held one of his “inedible” toma-toes in one hand and a tomato he bought from a D.C. grocery store in his other hand. His tomato was red and juicy. The other tomato was smaller and harder.
To prove his point, he served his toma-
toes to Congress, with a little salt.
Poucher said one thing York taught 
him was when you know you’re right, don’t give up.
“He believed that the condemnation 
of that program was wrong, that the pro-gram was right and he proceeded to dem-onstrate that,” he said. 
York is survived by his wife of 64 years, 
V ermelle “Vam” Cardwell York. They met while he was a graduate student at Auburn University.
They adopted two children, Travis 
and Lisa, and have a nephew, Guy York, of Gainesville, whom York treated like a son. 
“He seemed to dote on those chil-
dren,” Poucher said. “He loved them a lot, a lot.”
York remained loyal to his alma mater, 
but those who knew him said he was also a Gator. When he was 83 and retired, he went to his UF office almost daily.
Poucher said York taught him to live a 
life of value.
“I learned a lot from him,” Poucher 
said, “a lot that I’ll remember always.”8, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011
Special to the Alligator
E. T. York poses in a cornfield for a photo taken for the 
cover of his autobiography, “A Wonderful Journey.”
Special to the Alligator
E. T. York and his wife, Vamelle, pose at 
Auburn University, their alma mater. 
OBITUARYE.T. York leaves lasting impact on UF, state system
By ASHLEY FIERMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
There’s a new way for students to save money.
Ventown.com is a newly launched website that 
provides a social network to connect local busi-nesses with current and prospective customers in the Gainesville area. The website offers several 
promotions and discounts.
Students and the Gainesville community are 
able to register with Ventown.com to voice their 
opinions about the types of businesses they’re in-
terested in. 
They can browse, engage and share information 
about the local businesses based on their personal 
criteria. 
“I used to have to use a phonebook when I want-
ed access to information about businesses, but to-day’s technology-filled world is completely differ -
ent,” said David Rose, the senior vice president of business development for the website. “Ventown.
com allows people to have access to information 
easily and quickly, right at their fingertips.” Social site links
local businesses 
to customers   
StudentLife
“Ventown.com allows people to have 
access to information easily and quickly, 
right at their fingertips.” 
David Rose
senior vice president of business development for 
Ventown.comBy MIRANDA MOORE 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students looking to fill their time 
this summer can soon register for Reitz 
Union leisure classes. 
With a broad range of course of-
ferings from pottery and ceramics to 
backpacking and meditation, students 
are sure to find one that meets their in-terests. 
Registration for leisure courses 
begins May 9 and closes once classes start, May 15. Registration is open to 
anyone.
Leisure courses are taught by UF 
students, professors and people from 
around the community. Instructors are paid between $15 and $25 an hour, based on their level of experience. If someone wishes to instruct a course that is not offered, he or she may sug-gest to add the course through an on-line application. 
“Anyone who wants to teach a 
course and has demonstrated the abil-
ity to do so can,” said Jackie Matthews, pro-gram coordinator for arts and leisure. “We are open to any idea that someone 
may have for a course — within rea-son.”  
Leisure classes, which vary in price, 
are not for course credit and are offered for fun in a more informal environ-ment. Most classes are designed for beginners, unless indicated online that intermediate skills are necessary . “You take it at your own pace and 
you learn what you want to learn,” 
Matthews said. 
Mary Ann Bonner, who has taught 
pottery at the Reitz Union for 28 years, 
said students enjoy taking the classes because it gives them a break. 
“It’s just a great therapeutic place to 
be,” Bonner said. “They can lose them-selves and forget about their studies.”
Matthews said she hopes to build 
upon the current course offerings.
“It’s really neat for me to see the 
classes that we’ve developed and the skill level students have in the begin-ning versus the end,” Matthews said. “Students come back again and again to take classes, maybe even those same classes again.”  
Visit www.union.ufl.edu/leisure 
to enroll and see the complete list of courses.Reitz offers summer leisure classes
n CLASSES WILL BE AT GO PRIMAL FITNESS.
By SARA KANER
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
Scaling a two-story wall, vaulting off of a park bench and 
jumping over a three-foot fence are just a few of the many parkour moves people can learn at the new American Park-our Academy opening in May at Go Primal Fitness and 
Training Institute.
Parkour is the discipline of training oneself to overcome 
any obstacle within one’s path by adapting one’s move-
ments to the environment. This involves jumping, climbing, rolling and swinging.
Drew Drechsel, the founder of the new academy , has 
been practicing parkour for five years. 
 “It’s a way to play with your environment,” he said.He started in high school when he was doing flips off 
of vending machines for fun. After discovering parkour on YouTube, he started training himself. 
Earlier this year, Drechsel was on an eight-week televi-
sion series called “Jump City: Seattle.” 
After finishing the show, Drechsel moved to Gainesville 
and decided he wanted to teach the discipline, so he set about opening a school.
Participants will go through a $200, four-week boot camp 
to learn the basics before starting regular classes.
Go Primal Fitness, 110 NW 39th Place, hosted two open 
houses for the academy in April to generate interest. 
Raul Crespo, a junior mechanical engineering major 
at Santa Fe College, attended an open house after hearing about it from a friend.
“I’ve always had a very big interest in parkour, so I was 
excited to give it a try,” Crespo said. “And it’s exactly what I expected — fun and exciting, with a lot of possibilities.”Parkour academy to open in MayRegistration will open May 9WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 9
 STUDIES SHOW THE SAME TREND 
IS OCCURRING NATIONWIDE.
By CLARE LENNON
Alligator Contributing Writer
Whether it’s difficult exams, piles of home-
work or social drama, college can be stressful.
According to a study by the Association 
for University and College Counseling Center 
Directors, more college students are visiting 
campus counseling centers, and UF students may be following this trend.
According to an article in The Chronicle of 
Higher Education, directors from 424 counsel-ing centers responded to a fall 2010 survey . Results showed 77 percent of centers saw an increase in students with “severe psychologi-
cal problems,” up 6 percentage points from 
the 2008-2009 statistics.
UF visiting professor of psychology Ilan 
Shrira said there is less of a stigma in recent decades, and people are seeking help for less severe circumstances.
Sherry Benton, director of UF’s Counsel-
ing and Wellness Center, said UF students are matching the national trend, and more 
students are coming to see counselors. Specific 
data is difficult to produce because the school merged the former Student Mental Health 
Center and Student Counseling Center during 
the summer.
However, both the former centers saw growth over the last few years, and Benton said the 2010-2011 school year saw a spike in 
the number of students who came for coun-
seling. She attributed some of it to economic stress and academic pressures. However, 
there is no clear cause that can explain a jump 
in numbers.
“There’s almost as many pat-
terns as there are students,” Ben-
ton said.
The Counseling and Wellness Center pri-
marily offers short-term counseling that helps students learn to cope with and minimize their issues. 
Madeline — a UF sophomore who didn’t 
want to use her last name due to privacy rea-sons —  visited once in January to get advice on breaking up with her boyfriend, who had a psychological disorder. She was worried 
about his disorder and how he would take the 
news.
Madeline knows about five people who 
have also gone to the Counseling and Well-ness Center. She said she was more comfort-able making the appointment because she 
knew people who had gone to counseling ses-
sions there.
“It doesn’t mean there’s anything wrong 
with you,” she said.
The Counseling and Wellness Center offers 
workshops, weekly group sessions, medita-
tion, a biofeedback lab and one-on-one coun-
seling sessions. For more information, call 352-392-1575 or visit www.counseling.ufl.edu.Counseling and Wellness Center seeing more studentsUF ACADEMICS
By AMANDA EATMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF freshman Eric Olson walked 
into his first macroeconomics class 
in Bryan Hall in fall 1980 not know-ing what to expect. 
There was no professor present, 
and eight TVs were set up in the lec-ture hall. All of a sudden, professor David Denslow’s face popped on the screens and he began lecturing.
“It was wild,”  Olson said. “It was 
one of those ‘wow, I am not in Kan-sas anymore,’ Dorothy moments.”Thirty years later, Olson is direc-
tor of information technology sup-port programs in the Warrington College of Business Administration.
Since 1980, technology has con-
tinued to advance, and UF is follow-ing the trend of offering online and hybrid classes.
Online learning is one of the fast-
est growing trends in educational 
uses of technology , according a 
study by the U.S. Department of Education. 
There are 95 more Web courses 
offered at UF this spring than in spring 2009, and enrollment in face-
to-face classes is down by 8,162 
students, accord-
ing to enrollment 
data from UF’s Office of Institu-tional Planning and Research. 
Some people 
are adamant that 
the changing dy-
namic of technol-
ogy will be the end of education as we know it, and some feel it is a great opportunity, said Andy Mc-Collough, associate provost for in-
formation technology , e-Learning 
and distance education at UF.
Studies have shown, in many 
cases, students obtain more knowl-edge in online courses than in face-to-face courses, McCollough said. That is because students have more control over their learning and the opportunity to rewind lectures and 
review them again and again until 
they understand. 
Denslow was able to teach more 
than 250,000 students over the past 30 years and has won many teacher of the year awards, Olson said. 
“Without offering his classes on-
line, there is no way a faculty mem-ber like him could teach that many students efficiently,” he said.
Olson, a professor for the online 
class Computing in Business Envi-ronments, said he misses the oppor -
tunity to interact with students on a face-to-face basis.
“I don’t get the opportunity to 
get to know some of my students well,” Olson said. “There are times I miss or yearn for that relationship you develop interactively.”
Online courses continue to gain popularity at UF
PublicHealthDenslow
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
BOWLING GREEN, Ky. — A woman used 
a stun gun to subdue an expectant mother be-
fore killing her and cutting the baby boy from her body , a Kentucky State Police investigator testified Tuesday.
Detective Chad Winn, speaking during a 
preliminary hearing in Warren County District Court, said Kathy Michelle Coy told 21-year old Jamie Stice they were going shopping for baby supplies but took her instead to a wood-ed area with plans to kill her.
Coy, 33, has been charged with murder 
and kidnapping of a minor.
Winn testified that after attacking Stice 
with the stun gun, Coy slit Stice’s throat and wrists, then cut the baby out of her abdomen. Winn said Coy eventually led investigators to Stice’s body and gave details of the slaying.
“She advised that she stunned her, her 
throat was slit, her wrists were slit, she was disemboweled,” Winn said as members of Stice’s family fled the courtroom in tears. “The baby was obviously cut out of her.”
Stice’s remains were found off a dirt road 
in the Oakland community of southern Ken-tucky on April 14, less than a day after she was last seen leaving her home with Coy . Coy was arrested after showing up at a Bowling Green hospital with a newborn baby, but no signs of 
having given birth, Winn said.
Warren County District Judge Sam Potter 
sent the case to the grand jury. Coy’s public 
defender, Jim Gibson, objected to the prelimi-nary hearing, saying Coy’s competency and mental state were uncertain.
“The defense is concerned that there are 
significant mental health issues,” Gibson said.
Warren County Commonwealth’s Attor -
ney Chris Cohron said he may seek the death penalty for Coy , but will make that decision after any mental health issues are litigated. Cohron said the case will be presented to a grand jury within two months.
James Reynolds, the baby’s father, says the 
infant is in good condition and that his name is 
Isaiah. He declined further comment.
Winn was the only witness to testify during 
the 30-minute hearing. About 50 spectators, 
some wearing red, white and blue ribbons with the names “Jamie” and “Isaiah” on them, packed into the crowded courtroom.
Coy , who has a hearing impairment, did 
not appear to look at or acknowledge Stice’s family, but did cry before the hearing.
Winn said there is evidence that Coy, who 
claimed to have had a miscarriage, planned to 
kill a pregnant woman and steal a baby . Winn 
said Coy approached her 13-year-old daugh-ter in early April about taking part in such a plot. When the daughter balked, Coy passed it off as a joke, Winn said.
Soon after, Coy approached her 14-year-old son and asked if he would take part in a murder, Winn said. The son refused and Coy didn’t bring it up again, the detective said.
After killing Stice and stealing the baby 
boy , Coy drove to the home of a friend and 
said she had given birth to the baby , Winn 
said. The friend told troopers that Coy was in a car, wearing no pants and sitting on the pla-centa while holding the baby, who had grass on him, Winn said.
The friend called for an ambulance after 
helping to clean the baby and taking a picture of the newborn, Winn said. 
At the hospital, at about 5:50 p.m. on April 
13, Coy brought in a uterus, ovaries and pla-centa with umbilical cord still attached, along with the baby , Winn said. At the hospital, Dr. Sara Mangold examined Coy and determined she didn’t give birth to the baby, Winn said.
“She showed no signs whatsoever of hav-
ing a child,” Winn said.
After seeing the internal organs Coy pre-
sented to doctors, hospital staff suspected someone had been killed and called police, Winn said.
Coy initially insisted she gave birth to the 
boy, then told police she bought the baby for $550 from a woman named “Ashley,” but pro-vided few details, Winn said.
Police searched Coy’s home and com-
puter, finding links to two pregnant women 
on her Facebook page, Winn said. Investiga-
tors found one of the women unharmed, but couldn’t find Stice, Winn said. Police would later find a stun gun and two knives believed to be used in the attack, Winn said.
“I then asked Ms. Coy if that baby was Ja-
mie Stice’s,” Winn said. “She answered ‘I don’t know.’ I was alarmed by this.”
Coy eventually led detectives to a wooded 
area off a dirt road, where Stice’s remains were 
located, Winn said.n THE DEBATE WAS HELD IN 
THE UNIVERSITY AUDITORIUM.
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer 
Religion and science butted 
heads at UF on Tuesday night as 
two scholars argued whether re-
ligion, particularly Christianity, 
deserves the blame for many of so-ciety’s problems. 
Michael Shermer, the founding 
publisher of Skeptic Magazine and adjunct professor at Claremont Graduate University, took the stage during the debate at Univer -
sity Auditorium to argue that reli-gion is the root of many problems 
and is unnecessary. 
Dinesh D’Souza, president of 
The King’s College in New York 
City and former policy analyst in the Reagan White House, pre-sented  the case for religion and its 
benefits. 
Shermer, an atheist, said people 
have an innate sense of morality 
and do not require religion to act upon their morals. He said many 
of the world’s greatest atrocities 
had been committed in the name of religion or by adherents of a re-ligion. 
“In the name of God, you can 
get people to do things they would not do in the name of anything else,” Shermer said during the de-bate.
D’Souza, however, argued that 
many atheists commit violent acts 
as well. He acknowledged that re-
ligion has been a root motivation for conflicts in the past, but athe-ism has been equally at fault for a multitude of crimes committed by 
its adherents. 
“Atheism has produced an 
ocean of blood and a mountain of bodies,” D’Souza said. 
While the debaters clashed on 
many issues, they both agreed in the importance of separating 
church and state. 
When asked by an audience 
member what he thought of the “wall” separating government and 
religion, Shermer replied, “Make it 
as high and thick as you can.”
D’Souza also argued that in a society of competing religions, no particular  religion should have control of government issues. He 
did not, however, believe reli-
gion should be silenced. If athe-ists can talk about their nonbelief, Christians and followers of other religions, he said, should not be 
scorned for speaking up about 
their own beliefs as well. 
While Shermer is now an athe-ist, he was once a religious be-liever. He eventually discarded his evangelism after a string of experi-
ences convinced him that religion 
was not the right path. 
A pivotal moment that led him 
to atheism was when a girlfriend of his became paralyzed after a traffic 
accident. He said he took a knee 
in the hospital emergency room to give religion and God one last try, 
but the woman remains paralyzed 
today. 
He wondered why God couldn’t 
help her. 
Shermer said in an interview af-
ter the event that he and D’Souza, who have debated against each 
other before, are trying to reach 
the “undecided voter” — the peo-ple who haven’t heard these ideas before and who haven’t made up their minds about the religion-ver -
sus-atheism debate. 
Chris Poirier, a UF junior who 
attended the event, said D’Souza 
was the stronger debater but 
thought his speaking talent gave 
him the advantage of being able to 
say some controversial and poten-tially wrong ideas without Sherm-er attacking them. 
Joey Young, a UF sophomore, 
said  the debate overall was more superficial than he would have liked, focusing on information that was shallow and sometimes repeti-tive rather than cutting deeper into the issue.10, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Michael Shermer, right, founding publisher of Skeptic Magazine and the executive director of the Skep-
tics Society, and Dinesh D’Souza, left, a New York Times Bestselling Author and president of The King’s 
College in New York City, debate religion in the University Auditorium on Tuesday night.
Experts debate role of religion in societal issues
AP Photo
Kathy Coy, left, of Morgantown, Ky., listens to charges against her during a preliminary 
hearing at the Warren County Justice Center on Tuesday in Bowling Green, Ky. 
NATIONAL
Trial begins after baby is cut out of pregnant womanWEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 11
NATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
 
HOUSTON — A kindergartner 
who brought a loaded gun to his 
Houston elementary school Tuesday was among three students injured when the gun fired after falling from his pocket as he sat down for lunch, officials said.
One bullet was fired about 10:35 
a.m. in the Ross Elementary School cafeteria, spraying fragments at the students, said Houston Independent School District Assistant Police Chief Robert Mock.
“It dropped on the floor, under 
the table. It was loud, it was so loud,” 6-year-old Kennedi Glapion said as she was being picked up from the school by her grandmother.
Kennedi, one of 42 kindergart-
ners having lunch in the cafeteria when the gun went off, said she was scared and started crying after it fired. 
She pointed to her right foot to 
indicate where she said she saw one child injured.
Two 6-year-old boys were 
wounded, including the one who had the gun. 
The boy who brought the gun 
was injured in his foot and the other boy was grazed in his leg, said Sam Sarabia, the elementary chief school officer for the Houston school dis-trict. 
A 5-year-old girl was injured in 
her knee, he said.
The boy who brought the gun 
might have been injured by the bul-let while the other boy and the girl might have been injured by shrap-nel, Sarabia said.
All three children were in stable 
condition and seemed to be in good spirits, said Dr. David deLemos at Texas Children’s Hospital, where the students were treated.
The hospital identified the girl as 
Za’Keyah Thomas, and one of the injured boys as Khoran Brown, who 
was released from the hospital later 
Tuesday . The name of the boy who brought 
the gun was not released.
“It is a sad situation that this took 
place but we are thankful our son is in good spirits,” Brown’s parents said in a statement through the hos-pital. “He is already asking to get back to school.”
Houston police spokesman Vic-
tor Senties said it is too early in the investigation to tell if any charges 
will be filed.
Upset parents rushed to the 
school in northeast Houston where 
yellow crime scene tape was strung and more than a dozen police and district patrol cars were parked. 
Parents were allowed to take 
their children home for the day if they preferred, and counselors were on hand as classes resumed for the afternoon, said district spokesman Norm Uhl.
“Although the danger is over, 
that doesn’t make it any less fright-ening,” Uhl said.
Most parents who picked up 
their children after the shooting said Ross is a good school overall and that there hadn’t been similar prob-lems previously . 
Still, the incident made some 
wonder if additional security mea-sures are needed.
“Being that this is an elemen-
tary school, you would think that it would be safe, but now this makes you think nothing is safe,” said Shawn Dixon, 33, whose 10-year-old daughter Tyra is a third-grader at the school.
Dixon said he would support ad-
ditional security measures such as metal detectors at the school, which has about 471 students.
V onetta Moffett, 35, who has 10- 
and 12-year-old sons at the school, said even though parents need to be held responsible, she believes some kind of extra security is needed.
“The parents need to be more 
concerned about checking back-packs before their kids leave home. It’s the parents’ fault because the kids don’t know better,” said Mof-fett, a security officer at a medical building.
Sarabia said extra security officers 
will be at the school on Wednesday and district officials will be working with parents and the community to address any concerns they might have.
Uhl said the kindergartner who 
brought the gun could face disci-plinary action including being sent to an alternative school for up to 180 days. 
He said that no punishment has 
been decided yet.
Three hurt when kindergartner brings gun to school
“Being that this is an        
elementary school you 
would think that it would 
be safe, but now this 
makes you think nothing   
is safe.”
Shawn Dixon
Parent12, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011
MUSIC
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer 
Today marks the end of a long 105 days of  studies, lec-
tures and deadlines, and students looking to party have 
plenty of options to get down.
The night begins at 6 p.m. when doors open at the 
O’Connell Center for the Student Government-sponsored 
Pretty Lights with Archnemesis show. Admission is free with student ID and $5 for everyone else.
“I am expecting [tonight] to be one of the most posi-
tively overwhelming experiences to hit Gainesville in a long time,” show organizer Ori Blitstein said. “The cul-mination of the end of the semester with a high profile 
electronic show will truly deliver an unforgettable experi-
ence.”
The show ends at around 10:30 p.m., but revelers can 
choose from two after-parties as Savoy plays at The Vault downtown and RJD2 performs at the Florida Theater.
With Savoy, partiers can expect loud bass and plenty 
of electro bangers from the disc jockey.
Across the street, RJD2, or R.J. Krohn, will be bringing 
the funk on four turntables as he performs a DJ set he said 
will be a fun, danceable mix of his own work and favor -
ites from other artists.
“The way that I rehearse this type of show is to pull 
from as many songs …  from my own albums and from 
other people and kind of break those songs down to their 
elements … for something that is culturally new,” Krohn 
said.
These days, he said, he doesn’t put much thought into 
how the song is made but focuses more on the end re-
sult.
“At this point in my career, I’m not approaching it with 
any sort of agenda,” he said. “Music first and foremost 
should be fun and exciting. I’m looking to do things that I haven’t done … because those are the kinds of things that 
tend to be more exciting.”
But before the downtown after-party extravaganza, 
Pretty Lights will bring the bass to UF campus with sup-port from “intelligent electro-crunk” duo Archnemesis, 
who said they’re pumped to play in a new city.
As part of a nation-wide tour, Archnemesis will bring 
their own blend of hip-hop, dubstep, funk and dance to the O’Connell Center stage, even testing a few new tracks 
out on the crowd.They said the Wednesday show will range from slow 
stuff to 120 beats-per-minute dance tracks and hopefully cover the whole musical spectrum.
“We have our own sound,” band member Justin Aubu-
chon said. “It’s going to be a party for sure.” Bands bring unique sounds to end of semester shows
Special to the Alligator
The dance duo Archnemesis will be opening for Pretty Lights tonight at the O’Connell Center. The show begins at 6 
p.m. and is free for students with a Gator 1 Card.
 THE EVENT IS AT 4:30 P.M. IN THE 
PUGH HALL OCORA ROOM.
By CLARE LENNON
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Kal Penn will be at UF today to host Presi-
dent Obama’s Facebook Town Hall Watch 
Party at 4:30 p.m. in Pugh Hall’s Ocora Room. Penn, the movie and television actor-
turned-activist who serves as the associate 
director for public engagement at the White House, will open the event and host a ques-tion-and-answer session afterward.  
“On this day, UF students will have the ear 
of the White House,” said Cesar Fernandez, a political science senior at UF who helped coor -
dinate the event.
The Graham Center is partnering with Fernandez and Elesa Rectanus, another UF student, to put on the watch party . Former Florida Gov . Bob Graham will also attend the 
roundtable and watch party.
Fernandez said they invited 
Penn to UF because of his White House position, not because of 
his fame as an actor.
“Yes, people know him, but there’s a little 
more than that,” he said.About 200 people are expected  to attend. 
The event is free and open to the public, al-though Fernandez said he would like students to be the majority of the participants. 
“This really is about youth engagement,” 
Fernandez said. 
For more information, visit the event’s Fa-
cebook page: “Join Kal Penn @ UF for Presi-dent Obama’s Facebook Town Hall Watch 
Party.”Actor, activist Penn to host watch party for Obama speech
OnCampu sWEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 13
  THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
 
 SANAA, Yemen — Yemeni se-
curity forces opened ﬁ  re on anti-
government protesters Tuesday, killing at least three amid rising 
international concern over the stra-
tegically located nation.
  The United Nations Security 
Council met late Tuesday for a ﬁ  rst-ever brieﬁ  ng and discussion about the deteriorating situation 
in Yemen, where rights groups say 
two months of protests calling for the president to step down have 
claimed 120 lives.
  But the U.N.’s most powerful 
body couldn’t agree on a statement proposed by Lebanon and Germa-
ny expressing concern at the politi-cal crisis, calling on the parties “to 
exercise restraint and to enter into a 
comprehensive dialogue to realize the legitimate aspirations of the Ye-
meni people,” and supporting the 
mediation role of the Gulf Coopera-tion Council.
  The Security Council met as 
a Yemeni government delega-tion headed to nearby Abu Dhabi, 
in the United Arab Emirates, for 
talks with the six-nation Gulf Co-operation Council over a proposal 
for President Ali Abdullah Saleh 
to transfer power to his deputy to end the crisis. The opposition held 
similar talks in Saudi Arabia on 
Sunday.
  Susan Rice, the U.S. ambassador 
to the United Nations, told report-ers after the closed Security Council meeting that “there were several delegations that wanted instruction from [their] capitals.” Other council 
diplomats, speaking on condition of 
anonymity because the talks were private, identiﬁ  ed the countries as 
Russia and China.
  Rice said “several themes emerged, including a call for re-
straint and an end to the violence” and concerns that the events in Ye-
men not only have implications for 
the country’s security and stability but for regional and international 
peace and security. Diplomats said 
some members raised al-Qaida and piracy in this discussion.
  The country’s opposition, in-
spired by the uprisings in Egypt 
and Tunisia, says nothing short of 
Saleh’s immediate departure would end the unrest.
    Tens of thousands took to the 
streets in the capital Sanaa and thousands demonstrated in Aden, Ibb, al-Hudaydah, Taiz and other cities where most of the shops were 
closed in support of the protesters.
  The Sanaa protest turned violent 
when security forces opened ﬁ  re, lobbed tear gas canisters, and stun 
grenades at the protesters as they tried to make their way to the capi-
tal’s main thoroughfare. The pro-
testers replied by throwing stones.
  A medical ofﬁ  cial and an eye-
witness said at least two protesters were killed, and ﬁ  ve were in serious condition. They spoke on condition 
of anonymity for fear of retaliation.
      Thousands of protesters also 
marched in the southern city of Taiz, a hotbed of anti-government 
activism, demanding the presi-dent’s resignation when security 
forces opened ﬁ  re.
  The director of a city ﬁ  eld hospi-
tal, Dr. Sadeq al-Shuja, said at least one was killed in the crackdown. 
Protesters also gathered outside a security ofﬁ  ce, where seven of their 
colleagues have been detained, de-
manding their release.
        Yemen is the poorest country in 
the Arab world, and protesters are calling for steps to improve liveli-hoods and open up the country’s 
restricted political life. The protests 
are the biggest direct challenge to Saleh’s three-decades in power. His 
weak government has little control 
beyond the capital and has strug-gled to confront an armed rebel-
lion in the north and a secessionist 
movement in the south. 14, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011
 AP Photo
  Female anti-government protestors hold banners during a demonstration demanding the resignation of 
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh in Sanaa, Yemen, on Tuesday. A Yemeni activist said four anti-govern-ment protesters have been wounded after security forces opened ﬁ  re on demonstrators in south Yemen. 
INTERNATIONAL Yemeni police open ﬁ  re on protesters, killing three
Student Government funds about 10 percent of student organizations
tempore will have made $1,877.94.
  Accent Chairman Zachary Goldstein and 
Student Government Productions Chairman 
Kyle Calhoun will have made $1,877.94.
  Executive ofﬁ  cers also receive a total of 
$7,700 to pay for phone bills, but they are re-quired to show proof that they use the phone for work purposes. 
  Accent, a group that brings speakers and 
performers to UF, has a smaller budget for the 2011-2012 school year than  in previous years. This year, the group is budgeted for $407,100 compared to the $472,947 of two years prior. Still, the group still has the money to bring in 
large acts with even bigger price tags. Alan 
Dershowitz,  who spoke in March, was paid $30,000. Magicians Penn and Teller, who per-formed in February, were paid $55,000 and Daniel Tosh, who performed this month, was paid $66,000. 
  Accent also co-sponsors cultural events 
such as  Black History Month and Women’s History Month.  
  UF has more than 900 student groups on 
campus, about 10 percent of which are funded by SG. 
  Two of the highest-ﬁ  nanced groups are 
Speech and debate, which receives $47,162, and the University Gospel Choir, which re-ceives $43,902. The choir’s budget is used al-most entirely for programs while Speech and Debate uses its funds entirely for traveling. 
  The largest organization funded by SG 
is Volunteers for International Students Af-fairs with $85,853, a $14,680 increase from last year. VISA is a volunteering program that has almost 30 subgroups dedicated to a range of programs and cultures. 
  The top-funded cultural groups are the Hispanic Student Association, with $47,577, and the Jewish Student Union with $47,246 Asian American Student Union, with $43,772, and the Black Student Union, with $34,675.
  Each of those groups have subgroups, cov-
er a large portion of the student population and host months of events dedicated to each 
of their causes.
  The Pride Student Union, an LGBT group 
on campus, has a budget of $10,613 down 
about $400 from last year.
  T.J. Villamil, Student Body treasurer-elect, 
said the reason behind that is the group did not have high attendance at its events, which is one of a few factors the budget committee looks into when assessing the budget each 
year.
  He said funding for each group is based on 
factors such as the number 
of active members,  uni-versity outreach, how the groups spent their money 
the year before and how much money they re-ceived the year before. 
  While those ﬁ  gures seem large, Villamil 
said that the groups that have budgets less than $800 actually cost the students more. 
  He explained that it costs more to process 
their budgets because of man hours spent on each budget and all the different hands and time it has to go through. 
  “A better way to think of it, for every bud-
get on the cycle, around 80, it costs students less than $800 to produce and process. So it 
is not feasible to have budgets less than that 
amount or even near it,” he wrote in an email.
  Student Body Treasurer Taboada said this 
happens because no matter the size of the bud-get, the labor costs for each of the different de-partments that the budget goes through. 
She said the roughest estimate for that cost would be $1,000.  
  She also said that historically , groups that 
have $1,000 in budget or less don’t spend all of their money.
  Taboada said when any group does not use 
all of its budget money, the rest is put into re-serves that cannot be touched or given to other 
groups that need it. 
The reserve is similar to a rainy day fund 
for the university . She explained if a hurricane 
was to hit UF or if something happened to the Reitz, the estimated $1.4 million in the reserve fund could be used to repair any damage or other special projects.  
  Taboada said many students don’t know 
what they pay for and that they should. 
As a graduating senior, she said she has 
received her money’s worth through her four 
years at UF.
  “That’s what you pay for,” she said. “It’s 
hard to believe students don’t take advantage 
of all the things.” 
BUDGET , from page 1
StudentGovernmentBudget Breakdown:
Top SG ofﬁ  cials’ Salaries 
(by June 30):
Student Body President - Ashton Charles: $8,995.62  
Student Body Vice President - Marcus Dixon : $6,746.82  
Student Body Treasurer - Virlany Taboada : $7,478.36
Accent Chairman - Zachary Goldstein: $1,877.94
Student Government Productions Chairman - Kyle Calhoun : $1,877.94
RecSports 
$5.6 millionReitz Union
$5.7 million
SG-funded student orgs
$4.8 millionTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
RALEIGH, N.C. — The tornado 
that carved through North Caro-
lina’s capital killed four children, 
shuttered a university for the rest 
of the spring semester and felled the signature trees in the metropo-
lis known as the “City of Oaks.”
It was the most active system of 
tornadoes on record in the state’s 
history, leading to 23 deaths. In Raleigh, one of the nation’s fastest-
growing cities, the death toll and property damages underscored the 
massive costs that can be inflicted when a tornado makes a rare ven-
ture into areas of dense popula-tion.
In all, the storm killed 45 peo-
ple in six states, but North Caro-
lina was by far the 
hardest-hit.
More than three 
days after the storm, crews strug-
gled Tuesday to restore electricity and infrastructure there, with a key 
commuting interstate briefly shut 
down to fix downed power lines.
Outside her apartment in down-
town Raleigh, 71-year-old Elsie McKeithan wondered whether res-
idents understood that a tornado could strike an urban area, espe-
cially with such ferocity. The storm tore the roof from the three-story 
apartment where she lived.
“I don’t think anybody grasped 
the concept it was going to come 
through downtown Raleigh,” she said.
Five blocks away, Shaw Univer -
sity officials canceled the remainder of the semester because the storm ripped off roofs and shattered win-
dows at campus buildings. Stu-
dents were to receive grades for the 
work they had completed.
Up the road, even the headquar -
ters of Progress Energy — the util-ity that provides electricity across much of the region — lost power 
and had to rely on a backup gen-erator. The electricity was restored 
a day later.The tornado inflicted its worst 
damage just beyond the city center, in a mobile home park with winds 
over 110 mph. Rosa Gutierrez said 
the tornado spun her trailer off its 
foundation, smashed windows and left her family huddled together.
Inside, her husband said 
prayers. Outside, she heard car alarms, and then a neighbor’s cries for help: “My kids are under there! 
My kids are under there!”The neighbor, Christina Alva-
rez, implored neighbors to help lift the huge tree that had flattened her 
trailer, where she had taken cover 
in a closet with her infant daugh-
ter, son and two nephews she was babysitting. The three boys lay be-
neath the tree.
“She was screaming, ‘Please 
take it off, get it off them,’ but the 
tree was too big,” Gutierrez said. 
Gutierrez’s husband, Manuel, leapt over the fallen tree. He could feel 
the boys’ hands under the branch-
es, but knew it was too late.
Alvarez was bleeding, and in 
her arms was 6-month-old Yaire 
Quistian Nino, who was severely injured and later died at a hospital.
Yaire was fourth victim from 
the home. Her 9-year-old brother Daniel Quistian-Nino and her two cousins, 8-year-old Osvaldo Cor -
onado-Nino and 3-year-old Kevin 
Uriel Coronado-Nino were also 
killed.
The tornado that tore through 
Raleigh was the longest-lasting and among the most powerful to 
hit the state. The damage carved 
a line so straight that 60 miles of damage can be plotted on a map 
with a ruler.
In total, the National Weather 
Service has identified 25 tornadoes that touched down across North Carolina. 
Saturday’s outbreak spread 
across more than half the state — 
from near Winston-Salem to the 
Outer Banks.
President Barack Obama de-
clared a major disaster for 18 coun-ties in North Carolina after Gov. 
Beverly Perdue asked the president 
and U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom 
Vilsack for help, seeking low-inter -
est loans for farmers and loans and 
grants to help others repair their 
homes and businesses.
The state estimated the torna-
does damaged or destroyed more 
than 800 homes.
Perdue also said her office has 
set up a disaster relief fund that 
will accept donations.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
AP Photo
Stan Joyner, left, and Jen Zezza climb up the wreckage after searching for items in Christine Rechen-
berg’s tornado-destroyed home in northeast Raleigh, N.C. on Tuesday. 
Obama declares parts of North Carolina a disaster
NewsNationalWEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011n  ALLIGATOR, 17 16, ALLIGATORn WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds WEDNESDA Y, APRIL 20, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
8-15-11-25-1
All-Inclusive 4/4’s
The Landings Apts.
½ OFF One Month’s Rent
$425/person
352-336-3838
8-15-25-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
8-15-25-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
8-15-25-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409***
Ask about our Apple TV special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
8-15-11-25-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
8-15-11-25-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-1
The Polos
ALL-INCLUSIVE LIVING*
3/3: From $444/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com8-15-11-25-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    8-15-11-25-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-1
Leasing 4 Summer & Fall
Great Specials & New Amenities!
All Inclusive & steps from SFC
Starting @ $359  352.379.9300
8-15-11-25-1
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse.  
Walk to UF. Avail. 8/15
$850/mo. call 877-833-2865
5-10-11-3-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        
8-15-11-25-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
8-15-11-25-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
8-15-11-25-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    8-15-10-25-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   8-15-10-25-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
8-15-11-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
8-15-11-25-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
8-15-11-25-2 
3bedroom Starting @ $1019
Amazing townhome with everything included! 
Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/
dryer. Cobblestone Apts. Call now: 352-377-
2801   8-15-25-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
8-15-11-25-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!8-15-25-2
Now Including Internet !
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-2
UNBELIEVABLE!!
1 br-ONLY $449
Immed M/I
Only 5 left!!
Call today!
352-376-1248
8-15-11-25-2
2/2.5 TH • $699
4/2.5 TH • 1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • thegardensuf.com
8-15-25-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
8-15-11-25-2Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
8-15-11-25-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
8-15-11-25-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
8-15-11-25-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   8-15-11-25-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
“Renovation Celebration”
1 BR Starting at $499
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
8-15-11-25-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495 ● 3BRs $630
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          8-15-11-25-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * biketouf.com8-15-11-25-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
8-15-11-25-23/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    8-15-11-25-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 475
2.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
8-15-11-25-2
Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
8-15-11-25-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
Sign a lease by 4/30 and enter to
win a FREE YEAR OF RENT!!
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
352-375-1519
8-15-11-25-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
8-15-11-25-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   8-15-11-25-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    8-15-11-25-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.Garage included. Gated Community.2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         8-15-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
7-14-11-73-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 19
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
5-10-11-34-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 352-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     5-10-11-28-2
****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, 
close to campus, all appliances, W/D,
hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, 
W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OK Avail Aug.1, $1295 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,
W/D, central heat/air
Avail. Aug 1, $1375 - 333-9874 or 317-7346
4-20-11-26-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/2BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/2BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $600-635. Gated patio, trees, flood 
lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-3937
4-20-26-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 
352-335-4455    8-15-11-25-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   8-15-11-25-2
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice, 
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dish-
washer, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. 
No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. 2806 NW 
16th Ave. $1690/mo. 352-665-8166 lv mssg.   
5-12-11-26-2Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
8-15-10-25-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
4-20-11-25-2
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!
·         Available NOW and August!
·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com8-15-25-2
Trying to find a place to live
stressing you out?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
8-15-25-25
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-376-5887    4-20-11-24-2
★WALK2UF.COM★
Location, Location, Affordable
352-375-8256
8-15-25-2
2BR HOUSE 3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, fenced, pets ok, plenty of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $850352-665-8166 lv mssg    5-12-11-25-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/Sorority 
Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/heat, W/D, DW, fenced, pets maybe, plenty of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1335352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2350 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
Large 4BR/2BA HOUSES 2 blks from UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, w/dining room, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, plen -
ty of parking! . Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1980 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**
Near GHFC vaulted ceilings, all appliances, 
W/D, garage, small pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1195 333-9874,  317-7346    4-20-11-21-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONSUpscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   8-15-11-25-2GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    8-15-11-25-2
www.Bellaproperties.net
3/2 with study. Walk to UF, hardwood floors, 
fireplace, 2 car garage, full sevice tour
335-5424
4-20-20-2
www.BellaProperties.net
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
8-15-11-25-2.
WALK TO UF
3 Bed 2 Bath House in upscale Golfview 
Estates near Law School & Athletic fields.
$1400 mo. Aug 1. Call (305) 788-4103    
4-20-11-19-2
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    
7-28-11-22-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE PERFECT FOR 
PROFESSIONALS/GRAD. 2BR/2BA pristine 
Bivens Arm condo. Large den/3rd BR, hdwd 
flrs, W/D, pool, canoe. Walk/bike to Shands/
UF, bus stop. $1190/mo. 407-832-1458    
4-20-11-16-2
1BR/1BA, large screened-in porch, W/D 
hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $535. Sec 
Dep $535. 3300 SW 23rd St. Apt #3 Please 
call 352-371-3473    4-20-11-14-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month  2BR 1BA Apts
3  BLKS TO UF & Downtown! 
840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms,  Plenty ofParking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. 
Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt  1 BLKS TO UFNew Carpet $500/Mo  
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht. 
1216 SW 3rd Avenue 
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA  1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. $500/Mo 
1236 Sw 4th Avenue 
Marcott Apts
1BR 1BA $500/Mo
Central H & Air, 600 Sq. Ft.
Carpet, No Laundry 
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue 
RITZ Apts
2BR 1BA Apts $600-$675/Mo
Carpet or Tile Floors, No Laundry1234 & 1238 SW 1st AvenueCentral H & Air, Behind Leonardos.
PICKWICK PARK
2BR 1 ½ BA Condo Carpet,
Central  H & Air, Dishwasher
Pool, Clubhouse etc.  $700/Mo
4411 SW 34th Street #1005
5-10-11-15-2 
CONDOS.JACKSONSQUARE.US
Luxury condos 3 blocks North of UF
352-870-9453
8-15-25-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    5-10-11-14-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net    4-20-11-13-2Walk or Bike to Campus!
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR houses & condos available. 
Campus Realty 352-692-3800rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    7-28-11-34-2
CLOSE TO UF - 4BR/2BA HOUSE
914 SW 6th Ave. Cent AC/heat. W/D hk-up. 
$1690/mo. From 8/16, for 1 year. No pets. 359-1508    4-20-11-11-2
MILL POND CONDO
3BR/2BA, garage. Across from GHFC.  
On bus line to UF law school. $1100/mo. Available January. 331-6872   5-10-11-12-2
Close to UF, 2BR/1BA house, W/D, large 
fenced yard. Pets ok. Water incl. Low move-
in. Avail Aug 1st. 618 NW 14th Ave. $895/
mo. Call 561-703-8490    4-20-11-5-2
1bed/1bath in 3bed/3bath at the polos. rent 
is $410 incl. utilities, cable and internet. fur-
nished or unfurnished. available May 1st. call 
352 262 7778 or dubroca@ufl.edu   5-10-11-
10-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW 
areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 
per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; 
Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com     
5-12-11-11-2
3BR/1BA house avail August: cent heat A/C, 
hardwood/tile floors, washer/dryer, carport, 
Florida room, private fenced bkyd. $900/mo. 
352-318-5453   4-20-11-9-2
2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE OVERLOOKING 
A LARGE POND. Located west of Campus 
Credit Union on County Road 20, Millrun 
Subdivision. Clean & neat. $750/mo. Call 352-871-7801 pfitz100@yahoo.com   5-10-11-9-2
1700 sq ft 3BR/2BA House
Wood floors, large screened-in back porch,
jacuzzi, W/D, corner lot $1400/mo Call(352) 258-9116 to see. Available Aug 1st.    4-20-11-8-2
Clean small efficiency Quiet.Wash/dry on 
prem.Wat/Sew incl NS No Pets.1/2m south UF/Shands,2 bus routes.$399/m.Same fur-nished $410/m 352-262-2871 Owner/agent    8-2-11-30-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $495, 2BR $585 352-335-0420    5-10-11-7-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $425, 2 BR $535. 352-335-0420    5-10-11-7-2
1617 NW 7th Place - Available for Fall! 3 BR 
brick bungalow in quiet NW family neighbor -
hood a short bike or walk directly north of UF library. Security system, washer/dryer, gleaming wood floors, fireplace, large fenced backyard, cent. heat & air, large Florida room, off street parking. $1,650 per mo. Please call Tom at 352-215-4990.    4-20-11-5-2
2/1 Downtown Condo. Italian tile floors, 
vaulted ceilings, skylights, huge built in book-case. Aprx 1000sq'. Close to parks, library, and post office. Easy bike to UF.Month-to-month or longer lease ok. Pets ok.$800/mo. OBO. 352-262-1351   5-10-5-2
One & Two bedroom units for rent close to Campus! 1403 NW 6th Pl, 617 & 619 SW 10th Lane, 1123 SW 5th Ave, 924 SW 5th Ave, 1015 SW 9th Ave, 111 SE 16th Ave, 2905 & 2811 SW Archer Road 352-692-3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    5-26-11-8-2
20, ALLIGATOR  n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011
Great Houses/Condos for rent near Campus 
2021 NW 7th St, 855 NW 20th St, 426 NW 
25th St, 1810 NW 23rd Blvd, 505 NW 34th 
St, 1127 NW 16th Ave, 207 NW 36th Dr, 918 
NW 3rd Ave, 2140 NW 7th Pl. 352-692-3800 
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    5-26-11-
8-2
NICE BIG OLD HOUSE - 4BR, 2-story his-
toric Duckpond neighborhood. Big rooms, 
wood flrs, upstairs porch. Mature quiet ten-
ants only. Not a party house. $1700. Avail 
Aug 395-7569    5-10-11-3-2
Very nice 3BR/2BA House, 2.5 miles to 
UF, Idylwild area. Beautiful large treed 
lot. Hardwood floors, tile, vaulted ceiling in 
kitchen. W/D, ref, stove, DW. Avail Aug 1st, 
2011. $950/mo. Sec dep. Call 727-686-1404    
5-10-11-3-2
4BR/4BA, poolside condo at Countryside. 
Furnished common area, W/D, on UF bus 
rt, walk-in closet, cable internet, utility (w/
cap) $365.unfurn BR, $385 w/furnishing. 
nukken1@aol.com  386-676-9703    5-17-
11-5-2
4/2 great house 1 mile from UF. for rent 
beg. Aug. 1. Large fenced yard, tile floors, 
fireplace, new appliances. Small dog okay. 
Close to bus stop. 772-971-9723.   5-19-11-
5-2
Baxter House Near Campus 1013 SW 4th 
Ave. 4BR/2BA, custom designed, two story 
brick home, W/D, new H A/C, hardwood 
floors & walls. Much more $2,400/mo + util. 
275-1259 ATucker458@aol.com   5-19-11-
5-2
1103 SW 6th Avenue Rear, 2-story brick, 1/2 
block to UF, 4BR + 2/3BA, remodeled open 
design, W/D, Disp, 2 A/C units, DW,MW 
parking, backyard, NPets, NS. Fall $2,300 + 
util. 275-1259, ATucker458@aol.com   4-20-
11-1-2
5/3,study,bonus room, walking distance to 
Satchels and Super Walmart, biking distance to UF, one block from busstop. Starting 8/1. $1500. Call (352) 870-6546.    4-20-11-1-2
Walk to Shands & UF.  bus rte. Spacious & 
private 1BR cono w/tile flrs, lots of cabinets, walk-in closet, updated w/DW, disposal, W/D combo, small pet ok w/dep. Adequate park-ing $550/mo 352-371-9520 or 352-317-2642   5-19-11-5-2 
Post Apartments – 352 376 0080.  352 284 3873. postj@bellsouth.netClean, spacious, private apts. for calm, quiet, stable, mature persons.●Duckpond duplex - 920 NE 6th Ave. $700 Carport, large yard, big trees, burglar bars, WDH, CHA, carpet. ●1808 - 1830 NW 10th St.- 1 and 2 bed-rooms. $500-$650. Private patio with lock gate, large yard, big trees, carpet.●1700 SW 16th Ct.- 1 and 2 br Condos $550 - $650 1 block from Shands   8-15-11-25-2
Don't wait!
Place Your Sublease Ad TODAY!
The last issue for the spring 
semester will be on April 20th!
It's FAST & EASY!
Go to: www.alligator.org/classifieds
$750/mo OBO Windsor Hall.Summer A/C 
or B. Movein early. Furnished, secure,pool, all utilities inc. Walk to UF.No roomies. Your own apt! Parking avail. Call 954-821-1446 or radurier@bellsouth.net for info.   6-2-11-30-3
$375/mo REDUCED from $475/mo! Ivy House large Double Suite. All inclusive! 5 minute walk to UF! Jacuzzi tubs! Great roommate! Available May thru August. Call 386-288-8541 or email msherrod@ufl.edu    4-20-7-3$500 / 1BR sublet thru July, can renew.  
Arbor Apts., SW 35th Pl.  Gated patio, all bus 
routes, pool & laundry.  Call 352-327-5871 or 
harrisesarah@gmail.com.    4-20-11-5-3
Campus edge condo 2 furnished bedrooms available for all of summer. Just $370/month! 
Save $100! Across from south campus. Nice 
quiet unit. Washer dryer included. Contact 
Nelson at 954-609-8275!    4-20-4-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
8-15-25-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house.Male 
or female.No pets/smoking.Free off-street 
parking$450.00/mo.Includes all utilities, 
wifi,security system, Available 8/1 yearly 
lease. 727-726-2915    5-10-11-27-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl. Directbus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-357-9656, or 352-636-4814     4-20-11-23-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-729-1561   5-31-20-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $369/MOincludes cable, internet, utilities,pool + fitness room and on bus route, Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871    5-10-11-13-4
Clean responsible roommate wanted!
4/2 ~1900SF house. All utilities included.
Convenient location (UF/SFC). Walk-in
closet, pool, grill... $475/month.
Available NOW. Call Erik @ 954-937-9491
4-20-11-5-4
Male student roommate wanted to share 
amazing 2/1.5 townhouse behind Midtown. W/D, DW, small deck/yard. Living area/kitchen furnished. $500 per month inclusive, August through April. (239) 249-4344   4-20-11-4-4
Share a 2/1 Downtown Condo. Italian tile 
floors, vaulted ceilings, skylights, huge built in bookcase. Aprx 1000sq'. Close to parks, library, and post office. Easy bike to UF. Month-to-month or longer lease ok. Pets ok.$400/mo. OBO. 352-262-1351   5-10-5-4
I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking $300/mo which includes util & Dish Network TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-682-9412    5-10-11-3-4
Roommate wanted $400. 3/2
Grad student preferred. Quiet Lakefront house. 1/2 utilities.  
352-281-2200 or Welchds1@bellsouth.net5-17-11-5-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
Absolute Auction - Industrial Zoned, 4951 
Woodlane Circle Tallahassee, FL 32303. 1 
acre w/office and shop. 3 parcels sell as 1 
unit for one price. Live event on April 28th 
at 11:00 am EDT. Info and Online Bidding 
Now: www.abalauction.com (850)510-2501 
AB2387 AU 3239    4-20-1-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will 
deliver.      8-15-11-25-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        8-15-11-25-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        8-15-11-25-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   8-15-25-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 
(352) 372-7490      8-15-25-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    8-15-25-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      8-15-25-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  8-15-25-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  8-15-25-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     8-15-11-25-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
Cash For Electronics Working or not! Lap
tops,iPods,Smarphones,iPhones,Gaming 
Systems and More! We Do repairs Too
We are located by the Beef `O` Brady`s on 
Archer RD Techmodo 352-872-5881
6450 SW Archer Rd
5-26-10-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 8-15-10-25-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
4-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       8-15-25-10
KENTE GRADUATION STOLES FOR SALE!  
Celebrate with hand-woven kente stole/sash imported from Accra, Ghana.ONLY 19.99 plus shipping.Order online – www.afrikandesigns.com; email Grace at grace@afrikandesigns.com.    4-20-11-11-10
SAWMILLS -Band/Chainsaw -SPRING 
SALE - Cut lumber any dimension, anytime. 
MAKE MONEY and SAVE MONEY In stock ready to ship. Starting at $995.00 www.NorwoodSawmills.com/300N (800)578-1363 
Ext.300N   4-20-1-10
DO YOU EARN $800.00 IN A DAY? Your 
Own Local Candy Route 25 Machines and Candy All for $9995.00 All Major Credit Cards Accepted (877)915-8222  AINB02653    4-20-1-10
SELL YOUR RV FAST! Online at RVT.com Millions of RV Shoppers Thousands of RVs SOLD - Serving RV traders since 1999 www.RVT.com or Call (888)437-1072    4-10-1-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    8-15-25-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
8-15-11-25-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  8-15-11-25-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  8-15-11-25-11***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!
All models between $200 - $400 off! All come 
with one year parts and labor warranties! 
Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 
352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-
11-35-11
05 suzuki boulevard S40, $2000
7800 mi, great beginner bike
50mpg but has plenty of power
650cc, white, no dents/scratches
352-219-7215, lv msg    4-20-4-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
8-15-25-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    8-15-11-
25-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
5-31-11-79-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 21
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-1205 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
8-15-25-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
4-20-11-70-13 
CASH PAID FOR JUNK CARS$200 & up. FREE pick-up.
352-771-6191    4-20-11-11-13
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA
4-20-11-23-14
Daytime Advertising Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting student applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout. Will
train, but experience with Adobe InDesign,
Photoshop and Illustrator is preferred.
Friendly work environment, flexible sched-
ule, with hours between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave,
M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and refer-
ences. Previous applicants are
welcome to reapply
with current schedule. EOE
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            8-15-10-25-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-15-10-25-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  8-15-11-25-14Computer Programming Internship
Work with local small business to
Expand online presence, update &
build websites, and network. Web
Design experience required.
Collin@NS4L.com for more info.    4-20-16-
14
OFFICE ASST-F/T. Green conscious, book 
lover, passion for writing/knowledge/ fitness. 
Computer fluency. Eye for Detail. Interest in 
MMA a plus. Min. wage to $12/hour.
626 NE 1st St, 32601. Email resume to
paulsrothstein@gmail.com    4-20-11-10-14
NEED NANNY TO TRAVEL: all expenses paid;
min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs/wk @ $12/hr;
3yr old / 10 mon; bonus hr$; exp; good refs;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    5-10-
11-11-14
FT NANNY NEEDED AUG for 1yr;
2 boys 10&14;$12/hr; ~ 30 hrs/wk;
+ bonus hrs / $$; must be exp/prof/ref/
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    5-10-
11-11-14
TIMBER RIDGE CAMPS
We are a traditional summer camp in West 
Virginia. We are looking for both male and 
female counselors. Visit www.trcamps.com 
or call 410-833-4080 for more information.  
5-24-11-14-14
Seeking full-time Support Technician to up-
keep and deploy sites built on ASP.NET, 
MSSQL, and IIS. Help maintain Active 
Directory, Windows workstations and serv-
ers. Interacts via phone, e-mail, and ticketing 
system. Email hr@352media.com   4-20-11-
6-14
Opus Cafe - Coffee Bar
We are searching for fun and active
students to work 12 to 30 hours per week
at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting pay is $8.00/hour + tips. 
To apply, go to our website,
www.opus-cafe.com, click on the employ-
ment tab, and follow the directions.
4-20-11-6-14
ATTN SMOKERS!!!!
Need participants for study assessing the
effects of various activities on smoking. 
COMPENSATION provided. Call 336-406-
3706 or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com
5-31-13-14
Group Fitness Instructor wanted - need 
quality instuctor to teach any of the follow -
ing; Zumba, pump, TRX, yoga, Dance and 
spinning. send to resume@baileysgym.com or call 352-373-4439    5-10-11-7-14
EASIEST PART TIME JOB IN THE WORLD
Work at your own pace, work your own hours, unlimited income potential. Call 352-875-6451 - Ask for Alan.   5-10-11-7-14
FT prof NANNY needed NOW $13/hr;
3 kids under 5;M-F 48hrs;+OT/ wkds; gradswelcomed; refs/bkkg ch; biling. Span/Eng;long term; Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mailresume, pix, to gnv@nanoneone.com   5-10-11-6-14
Assistant to scan photos and newspaper
clips for use in documentary film
project. Also may need help converting
old Umatic tapes into digital files.
Equipment you may have is a plus.
Email Greg at scorekb@hotmail.com
4-20-11-5-14
PT NANNY needed: 2 jobs avail for pms:
18 to 30 hrs/wk; var sched; 2 kids;start May 1st & cont. thru Fall/Spring;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com5-10-11-5-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. $7.50/hr + in-centives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 NW 13th St   5-10-11-4-14 Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – August 6. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
5-31-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonal
recreation and aquatics positions
Competitive pay in great work
environment! Apply online today
at www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
BARN HELP
Sundays only in exchange for lessons 
or boarding at Hunter/Jumper facility. EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 352-359-4149    4-20-26-14
Account Director/Project Manager wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web 
design/marketing experience required. Email 
resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-
14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & CSS experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.    5-24-11-30-14
The Village, an upscale retirement
community, is looking for CNAs andLPNs to join our team. Experience inAssisted Living is preferred. Part timeand PRN available. Competitive salaryand a great working environment.For more information or to apply, please visit www.thevillageonline.com/jobs The Village is an Equal Opportunities Employer and a Drug Free Workplace.   5-17-11-27-14
The Village, an upscale retirement com-
munity, is hiring! Multiple part time and full time Life Coach positions available in both Independent and Assisted Living. Come and be a part of our growing team! These positions play a support role in planning, or-ganizing, and implementing our life enrich-ment program that promotes total health and wellness of each resident living here at The Village. The ideal candidate will have experi-ence conducting group programs with strong interpersonal skills. Understanding and pas-sion for working with older adults is a must. In addition to experience with social programs, individuals with a theology background and/or fitness experience are encouraged to apply. please visit www.thevillageonline.com/jobs     5-17-11-27-14
Help Wanted at Gun Club.
Exp shotgun/firearm safety, Wed, Fri, Sat, 
Sun - noon to pm schedule. Call Mr Clay 352-372-1044 GatorSkeetandTrap.com4-20-11-21-14
SCOOTER/MOTORCYCLE MECHANICPT/FT jobs available. ExperienceW/ 2 & 4-stroke motors a must!Inquire within or call 336-1271Collin@NS4L.com    4-20-16-14
22, ALLIGATOR  n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
SUMMER AND FALL 2011
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
5-19-11-7-14
Female UF student caregiver needed for 
28-year-old disabled girl. Must have personal 
low-profile vehicle (i.e. no SUVs). Duties incl 
toileting & companion services. Saturdays 
9am-8pm. Other work days avail. Luxurious 
work conditions. $8-10/hr depends on exp. 
377-1306    4-20-11-3-14
LAW CLERK-P/T. Law student, creative prob-
lem solver. Green conscious, book lover, pas-
sion for writing/knowledge/fitness/MMA. 626 
NE 1st St, 32601. Send resume and writing 
sample to paulsrothstein@gmail.com   4-20-
11-3-14
IMMEDIATE NEED FOR HOUSE DIRECTOR 
for Frat on campus. Must be mature, reli-
able, and available. Compensation would 
be free rent and meals. Must communicate 
with brothers and management, be present 
at meetings, and help with fire inspection. 
Email info@fratmgmt.com    4-20-3-14
HANDY, ENERGETIC, SELF-STARTER.
Honest, dependable. Familiar w/tools, driv-
ing, yardwork. Good driving record & ref-
erences. Flex hours. Background check. 
DFWP.  jobopp77@gmail.com    5-10-11-
4-14
YARD WORK $10/HR
References. Flexible hours.
jobopp77@gmail.com   5-10-11-4-14
MWF NANNY for 05-13 to 06-27:
MWaltF; May:12-18hrs/wk; June:30hrs/wk;  2 kids/ $13/hr;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix,schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    5-10-11-4-14
MWFSat NANNY NEEDED 15hrs/wk;
6:30am; May 2 to Aug 17 min;3 yr old twins + 1yr old; clean dmv;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix,schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com   5-10-11-4-14
Editorial Assistants Needed F/T P/T $12+
Excellent editing, writing skills. Expert usage of MS Word, Illustrator, Photoshop helpful. Resume to lbresko@progresstesting.com  
4-20-11-2-14
Looking for musician that can play African 
Methodist hymns for church. Starting $200/week in Lake City. Call the pastor at 352-209-8386 or Greg at 386-344-2449    5-19-11-5-14
Net Enforcers is looking for a FT Junior 
Applications Developer. ExcellentBenefits. Please email resume toahjobs@intersections.com. EOE.www.netenforcers.com    6-28-11-14-14
Seeking Lawyer for medical malpractice 
(negligence) case vs. UF Physicians Group Involves statute 766 (Biopsy gone wrong) 352-450-0512 or Tim@24681.net   5-10-11-2-14
CONSTRUCTION ASSISTANT
Full or part time. Responsibilities - AutoCAD, SketchUp. Assist with planning and drawings of various projects. Please apply athttp://www.gleim.com/employment.    5-10-11-2-14
17 DRIVERS NEEDED! Top 5% Pay! 
Excellent Benefits New Trucks Ordered! Need CDL-A & 3 mos recent OTR. (877)258-8782 www.meltontruck.com    4-20-1-14
Driver- Plenty of miles. Recession proof freight. $1000 Sign-on for experienced CO's and incentives for O/O's. Driver Academy Refresher Course available. recruit@ffex.net. (855)356-7121.    4-20-1-14Driver- RECESSION PROOF freight! 2012 
Trucks! LOCAL Orientation. DAILY or 
WEEKLY Pay! Hometime Choices! F/T or 
P/T. CDL-A, 3 months current OTR experi -
ence. (800)414-9569. www.driveknight.com    
4-20-1-14
Drivers- No Experience- No Problem. 100% 
Paid CDL Training. Immediate Benefits. 
20/10 program. Trainers Earn up to 49¢ per 
mile! CRST VAN EXPEDITED (800)326-
2778 www.JoinCRST.com    4-20-1-14
Drivers - CDL-A GREAT HOME TIME! 
START UP TO 43¢ PER MILE SIGN-
ON BONUS!!  Lease purchase available. 
Experience Req’d. (800)441-4271 X FL-100  
HornadyTransportation.com     4-20-1-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   8-15-25-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  8-15-11-25-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
8-15-25-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Microwave Oven
Repair Specialist
Since 1997. (352) 804-1113    4-20-11-26-15
ARC Lifeguard Training
Starts Now!! Don't miss out.
Floridaheartsaver.org 352 575-0119     5-10-24-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY. WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696    4-20-11-12-15
CLEANING SERVICES
The Soapranos
Move out or weekly cleanings. Insured and experienced. Call for rates. 352-301-0448    4-20-11-8-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
8-15-11-31-15
SERVICE DOGS
Newberry. Autism, PTSD, Companion Dogs. 
Volunteers needed. Non-profit. Puppy-raisers. 330-329-8834 chriswriterbuerki@gmail.com5-24-10-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
NEED A PAINTER/PRESSURE WASHER?
25 Years Experience. Residential and 
Apartment Turn. Local Referencs 352-450-0512 or 352-375-3181   5-10-11-2-15
CASH NOW! Cash for your structured 
settlement or annuity payments. Call J.G. 
Wentworth. (866)494-9115. Rated A+ by the 
Better Business Bureau.    4-20-1-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? 
Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low 
rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! 
Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.
com    4-20-1-15
FREE DEBT SOLUTION. End Foreclosure 
and Debt Collections within 90 Days. 
No Payments, No Bankruptcy, and No 
Settlements. Guaranteed Since 1993. 
(800)477-9256 www.zerodebtguaranteed.
com    4-20-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA 
approved program. Financial aid if qualified - 
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance (866)314-3769.    4-20-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting, 
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. 
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. 
Call (888)203-3179, www.CenturaOnline.
com    4-20-1-15
Heat & Air JOBS - Ready to work? 3 week 
accelerated program. Hands on environ -
ment. Nationwide certifications and Local Job Placement Assistance! (877)994-9904    4-20-1-15
USE YOUR GI BILL Learn to Operate HEAVY EQUIPMENT and CRANE Approved for VA EDUCATIONAL FUNDS Member of YELLOW RIBBON PROGRAM www.GA-SC.com CALL TODAY (866)218-2763    4-20-1-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
8-15-25-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
8-15-25-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
8-15-11-25-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   7-22-11-100-16PRIMARY MEDICAL CARE
accept medicare, medicaid, all private insur-
ers, sliding scale fee for uninsuredcall 352 275 8171   5-19-11-5-16
VIAGRA 100MG and CIALIS 20mg!! 40 Pills + 
4 FREE for only $99. #1 Male Enhancement, 
Discreet Shipping. Only $2.25/pill. The Blue 
Pill Now! (888)796-8871    4-20-1-16
Tired of Living with PAIN? Let us help. Physician approved products. Covered by 
insurance. FREE consultation and samples 
available. CALL MEDASAVE (800)841-5773 
ext 22 Home Delivery    4-20-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
8-15-25-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
8-15-11-25-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.comthen call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville Urbanized Area announces a pulic meeting to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: May 2, 2011 at 5:00 pmPLACE;  Jack Durrance Auditorium, County 
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE;  Regular Business Meeting of 
the MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352-955-2200, visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation - MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-ability, familial status, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans With Disabilites Act or persons who require translation ser-vices (free of charge) should contact Marlie Sanderson at 352-955-2200, extension 103, at least seven (7) days before the public meeting.    4-20-1-20
Get Your Ad Noticed Here and in Over 100 Papers throughout Florida for One Low Rate. Advertising Networks of Florida, Put us to work for You! (866)742-1373www.florida-classifieds.com.    4-20-1-20WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
Panasonic SDRH40 42x
Any info call or text (850) 543-3762REWARD $400                          4-20-26-25
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 23
Sports
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
alligatorSports Video Show alligatorSports Podcast ONLINE
n Keep an eye on our website throughout the break between the spring and 
summer sessions, as we will be updating alligatorSports.org with stories and 
notes from all the Gators sporting events happening in Gainesville and across the country, including Florida baseball, softball, lacrosse, men’s and women’s tennis and both UF track and field squads.n Update your iTunes feeds toward 
the end of the week as we will be uploading our final podcast of the semester — host Adam Berry’s last time on the microphone.n If you haven’t already done so, click over to 
alligatorSports.org and watch our 13th and 
final video show of the semester. We’ve got Florida basketball, lacrosse and gymnastics coverage, and a farewell to Adam Berry and Anthony Chiang.Alligator File Photo
Florida sophomore Lauren Embree has bounced back from a severe wrist injury suffered last fall, 
helping lead the No. 2 women’s tennis team to a regular-season Southeastern Conference title.
n THE SEC TOURNAMENT 
KICKS OFF ON THURSDAY.
By THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
 
Lauren Embree began the season 
injured.
Embree, who became the first 
freshman to earn the Southeastern 
Conference Player of the Year award last season, entered 2011 ranked No. 4 after finishing the previous year as 
the No. 9 singles player in the coun-
try.
But Embree immediately suf-
fered a severe wrist injury that kept 
her out of action for the duration of 
the fall season, sending her spiral-ing out of the rankings before she ever had a chance to prove herself.
Embree’s surgery kept her from 
practicing her go-to backhand shot, but she took the rehab time to bring her forehand to a level it had never reached before.
“I just have to kind of regain 
my confidence, especially with my backhand because that was my best shot,” Embree said on Jan. 26, fol-lowing her first match back from injury.
It’s safe to say Embree has fully 
healed and regained her confidence, stepping into the leadership role she was expected to fill on a young Gators team.
“In the beginning, it was a little 
shaky, and I just wasn’t used to 
playing matches,” Em-bree said Saturday af-ter Florida clinched its 
19th SEC regular-sea-
son title. “[My game] has definitely im-
proved a lot. I feel a lot more com-
fortable and a lot more confident 
on the tennis court, which helps a ton.”
Embree still wears tape on her 
wrist while she plays, and she can be 
seen stretching it after matches. But 
her play can hardly be criticized. 
She has blazed a path for Florida 
this spring, going 18-0 in singles. Embree hits stride with 
renewed confidence
Tennis
Sports weren’t always a passion of 
mine.
But spending time with my 
Dad has always been.
The sight of a baseball player on 
the television would bring tears to my eyes. My Dad’s Dan Marino jersey would force me to throw a tantrum. And I completely detested NFL Sun-days.
At 3 years old, I was jealous of an 
inanimate object. Sports meant that I couldn’t play with my Dad for the next three hours.
I fought this battle for most of my 
early childhood — until he showed me what I had been missing.
One Heat game turned into seasons 
on the couch mesmerized by every dribble. One trip to the Orange Bowl turned into six years of season tickets in the west end zone. One quick one-on-one basketball game turned into count-
less others that grew more competitive throughout the 
years.
I was 
hooked not only by Sports-
Center and all 
the incredible highlights, but with the bond that grew stron-ger along with those things.
The games and unforgettable finish-
es aren’t the things that will forever be 
engraved into my memory . The walks 
and the car rides with my Dad are. 
I still talk about getting permission 
to stay up past my bedtime to watch the Dolphins lose to the Jets on Mon-day Night Football with him.
Sports gave us an excuse to spend 
thousands of hours together at the ball-park, even if my Mom got mad that we Dad’s love sparks lifelong bond
Anthony Chiang
Chiang Reaction
achiang@alligator.org 
Twitter: @Chiang_ReactionDuring my four long years of college, I 
developed a least favorite question. 
Part of me shut down every time I 
heard it. Unfortunately, it’s possibly the most common query when meeting new people. 
“Where are you from?”“Um. Well, I’m originally from Clearwa-
ter,” became my default response. It doesn’t actually answer the question, but it’s good enough to satisfy people uninterested in hear -
ing the real answer. 
That, I suppose, is not so simple.I didn’t have the glamorous high school 
career many UF students did before coming 
to Gainesville. It’s not that I wasn’t the home-
coming king, the star quarterback or even the valedictorian, the editor of the yearbook, Most Likely To Succeed, whatever.
And don’t get me wrong: I wasn’t any of 
those things, either. 
The truth is, I attended four schools in four 
years, including one taking online-only class-es and a less-than-a-week run at a school that took off three days each year for what boiled down to a tri-county cattle festival. You know, so the students could show off their animals.
And I lived in a trailer at the time. I wish I 
was kidding — really, I do.
My first 14 years before that were blessedly boring. Nothing ever changed, and I was just fine with that. I lived in the same small house in Clearwater, attended 
two schools from kin-
dergarten through high school and ran with the same group of friends. 
But a series of shake-
ups in my family sent 
me from my comfort-
able, predictable world to a few years where 
the only real constant in my life was my dog, a 
spirited little dachshund named Happy. 
I had to grow up faster than I would have 
liked to, maybe even faster than I should have 
had to. 
Somewhere between then and now, I lost 
the concept of what home looked like. 
Somewhere between living in Clearwater 
and Steinhatchee and Chattanooga, Tenn., and Steinhatchee again and Gainesville and Clear -
water again and Tampa and Gainesville again, I decided I absolutely hated that question.
Home, in theory, is wherever I can be to-
gether with my mom and my brother, Chad — whether it’s my parents’ dining room table or Home away from wherever home may be
Adam Berry
Bad News Berry
aberry@alligator.org
Twitter: @adamdberry
SEE ADAM, PAGE 31SEE ANTHONY, PAGE 31SEE TENNIS, PAGE 27WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 25
  By ALEX PECKHAM
 Alligator Writer
   
 The shift from college to the professional 
world is one of the most crucial transitions for 
any individual in any walk of life.
  This process is magniﬁ  ed for athletes, who 
go to sleep one night scraping by like any oth-
er college student and wake up the next morn-
ing with a contract or signing bonus worth six or seven ﬁ  gures.
  For golfers, the transition from college to 
the pro ranks is less publicized than in any other sport, but it is no less meaningful for a youngster hoping to try his hand on the PGA Tour.
  After the NCAA Championships in June, 
Florida seniors Andres Echavarria and Bank Vongvanij will begin their journeys into pro-fessional golf.
  Echavarria, the No. 24 golfer in the NCAA, 
came to UF ﬁ  ve years ago from Medellin, Co-lumbia, and has since emerged as one of the brightest professional prospects in the nation. 
  Along with his Southeastern Conference 
Tournament title last weekend, Echavarria 
won individual honors at the Gator Invita-tional in February . 
  V ongvanij entered the 2010-2011 season as 
somewhat of an unproven commodity . In his 
junior campaign, he earned ﬁ  ve top 10 ﬁ  nishes despite inconsistent play all year. 
  One year later, Vongvanij has taken the 
NCAA by storm with three victories and ﬁ  ve 
top 10 ﬁ  nishes, peaking at No. 2 in February 
before settling into the No. 5 slot.
  But when the two Florida stars’ proliﬁ  c col-
legiate careers come to an end, they will ﬁ  nd themselves just like every other golfer: look-ing for any way into the pros.
    What makes the process of breaking in as 
a professional golfer so different from most other sports is that there is not one set-in-stone 
way to do it.   There are numerous different 
paths a golfer can take toward playing full time on the PGA Tour.
  A golfer who excels in the collegiate ranks 
will often receive a sponsor’s exemption into a professional event, most often in the Nation-wide Tour, a de facto minor league for the PGA Tour.
  By doing well in the Nationwide Tour, a 
golfer can earn a PGA Tour card, and with it, the opportunity to play in more prestigious events with larger prize pools.
  Anyone who ﬁ  nishes the season in the top 
25 of the Nationwide Tour money list, or wins three tournaments in one season, automati-cally receives a PGA Tour card.
  Echavarria has already used the Nation-
wide Tour as a vehicle to make a name for himself in professional golf.
  This spring, Florida coach Buddy Alexan-
der allowed Echavarria to play two Nation-wide Tour events. The senior made his pro 
debut at the Paciﬁ  c Rubiales Bogota Open in 
his native Columbia and tied for 19th.
  His top 20 ﬁ  nish earned him a spot in the 
Chitimacha Louisiana Open, one of the more prestigious stops on the Nationwide Tour.
  There, he played what he called the best 
rounds of golf of his life, ﬁ  nishing in second place to Tour veteran Brett Wetterich, who represented the U.S. in the Ryder Cup in 
2006.
  The Nationwide Tour experience was cru-
cial for Echavarria, as his results earned him 
exemptions into other events later this year.
  “I’m going to try to play as many of those 
events as I can,” Echavarria said. “If I contin-ue to play well, more exemptions will come, and I can come closer to becoming a full-time player.”
  Because of the sheer multitude of paths a 
golfer can take to the pro tour, Echavarria ad-mitted that the process can be daunting.
    But at Florida, Echavarria said he was for-
tunate to learn from a good network of alumni who tried their hand at professional golf, in-cluding PGA star Camilo Villegas.
  Another beneﬁ  t of playing the Chitima-
cha Louisiana Open in March was having the 
chance to talk to established professionals and 
beneﬁ  t from their experiences.
  “I like to talk to people and hear their 
stories,” Echavarria said. “Every guy comes through the system in a different way , and I learned a lot from what they told me.”  
  The most common way for a golfer to break 
into the highest ranks of professional golf is the PGA Tour Qualifying School. 
  But Q-School, as it is more commonly 
known, is not an easy road.
  Considered one of the most mentally gru-
eling processes in all of sports, Q-School con-sists of four stages. Each is a set of four-round golf tournaments, except for the ﬁ  nal step, a six-round marathon.
  Each event is played in its own month, 
with the ﬁ  rst beginning in September and the 
ﬁ  nal tournament concluding in December.
  Echavarria said he is trying to avoid going to Q-School because he hopes to have his ca-
reer off the ground by then, avoiding the stress 
and difﬁ  culty of the four-month process.
  The top 20 to 30 golfers advance from each 
tournament, moving ever closer to their dream 
of playing on the PGA Tour.
  The ﬁ  nal stage of Q-School is truly one of 
the unique events in all of sports.
    The fourth stage of Q-School in 2009 exem-
pliﬁ  ed the striking diversity of the ﬁ  eld. 
  Former PGA Tour champion Joe Ogilvie, 
22-year-old Rickie Fowler and 35-year-old journeyman Michael Connell all earned their Tour cards.
  “Being here, ﬁ  nishing No. 132 on the mon-
ey list, is humbling,” Ogilvie said. “But having done this the last six days and being here for 10 days ... Shakespeare would have written one hell of a tragedy. It is one hell of a tourna-ment. It is an amazing thing that we don’t sell 
it a lot better because it is one hell of a deal.”
  The top 25 ﬁ  nishers in the six-round ﬁ  nal 
of Q-School earn a Tour card, while the next 
50 players earn Nationwide Tour cards.
    Having players move on to the pros is 
nothing new for Alexander, whose son, Ty-son, turned pro after graduating from UF last year.
  “My job as coach is to ﬁ  eld the best pos-
sible team for the university and to prepare them for life after college,” Alexander said. “I do take pride in the fact that we have so many kids come through here go on to play profes-sional golf.”
  When asked why he thought Echavarria 
and V ongvanij will become successful pros, Alexander was quick to tout both of his stand-outs, albeit for different reasons.
  “Bank is a terriﬁ  c competitor who just 
won’t be denied, and he has a work ethic be-yond what I’ve seen from any other player I have coached,” Alexander said. “Andres is a hard worker, but he is just ﬂ  at-out talented.”
  V ongvanij has yet to play a professional 
event, but his collegiate track record suggests  he has a shot at reaching the PGA Tour.
  The transition from collegiate to profes-
sional golf is an arduous process that is not understood by the average golf fan. 
  But there is one thing that rings true: Re-
gardless of the path a golfer chooses to take to PGA Tour success, the cream of golf talent almost always rises to the top.
  “It all comes down to how hard you work 
and how mentally strong you are on the course,” Echavarria said. “I’m conﬁ  dent I can 
make it because I think I have what it takes to 
succeed in those areas.” 26, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011
 Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
  Florida senior golfer Andres Echavarria is looking to turn his success at UF and in re-
cent Nationwide Tour events into a spot on the PGA Tour. 
 Taking on the Tour 
Echavarria, Vongvanij aim for PGADespite playing mostly at the 
No. 2 position behind fellow sophomore Allie Will, Embree 
has worked her way back up to 
a No. 21 ranking.
Embree will be looking to 
continue her momentum as the 
No. 2 Gators (22-1, 11-0 SEC) 
head into the SEC Tournament, which begins Thursday in Knox-ville, Tenn. 
Embree certainly isn’t doing 
everything by herself, though. She is part of a Gators squad that includes six ranked singles play-ers, with top-to-bottom depth 
more impressive than perhaps 
any team in the country.
One of those ranked players 
is Will, who has climbed to a No. 6 national ranking after re-
placing Embree on Court 1 this 
season. Will carries a 20-0 career singles record in SEC matches.
“I don’t know if it’s just 
stepping in,” UF coach Roland Thornqvist said. “I think she proved in the fall she’s one of the better players in the coun-try. We’re fortunate to have two high-profile players that can be dominant at the No. 1 posi-tion.”
Florida will lean on Will and 
Embree, along with junior Joan-na Mather, to carry the team as its postseason run begins.
Winning expectations are 
nothing new for Florida, which has its sights on goals even big-ger than an SEC Tournament 
crown.
“To say that 
we’ve ever had e x p e c t a t i o n s other than try-
ing to win an 
SEC champi-
onship and at least have a chance on 
the national stage is just lying to yourself,” Thornqvist said. “That’s why I came here. I want-ed to have the bull’s-eye on our 
back. Our players cherish that 
challenge. That’s why they’re here. They want to win champi-onships, and they want to raise trophies.”WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 27
Will, Embree lead young, 
second-ranked UF squadn UF WILL HOST UCF TONIGHT AT 6.
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
 
After breaking freshman records for batting 
average, home runs, RBIs and slugging percent-
age last year, expectations were high for Brittany Schutte. 
The sophomore catcher/right fielder was one 
of four Gators selected to the 2011 Preseason All-Southeastern Conference Team and one of 21 players invited to the 2011 USA Softball Wom-
en’s National Team Selection Camp. 
While she acknowledges her play this year 
hasn’t met her standards, Florida’s cleanup hit-
ter seems to have turned the corner as of late. 
“She’s been pressing a bit and trying to hit 
the ball harder,” UF coach Tim Walton said. “But when you get some players that are doing well around her, her at-bats have been a lot bet-ter, and that showed this weekend.” 
Entering last weekend’s Auburn series, 
Schutte had been struggling mightily at the plate. 
In conference play, Schutte had managed only 
13 hits and struck out 24 times in 53 at-bats.
“It’s been more mental than anything,” she 
said. “Sometimes I beat myself up too much.”
After going hitless in UF’s 14-4 opening win 
against the Tigers, the slugger rebounded with a 
huge performance in the final two games. 
With seniors Aja Paculba, Kelsey Bruder and 
Megan Bush protecting her in the lineup, Schutte changed her approach, and the results were im-pressive. 
She went 3 for 3 with a walk in Saturday’s 8-2 
win and followed that up with two homers in 
Sunday’s 13-4 blowout. 
“I started thinking more of getting the bat on 
the ball and hitting line drives rather than go-ing for the big hit every time,” Schutte said. “It helps to have them around me because I know they will produce good numbers even if I’m in 
a slump.” 
Although she has struck out 39 times com-
pared to 25 all last season, Walton said Schutte 
is on pace with most of her other numbers and 
has shown good patience with 35 walks. 
Reducing her strikeouts will be 
key as Schutte aims to continue her hot hitting when No. 8 Florida 
(37-7, 13-6 SEC) hosts UCF (18-24, 
8-7 Conference USA) tonight at 6. 
With seven different players knocking a home 
run last weekend, the Gators’ lineup will be a 
tough match for the Golden Knights, who have 
only hit 15 home runs compared to UF’s 89. 
BRUDER RECEIVES SEC HONOR: For the second 
time this season, Bruder was named the SEC 
Player of the Week. 
The Gators’ senior left fielder was a force 
against Auburn, going 7 for 13 with five RBIs 
and five runs scored in the series sweep. 
Bruder was especially impressive in the pow-
er department, homering once in each game as UF slugged 15 long balls in the series.Schutte coming around 
after slow start at plate
Softball
Thornqvist
TENNIS , from page 24Olympic Opportunities28, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011
By MELISSA PENDER 
Alligator Writer
 
Proving Her Worth
In 2006, Gemma Spofforth came to UF 
from West Sussex, England, because she had 
something to prove. 
She found her motivation in the form of 
a British swimmer named Simon Burnett, who trained at the University of Arizona 
and returned to break British records.
“I saw that and thought, ‘That’s what I 
want to do. I want to go away and hide and pretend I’m not swimming anymore and come back and prove to people,’” Spofforth 
said. 
She has certainly proven what she’s ca-
pable of since then, breaking four South-eastern Conference records and one NCAA 
mark with her four SEC and five NCAA titles. She holds UF’s fastest individual time 
in the 100-yard backstroke, the 200 back and 
the 200 individual medley.
Spofforth most recently won the Ben Hill 
Griffin Award, which is given to the high-est-achieving male and female athletes of the year, becoming only the third woman to 
win the award two years in a row since its 
inception in 1992.
But Spofforth said her most memorable 
win at UF was the NCAA title the women’s team took in 2010.
“We had been together for a year, and 
it was important that you’ve got all those people behind you, and it’s a team effort not just by yourself,” she said.
Spofforth is a champion on the interna-
tional level as well, setting the world record in the 100-meter back with her first-place 
finish at the 2009 FINA World Champion-
ships in Rome. 
She holds three British records and took 
fourth place in the 100 back and ninth in the 200 back at the 2008 Olympic Games in Bei-jing. 
Her next goal is to swim for Britain in the 
2012 London Olympics, which she is train-ing for in Gainesville. She said she looks for -
ward to meeting former teammates as op-ponents on the international level.
Elizabeth Beisel, who had a phenomenal 
freshman season at UF, competes against Spofforth at international meets in back-
stroke events. While they enjoy competing 
against each other, Spofforth said the rivalry between the two Gators remains friendly.
Between Olympic training sessions, 
Spofforth is just doing what any other post-graduate does: learning to take care of her -
self and looking forward to the future. 
“I’m actually learning how to cook at the 
moment, and that’s going really well,” she 
said. “I’m just sort of getting my life in order, 
sorting things out and looking into going to grad school in 2012 after the Olympics.”
A Family, Youth and Community Sci-
ences major, Spofforth volunteered at the Alachua County Crisis Center while at UF 
and hopes to go to graduate school in either 
in Florida or California to become a school counselor. Her father, Mark Spofforth, said 
she always wanted to prove she could excel 
in school, even with the amount of time she spent at the pool.
“You’ve got some of the kids who give up school at 16 just to swim and do noth-
ing else, and after a few years, they’re burnt 
out,” he said. “I think the great thing about Gemma is the balance she’s got behind the 
academic work and the swimming.”
Pushing His Potential
Two years ago, Conor Dwyer left the Uni-
versity of Iowa for the University of Florida, searching for better opportunities. 
As an athlete who excelled at swimming, 
lacrosse, baseball and water polo at Loyola Academy in Illinois, Dwyer knew his talents 
were greater than his accomplishments in two years at Iowa. 
While making a trip to Gainesville to 
train, he realized Florida was the school where he needed to be.
He exhausted his eligibility at UF with an 
NCAA Male Swimmer of the Year award, two SEC Male Swimmer of the Year awards 
and a Ben Hill Griffin Award. He joined Tim 
Tebow and fellow swimming great Ryan Lochte, among past recipients.
“There are so many great athletes here at 
UF, so to be named the top one is kind of a shock,” Dwyer said. 
He has represented the team at an ex-
traordinarily high level during his two years as a Gator. He is a seven-time All-American, 
seven-time All-SEC Selection, two-time Na-
tional Champion and four-time SEC Male Swimmer of the Week.
Dwyer is also in the UF record books, 
holding four school titles. But he said his SEC Championship-winning 800 free relay 
is the one that means the most to him.
“I’ve won some individual titles, but 
winning with three other guys on my team was really fun for me,” he said.
Florida coach Gregg Troy said Dwyer’s 
constant vigilance and ability to give that fi-nal push has helped the team with its relay 
success the past two years.
Dwyer has competed on the international 
level as well, finishing in the top six in five events at the 2010 Long Course U.S. Nation-als. 
His next challenge is the 2011 FINA 
World Championships in Shanghai, where he will swim under Troy with teammates 
Beisel and Teresa Crippen.
Dwyer then hopes to take his interna-
tional experience to the highest level when he tries out in Omaha, Neb., for the U.S. 
Men’s Olympic Team, which Troy will also coach during the summer of 2012. 
“My career just exploded with (Troy), 
and to go to the biggest meet in the world with him as my coach would mean every-
thing to me,” Dwyer said. “I would hope 
he would want to have me on the team as well.”
Troy has expressed his confidence in 
Dwyer’s Olympic potential by comparing him to another former Gator great who took 
home six medals in the 2008 Beijing Olym-
pics.
“He’s in Ryan Lochte mode,” Troy said. 
“We’d give anything to have a couple more years of eligibility with Conor, but I see him being a big player on the Olympic level.”
“It’s an honor to be compared to Ryan 
because he’s done so well, not just in college but internationally, so I hope I can just keep 
getting better,” Dwyer said. “We’ll see if I 
can do it in the big pool.”
Saj Guevara / Alligator
Former UF swimmer Conor Dwyer is looking to make an impact in the 2011 FINA World 
Championships and the 2012 London Olympics after a successful college career.
Spofforth, Dwyer capitalize on time in pool at FloridaWEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 29
Saj Guevara / Alligator Staff
Florida sophomore Austin Maddox is making the move back to third base after freshman 
Zack Powers went down with a knee injury Friday night against Georgia.
n FLORIDA WILL PLAY UCF ON 
THE ROAD TONIGHT AT 6:30.
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
 
After Zack Powers slid into second 
base Friday night against Georgia, 
Austin Maddox found himself in a fa-miliar spot the rest of the weekend.
Powers, the Gators’ freshman third 
baseman, injured his knee on the play, 
and UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan moved 
Maddox from first base to third for the final two games of the series.
“We had to tinker with the defen-
sive alignment a little bit,” O’Sullivan said. “That’s why we worked so hard 
in the offseason, for something like this 
that might happen.”
Maddox and a handful of other 
Gators fielded balls at the hot corner 
before the season started.
As a freshman last year, Maddox 
started 29 games at third base for the 
Gators — more than he started at any other position. While he led the team 
with 12 errors, he still boasted a ser -
viceable .941 fielding percentage.This season, Maddox has mostly 
seen time at first while also budding into a reliable late-inning option out of 
the bullpen. But O’Sullivan feels com-
fortable with him at third — a position 
Florida’s skipper referred to as a “re-volving door” before Powers emerged as the team’s everyday starter.
Although the freshman has strug-
gled at the plate, hitting only .254 with 
seven RBIs and 17 strikeouts in 59 at-
bats, O’Sullivan believed he was the team’s most reliable option at third.
However, a UF spokesman said 
Tuesday that Powers was on crutches 
with his knee wrapped at the end of 
the weekend. He added that the extent 
of the injury is still unknown, and the 
timetable for his return is unclear.
With No. 5 Florida (28-9, 11-4 
Southeastern Conference) traveling to Orlando tonight at 6:30 to take on UCF (23-14, 5-8 Conference USA), wrapping 
up an eight-game road trip, Maddox is 
likely to see more time at the hot cor -
ner until Powers is healthy.
The shift allows Florida to move 
junior Preston Tucker to first base, where he played for his first two years 
in Gainesville.Maddox moving to third30, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011
UF LACROSSE
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
With two weeks off before 
their last regular-season game, 
the Gators are using the extra 
practice time to go back to the drawing board.
Sunday’s one-goal win at Van-
derbilt marked the third consecu-tive game No. 3 Florida struggled 
with its faceoffs, winning just 26 
of its last 69.
“We’re definitely going to re-
visit the draw controls and see 
what changes we can make,” sophomore Caroline Chester -
man said. “The people who take 
the draw will try out different 
techniques, and we just talked, in general, about going stronger 
after each draw so we can take control of the game.”
Through the first 12 games 
of the season, Florida (14-1, 5-0 American Lacrosse Conference) 
only lost the draw control battle 
twice — by three against Tem-
ple (a win) and North Carolina 
(a loss). The Gators were also 
ranked in the top 10 in faceoffs won with 14.75 per game. 
Since April 9 against No. 18 
Johns Hopkins, their average has 
dipped to a paltry 8.66 draws 
won per game. 
“It’s again back to the funda-
mentals. … We lost the draw con-
trol against Vanderbilt,” UF coach 
Amanda O’Leary said. “They ob-viously have a very good player who takes the draw in Ally Car -
ey; she’s a draw specialist, and 
she did a fantastic job.” 
Carey won four draws for 
Vanderbilt, No. 5 Northwestern’s 
Taylor Thornton also dominated with five, and Taylor D’Amore, 
Johns Hopkins’ key player at the 
faceoff, had four draws of her 
own. 
Florida, on the other hand, has used an interchangeable parade of five players (Brittany Dashiell, Janine Hillier, Hayley Katzen-
berger, Kelsey Dlugos and Kitty Cullen) during each game, with 
none of them averaging more 
than two per contest.
“We’ve definitely had some 
sloppy things that have hap-
pened,” Cullen said. “Draw con-
trols are so important, because you get control of possession and 
the other team doesn’t.”
Not winning the draw has im-
mediately hurt the Gators in the 
last two games. The Wildcats scored 22 seconds after the open-
ing faceoff, and Vanderbilt need-ed only 12 seconds. 
But O’Leary was impressed 
with the way her team rebound-ed on the final draw against the Commodores after Brittany Dashiell’s 8-7 game-winner with 
30 seconds left. 
“We talked about the last 
draw, and how hard we worked to get that last draw,” O’Leary 
said. “If we had worked that hard 
on every single draw, the score 
might not have been indicative of 
what it was.”
With that in mind, it looks as 
if Florida will have a chance to break out of its slump and get 
back on track at the faceoff in its 
May 1 game at Cornell (4-7, 2-4 Ivy League).
The Big Red haven’t won the 
draw in their last two games and have only won the total face off battle in five of their 11 games.Entering stretch run, Florida working on draw control
 THE EVENT IS AFTER SATURDAY’S 
FLORIDA-ALABAMA GAME.
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
 
Beyond their ear-to-ear smiles and ex-
perience as top athletes at Florida, there 
wouldn’t seem to be many similarities be-
tween Francesca Enea and Ahmad Black. 
Enea starred as the left fielder on the 
softball team from 2007-10, graduating 
as the Southeastern Conference’s all-time 
home run leader before current Gators first 
baseman Megan Bush broke her record on 
April 10. 
Black, who stands only one inch taller 
than Enea at 5-foot-9, led the Gators in 
tackles last season with 108 and could be 
selected in the upcoming NFL Draft. But past their love for sports, one per -
son will forever bond the two All-Ameri-cans: Ian Lockwood. 
During a visit to Shands Hospital with 
the Goodwill Gators her senior year, Enea met the fun-loving Navarre native, who was hospitalized with a malignant form of 
brain cancer. 
“We hit it off right away,” Enea said. 
Lockwood, who played football for the 
Navarre High Raiders, told Enea he had one wish before he died: to meet a UF foot-
ball player.
Luckily for Enea, the solution wasn’t 
too far away. 
“I had a class with Ahmad,” she said. 
“They hit it off and became best friends.” 
With two top UF athletes as his new 
friends, Lockwood was fortunate enough to receive some star treatment. 
Former Florida football coach Urban Meyer gave him a tour of the stadium and locker room and dedicated the game ball 
to Lockwood at the 2011 Outback Bowl. 
After Enea graduated and moved back 
to California, Lockwood got the Holly-wood treatment when Enea’s friend Khloe 
Kardashian bought him 
seats to a Lakers game for his 18th birthday. 
But on Jan. 28, the for -
mer football star and close 
friend of Black and Enea 
succumbed to cancer and 
passed away. 
This weekend, his life 
will be celebrated at the 
2011 Swinging for the Cure, which will be 
held after Saturday’s 4 p.m. game at Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
Lockwood’s family will throw out the 
first pitch at Saturday’s game against Ala-bama, and there will be a moment of si-lence for Ian afterward. 
During her junior year, Enea created the 
event, which typically consists of Florida softball pitchers trying to strike out former 
UF athletes. 
Black, former quarterback Shane Mat-
thews and former receiver Chris Doering 
will be among the participants. Proceeds 
will be donated to the Shands Brain Tumor 
program.
Because UF’s softball season is still on-
going, Enea’s current USSSA Pride team-
mate and former Washington Huskie Dan-
ielle Lawrie will pitch.
But the former Gator slugger has no 
plans of facing the pitcher who beat her 
team twice in the 2009 Women’s College 
World Series Championship. 
“Danielle’s already struck me out 
enough times,” Enea said.Enea, UF to honor Lockwood at Swinging for the Cure
Enea
“We’re definitely going to 
revisit the draw controls 
and see what changes we 
can make.”
Caroline Chesterman
Florida sophomore midfielderWEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 31
a rest stop on the interstate, they make anywhere 
feel like home. That part has always been easy. 
But where do I call home?Since my sophomore year of high school end-
ed in May 2005, I have made 10 different rooms my own.  I’m about to add No. 11, and it’s in a city, San Francisco, that I’ve never been anywhere near.
Where am I from?I’ve all but cut my ties to Clearwater. I wasn’t 
in Tennessee long enough to plant any roots. Gainesville is where I went to school. And while Steinhatchee is a getaway paradise like no other, you can’t exactly develop a lifelong fondness for 
a town with no traffic lights, a reputation built 
around scalloping and a nightlife that consists solely of karaoke at Hungry Howie’s.
When I left Gainesville last April, off into the 
real world of internships for eight months, I real-ized my old apartment was the first place in five years I had lived for two consecutive falls.
As I leave Gainesville now, this time for good 
but once again off into the real world of intern-
ships and hopefully jobs and careers, I am leav-
ing behind a comfortable home I have established here. 
And I’m far more sad to be doing so. I look around the Alligator office five nights a 
week at the same weary, tired, determined, talent-ed, hilarious people — often more familiar with their personalities and problems than my own. 
I’ve probably spent more time here this semes-ter than in my actual house. I’ve done things that were foolishly ambitious, like creating the alliga-torSports Podcast and Video Show. 
I’ve plotted and schemed with Greg Luca, my 
unbelievably talented and hard-working assistant editor, to run as much of our original content as 
possible, even if it came at the expense of my hair -
line and cost Greg his childlike sense of wonder -
ment.
But I’ve had the time of my life doing it all.
I have poured myself into each story, paper, 
podcast, video show and so on. The reward has been a few nice lines on my résumé, an unexpect-edly fulfilling experience at the nation’s largest (and best) student-run newspaper and some of 
the greatest friends I could have ever asked for.
These people, and everyone I’ve worked with 
here along the way, have become like brothers 
and sisters. I talk about Kyle, Mike, DiFer, Phil, Bobby, Chiang, Tyler, Greg, Corey, Jesse and Liz like I’ve known them forever. 
They made this experience worthwhile.So, perhaps I’ll never have a good answer 
when someone asks where I’m from. Maybe I’ll 
start giving different responses at random — 
Clearwater one day, Chattanooga the next, Stein-hatchee every third day. I could just start making stuff up or dodging the question altogether.
But I know what home feels like. And if anyone 
ever asks me where I found a home away from wherever home may be, I won’t have to hesitate, because it’s right here.
In this office. On these pages.
With these people.ADAM , from page 24
were never home.
My Dad and I were inseparable.
Now, as I attend games as a 
sports journalist, I still think about those times. I see father-son com-
bos and I can’t help but remember 
gripping his hand as we crossed the street to watch the Miami Hur -
ricanes in matching jerseys.
No amount of press passes, 
game stories or crazy interviews can erase that. 
Sports brought us together, gave 
us something to build our rela-
tionship around and made us best 
friends.
Thank you, Guillermo Chiang. 
You helped me become the person I am today and sparked my interest in sports. 
Without you, my two and a 
half years at the Alligator wouldn’t have been possible, and for that, I 
dedicate this last column to you.
Along with my mom and my 
sister, I am forever in debt to the 
unwavering support you three, and my entire family , have always showed me. 
Without that constant push to 
become better, I wouldn’t have made lifelong friends at the Alliga-tor like Adam, Mike, Kyle, Tyler, Greg, Corey and Tom. All of you made this job a lot easier than it should have been.
I also want to extend a thank you 
to my roommate and friend Anil for always helping spark column ideas with our lengthy sports de-bates, and, of course, my girlfriend Camila for keeping me sane.
I would like to think all of you 
agree that I have grown wiser throughout the years, but one thing 
I definitely have figured out is that 
my irresponsible childhood jealou-sy was pointless and stupid.  
The thing I thought was keeping 
my Dad and I apart actually ended up creating a lifelong bond with the most genuine, hard-working and loving man I know. 
Thank you for that, sports. I 
couldn’t have asked for anything more.ANTHONY , from page 2432, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011
While most students 
are fleeing town for the start of summer, the No. 5 Gators baseball team is returning to 
Gainesville following a 
season-long eight-game road trip. Florida (28-9, 11-4 Southeastern Conference) will once again take the field at McKethan Stadium on Friday to open a week-end series against SEC West-leading Alabama (24-15, 8-7 SEC). This weekend’s series marks the start of a seven-game home stand that also includes a weekend series against Ole Miss and a midweek matchup with Bethune-Cookman before the team travels to Arkansas.
BASEBALLThe No. 8 Florida softball team will 
face a potential 
postseason foe as 
it hosts SEC West leader Alabama this weekend.
The fourth-ranked 
Crimson Tide own a 
41-5 record, but all of their losses have come on the road or at a 
neutral site. The Gators 
are 13-6 in conference 
play and will have a chance to take control of the SEC East when 
division-leading No. 
6 Tennessee visits for 
a three-game series beginning May 6.
SOFTBALLThe No. 3 Gators (14-1, 5-0 American 
Lacrosse Conference) 
will wrap up their 
regular season onMay 1 when they travel to Ithaca, N.Y., to take 
on Cornell (4-7, 2-4 Ivy 
League). The Big Red 
should provide a good tune-up before top-seeded Florida enters 
the ALC Tournament 
with five ranked confer -
ence foes from May 
5-7 in Nashville, Tenn. There, the Gators will 
get a first-round bye and 
will be one win away 
from the first tournament championship game in school history. Florida 
will also be moni -
toring the health of 
starter and NCAA goal leader Kitty Cullen, who was 
injured Thursday 
against Northwest -
ern. 
LACROSSEFlorida will host the 2011 SEC Tournament 
in Linder Stadium at 
Ring Tennis Complex, 
facing Arkansas on 
Thursday at 3 p.m. and, if they advance, No. 19 Mississippi State at 3 p.m. on Friday. Although it has been a rough season for UF (14-8, 7-4), which has slightly underachieved based on its lofty preseason goals, coach Andy Jackson still has high hopes for his team as the fifth seed in the tournament. “We’re one of the teams that we feel like we can win the tournament,” Jackson said. “We have to play four matches to do that, so our first goal is to win one match.”
MEN’S TENNISOver the break, No. 2 
UF will be in Knoxville, 
Tenn., trying to back 
up its regular-season SEC title with a strong performance in the SEC 
Tournament. The Gators 
earned a bye in the first 
round, will begin play Friday and could com-pete until Sunday if they reach the championship match. Florida will then enter a nearly two-week break before most likely hosting an NCAA Regional and, should they ad -
vance, continuing to California for the NCAA Team Tournament.
WOMEN’S TENNISThe Gators continue to 
improve after a disap-
pointing indoor season, 
racking up six event victories just one month into the season. Three-
time SEC Fresh -
man of the Week 
Cory McGee is leading Florida’s charge to break back into theUSTFCCCA Top 25. UF will send a split squad to the Penn Relays and the Drake Relays April 28-30.
WOMEN’S TRACK AND FIELDAfter winning a second 
consecutive indoor 
national championship 
in March, No. 1 Florida has picked up where it left off. The Gators will 
continue the quest for 
their first-ever NCAA 
outdoor crown when split squads are sent to the Penn Relays and Drake Relays on April 28-30. Led by a star-studded 4x100 relay team, UF is hoping to build off nine event victories at its last meet, the Tom Jones Memo -
rial Classic.
MEN’S TRACK AND FIELDWhile You’re Away...Classes won’t be in session from today until May 9, but that doesn’t mean the Gators will be taking time off. Here’s a quick look around the world of Florida sports to see what every UF team will be up to be -
tween the end of spring classes and the start of the summer semester.
Alexander Silva / Alligator Staff