We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 81 TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn The Sunshine 
State Games were 
held all across 
Alachua County this 
weekend. For cover -
age, visit alligator.
org. n  No.2 national 
seed Florida defeat-
ed Missisippi State 
8-6 on Sunday to 
advance to the 
College World 
Series in back-to-
back years for the 
first time in school 
history.
See Story, Page 14.NM woman gets back $30K ring after 14 years
SANTA FE, N.M. (AP) — A woman in New 
Mexico has been reunited with a $30,000 diamond 
engagement ring that she lost while making dinner in 1997.
Santa Fe police say the ring was returned to its 
owner Wednesday. It had been in a police evidence room for more than two years. Detectives found the right owner when the woman provided paperwork proving it was hers .The owner says she lost the ring while preparing dinner.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Partly 
cloudy
99/75FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 8
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 13Brett Le Blanc / Alligator
Talking with Tim
Tim Tebow, former Gators quarterback, signs his book “Through My Eyes” for a young fan at the Walmart on Archer 
Road on Thursday. Hundreds of people lined the aisles of Walmart, and some waited more than 24 hours to be one of the first in line.
By JOEY FLECHAS 
and C.J. PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writers
In a move that caught nobody by surprise, the 
UF Board of Trustees has agreed to increase in-
state undergraduate tuition for UF students by 15 
percent next year.
The move, which was passed unanimously 
Friday, will raise $26 million in revenue for UF. Officials maintain that the finances raised will 
help keep the quality of education high for a uni-
versity that has faced budget cuts in four of the past five years.
“It’s a significant amount of money,” UF Presi-
dent Bernie Machen said. “ We think it’s an invest-ment in the university.”
In the spring, state legislators approved an 8 
percent increase in tuition. Each state university has the power to raise tuition another 7 percent, 
bringing the total increase to 15 percent.
The measure has to be approved by the Board Trustees 
approvetuition hike
CAmPUS
By mICHAEL SYKES
Alligator Contributing Writer
Bright Futures continue to dim.
 Gov. Rick Scott recently signed a bill 
requiring  all students eligible for Florida 
Bright Futures Scholarship funds to com-
plete the Free Application for Federal Stu-dent Aid, known as the FAFSA, before any aid is dispersed. The measure will come into effect July 1.
Rachel Fernandez, 20, an anthropology 
student at UF, said she is one of the many students who have watched the Bright Fu-tures program wane over the years. 
“Now you have to work harder than 
ever for Bright Futures, but you’re getting less,” she said.
The additional paperwork is being re-quired because the state wants data on the Bright Futures population, said Paul Bry-ant, a Florida Senate analyst for education appropriations.  
“People ask us questions constantly,” 
he said, “and we don’t have any information for them.” 
The forms will provide 
detailed demographic and financial data on dependent and indepen-dent students receiving 
Bright Futures.  
Bryant said there are 
a thousand ways the program can change, 
and it would be impossible to predict its fu-ture. The form will serve as a census to pro-vide information for future funding. Based off the numbers from the 2009-
2010 school year, about 95 percent of incom-ing freshmen and 79 percent of all students at UF receive Bright Futures, said Rick 
Wilder, interim director for UF’s Student 
Financial Affairs.  
Many of those students already complete 
FAFSA forms, but he said he’s concerned for the returning students who are unaware of the changes to the program, he said.  
UF plans to alert students of the changes 
to Bright Futures by email, but the school is waiting for the other amendments to the 
program, including the reduction of funds, 
to be finalized before the email is sent, he said. He expects the email to go out later in the week.
The FAFSA form can be filled out online 
and takes about 10 days to process. FAFSA required for Bright FuturesSEE TRUSTEES, PA gE 5
INCREASINg STUDENT COSTS
§ An undergraduate taking 30 credits next 
academic year would pay almost $5,700 in 
tuition and fees — a roughly $650 increase from the current cost.
§ Trustees also approved 10 percent tuition 
increases to most graduate and professional 
programs. Law, pharmacy and dentistry gradu -
ate students are expected to see 15 percent increases.
§ The state cut Bright Futures Scholarships by 
about 20 percent this past session.
§ If approved by the Board of Governors at its 
meeting next week in Tampa, the 15 percent 
tuition increase would mark the third straight year such an increase was adopted. 
§ State universities are allowed to increase 
tuition by 15 percent each year until it reaches 
the national average. According to UF Presi-
dent Bernie Machen, UF’s tuition is currently $2,800 below the national average. Scott
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 81 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 University Editor Alex Klausner,
  aklausner@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Editorial Board C.J. Pruner, Joey Flechas, Josh Isom
 Photo Editor Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Thomas Nassiff,
  tnassiff@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Corey McCall, 
  Briana Seymour
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Brittany Fink, 
  Kelli Folse, Bryan Holt,
  Lily Parkinson 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Johal Baez, Serina Braddock,
  Allison Klempert, Clare Grady,
  Alex Schultz, Justin Scott
  Brandon Stern, Lauren Tami
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.STATE
Miami Herald ad mistake: 
Heat win NBA title 
MIAMI — The Mavericks’ 
win over the Heat was a huge 
upset for fans in Miami, espe-
cially after an ad in the local 
paper mistakenly congratulated the Heat on the win.
A full-page ad that ran in 
Monday’s Miami Herald reads “Congratulations Miami” next to photos of Heat championship T-shirts and hats from Macy’s. One T-shirt reads “Heat 2011 
NBA Finals Champions” and 
the ad shows the Heat’s logo on the front of a hat with the words “NBA Champions.”
The ad ran under a story 
about the Heat’s loss.
The newspaper issued a cor -
rection and apologized for any inconvenience. A Macy’s spokes-
woman called it “an unfortunate 
error” and apologized to Heat fans.
The Mavericks beat the Heat 
105-95 in Game 6 of the NBA Fi-nals on Sunday in Miami.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NATIONAL
Pa. school district turns 
lawn care over to sheep 
CARLISLE, Pa.  — A central 
Pennsylvania school has a wool-
ly plan to keep its grass neatly 
trimmed.
The Carlisle Area School Dis-
trict says it can save up to $15,000 
a year by turning over some 
landscaping chores to sheep.
The Patriot-News of Harris-
burg reports the district is using 
the sheep to keep the grass near its solar panels neatly trimmed. 
The sheep nibble grass in the 
morning and take refuge in the shade of the panels in the after -
noon.
With the food already on 
hand, the district need only sup-ply the sheep with water.
A middle school assistant 
principal is providing the sheep. 
Eric Sands says he’s still trying 
to figure out exactly how many sheep he needs to use to keep the area clear.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Angry crows dive-bomb of -
ficers in Everett, Wash. 
EVERETT, Wash. — Officers 
at a Seattle-area police depart-ment have found themselves in a 
flap with some unusual suspects: 
an angry flock of birds.
Crows have been attacking 
police in the parking lot of an Ev-
erett Police Department precinct 
station. They’ve been swooping ever received. He says it appears to have come from a house that 
was cleaned out.
The Flint Journal says store 
workers found the box just be-
fore Easter.
The box has the label “grand-
ma’s urn.” The cream-colored urn is about 10 inches tall and weighs about 10 pounds. It doesn’t have any identifying 
marks or label.
The Michigan State Police 
Flint post asks anyone with in-
formation to call. Anyone with information may contact the 
Flint post at 810-732-1111.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
Freak temperature hike hits 
Wichita after midnight 
WICHITA, Kan. — An unusu-
al weather pattern caused tem-peratures in Wichita, Kan. to soar 
nearly 20 degrees in 20 minutes 
even though the sun had long gone down.
National Weather Service 
meteorologist Stephanie Dunten 
says the heat burst hiked tem-
peratures from 85 to 102 degrees in 20 minutes, beginning at 12:22 a.m. Thursday.
She says a pocket of air in the 
upper atmosphere collapsed, and when it hit the ground it sent winds of more than 50 mph through parts of the city.
The Wichita Eagle says that 
during a heat burst, rain falling from higher elevations cools air beneath it as it evaporates. The cooler air then descends quickly to the surface. As it falls, it is compressed and warms dramati-cally.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
CORRECTION 
In Thursday’s edition of the Al-
ligator, an article about a group of students named Sisters of the Sea incorrectly identifies the group as an official UF student organiza-tion. They are not registered with the  Center for Student Activities and Involvement.down and dive-bombing the 
officers as they walk to and 
from their cars.
Lt. Bob Johns said he recent-
ly was flanked by the aggres-
sive birds and “got zinged.”
“They’re like velociraptors,” 
Johns said.
One officer used his siren 
to try to scare away the crows, but it didn’t work. The birds 
responded by decorating his 
car with droppings, The Daily Herald reported.
State Fish and Wildlife De-
partment biologist Ruth Milner said the birds are simply pro-tecting baby crows that have been kicked out of the nest and are learning to fly. Adult 
crows are quite protective of 
their young — a common trait among larger birds and birds of prey.
“All they’re doing is defend-
ing their nest,” Milner said.
She noted crows also can 
recognize people’s individual features. And they hold grudg-
es.
“If your cops have done 
something that [the crows] 
perceive as a threat, they could 
be keying in on them because 
they’re all wearing the same kind of uniform,” Milner said.
In addition to the officers, 
at least a dozen city employees 
have encountered the angry 
crows, and some have com-plained about being attacked, city spokeswoman Kate Rear -
don said. But she said police and city workers have agreed to let the crows be, and wait out the aggression.
She said the employees will 
be cautious but can use um-brellas to defend themselves if need be.
Everett is about 25 miles 
north of Seattle.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Box labeled ‘grandma’s 
urn’ left at Goodwill store 
FENTON, Mich. — State 
police in Michigan are trying 
to find who left what appear to 
be a grandmother’s cremated 
remains in an urn at a Good-will store near Flint.
Fenton Goodwill store man-
ager Allen Ryckman says “it’s got to be the No. 1 or No. 2 weirdest item” the store has THUNDER
STORMS
96/72THUNDER
STORMS
95/73THUNDER
STORMS
97/74THUNDER
STORMS
100/76PARTLY
CLOUDY
99/75
TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By SPENCER L. REEDER 
Alligator Contributing Writer
A dark cloud of smoke curled its way 
up the morning sky. The Wicked Witch 
of the West could have been melting for all Gainesville knew.
But no ruby slippers were found un-
der the abandoned house that caught fire Friday —  just some fond memories for Suzi Gann.
The house, located at 2212 SW 38th 
Terrace, reminded her of a place she 
grew up in at Dixie County, with “metal 
roofs and country cooking.” 
Now, it’s no more.By Monday, a charred frame of a 
house and a faint smell of smoke re-
mained.
“I’m really bummed out,” Gann 
said.  
Engine 19 arrived about three to four 
minutes after the fire was reported at 
about 11:30 a.m., said Richard Sauls-berry, district chief at Gainesville Fire Rescue.
“It was ridiculous,” said Dylan 
Thomas, a student at Santa Fe College who saw officials arrive. “They came so fast.”
“I heard ‘pow! pow!’ and it caught 
on fire,” said Gann, who was walking her dog, Tokoro, near the house at the time.
Others saw the smoke from a dis-
tance.
“I was dropping my husband off 
at a meeting,” said Shannan Brower, a former firefighter. “I saw the boom cloud.”
Brower began taking pictures and 
said that she had gotten used to the dif-ferent smells of smoke from firefight-ing. 
Although the cause of the fire is still 
under investigation, officials believe the house’s propane tank played a part.“The propane tank certainly contrib-
uted to the spread of the fire,” said Kelly 
DeRasmo, a fire safety inspector and 
paramedic for Gainesville Fire Rescue.No one was injured in the house fire.Gann said it was a shame the vacant 
house caught fire but hopes she can find out more about who lived there.
Special to the Alligator / Shannan Bower
The frame of smoldering house, located at 2212 SW 38th Terrace, stands 
amid rubble after a fire Friday. The cause of the fire remains unknown.
LOCALHouse, memories scorched by fire
By SAMANTHA DEAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Chords of Color for a Cause Festi-
val, presented by UF Performing Arts and 
Shands at UF, is being brought back for its second season starting July 22. 
The event will feature four performances 
from artists who have either survived can-cer or have experienced it through a friend or loved one.
This year, the event will feature a doc-
umentary by John Kaplan, a UF Pulitzer Prize-winning photographer, called “Not As I Pictured.” Kaplan, who survived a rare case of lymphoma, filmed his experience 
with the disease. His film will be shown Aug. 2 in the Squit-ieri Studio Theatre.
Kaplan’s event is particu-
larly special to sponsor since he was treated at Shands, said Lindy Brounley, communi-cations director of UF Shands Cancer Cen-ter.
This series of events is important be-
cause it helps to share experiences for some and provides understanding for others, she said. 
“Art touches people in very special ways, 
she said. “And when a person is undergo-ing cancer treatment or is recovering from cancer, as a survivor, it’s a very emotion-al process for folks. Being able to express themselves through art is a wonderful way to share their experiences.”
Student tickets for all shows are avail-
able for $12.Artists to 
raise cancerawareness
NewsLocalBy DEVANEY VAZQUEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
With her front legs planted on the floor, 
Zoe’s hind legs were lifted above her head 
in the yoga position known as “Downward 
Dog.”
The 1-year-old border collie lifted her nose 
and squinted her eyes to let her owner, Victoria Warfel, know that Zoe was feeling the stretch. Warfel, 34, and certified yoga instructor Lor -
rie Fritts, 54, have teamed up to bring “doga,” yoga for people and their dogs, to locals.
Warfel, a well-known trainer who used 
to teach at Dog Wood Park and Daycare, has now moved her business, Dream Dogz, to the building that also houses Aalatash Animal Hospital West, located at 3909 NW 97th Blvd. The doga — pronounced “dough-guh” — ses-sions are held there at 9 a.m. every Saturday . 
“She knows the dogs, and I know the peo-
ple yoga,” Fritts said about Warfel. 
Warfel begins each session, which costs $10, 
by asking attendees to take a stroll with their dogs to the end of the driveway and back. 
While the dogs walked beside their own-
ers, they  propped their heads up and wagged their tails. As their tongues swung from side to side, it appeared as though they had a smile on their faces and were ready for doga to start. 
The dogs, on leashes, helped their owners 
find their mats, and the class continued with 
deep breaths for both dogs and owners. 
Owners sat with legs stretched wide as 
their dogs lay perpendicular between their 
thighs. As they reached toward their right feet, they gently rubbed and stretched their dogs’ hind legs. And as they reach toward their left feet, they rubbed and stretched their dogs’ front legs.
The hair on the dogs’ backs rose, and they 
shivered as if chills were running from their noses to the tip of their tails.
The dogs were big and small. There is no 
discrimination in doga. 
They moved from “Downward Dog” to the “Child’s Pose,” where dogs — depend-ing on their size — can sit on your back while the owners are on their knees. The owners stretched their arms as far as they could to feel the pull in their spine.
Suzi Teitelman, the creator of doga, said 
while yoga is calming, doga is more than that. It’s an expression of love between owner and pet.Teitelman, 39, of Jacksonville Beach, is a 
certified yoga instructor and has been teaching doga for 10 years now. She said it has reached millions of people and dogs.
“Dogs teach us how to be present in this 
moment,” Teitelman said. “They teach us un-conditional love.”
Warfel learned about Teitelman and her art 
from a trainer’s magazine two years earlier. She went to Atlanta in October for the As-
sociation of Pet Dog Trainers, where there was a rooftop doga session. 
After seeing it with her own eyes, she knew 
she had to bring doga to Gainesville. 
“We have such a big student population,” 
she said. “And I thought doga was really fun, and I thought it was something they’d enjoy.”4, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011
Bryan Doolin / Alligator
Zoe, a 1-year-old border collie, is stretched by her owner Victoria Warfel near Aalatash Animal Hospital - West. Warfel recently 
moved Dream Dogz, where she hosts sessions of doga, or dog yoga, at 9 a.m. every Saturday.
locAl
Dog yoga provides canines an opportunity to loosen leashesBy GABRIElA R oSIAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
The scene inside the Archer Road Wal-
mart Wednesday through Thursday evening 
looked closer to a tailgate than a line for a 
book signing. 
About 200 people in Gator gear brought 
coolers, lawn chairs, blankets and shopping 
carts full of drinks and snacks to survive the wait  for Tim Tebow, who signed copies of his book “Through My Eyes” Thursday from 6 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. 
Greg Stevens, a 41-year-old who de-
scribes himself as a lifelong Gator fan,  sat 
at the front of a line that snaked through the 
large retail store. He, along with his wife and 6-year-old son Samuel, drove more than 250 miles from Boynton Beach, and started the line at around noon Wednesday.
Customers could purchase up to two 
books per person starting at midnight on Wednesday. Six hundred books were guar -
anteed to be signed, so signature-seekers 
had to show up early . 
By Thursday afternoon, close to 1,000 
people crowded the store. Some were lucky 
enough to have a book in their hands, with others crowding the electronics area hoping to get a glimpse of one of Gainesville’s most beloved athletes.
At 6 p.m., a blood-curdling scream set off the chants of “Tebow, Tebow, Tebow,” which greeted the former Gator star. Display TVs 
in the background showed highlights of his 
college career. 
With a big smile on his face, Tebow start-
ed the process. 
Marilyn Vallecillo, a 21-year-old UF phi-
losophy senior, attended the event with her mother and sister, both of whom who had driven up from Miami. 
She saidTebow was about quality , not 
quantity when it came to his fans.
“He’s not kind that 
kind of person who’s just like ‘sign and then go,’” she said. “He takes his time with you.”
Gaile Hutchins, 67, 
was second in line for the 
signing. She was there to 
collect a signature for herself and her daugh-
ter-in-law, Carolyn Hutchins, who had been diagnosed with cancer.
But when the the 30-hour wait for Ste-
vens and his son was finally over, he said it was well worth it. 
“There are so few true heroes left in this 
country today,” he said. “I’m 41 and he 
makes me feel like a little kid, and he’s just 
everything as a father you want your son to grow up to be like.”Tebow visit draws 1,000
THEY HARVESTED 10 TYPES
By BENJAMIN S. BRAScH 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Potatoes are one of the most versa-
tile foods in the pantry. They can be 
fried, boiled, mashed or deep-fried. The UF Horticultural Sciences Gradu-ate Student Club teamed up to sell the versatile vegetable to their campus.
These graduate students spent 
Thursday and Friday selling their 
goods outside of Fifield Hall on Hull 
Road by the Southwest Recreation Center. 
When they started, they had a large 
blue trailer filled with two tons of starch-stocked produce. After selling three-quarters of their supply, they donated the remaining produce to the local Bread of the Mighty Food Bank. 
The potatoes came from the Hastings 
Research and Demonstration unit in Hastings, which is near St. Augus-tine. 
The students harvested 10 differ -
ent kinds of potatoes out of about 200 varieties at the Hastings facility, said Libby Rens, president of the Horticul-tural Sciences Graduate Student Club. 
She said the group sells the crops so 
students at UF “can get their hands on real Florida-grown food.” 
The club has been selling fruits and 
vegetables at UF for at least 10 years. The potatoes sold for 50 cents per pound and people could buy a large 
75-pound sack for $20. 
The novelty of the side-of-the-road 
spud sale was an attraction to people 
passing by.
A van full of UF employees stopped 
at the sale only because they had nev-er seen one before and wanted to par -
ticipate. They weren’t the only ones. 
Rens said many people 
who came by said they 
hadn’t seen one before either.
One of the students’ professors, 
Brantlee Richter, came to the sale to help out the cause — and to grab some potatoes for making latkes, the tradi-tional potato pancake.
Some people walked away with 
five pounds of potatoes, and others ended up with about 225 pounds of potatoes.
The potatoes are not the big money 
makers, but the sale is just to promote the club and to meet the market, Rens said. 
The money earned from the sale 
will go toward sponsoring travel 
grants for students in the club.Grad students get in touch 
with roots, sell spuds
NewsLocal
Tebow
By ESTEE BECK
Alligator Writer 
John R. Alison, a World War II 
ace fighter pilot, UF alumnus and predominant Gainesville figure, 
died June 6 at his home in Washing-ton, D.C.
While serving as deputy com-
mander of the 75th Flying Squadron in the China-Burma-India Theater during the war, Alison and fel-low Lt. Col. Philip Cochran carried out what’s arguably Alison’s most praised accomplishment. The team designed a plan to es-
tablish bases behind enemy lines in Burma to prevent the Japanese from invading India. Dubbed Operation Thursday, the plan was essential in helping the Royal Air Force weaken Japanese forces. 
Alison led the first flight of the 
six-day operation, and because if its success, Alison and Cochran are said to be the grandfathers of the U.S. Air Force Special Operations Command, according to Douglas Birkey, director of government rela-tions for the Air Force Association, for which Alison served as presi-
dent from 1954 to 1955.  
To the dismay of his parents, 
aviation was an early interest of Ali-
son’s. 
His dream remained just that un-
til, while sitting in high school study hall, he heard a Curtiss P-1 zoom by the campus. A thesis paper written by Richard W. Boltz at Air Univer -
sity at Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala., reports it was that moment Alison could resist no longer. 
After begging for flying lessons, 
his parents reluctantly gave in. And with that, a pilot was born.
Alison’s aeronautical talents 
gained international recognition. In 1941 he served as a technical adviser 
to the Royal Air Force, training Eng-
lish forces on the assembly and use of the P-40 fighter. He served the 
same role to the Soviet Union im-
mediately after.
He was also chosen to demon-strate the P-40’s abilities for the Nationalist Chinese leader Chiang Kai-shek when he came to the United States to buy equipment in 1940. After much skepticism, Alison proved the jet was a capable piece of equipment with an impressive five-
minute demonstration, and the Chi-
nese leader complimented his skill, according to Boltz’s thesis.
During his service, Alison earned 
several awards including a Distin-guished Service Order and a Distin-guished Service Cross among oth-ers. He had seven confirmed kills, which earned him his ace title, and 
a number of non-confirmed kills. 
Alison retired from the Air Force 
Reserve in 1955 a major general.
Born in Micanopy, Alison, 98, at-
tended Gainesville High School un-
til 1931. He continued his education at UF and graduated in 1935 with a degree in industrial engineering. He was a member of Phi Delta The-
ta fraternity and a member of UF’s 
ROTC. By graduation, he was the head of the artillery battalion. 
Shortly after the war, Gaines-
ville’s regional airport was named the John R. Alison Airport in his honor. Though the name was changed in 1977 to Gainesville Re-gional Airport, the passenger termi-
nal remains named for him. 
Alison is survived by his wife of 
60 years, the former Kathleen Ar -
cidiano, his two sons, David and 
John and three grandchildren.TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
AP Photo
This image provided by the U.S. Air Force shows retired Air Force Maj. Gen. John Alison, left, deputy com-
mander of the First Air Commando Group in 1943, greeted by Maj. Brian Strang, right, 
Remembering local WWII fighter pilot, UF alum
UF employees could receive raises
of Governors, the governing body of the 
state university system, who are meeting next week in Tampa.
In a presentation Friday before the Board, 
Machen laid out his blueprint for attacking a $50.3 million shortfall for the upcoming school year. Among the ideas he proposed were the tuition increase and reform to em-ployee benefits.
Under the proposal, UF employees would 
not receive pay for the Friday of Homecom-ing and the week after Christmas. If imple-mented, these moves would save the univer -
sity an estimated $7.5 million.
In addition, UF employees who leave the 
university will now only be allowed receive payout for 240 hours of unused vacation time, down from 352 hours. This would pro-vide the university with about $2.3 million in savings.
UF employees will also, under the pro-
posal, not receive payout for accumulated sick leave, a move that would save UF an es-timated $2.1 million. 
Despite all the talk of a tightening budget, 
Machen coupled his call for reductions with a proposed 3 percent raise for faculty and staff who make $75,000 or less. The move is intended to counteract Tallahassee’s man-
date for state employees to chip in 3 percent 
of their salaries toward their pensions. 
“In my opinion,” Machen said, “if we 
don’t get the benefit changes, then we can’t do the raises.”
The raise would take effect in September 
pending approval by the Board and suc-cessful negotiations with employee unions. 
Those UF employees earning more than $75,000 may then receive a raise in January.
Machen also addressed the $9 million 
shortfall in need-based financial aid, an issue 
that UF Student Body President Ben Meyers has stumped for during his tenure. 
During Thursday’s meeting of the Com-
mittee on  Education Policy and Strategy, Meyers sought  assurance that the gap in student financial aid would be closed in the budget. Both Machen and Provost Joe Glover 
said the university would meet these needs.
“I feel like I represent the students and 
parents who struggle to pay tuition,” he 
said.
Had Machen’s budget not accounted for 
the $9 million gap, Meyers said he would have “vigorously opposed” the tuition in-crease.
While Meyers acknowledged that his vote 
for the tuition increase may be interpreted by some as a slight to UF students, he said it was necessary to maintain the val-
ue of a UF degree.
“I don’t make votes for popularity,” he 
said. “I make votes that I truly believe are best for the students.”
Carlos Alfonso, the newly-elected chair -
man of the Board, said tuition hikes even hit home with him, as he has a daughter who at-tends UF.
For him, though, the focus remains on the 
value of the degree.
“I’ve paid the increases as a parent,” he 
said. “I’m helping you by making your di-ploma worth a ton.”
He also noted, like Meyers, that the stu-
dents are his priority. 
“I consider my constituency to be the stu-
dents,” he said.TRUSTEES , from page 1OBITUARY
NewsLocalTrustee Talk
The UF Board of Trustees, the university’s top decision-makers, touched upon many 
issues at its meetings Thursday and Friday, ranging from the creation of a new aca-demic major to the issuing of bonds to finance the renovation of facilities.
Highlights
1. Sports Facility Renovations
The University Athletic Association is seeking approval to issue up to $15 million in 
bonds to finance renovations of six campus athletic facilities. Trustees approved the plan, 
and final approval is needed from Board of Governors, the governing body of the state university system, before the projects can move forward. The Board of Governors will meet June 22-23 at the University of South Florida in Tampa. The biggest project is a renovation of the west concourse of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium — a project that is estimated to cost $5.4 million and includes the renovated concession stands and bathrooms. 
Other projects include a $4 million expansion of the gymnastics practice studio in the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center, a new $1.3 million covered tennis facility, and a $2.1 million project to renovate the baseball and softball scoreboards and create a control room for the 
video replay boards in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium and the O’Connell Center.
UF Athletic Director Jeremy Foley said the UAA could issue the bonds while still keeping 
its debt at less than $100 million — a stated goal for the association.
2. Repairs
Earlier this month, Gov. Rick Scott vetoed the allocation of $5.3 million for maintenance 
in the state budget. But UF officials received word from the Board of Governors Thursday 
that the university will receive $5.3 million for routine maintenance and repairs.
3. New Major
The board approved the creation of an international studies major. The move is one that 
was 11 years in the making, with planning and studies beginning in 2000.
“Not a week goes [by] in which I am not approached by an undergraduate asking about 
a major in international studies,” wrote Paul D’Anieri, dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, in a February letter of support sent to the administration. Pending approval from the State Education Board in July, the program will begin accepting students in the fall.
4. Collective Bargaining Agreement
The Board of Trustees approved an extension of the collective bargaining agreement 
between the university and Graduate Assistants United, the student union comprised of research and graduate assistants. 
UF and the union have agreed to extend the current contract until June 2014, with each 
party permitted to reopen up to three articles for negotiation in the spring of each year.
Rosa Taveras / Alligator StaffThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
C.J. Pruner 
EDITORJoey FlechasJosh IsomMANAGING EDITORS
Today’s question: Are you glad the Miami Heat did not win the NBA Finals this year?
69 TOTAL VOTES61% YES39% NOThursday’s question: Will you come out to vote in SG elections if there’s electronic voting?The Right Move
Although it hurts, UF
 tuition hike is necessary 
It’s difficult to offer a pat on the back when you’ve just had 
another finger sliced off. 
After seeing UF’s tuition rate jacked up by 15 percent 
once again, it would be easier to take our mangled stump of a 
hand and dangle the longest finger toward Tigert Hall in the fashion of Stone Cold Steve Austin. 
It would be even more appealing to take our bludgeoned 
index finger, point it in the direction of UF President Bernie Machen and UF Student Body President Ben Meyers, turn to 
the Student Body and gesture said index finger across our 
throats. What a scene it would be to have swarms of students storm Tigert Hall, throw a flaming couch through the glass 
doors, take hold of Bossman Bernie by his tie and throw him 
down the building’s steps before laying siege on the frat 
house that has the nerve to protect that doughy delegate of 
ours. Dare we say, it may even be fun. 
Instead, we are going to give them, and the rest of the 
members of the Board of Trustees who unanimously voted for the tuition increase, a reserved thumbs-up.
Let’s make something clear, we don’t like tuition raises 
any more than you do. To put it bluntly, they really suck. If you’re going to reach for the students’ wallets, you better 
have a good reason.
The Trustees did. Faced with an economy that continues 
to flounder in the septic tank, a state legislature that seems 
intent on handcuffing public education and a university that was staring down a $50 million shortfall, Machen had to find 
a way to keep UF afloat with as little fallout as possible. The 
budget he presented Friday wasn’t perfect, but given the hand Tallahassee dealt him, he played it quite well. Faculty who make $75,000 or less will get a much-needed 3 percent raise to offset the pension reforms set forth by Gov. Volde-mort and a $9 million hole in student financial aid was sealed off — something that our Student Body president deserves credit for. 
Say what you will about his wardrobe or his political pol-
ish, Meyers helped the students during the two-day session. While it’s true one person doesn’t make or break a budget, he proved critical in lobbying for, and ultimately, locking up that $9 million for financial aid. Had he not been such a pain in the ass on this issue, it may have been another offering on 
the altar of the almighty dollar. 
Then there’s the vote for tuition increase. It’s true that he 
could have cast the lone “nay” vote as a symbol of student 
opposition, come back to campus as a token martyr and said, 
“Look at me; I fought the man!” His reasoning behind his 
support for the tuition increase, that it would help main-
tain the quality of UF education by beating back the budget 
scythe, is convenient but fair.  
He maintained that, despite his vote for a tuition hike, he 
will continue to fight for Pell Grants and against block tu-ition. He better. We, like the rest of the Student Body, will 
hold him accountable. 
The shortsighted and the rabble-rousers may view the 
trustees’ move as nothing more than the actions of cane-
twirling, caviar-munching, New Yorker-reading suits who 
wouldn’t even bother to polish their monocles to get a true 
glimpse at the concerns of the average Gator. So be it. But 
calling for the trustees’ heads will not bring forth hidden trea-
sure. The real crime would have been inaction. That would 
have really left a mark.Our affection for elections & erections
You think he would have learned from his countless 
role models.
You think the former president could have warned 
him of avoiding sexual depravity in politics.
Kids, “serial sexting” is wrong. It’s no joke.
And because of it, Anthony Weiner is off to rehab with 
Amy Winehouse singing vocals.
Weiner went to Bill Clinton for some help, and I don’t 
blame him. Bill’s been through this rodeo once before, and 
he made it out thanks to a couple of witty catchphrases.
Tell me you wouldn’t buy a Slick Willie presidential pull-
string talking doll. Believe me, I’d pull that string until it broke just to hear another “I did not have sexual relations with that woman.”
And yet, I could not care less about all this drama. It’s not the moral aspect of Weinergate that pisses me off. I 
am more upset that he had the time to do these things.
The problem with American politics is that people are 
more concerned with the media rush of celebrity scandal. There would be less buzz if Pauly D posted his GTL-loving genitalia on Twitter, because it would be expected.
We hold up politicians to a higher ideal as if they aren’t 
complete pieces of trash, but is anyone really surprised? 
As if sexual scandals in politics are anything new. We don’t 
look at these things hoping to enact change; we look at them to cast blame and ruin peoples’ lives. People like watching scandals to make their lives seem better by comparison.
The problem is that this mentality is seeping through the 
cracks of reality TV into other media outlets. 
Or perhaps this is from where they originally spawned: 
political intrigue.
Ever hear that Thomas Jefferson had an affair with one of 
his slaves?
You probably have.You know what’s funny though? When rumors first de-
veloped around this conspiracy, they were immediately dis-missed.You know why?Because Jefferson was the author 
of the Declaration of Independence, dictated the Louisiana Purchase, and beat the living piss out of some pirates 
in North Africa. 
The fact that he was a badass and 
was making the United States better 
completely drowned out any person-al issues.
If a man buys 800,000 square miles of land for 15 million 
dollars, let the man have sex with his slave after his wife’s death in peace. Hell, give him a weekend in the Bahamas with a pile of hookers buried underneath a mountain of blow 
and PCP .
Merit used to mean something in the United States, and 
personal lives used to be left well enough alone.
I am not defending infidelity. I think making a vow to be 
loyal to someone forever and then cheating on them is as bad 
as shooting someone in the dick.
There is nothing illegal about cheating on your wife. You 
are a piece of shit for doing it, but there is nothing illegal about it.
But I also think politicians have a job to attend to, and the 
greater good of the American people is more important than a politician’s personal fidelity.
Today, politicians don’t do anything besides bitch at each 
other in a big auditorium for hours and call it a day. Media outlets have very little on which to focus other than scandal-ous stories because they can’t cover real breakthroughs in political progress.
So maybe it is appropriate that political scandals are top 
news stories of the day.
Or maybe politicians should just do their f****** jobs so we 
have something better to talk about.
Shea Ford is a psychology senior at UF . His column appears on 
Tuesdays.
Shea Ford
letters@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
As your Student Body President, 
the most important part of my role 
consists of representing you on the 
Board of Trustees — the highest decision-
making body of our university. Last week, the issue of a tuition increase was before the 
Board of Trustees. I voted for the increase 
because I believed it was best for every stu-
dent only after making sure the neediest students were financially secured.
This past legislative session, the state leg-
islature raised our tuition by 8 percent. This 
was partnered with severe budget cuts for 
our university — the culmination of about $200 million in cuts over the past few years. Since 2009, the Board of Trustees has voted 
annually to raise tuition 15 percent in order 
to help deal with the budget shortfall. 
What came before the board was the op-
tion to increase tuition the differential 7 per -
cent to complement the 8 percent increase 
mandated by the legislature, so we were, 
in fact, voting on a 7 percent additional in-
crease. There was no connected increase in student fees, so the board determined that the cost to an individual student would not 
truly go up by an additional 7 percent.
The many actions proposed to deal with 
our budget shortfall included this tuition 
increase, benefit cuts to some faculty and staff, redirection of some revenue streams, and long-term methods to increase online 
distance learning classes. 
While I was alarmed to see the tuition 
increase proposed, I was careful to realize 
that students were not being individually targeted to bear the burden of filling the 
budget gap.  
Yet a major issue arose that put a large 
portion of students at overwhelming risk. 
A $9 million gap existed in providing fi-nancial aid for our neediest students. These 
are students who, without this financial 
aid, would likely be unable to attend our 
university. Students in this category usu-ally come from families who make less than $40,000 per year and truly cannot afford 
any increase whatsoever. 
My focus became securing the aid for 
these students. On three separate and pub-
lic occasions, I made it clear how vital it was for that $9 million gap to be filled for 
these students. All three times, both Presi-
dent Bernie Machen and Provost Joe Glover 
confirmed that they believed the issue to be of the highest importance, and it would be filled. In the budget that President Ma-
chen presented Friday, the gap was indeed 
closed. I commend President Machen and 
Provost Glover, as well as my fellow trust-ees, for recognizing the importance of this issue and for acting upon it.Now that the need-
iest students’ financial 
aid was not at risk, I 
looked at the big pic-
ture. I genuinely considered every aspect of the proposal because I feel it would be 
a disservice to you to simply vote one way 
or another with little consideration. I am 
your representative on the board, and I was elected to give full research and consider -
ation to everything that comes before it.  
First, I looked at what not filling the 
budget gap would mean. It would result in a cutting fiasco.  The worst-case scenario would involve individual colleges being forced to cut their own budgets 10 percent, 
research and facilities being subjected to 
hard cuts, and students services provided 
through this funding likely being re-exam-ined. Essentially, there would have been a dramatic decrease in the quality of the edu-
cation we obtain. The tuition would stay the 
same, but due to legislative cuts, the quality 
of the education would go down. 
On the other hand, a tuition increase 
would mean the quality of the education 
would stay the same or potentially increase 
due to new faculty and research hires while 
at the same time increasing the financial burden on students. The latter part is what had me up at night before this vote. I rec-ognize that it is my duty to stand up for 
every single one of you, and a large part 
of that is working to relieve your financial 
burden. At the end of the day, I saw the possible decrease in quality of our educa-tion as a threat to the future value of our 
degrees. I don’t want your degree from UF 
to be worth less when you apply for a job 
even twenty years down the road. I tried to balance the immediate financial needs of students with the value of the degree we 
are working to obtain, which will help us 
for our entire lives.  
Therefore, I voted for the tuition in-
crease. I firmly believe that it was not only 
a necessary vote but one which was cast for 
the option that would most benefit students 
during this very difficult time. In no way 
does this change my stance against block tuition or my commitment to providing services to you through Student Govern-
ment that make your daily life easier, such 
as free printing.
I knew when I cast my vote that it would 
likely generate some controversy. However, 
I hope that you will see the consideration 
I placed into this vote and share my belief 
that it was for the overall benefit of the uni-
versity we love and every single student.
Ben Meyers is the UF Student Body 
President.UF Student Body President: Why I voted for the tuition hikeGuest column 
The fad of sexting among minors can be destructive for 
young lives. For Margarite, a young girl from Wash-ington, a naked picture she sent to her boyfriend Isaiah 
would come to have massive consequences. After the two broke up, Isaiah sent the picture to a former friend of Marga-rite’s. That friend disseminated the photo to as many students as possible. The former friend and another girl who helped in 
distributing the photo were charged with the dissemination 
of child pornography — a Class C Felony — and ended up pleading guilty to a misdemeanor charge of telephone ha-rassment for their crimes. This event raises serious questions about the implications of technology on social lives.
The actual act of sexting is not illegal, nor would I argue 
that it should be. For the more prudish among us, the idea of people sending naked pictures to each other over cellphones may seem disgusting; nevertheless, at the end of the day we 
live in a country that respects the rights of consenting adults 
to send sexually provocative photos to each other.
The issue, however, becomes more complicated when the 
question of sexting by minors is brought up. That is especially true in a case such as Margarite’s, where the picture ended up 
being used as a way to disparage and defame her. The three 
teens who sent out the picture deserved to be punished for what they did, as the picture still continues to haunt Marga-
rite a year later. Due to the mass distribution of the photo cou-pled with the media storm that erupted 
following the arrests, the event is still known among Margarite’s peers.
In the media storm that erupted, 
the question was raised as to whether Margarite should have also faced legal repercussions for taking the picture in the first place. The local prosecutor decided not to press charges, and 
I fully agree with that decision. In some cases, the underage 
minor who took the photo of him or herself has been charged with distribution of child pornography. This seems unneces-sarily cruel. Possession and distribution of child pornography has been criminalized so as to protect minors from those who 
would exploit them. Underage sexting may be stupid, but it 
seems to be taking matters too far if the child who took the photo of themselves ended up being charged; minors who are the victims of sexting scandals in no way intended to distrib-
ute child pornography in the way actual child pornographers 
do.
In Margarite’s case, she has already had to face social ex-
clusion and cruelty from fellow students. That already is an undeserved punishment for one impulsive decision made in 
the midst of a relationship.
Underage students should of course think twice before 
sending a nude picture of themselves to anyone with whom they are in a relationship. That said, the practice probably will not stop. Only the most idealistic among us could hope that 
adequate education — such as, for example, the public service advertisements the three guilty teens were ordered to make 
as part of their plea agreement for distributing Margarite’s 
photo — would bring about the end of underage sexting.
The technological age we live in has completely redefined 
social relationships in ways that we are only now beginning 
to understand and address. Sexting is just one of many facets 
that we have to consider when we think about the behavior of youth in the age of cellphones and Facebook. 
It is a scary fact to consider that our social lives and actions 
are now available for others to see in a way that would not 
have even been imaginable 20 years ago. A simple status up-
date about marijuana is there forever. A tagged photo on Fa-cebook of a wild night of debauchery can be seen by anyone if the proper precautions are not taken. A naked picture sent to 
a romantic interest can end up tearing your entire life apart.
Cases such as Margarite’s will not stop irresponsible be-
havior in the new technological era in which we have found 
ourselves. 
They do, however, serve as a grim reminder of what can 
happen when we make one silly decision. Our lives are now under a microscope, and any decision that is made digitally can serve to haunt our real selves for years to come.
John Kenney is a student at Vassar College.Teen sexting scandal illustrates dangers of technological eraUWire
John Kenney
UWireBen Meyers
Speaking OutClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
8-15-11-25-1
The Landings
All-Inclusive 4/4’s
ONLY $419
$49 Signing Fees
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
8-15-25-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
8-15-25-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
8-15-25-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409***
Ask about our Apple TV special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
8-15-11-25-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
8-15-11-25-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-1The Polos
Roommate Matching Available
2/2 only $538/month per person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    8-15-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
8-15-11-25-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
8-15-11-25-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
Leasing 4 Summer & Fall
Great Specials & New Amenities!
All Inclusive & steps from SFC
Starting @ $359  352.379.9300
8-15-11-25-1
1 BR 1 BA furn apt on horse farm in Williston. 
Includes util, garb, water, pest, cable, park-ing, cent H/A, W/D, tile. NS. Refs checked. $800/mo. Avail 1st/2nd week in May. Call Cindy 352-443-2016.    8-15-11-25-1
Furnished,4bedroom,4bath,W/D,1st 
floor,$350/room, 3800 SW 20th Univ Terrace West, includes utilities Steve 352-586-6468; room-mate matching    7-5-11-10-1
$375-Well-maintained 4/4 SW Gville condo 
avail. starting summer or fall. Less than 10 mins. from UF/Shands/Butler Plaza! RMM match, indiv. leases, private bath, walk-in closets, W/D, on 2 bus routes. Internet/cable included. Call 352.514.3398.   8-26-11-25-12BR/2.5BA Townhouse.
Walk to UF. Avail. 8/15
$850/mo. call 877-833-2865    6-30-11-8-1
1/1-$600/month(39th St NW and University 
Ave). Spacious, carpet with tile flooring. Fully 
renovated with new appliances. Furnished, 
Washer/Dryer included. Min. to UF and 
Oaks Mall.Contact Maria @ 786-389-9718  
7-5-11-8-1
Furn.small efficiency,immaculate,wash/dry 
on premises,wat/sew incl,NS,NO PETS,1/2m South UF/SHANDS,2 bus routes,$415/m 
352-262-2871 Owner/agent    7-7-11-7-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. 2br $400 372-6881, 213-3901        
8-15-11-25-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
8-15-11-25-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
8-15-11-25-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    8-15-10-25-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $579
3br  for $729.
Limited Availability. 352-376-4002
8-15-11-25-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   8-15-10-25-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
8-15-11-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
8-15-11-25-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
8-15-11-25-2 
2 BR starts at $1029
3 BR starts at $1219
Amazing townhome, includes:
Cable w/ HBO and Showtime
Cobblestone Apts. Call Now!352.377.2801   8-15-25-2   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
8-15-11-25-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!8-15-25-2
One Month FREE!
Move In by June 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
8-15-11-25-2
Immediate Availability!
1/1 $549 • 4/2.5 TH $899
Waived move-in fees • Waived pet fee
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
8-15-25-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
8-15-11-25-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
8-15-11-25-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
8-15-11-25-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
8-15-11-25-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
8-15-11-25-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495 ● 3BRs $630
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          8-15-11-25-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!
●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!
●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * biketouf.com8-15-11-25-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
8-15-11-25-23/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    8-15-11-25-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 475
2.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
8-15-11-25-2
Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
8-15-11-25-2
Pine Rush Villas
Sign a lease by 4/30 and enter to
win a FREE YEAR OF RENT!!
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
352-375-1519
8-15-11-25-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
8-15-11-25-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   8-15-11-25-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    8-15-11-25-2The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
8-15-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
7-14-11-73-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$579 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
6-30-11-47-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     6-30-11-39-2
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-376-5887    8-15-25-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/1.5BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/1.5BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $590-625. Gated patio, trees, flood lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-39376-16-38-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   8-15-11-25-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com8-15-10-25-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
6-30-11-39-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 
352-335-4455    8-15-11-25-2
STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
8-15-25-25
★WALK2UF.COM★
Location, Location, Affordable
352-375-8256
8-15-25-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-
pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   8-15-11-25-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    8-15-11-25-2
WWW.BELLAPROPERTIES.NET
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
8-15-11-25-2.
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    7-28-11-22-2
CONDOS.JACKSONSQUARE.US
Luxury condos 3 blocks North of UF
352-870-9453
8-15-25-2
Walk or Bike to Campus!
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR houses & condos available. 
Campus Realty 352-692-3800rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    7-28-11-34-2
Clean small efficiency Quiet.Wash/dry on 
prem.Wat/Sew incl NS No Pets.1/2m south UF/Shands,2 bus routes.$399/m.Same fur-nished $410/m 352-262-2871 Owner/agent    8-2-11-30-2Post Apartments – 352 376 0080.  352 284 
3873. postj@bellsouth.net
Clean, spacious, private apts. for calm, quiet, 
stable, mature persons.
●Duckpond duplex - 920 NE 6th Ave. $700 
Carport, large yard, big trees, burglar bars, 
WDH, CHA, carpet. 
●1808 - 1830 NW 10th St.- 1 and 2 bed-
rooms. $500-$650. Private patio with lock 
gate, large yard, big trees, carpet.
●1700 SW 16th Ct.- 1 and 2 br Condos $550 
- $650 1 block from Shands   8-15-11-25-2
Pinnacle Point large 2 bedroom townhouse 
just minutes from UF & Butler Plaza. All of our 
units are newly refurbished with all new ap-
pliances, tile, carpet, paint, light fixtures and 
more! Call today for specials 352-373-7578    
8-15-11-25-2
LUXURY 3/2 CREEK'S EDGE CONDO
Quiet upstairs condo. 1300 sf. Like New, lg. 
rooms, hardwood floors, upgraded 
kitchen and appl. W/D. Mins to campus on 
direct bus rt. $975 727-463-0560    6-30-11-
14-2
LUXURY DOWNTOWN CONDO!
Stylish City living in Regent’s Park
Beautiful, huge and quiet!
Two story, 3BR/2.5 bath, w/garage
Avail in Aug @ $1600/mo.
Call Union Properties at 373-7578.
8-15-11-25-2
3BR/1BA house available August in SW 
Gainesville. Central heat/AC, hardwood/
tile floors, washer/dryer, carport, Florida 
room, private fenced backyard with patio, 
pet-friendly. $900/month. ph. 352-318-1053  
6-16-11-12-2
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
2 large rooms w/private baths. 10 min to UF. 
Large home, quiet neighborhood. $550/mo + 
utils per room. Cable, W/D, hardwood floors. 
5 mins to busline. Call 352-284-0979    6-30-
11-13-2
1 MONTH FREE ★ NO APPLICATION FEE
★ Apts Starting at $350 ★ Pets OK! ★
Call Today. 
Meadowcrest Apts. 352-378-3988
meadowcrest@wbsproperties.com
6-14-11-10-2
1/1 w/ private gated court yard in small quiet 
complex. Prefect for the serious student or quiet proffesional small pets ok. $450 mnth call: 352 377-2150    6-16-11-10-2
1/1 Campus Edge
3rd floor, very calm. Washer, dryer, dish-washer, stove, fridge, microwave, overlook -
ing the pool, gym. $699/m, Avail July 352-262-2871 Owner Agent    7-14-11-16-2
●Charming 2BR 1 BA Cottage Blocks to UF
2703 NW 2nd Ave. Central h/a, laundry with w/d, large private screened porch. No Pets, Avail August. Grandaddy oaks. $875/
mo. 1st last $500 security. 352-332-5836  
6-16-11-10-2
POOL HOUSE
4BR/3BA 2816 W Univ Ave 1 mi to UF. Fenced-in nice backyard. W/D, DW. Avail now.$1500/mo summer, $1600/mo fall NEG.327-2931, 376-6183              6-16-11-10-2
2/2.5 Townhome
ONLY $940
Internet & Cable
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
8-15-21-2
Very nice Rockwood Villas Townhouse
3/3 for only $900.00/month-Great deal!Large bedrooms, updated appliances, Washer/dryer, 2 pools, lots of parkingCall Jared at (941) 737-6997    6-30-11-10-2
1st mo $100 off. Near UF. Beautiful 4BR/2BA 
home. FL rm w/inground jacuzzi. W/D. Tile flr. 2-car attached garage, storage shed. Walk to grocery/shops. Avail 8/9. $1399/mo  904-534-6982, kencarmgravs@comcast.net    6-16-11-8-2TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 9
Great 3/2 House w/crpt & w/d (1100sqft)
Rent $1050/month with lease
Pets allowed  :)  Available June 1st
Contact Kathryn: kesamai@gmail.com
4102 NW 21st Terrace Gville, FL 32608    
7-14-14-2
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7129 SW 45th Place. $525/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-11146-30-11-10-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/ 
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-
ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd 
flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail 
Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2175 352-665-8166 lv mssg 
8-15-11-21-2
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice,
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dishwash -
er, ice, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. $1590/mo. 
352-665-8166 lv mssg          8-15-11-21-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm floor plans starting
at $635. Washer/Dryer, Fitness Center,
Tennis Court, Swimming Pool, Sauna etc.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat. 10-5, Sun 12-4
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvillas.com
text (Lakewood)@65586
8-15-11-20-2
SPYGLASS
Individual Leases. Furniture Pkgs. incl.
Washer/Dryer, FREE Hi-Speed internet.
Rates start at $399. Every unit an end unit.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 26nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass) 65586
8-15-11-20-2
UPPER WESTSIDE /
NANTUCKET
1 & 2 bdrm  Luxury Apts. Granite counters.
Parking avail. Walk to campus & stadium.
For info. call 352-872-4644
upperwestside@cmcapt.com
text: upperwestside@65374
8-15-11-20-2
2/2 ROCKWOOD VILLAS, $750, NEAR 
MALL & UF. LOTS OF PARKING, CORNER UNIT, HAS OWN W+D D.AGUIRRE.AZOCAR@GMAIL.COM OR 347.878.9072   AVAILABLE JULY 1.    7-5-11-10-2
2BR HOUSE
Private yard. Small dog OK. $650/mo 6200 
SW 13th St. 352-372-6881 or 352-213-3901   6-28-11-8-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE PERFECT FOR 
PROFESSIONALS/GRAD. 2BR/2BA pris-tine Bivens Arm condo. Large den/3rd BR, hdwd flrs, W/D, pool, canoe. Walk/bike to Shands/UF, bus stop. $1190/mo. 407-832-1458    6-28-11-8-2
4bed/4 bath condo available on
7/31. $275 per person.1.5 milesfrom UF; on bus line. All appli-ances &some furniture included.Call J. Erney at 352-328-1266.   7-7-11-10-2
LARGE 1 Bedrooom Condo in
HAILE PLANTATION
on GOLFCOURSE next to
POOL & CLUBHOUSE.
Beautiful Tranquil location just minutes from 
U.F. 2nd Floor Unit $750 per month.
MCHENRYSCOTT@HOTMAIL.COM
407-493-4748
6-16-11-5-2
NOW LEASING FOR FALL!!!
1 Bedrooms Apts. starting at $425.00
2 Bedroom Apts starting at $495.
www.associatesrealty.com  352-372-7755
6-14-11-4-2***FALL RENTAL***
4,5,6+ Bdrm Houses for Rent
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Ask abt Family Discounts
Immediate Move-In Available
8-15-11-17-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt 1 BLKS TO UF
Wood Floors or Carpet $500/Mo
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht.
1216 SW 3rd Avenue
GRAD II Apts
1BR & 2BR 1BA 1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. 1BR $500/Mo
2BR-$800/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue
Marcott Apts
1BR 1BA $500/Mo
Central H & Air, 600 Sq. Ft.
Carpet, No Laundry
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue
RITZ Apts
2BR 1BA Apts $600-$675/Mo
Carpet or Tile Floors, No Laundry
1234 & 1238 SW 1st Avenue
Central H & Air, Behind Leonardos.
ROBERT OBRIEN APTS
1BR 1BA $400/Mo
Carpet, Window A/C, Nat
Gas Ht, Laundry on site
2901 NW 14th St.
PICKWICK PARK
2BR 1 ½ BA Condo Carpet,Central H & Air, Dishwasher
Pool, Clubhouse etc. $675/Mo
4411 SW 34th Street #1005
3BR 1BA Home 3 BLOCKS TO UF!
Wood Floors, Central H & Air
Avail late August. 1012 SW 3rd Avenue$1200/Mo
3BR 1BA HOME NEAR LAW SCHOOL
Carpet, Central H & Air, Yard
217 NW 36th Drive $950/Mo
2BR 1BA DUPLEX $600/MO
New Carpet, Window A/C
Nat Gas Ht. 6 BLKS to UF
604 NW 13th Terrace6-28-11-3-2
3240 NW 41st Ave. On bus rte. 3BR/1BA 
house. Quiet neighborhood, W/D, DW, cent A/C, screened porch, fenced yard, pet friend-ly. Avail 8/1. $1000/mo. 1st + security. 407-509-4574    6-30-11-6-2
NOW LEASING FOR FALL!!
3 and 4 bedroom houses, Close to Campus!
Starting at $1095.00
www.associatesrealty.com
352-372-7755
6-16-11-4-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   8-31-11-24-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420    8-31-11-24-2
**WALK TO UF** 617 NW 19th ST. 
4BR/2BTH. 1600/mo. Park cars for games, make money while you rent!!! Avail Aug 1. Wood floors, washer/dryer. Call (803)413-8669.    6-28-11-3-2
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.1/1 Reduced Price Poolhouse
ONE MONTH FREE RENT
925/mo. W/D covered patio. Pets OK.
Utilities Cable Internet Included.
e-mail laurencrunyon@gmail.com    6-28-
11-3-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
8-15-25-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house. Male 
or female. No pets/smoking. Free off-street 
parking $450/mo. Includes all utilities, wifi, 
security system, Available 8/1 yearly lease. 
727-726-2915    6-16-11-38-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus 
route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-
729-1561   6-30-11-27-4
350/mo 2 blocks from campus
Close to downtown
814-440-3325 or jfidorra@hotmail.com   6-30-11-14-4
MATURE PROFESSIONAL Share 3BR/3BA 
pool home near UF. Safe area across from 
Plaza Royale. Bus rte. No alcohol or drugs. $325 + 1/3 util. 2 rms available 5/13. No pets. 
371-3837                                 6-28-11-13-4
$350 moves you in! No deposit or last months 
rent. Mature male student to share furnished 4/2. FR, LR, W/D, maid service, yrd man, 5 min from UF, new kitchen, big yard. No pets, non-smoker. (813) 362-7729 or 362-7881    6-28-11-9-4
Male college student wanted for gated 
4BR/4BA Countryside condo, poolside, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed internet, ear-ly stop on UF bus rte. Utils incl. $400/mo. No deposit  863-634-1893     6-30-11-10-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Countryside 
condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl.Direct bus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless.Flo 352-357-9656, or 352-636-48147-28-11-18-4
Grad student looking for female students 
in fully furnished 4/4 condo at Countryside. $425/month. Includes cable/internet, utilities, W/D. On 2 bus routes. Contact Megan 727-542-8155.    6-16-11-6-4
Looking for 4 UF students to rent furnished 
4/4 student condo at Countryside at the University. W/D, pool, no pets, on bus rt, 1.5 mi from UF. 1st floor. Ready Aug 1st. $400/mo/rm. Call 386-295-7929 or 386-672-6969   7-14-11-11-4Grad student looking for female roommate 
who is clean and studious. Windsor Park 
furnished condo - 3/3, own bed/bath, on 
bus stop close to UF. Pool, hot tub, tennis, 
gym, $375/mo + 1/3 utilities. 407-361-1154. 
6-30-11-6-4
Roommate wanted for summer B and/or fall:  
College house; 4/3: lg rooms, lg yard, fp & 
lg pool, walk/bike to UF or 4.5 mi to SFC, 
nice/safe neighborhood! Join the good life! 
$375/mo +1/4 util. Call Justin 813-748-6042
6-28-11-5-4
I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking $300/mo which includes util & Dish Network 
TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-
682-9412      7-7-7-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-25-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28798-15-25-5
Perfect 2/2 Townhouse 3.5 miles UF 
$135,500. Master bdrm upstairs. New A/C, kitchen appliances, siding, and much more. Pictures, ect at Realtor.com MLS #319897. 352-376-9756    6-16-11-9-5
HOME TO BUILD -- Suppose you wanted 
to build a house that was different from, and better than the local norm; a house with grace and proportion, a house which felt more like a friendly, solid and enfolding home, and less like an ungainly, manufac-tured and impersonal structure. Please call Dee or Arty at A&M Restoration (316-0374 or 371-4259).     6-16-11-2-5
THINK YOU CAN’T BUY?
Credit score of 600qualifies you to apply now.Homes as low as $500/ month.Oak Park MHC4000 SW 47th StreetGainesville, Fl 32608Call Tessie 888-486-1607       7-14-11-8-5
New homes, 3.2 miles north of UF
3BD/2BA 2-car garages. Starting at 148,9001659 NW 34th Ave - Model homeForestCreek.meSchackow Realty 352-514-5060       6-30-11-4-5BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      8-15-11-25-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        8-15-11-25-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        8-15-11-25-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   8-15-25-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      8-15-25-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    8-15-25-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      8-15-25-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
8-15-25-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  8-15-25-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     8-15-11-25-610, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
8-15-11-25-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-15-11-95-7
A+ Mobile PC Repair
Our technicians provide fast and thorough
computer repairs, at an affordable price.
We come to you. (352) 212-1220 
APlusMobile@rocketmail.com
9-2-11-30-7
DELL LAPTOP
17", Model PP22X, webcam. $250.
Call 352-371-1482     6-16-11-2-7CASH FOR ELECTRONICS WORKING OR 
NOT!SMARTPHONES, IPADS, LAPTOPS, 
GAMING SYSTEMS & MORE. WE DO 
REPAIRS WE ARE LOCATED BY BEEF`O` 
BRADY`S ON ARCHER RD (352) 872 5881
6450 SW ARCHER RD
WWW.TECHMODO.CO
6-16-4-8
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 8-15-10-25-10UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03708-15-10-25-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       8-15-25-10
● Fresh Local Blackberries ●
Thornless ● Big & Sweet
U-pick $3/lb ● We pick $3.75/lb
Interlochen  386-972-17706-28-11-5-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    8-15-
25-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
8-15-11-25-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
8-15-11-25-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  8-15-
11-25-11
STAND OR SIT ● POWERFUL MOBILITY
15-20 mile range, 15-20 mph. Easy to take apart. 300 lb capacity, 500 watt - battery op-erated  Excellent for Campus & Fun $975 & up. Call today J&S Assoicates 352-339-5158    6-30-11-9-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   8-15-11-20-1199 Ford F150 $3999  
02 Chevy Blazer $4999  
01 Chevy Silverado $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit checks
Move vehicle $500 & up!
352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
04 Ford Taurus $5999  
02 Chevy Camero $6999  
03 GMC Sonoma $6999
05 Chevy Monte Carlo $6999
352-375-9090       8-15-95-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
02 Nissan Xterra $8999
05 Chevy Trailblazer $9999
05 Toyota Camry $10,999  
352-375-9090      8-15-95-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
8-15-25-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      6-16-11-25-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Denise Fanning at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
Do you have a tempermental gator that 
needs wrestling? Find a strong and burly man for the job in the Alligator Classifieds.Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups 
available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
8-15-11-20-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
8-15-25-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    8-15-11-
25-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
8-15-25-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
6-30-11-65-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
92 Eagle Talon $1499
89 Ford Bronco II $129994 Ford Taurus $1299  
01 Mits Montero $2999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $199998 Ford F250 $2500
96 BMW 318TI $3999  
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 11
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            8-15-10-25-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-15-10-25-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  8-15-11-25-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
6-3-79-14
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonal
recreation and aquatics positions
Competitive pay in great work
environment! Apply online today
at www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
Net Enforcers is looking for a FT Junior 
Applications Developer. Excellent
Benefits. Please email resume to
ahjobs@intersections.com. EOE.
www.netenforcers.com    6-28-11-14-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-ning & overnight shifts currently available email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-3617    8-15-11-25-14
v
Exp. PRESSURE WASHING person w/ truck 
to pull trailer, pc, internet, cell; flexible hrs, part or full-time 'as needed', good pay. Only serious/dependable candidates, please. 352-870-6017 / shaneman@symo.com    6-16-11-12-14
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.50/hr, experience and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 for more info and interview.    6-16-8-14
CLERICAL/TECHNICIAN POSITION
Full TimePlease apply in personInstitute of Veterinary Specialists3603 NW 98th St. Suite A        6-16-5-14
Artist needs model. I have examples of my 
work and local personal references for you to review. decent pay. must have own transpor-tation.352 246 3157    7-9-11-3-14
Full and part time positions available -
PERSONAL COUNSELOR
TECH SUPPORTSOFTWARE DEVELOPERLINUX ADMINISTRATORADMIN ASSTSHIPPING TECHAVIATION EDITORACCOUNTING EDITOR
Please complete an online application at 
http://www.gleim.com/employment.    6-16-11-4-14
Bench scientist: BA/BS or equivalent. Strong 
background in immunology and biochem -
istry. ELISA experience or related methods preferred. Attention to detail; ability to record and maintain accurate notes. Submit resume to info@elisa-tek.com    6-16-11-4-14PROGRAMMERS
A 25-year-old software company in 
Gainesville is seeking entry and senior level 
programmers. Full time positions available for 
work on desktop application. Programming 
experience required; familiarity with VB.NET 
and SQL Server a plus. Seeking dynamic 
and hard-working individuals. Resumes to 
employment@elitesoftware.com or call 352-
335-3800 ext 831   6-16-11-4-14
Nanny needed. Overnights.
Newborn twins.8pm-8am Mon -Th
exp/ refs req Sharyn@jaxnanny.com            6-30-11-6-14
Quality child caring center is looking for 
dedicated people who love working with 
children. FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, 
AA or BA in education. Benefits avail -
able with FT. Call 377-2290 or 373-1481  
6-28-11-5-14
NANNY WANTED for our two young boys in 
our High Springs home. M/T/Th 12-5, W 8-1. 
We kindly request light housekeeping while 
they nap. Would prefer long-term commit-
ment. Nanny experience a must.
Please join our family!   Inq to:
nanny@explorationsunlimited.com    6-16-
2-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   8-15-25-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  8-15-11-25-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
8-15-25-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
8-15-11-31-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
Med School Entrance Consulting
Resident Physician offering advice for PreMed Students!Call: 248-762-0712Email:gatormedconsulting@gmail.com    6-14-10-15
CPR, First Aid, Basic Life Support,
Advanced Cardiac Life Support Classes
Offered at your schedule. Best prices in town. 
Call Cardiac One today (352)494-4217
7-5-11-10-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
8-15-25-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
8-15-25-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
8-15-11-25-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses 
Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen 
Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   
7-22-11-100-16
THE SMOKELESS CIGARETTE,
E-Cig is popular and may be just the product 
to help a friend or loved one stop smoking.
www.dnobles.myinlife.com    6-16-4-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
8-15-25-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
8-15-11-25-18
LOCAL IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage Green Cards, H1B's, Employment 
Green Cards, & Natz
www.RuthImmigrationLaw.com
6-28-10-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Peace begins with you.
Award-winning 'Words of Peace'
Cox CH 21: Sun 7pm; Thurs & Sun
1:30am; Sat 1am or www.wopg.org
352-373-5578  floridaconnect.net       8-15-
11-25-20
CPR/ FIRST AID/ WILDERNESS FIRST 
AID/ LIFEGUARDINGMeets internship and health majorrequirementsFloridaheartsaver.org 575-0119    7-28-11-15-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.12, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011
TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 13
Florida misses championship by narrow margin for third straight year
leap of 17.80m/58-4.75 (+2.3) in 
the triple jump — the longest in collegiate history — he looked 
back at his own missed chances 
to score points in the long jump and relays as learning experienc-es going forward.
“Personally, if I took the long 
jump like [the triple jump] and jumped the first jump like it was my last, maybe I would’ve gotten to the finals,” Taylor said. “It’s 
really about making the most of 
every opportunity you have be-cause next year or even tomor -
row is not promised.”
Earlier on the final day of 
competition, Florida also squan-dered a chance at major points in the 4x100-meter relay when senior Terrell Wilks and junior 
Jeff Demps fumbled the baton ex-
change.
Texas A&M took second and 
eight points in the event, while 
UF was tagged with a DNF.
“I’m not sure exactly what 
happened, they made a mistake,” 
UF coach Mike Holloway said. 
“I’m not going to drag them 
through the mud. At the end of the day, I’m going to take respon-sibility as a coach and that’s my job.”The mistake capped off a 
nightmare meet for Demps, who was unable to qualify for Friday’s finals of the 100-meter dash after he was stricken with a leg cramp mid-stride.
Despite missing several scor -
ing opportunities, Florida was in second before the final event of the meet and needed to finish at 
least fifth in the 4x400-meter relay 
— and prevent top-ranked Texas A&M from winning — to take home UF’s first outdoor title.
But the Aggies exploded out 
of the gates to easily win the re-lay by nearly five seconds over the Gators’ sixth-place squad of 
Taylor, Jovon Toppin, Sean Obin-
wa and Tony McQuay.
“Things like this, it makes you 
hungry and wanting to better yourself as a person and also as 
a team so you don’t get into these 
situations,” Taylor said. 
The women’s team also fell 
short of its expectations with a 
34th-place finish overall.
After scoring in just two 
events, Florida’s lone bright spot 
came from distance runner Gene-vieve LaCaze, who broke her own 
school record in the steeplechase 
for the third consecutive meet.
With a clocked time of 9:59.44, 
the junior’s final steeplechase of 
the season was over 25 seconds 
faster than her top effort heading into the 2011 season.
“If I’m giving our women a 
grade, I’m giving them an A+,” 
Holloway said. “We’re young 
and all of those girls will be back next year. …What they did is they went out there and com-
peted their tails off like we asked 
them to do, and I think they did a great job.”TRACK , from page 14
AP Photo
Florida sprinter Jeff Demps (left) had a rough weekend at the NCAA Outdoor Championships. The junior 
DQ’d in the 100-meter dash. He was also part of a fumbled baton exchange with Terrell Wilks (right) in the 4X100-meter dash final, resulting in a DNF and a lost scoring opportunity for the No. 3 Gators. 
UF SOFTBALL
By BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
Gators trying to make Team USA: Four UF players 
are spending their week in Chula Vista, Calif., at the U.S. 
Olympic Training Center.
Megan Bush, Cheyenne Coyle, Michelle Moultrie and Brittany Schutte are vying to be included on the 17-person roster for the U.S. Softball Women’s National Team.
If selected, the players will participate in six events in 
three countries — highlighted by the World Cup of Softball VI (July 21-25, Oklahoma City) and the 2011 Pan American Games (Oct. 17-23, Guadalajara, Mexico).
The team will also have a three-city U.S. exhibition tour that makes a stop in Plant City on June 25.
Out of the 35 players invited to the selection camp — 
which runs from June 12-17 and features position drills and 
exhibition games — only Coyle and Arizona State ace Dal-
las Escobedo are freshmen.
Kelsey Bruder, Tim Walton begin new season: Just 
three days after watching one of his seasons end, UF coach 
Tim Walton found himself leading another team on Friday 
night at ESPN Wide World of Sports. 
Walton also coaches the USSSA Pride of National Pro 
Fastpitch — a Kissimmee-based team that started its third season with a 2-0 victory over the Chicago Bandits on Fri-
day.
Second-round draft pick Kelsey Bruder joined the team 
on Saturday and served as a pinch runner in Sunday’s 
game.
“Kelsey is obviously in for a whole new world,” Walton 
said. “The talent we have on that team [may be equal] to some Olympic teams that have been out there. She’s in for a wonderful experience, learning a lot about the game.”
The Pride features eight former Olympians, including 
Cat Osterman, Jessica Mendoza and Caitlin Lowe.
Bruder joins former Gator Francesca Enea on the squad, 
which begins another series with the Bandits in Rosemont, Ill., on Thursday at 7:30 p.m.
Incoming freshman receives state honor: Dunnellon 
High infielder Sami Fagan was named Gatorade Florida Softball Player of the Year on Thursday.
The UF signee will add the trophy to her family’s collec-
tion. Older sister and Gators third baseman Kasey Fagan 
won the award twice and was the second softball player 
ever to be named Gatorade National Player of the Year in 2010.
Sami is a lead-off speedster who has seen time at short-
stop and catcher during her high school career. As a senior at Dunnellon, she batted .693 with four triples and 28 sto-len bases. She had a state record 63-game hit streak during her sophomore and junior seasons.
Fagan is part of a 2011 Florida recruiting class touted as 
the best in the nation by ESPN Rise.Notebook: Team USA, Bruder’s future, recruiting 
Matt Tripp / Alligator  File Photo 
Gators coach Tim Walton is also the manager of a professional softball team, leading Kissimmee’s USSSA Pride in 
the National Pro Fastpitch league. The Pride feature eight former Olympians and former UF star Kelsey Bruder. 
Sports
TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
POLL RESULTSBy JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org
 
The top-ranked Gators were eight outs away from 
clinching back-to-back College World Series appear -
ances Saturday. Instead, they imploded twice, culmi-
nating in Mississippi State’s Nick Vickerson’s stunning 
walk-off two-run homer.
On Sunday, after Vickerson propelled another Bull-
dogs comeback, the Gators — the No. 2 national seed — were eight outs away from their season ending.  
But with the noose tightening, Preston Tucker sliced 
the hangman’s knot. 
Florida’s right fielder smashed a clutch three-run 
shot to straight away center, paving the way to an 8-6 
win in the deciding Game 3 of the Super Regional and 
sending UF to Omaha, Neb., in consecutive seasons for 
the first time in school history.
“We had a great opportunity to slam the door and 
get Florida to put balls in play, and we didn’t,” MSU coach John Cohen said. 
The Gators did put the ball in play over the week-
end — just often times where no Mississippi State play-
ers could field it. 
McKethan Stadium doubled as Coors Field on Sun-
day, as Florida drilled a season-high five homers in-
cluding three in the first two innings to jump out to a 
4-0 lead. 
But the Bulldogs scrapped all afternoon and rallied 
to take a late two-run advantage. 
In a 6-4 game in the seventh, Cohen brought in Ca-
leb Reed — his closer who tossed a gutsy 82 pitches in MSU’s 4-3 win Saturday — to face the heart of UF’s 
lineup with no outs and runners at first and second. 
Reed, operating on fumes, retired Mike Zunino on 
a sac bunt and was asked to pitch around Tucker to 
POLL QUESTION alligatorSports PODCAST
Previous question:  If you 
were a SEC coach, would you sign Steve Spurrier’s proposal to pay players out of your own pocket? Percent (Votes)
No 59% (69)
Yes 41% (48)
117 TOTAL VOTESn The boys are back in town Wednesday with the latest rumblings and 
grumblings as Matt Watts, John Boothe and Bryan Holt join host Jesse Simonton to discuss baseball’s wild weekend, LeBron’s “shrinkage,” the Stanley Cup Finals and as promised, SOCCER. Don’t miss our brand-new award segment. Subscribe and download on iTunes. Bryan Doolin / Alligator
No. 1 Florida punched consecutive tickets to the College World Series after trumping Mississippi State 8-6 Sunday. In a seesaw weekend, the Gators rallied from a two-run deficit when junior Preston Tucker drilled a clutch three-run homer. 
UF BASEBALLGators headed back to Omaha after Tucker’s blast
The Gators won an absolutely, down-
right riveting game Sunday to ad-vance to the College World Series 
in back-to-back years for the first time in school history. 
A power fest featuring six homers and 
three lead changes was the perfect conclusion 
to an emotionally charged weekend Gators fans will remember forever — whether this season ultimately ends with the program’s first title or not. 
There’s only one problem: You weren’t 
there to see it.
Fifteen minutes before Sunday’s nail-
biting finale, the stands at McKethan Sta-
dium were so empty the glare off the metal benches made me envious of the über-cool Ray-Ban’s my colleague (who will remain 
nameless) likes to sport. Slowly, the slew of 
rowdy Bulldogs fans 
tailgating a mere corn-hole toss away from 
the front gate began to 
fill in and my optical woes waned. 
Sunday’s   an-
nounced attendance 
was 3,812 — of which, a 
solid 500 to 1,000 were 
sporting maroon and white. Saturday’s walk-off loss was witnessed by a reported 
4,223 people. Friday was the worst, with an 
attendance of 2,446 — although it actually looked more like around 1,500 in the seats. 
All three games were broadcast nation-
wide on ESPN, bare bleachers and all.No one home: Florida fans absent 
as baseball team makes history 
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
After the Gators came up ach-
ingly short of their first NCAA 
Outdoor Championship on Satur -
day, UF jumper Christian Taylor tried to find a lesson in a meet filled with missed chances.
For the third consecutive year, 
Florida finished behind national champion Texas A&M by two points or less. The No. 3 Gators’ third-place finish in Des Moines, Iowa, ended a chance to sweep both NCAA track titles, after win-
ning the indoor meet in March.
“It teaches us to 
take every race like 
it’s our last, because 
you know it could 
be.” Taylor said.
Though the junior claimed an 
individual title with a Herculean Squandered scoring 
opportunities doom UF
SEE TRACK, PAGE 13SEE BASE, PAGE 15
SEE WATTS, PAGE 15Track
Matt Watts
Telling You Watts Up 
mwatts@alligator.org
Today’s question: How many games 
will the top-ranked Gators baseball team win in Omaha, Neb., during the College World Series?After getting demolished in Game 1, Mississippi State 
third baseman Jarrod Parks seemed legitimately surprised 
by the lack of orange-and-blue clad fans in attendance. 
“When we show up to the park, you’re expecting may-
be 15,000 fans,” he said. “But when we came here, it just seemed like a regular SEC weekend.” 
Per their team website, the Bulldogs average 6,103 fans each game. But other places like Arkansas’ Baum Stadi-um are known to pack in upward of 10,000-12,000 during the regular season Florida averaged just under 3,500 fans over the weekend. 
To their credit, the UF fans that did show up were pas-
sionate, informed and very much into the game. They did everything fans are supposed to do — there just weren’t enough of them. 
Sure, the noon and 1 p.m. start times were not optimal. The matchup with Southeastern Conference pseudo-rival Mississippi State wasn’t exactly spectacular. And the 11-1 
rout on Friday didn’t help.
Still, there should be no excuse for being absent when 
your Florida Gators left their mark. Redshirt junior Tom-
my Toledo and juniors Nick Maronde and Greg Larson likely threw their last pitch inside a stadium adorned with 
their accomplishments. 
MLB draft pick Preston Tucker, who didn’t get a hit un-
til Sunday, walloped a game-winning rope minutes after 
it seemed like Florida’s season was sunk. 
Senior Josh Adams played his school-record 248th 
game in a Gators uniform and fellow senior Bryson Smith played one of his last. 
Those who stuck around saw three days of emotion 
culminate in sheer joy. When Tyler Thompson squeezed 
Nick Vickerson’s long fly ball for the final out, all of Flor -
ida’s pressures — of being No. 1, of playing without two 
of its best, living up to the expectations — evaporated as quickly as Tucker’s game-winner left the yard. 
With his players forming a dogpile near the mound, 
Florida coach Kevin O’Sullivan finally released some ten-sion too.  His emphatic Gator chomps to the crowd were telling. This one meant a lot to him as well.
“It just was an emotional game,” O’Sullivan said. “It 
was an emotional game for the players. It was an emo-tional game for me.
“I want to thank the fans for coming out. It was aw-
fully hot [Sunday]. They were outstanding all day long. 
They could’ve gave up on us when we gave up the tying 
run and we gave up the two runs to go down 6-4, but they didn’t give up on us.”
A coach would never criticize the fans; it’s not his 
place. But this team deserves better support.
Sure, expecting The Mac to turn into Fenway overnight 
is unreasonable. But O’Sullivan is on the verge of building a genuine dynasty in Gainesville. 
This is history in the making. The resources, the coach-
ing and the players are all there, but where are the fans?TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
MSU closer Caleb Reed surrenders go-ahead round-tripper in seventh
face the right-handed hitting Josh 
Adams. Instead, he hung a 3-1 
changeup and Tucker changed the course of Florida’s season.
“Everyone was kind-of ques-
tioning whether we could come 
back. It completely changed the 
momentum,” said Tucker, who also acknowledged the long ball 
was the biggest hit of his storied 
career. 
Although Reed recorded three outs in the inning, the damage was 
done. 
“The game screamed, ‘This is 
the whole game,’ and it ended up being that,” Cohen said. “We 
weren’t going to get to the ninth if 
we didn’t bring Caleb in. He was 
on the bench telling us he wanted to be a part of it.”
Freshman Daryl Norris — one 
of eight Bulldogs pitchers used 
Sunday — walked Nolan Fontana 
and Bryson Smith on 10 pitches to start the seventh, igniting UF’s 
rally. “We were a couple of strikes 
from changing the momentum and going to Omaha,” Cohen said. 
“But there are no moral victories.”
Both teams displayed tremen-
dous resolve in an intense and dramatic series. Gators starter 
Alex Panteliodis shut down the Bulldogs for the first three innings — the junior southpaw retired 
nine of the first 10 batters he faced — before Vickerson nearly erased 
a four-run deficit with a towering three-run homer. 
The pressure swelled as the 
Gators squandered multiple in-
surance opportunities, including 
when Tucker laced a double down 
the right field line, but Vickerson 
nailed Zunino at the plate. 
In the seventh, the pesky Bull-
dogs finally broke through, scor -
ing three runs with two outs. Mis-sissippi State tied the game with Vickerson’s RBI single and plated 
the go-ahead runs on Brent Brown-lee’s two-run knock. 
“I thought we really had a 
chance,” Vickerson, the Bulldogs’ 
star second baseman, said.
But MSU’s lead lasted just a sin-
gle out as Florida’s fortunes quick-ly turned with Tucker’s shot.   
“Both teams battled all weekend 
long,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
said. “I think it was one of the best games I’ve been involved in. We 
just got a couple more runs.”BASEBALL , from page 14
Bryan Doolin / Alligator 
Although the top-ranked Gators made history, clinching back-to-back College World Series berths, Florida fans were 
largely missing from the riveting Super Regional weekend series. UF averaged less than 3,500 fans each game. 
WATTS , from page 14“I thought we really had a 
chance."
Nick Vickerson
MSU second basemanBy JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org 
 
Kevin O’Sullivan was lost 
Saturday afternoon, mentally 
exhausted from a shocking and 
brutal walk-off defeat. 
After surviving another see-
saw affair Sunday, Florida’s 
coach — fresh with a renewed 
sense of clarity and relief — was so emotionally charged he sprinted around McKethan Stadium unleashing a Gator 
chomping fury. 
But the 1,440 minutes in be-
tween were like a colonoscopy: 
cruel to a man’s brain.
Before the top-ranked Gators 
advanced to their second straight College World Series, O’Sullivan said he was a nerve-wracked mess, soul-searching and over-analyzing every deci-
sion in a pressure-filled season. 
“I learned more about coach-
ing in the last 24 hours than I have in the last four years,” he 
said. “It was a hard, long night [Saturday] night. 
Before the postseason even 
started, O’Sullivan admitted 
2011 had already been a grind with the burden of expecta-
tions and overnight pressure. 
Saturday’s shell-shocking de-
feat triggered a culmination of 
stress over a trying season. 
“Everything was lined up 
for this team to lose,” he said. 
“It took a lot of restraint, a lot of 
thinking. I had to think through the words. I had to do the best job I could.”
A loss away from elimina-
tion, O’Sullivan sought guid-ance from other coaches who had dealt with lofty expecta-tions. He heeded advice from a two-time NCAA champion and 
a three-time Super Bowl win-
ner. “I leaned on some guys 
who’ve had a lot of success,” he 
said. “Billy Donovan. Charlie 
Weiss.” 
UF’s basketball coach served 
as the steward counsel, suggest-
ing that O’Sullivan meet with 
the team late Saturday night — 
something Florida’s coach said his team never does after a loss. 
“I had my head in my rear-
end, and I needed to pick myself 
up because the players were go-
ing to look to me,” he said. “Bil-ly thought it would be a good idea to get the team together last night just to see my face for 10 
minutes.”
O’Sullivan decided that the 
heartbreaking loss merited such 
a team gathering. Sunday’s he-roes, Mike Zunino and Preston Tucker, said the meeting re-
lieved tension, allowing all the players to wipe away frustra-
tions and regrets. 
“Doesn’t work all the time,” 
O’Sullivan said. “You’re rolling 
the dice because you’re doing something that you normally 
don’t do all year, but I took his advice and I met with the team for 10 minutes. … Short and sweet.”
Although it was hardly easy 
Sunday, the Gators displayed enough resiliency to punch their ticket back to Omaha, Neb., and O’Sullivan — mentally eased, 
yet vividly animated — was 
ready to celebrate. The normal-ly reserved and subdued coach reveled in the moment by ignit-ing the crowd with fist-pumps, 
Gator chomps and a Gatorade 
bath. 
“A lot of pressure on us to 
win, so it was just a big relief,” he said.  “A big relief. …It be-
comes obvious that it’s very dif-
ficult to get to Omaha. It’s not easy. No team goes quietly in this tournament. It gives you a 
different perspective. You take 
a step back and take a breather and enjoy the moment a little more.”16, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011
Here’s what several players and coaches were saying after 
a wild and eventful Super Regional weekend in Gainesville. 
“We were sort of content just going last year. It was a big step just knowing we could get there. This year we 
definitely know we have business to take care of
and we can’t be satisfied just making it there. We’re 
hoping to make a run for it.”
— UF catcher Mike Zunino on the College World Series
“I wanted the players to come out and be focused and 
have some intensity. But I didn’t want them to be tight and that’s such a fine line. How do you do that? I don’t know if anyone has the magic formula.”
 — UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan on the pressure of 
regrouping after Saturday’s loss
“I think we’ve embraced the target on our backs. We 
know we have the tools to win a lot of ballgames. We’ve got a real deep ‘pen. We got a lineup that canhit up and down, and our starting pitching is some of the best.” 
— UF right fielder Preston Tucker on living up to 
expectations
“It was unbelievable. Especially when we were picked 
to finish last in the SEC. To come here and do what we did was really special. In my head, ‘I was like if they win this game they’re going to have to earn it’. And they did.”
 — MSU second baseman Nick Vickerson on the 
weekend and season-ending loss
“The game was screaming out, ‘You got to have a 
stop’. ... I’d do it 1,000 times in a row. He wanted the baseball.” 
 — MSU coach John Cohen on bringing in closer
Caleb Reed in the seventh
“It was a very fitting end. Everything he’s been through. 
I have a great deal of respect for him, his family. He was part of the first recruiting class when I got the job. After the injuries that he’s been through, the ups an downs, I couldn’t be more happier for him.” 
—  UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan on pitcher Tommy Toledo
closing out Sunday’s win
Rosa Taveras / Alligator StaffUF BASEBALLSully learns from hectic series
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan said he learned more about coaching in a 
stressful 24-hour period than in his first four years on the job.  
“Everything was lined up 
for this team to lose. ... 
It took a lot of restraint, 
a lot of thinking. I had to 
think through the words. 
I had to do the best job I 
could.”
Kevin O’Sullivan
UF baseball coach