VOLUME 106 ISSUE 37 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Pro-Life Alliance spreads message with free cupcakes
It celebrated birthdays of children who weren’t born, pg 3.  
UF&Shands breaks ground on new specialty hospital
The facility will be completed in January 2013, pg 4. Cryptozoologist talks Bigfoot Tuesday
Dallas Tanner studies and writes about strange 
creatures out of place and time, pg. 8. 
87/64
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  13
SPORTS 14 Maggie Powers / Alligator 
   Over the Rainbow
  Logan Stallings, a 20-year-old psychology major, stands under a rainbow-colored balloon arch on the Plaza of the Americas Tues-day, identifying with both gender-queer and pansexual sexualities on National Coming Out Day. See story, page 4. 
  CLARE LENNON
 Alligator Writer
 
  After the validation of this se-
mester’s Student Senate elections, 
50 new senators were sworn in Tuesday night.
  The validation vote was 
scheduled for last week, but the UF Supreme Court postponed it while the Election Commission investigated the elections proce-dures.
  The Supreme Court Justices 
lifted the injunction Monday 
night.
  The senators 
were sworn in during the sec-ond half of the double meeting. The Senate has 100 seats, and 
half of them are 
elected each Spring and Fall.
  During the ﬁ  ve minutes that 
each outgoing senator was given to speak, many reﬂ  ected on their time in the Senate and thanked their colleagues.
  Sen. Tyler Bertot encouraged 
remaining and re-elected sena-tors to remember they debate ideas, not people.
  “We’re all Gators, and we all 
want to do what’s best for the University of Florida,” he said.
  Outgoing Sen. Trimaine Shef-
ﬁ  eld referenced the proposed cellphone charging stations in his farewell speech.
  “I’m only a call away — unless 
your phone is dead,” he joked.
  Former Vice President Antho-
ny Reynolds was also sworn in as Student Body President. Reyn-olds is replacing former Presi-dent Ben Meyers, who stepped  Senators 
validate election results�   STUDENT SUFFERED 
ONLY MINOR INJURIES.
BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  A student was injured early 
Tuesday evening at Sisler Hall 
when a sensitive chemical com-pound exploded in his hands.
  Hamed Ibrahim, 26, was trans-ferring a vial with four grams of Benzotriazol-1-yl-sulfonyl azide, a shock-sensitive chemical com-pound, to a scale to weigh it at about 4:50 p.m. 
  “The chemical became unsta-
ble when he transferred it from the vial to the scale,” said Richard Saulsberry , district ﬁ  re chief for Gainesville Fire Rescue.
  When the compound explod-
ed, it caused minor cuts to Ibra-him’s face, hands and lower fore-arms, he said. 
  Ibrahim was taken to Shands, 
where he was treated for minor injuries, said Janine Sikes, director of UF public affairs.
  Other students were in the lab 
at the time of the explosion but did not feel the direct effects of the explosion.
  Judit Kovacs, a chemistry 
Ph.D. student, was three feet from the explosion when it happened.
  She said at ﬁ  rst her ears were 
ringing and felt clogged.
  By the time the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  re en-
gine arrived, Ibrahim had cleaned himself off and was waiting out-side the evacuated building, said Todd Ellis, a lieutenant with the Hazmat team.
  “You can’t take the risk out of 
a laboratory,” he said. “It’s always going to be there.”  Explosion disrupts students in lab
STUDENT LIFE
  MINA RADMAN
 Alligator Writer
 
  About two months ago, 20-year-old anthro-
pology junior Felicia Gasca received a phone 
call from her grandpa, asking why she had emailed him advertisements for Viagra. 
  “He made a joke of it,” Gasca said, “but I 
was embarrassed.”  Her grandpa received the advertisements 
because her personal email was hacked and sending malicious spam without her knowl-edge.
  “If he hadn’t called, I wouldn’t have even 
known,” Gasca said. 
  Three in 10 teens and young adults have 
had their Twitter, Facebook, email or other Internet accounts hacked, according to a new MTV/Associated Press poll. That’s double the number reported in 2009.
  “The greater the population, the greater the 
ability to exploit them,” said Aaron Thomas, a UF educational technology professor.
  Thomas said teens and young adults are  Email, social media account hacking on the riseBertot
SEE HACKING, PAGE 5SEE SENATE, PAGE 5Running back 
Mike Gillislee 
has worked his 
way into a larger 
role on offense 
for Florida. 
See Story, Page 14.News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 37 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tyler Jett, Greg Luca,
  Corey McCall, Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Kathryn Milstein, Adrianna Paidas,  
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Brandon Davis
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Amber Hughes, 
  Allison Klempert, Kyle Mueller,   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus
 C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Alexander Silva, Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
SUNNY
84/59PARTLY
CLOUDY
85/57SUNNY
87/56PARTLY
CLOUDY
87/63PARTLY
CLOUDY
87/64
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Impact Autism @ UF General 
Meeting
Today, 6:30 p.m.HPNP Building, Room G301  
Come to the second general meeting of the year and learn how to get involved this fall as well as listen to two guest speakers. Don’t forget to bring $15 for dues to get T-shirts. Check out the Facebook group “Impact Autism @ UF” for more information. 
Occupy Gainesville Solidarity 
RallyToday, 5 p.m.Bo Diddley Plaza and City HallCome down to the Bo Diddley Plaza to show support for other protesters across the nation who are participating in the Occupy Wall Street/Occupy Together move-ment. This is the chance to tell the government to end corporate greed and corpora-tions’ control over American politics. The group is meet-ing outside Bank of America on University Avenue at 3 p.m. before marching to Bo Diddley Plaza and City Hall. Visit the official Facebook page, www.facebook.com/occupygainesville, for more 
information. 
Adopted: Stories Untold — Film 
Screening of “Operation Babylift”
Thursday, 6:30 to 8:30 p.m.Pugh Hall Ocora Room“Adopted: Stories Untold” is a film and guest speaker event that will focus on Operation Babylift and the lives of Asian adoptees in America. Operation Babylift was an event in 1975 when more than 2,500 babies were lifted Hottinger Foundation for 
Ovarian Cancer.
Beat the Quakes 5K
Saturday, 8:30 a.m.
UF Commuter LotGators United for Haiti, Hope for Japan and Phi Alpha Delta present Beat the Quakes 5K as part of Asian Kaleidoscope Month to continue each group’s respective relief ef-forts. Come and help support Haiti and Japan. Register online at: www.active.com/running/gainesville-fl/beat-the-quakes5k-runwalk-2011 Top 5 female and male run-ners will win a prize. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.out of Vietnam during the Vietnam War and brought to America. The film “Operation Babylift: The Lost Children of Vietnam” portrays the evacuation of the orphaned children and their lives as adoptees in the United States. Following the screening will be a ques-tion-and-answer session with special guest speaker Lyly Thanh Koenig, who was one of 2,500 babies lift-ed out of Vietnam. 
Nae Day Fundraiser to Benefit 
Lynnae Foundation for 
Ovarian Cancer Research
Saturday 12 p.m. to 2 a.m.Boca Fiesta, 232 SE 1st St.  
Boca Fiesta will be host-ing “Nae Day,” a fund-raiser to benefit the Lynnae Hottinger Foundation for Ovarian Cancer Research. The day-long event is pre-sented by the numerous friends and family members of Lynnae Hottinger in cele-bration of her life. The event features a day-long barbe-
cue, bake sale, thrift store, fashion show with silent auction, art and craft fair, face painting and raffle. About $3,000 in gift certifi-cates from local businesses will be raffled. Evening and nighttime entertainment will be provided by local fa-vorites Grabass Charlestons and Whiskey & Company. All proceeds go to  Lynnae 
SUNAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
MIGUEL CHATELOIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Melisa Bieden didn’t get to celebrate her 
birthday this week or get a cupcake in her 
name.
Twenty-eight years ago, her biological 
mother was raped, became pregnant with her and, against Bieden’s grandparents’ en-couragement to have an abortion, gave birth and put her up for adoption.
She and others still got to eat free cup-
cakes to celebrate the birthdays that could have been when they passed by Cupcakes for Life, an event that UF Pro-Life Alliance held to promote its pro-life message Tues-day morning on the Plaza of the Americas.
Members of the organization displayed 
nearly 200 homemade cupcakes on a table and invited passers-by to decorate one with frosting and sprinkles.
UF Pro-Life Alliance Co-President Bri-
anne Unhoefer  said the organization chose to give out cupcakes because it wanted to be more “loving and friendly.”
“Different methods reach different peo-
ple,”  Unhoefer said. “This is another way to get them to think about it.”
Some didn’t agree with the message but 
liked the concept.
“My first thought was, ‘That’s awe-
some,’” said Max Redmond, a computer sci-ence junior who is pro-choice. “I don’t really agree with this at all, but I’m just going to take the cupcake and quietly walk away.”
UF Pro-Life Alliance Co-President Gina 
Claveria said the organization has taken different approaches to spread awareness about its cause. 
Two years ago, it co-sponsored an event 
with the Genocide Awareness Project in which photos of bloody fetuses were dis-played on the North Lawn. 
UF Pro-Life Alliance hasn’t used the 
same method or worked with the Geno-cide Awareness Project since, according to Claveria. “Most people say, ‘This is disgusting. 
Why would they put this up?’” said Claver-ia. “I don’t believe scare tactics are effective at all. This puts the personhood back into the message.”
Rachel Crosby / Alligator
Computer science junior Stephanie Sharp, 20, puts frosting on a free cupcake at UF Pro-Life Alliance’s Cupcakes for Life event on 
the Plaza of the Americas Tuesday.
UF Pro-Life Alliance promotes message with cupcakes, sprinkles
“I don’t really agree with this at 
all but I’m just going to take the 
cupcake and quietly walk away.”
Max Redmond
UF junior4, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011
Courtesy to the Alligator / Jesse Jones
Turning over the first shovels of ground for the multispecialty clinic, UF&Shands at Springhill, on Monday were Shands Health -
Care CEO Tim Goldfarb; Dr. Michael Good, dean of the UF College of Medicine; Dr. David Guzick, UF senior vice president for 
health affairs and president of the UF&Shands Health System; Alachua County Commission Chairman Lee Pinkoson; and Dr. Marvin Dewar, a senior associate dean and CEO of UF Physicians with the College of Medicine.
EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
In an effort to consolidate its specialty prac-
tices and grow with the Gainesville popula-
tion, UF&Shands broke ground Monday on its newest care center, UF&Shands at Springhill.
The $35.5 million facility , to be located at 
Northwest 39th Avenue and Northwest 89th Boulevard, just off of Exit 390 on Interstate 75, is expected to be completed by January 2013.
The four-story, 11,600-square-foot Spring-
hill center will incorporate specialty practices including neurology, cardiology, dermatol-ogy, psychiatry and women’s health.
The majority of these practices will be 
moved from their original locations to the Springhill location as their current leases ex-pire. 
The facility will provide services including 
X-rays, mammograms, ultrasounds and clini-cal lab testing.
David Guzick, president of the UF&Shands 
Health System, said this project is the next step in the system’s strategic plan to develop primary care facilities based on population trends.
The most recent example of this was the 
beginning of construction on the UF&Shands Family Medicine at Main.
Northwest Alachua County is one of the 
fastest growing areas in the county, he said.
“We’re trying to serve the needs of the 
community as best we can,” he said. “By con-gregating specialty practices on a couple of specific campuses, it may help streamline the process for patients.”UF&Shands breaks ground on specialty practices health centerEMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
Before posting all those pictures 
of moments you may or may not 
remember from last weekend on Bourbon Street, you might want to think twice about who will see them.
According to a study of 300 
professionals involved in the hir -
ing process at their companies, 91 percent use social media sites to screen job applicants.
Of those professionals, 69 per -
cent said they have rejected a can-didate based on material posted on a social media site.
The reasons for rejection in-
cluded things like negative or in-appropriate pictures or comments, inconsistencies in their informa-tion and posts that shared confi-dential or negative information about a previous employer.
Reppler, a company that seeks 
to help people manage their online image, released the study in late September.
Currently a free service, Rep-
pler analyzes people’s online images across social networks including Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn.
Launched in April, Reppler 
will soon be expanding to include analysis sites like YouTube and Tumblr, founder Vlad Gorelik said.The application can be down-
loaded on Facebook or from its website, reppler.com. It works to evaluate people’s overall online image by analyzing things like the tone of the language used on their profile, who or what is generat-ing the most content on their page and the time of day during which they are most active — this could reflect poorly on an applicant if he or she was most active during work hours.
Reppler also analyzes the 
makeup of a person’s social net-work connections to show how they interact or overlap. The appli-cation then identifies any privacy or security issues with each ac-count and flags any inappropriate or questionable content. 
In today’s digital world, Gore-
lik said, managing your online image is just as important as hav-ing an impressive cover letter or a resume.
“Your online image is often a 
recruiter’s first impression of you before you shake their hand,” he said.
Indeed, the study showed that 
47 percent of recruiters looked at applicants’ social networking sites before actually speaking with them. Twenty-seven percent did so after having an initial conver -
sation with the applicants, and 4 percent did so only before making a job offer.
Heather White, interim direc-
tor of the UF Career Resource Center, said the CRC works to ed-ucate students to be aware of what they’re posting.
She suggested that students 
Google themselves and go through their pictures and comments to make sure everything is appropri-ate for a potential employer to see.
“Even if your profile is set to 
‘friends only ,’ you still need to be careful,” she said. 
However, it’s not just about 
controlling negative messages. Students’ presences on social me-dia sites can also be beneficial, she said.
LinkedIn can be a powerful 
networking tool that acts like an online resume, she said. A Face-book page can be similarly helpful if students update things like their work experience, community in-volvement and leadership posi-tions.
In fact, 68 percent of respon-
dents to Reppler’s survey said they had hired a candidate because of positive things they saw on social networking sites.
“You need to always make sure 
that you put your best foot for -
ward,” Gorelik said. “And these days, that’s by managing your on-line image.”
Social media a factor for job recruiters
� A GROUP CELEBRATED 
ON THE PLAZA OF THE AMERICAS.
MAGGIE POWERS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Each sign looked the same. 
Big, black, bold letters held by 
students and faculty reading one of the following: lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, ally, asexual or pansexual.
Although they looked sim-
ple, these signs represented the complexity of coming out.
To celebrate National Com-
ing Out Day, UF’s Pride Stu-dent Union and LGBT Affairs set up information tables and a rainbow balloon arch on the Plaza of the Americas Tuesday afternoon.
The representatives encour -
aged students to ask questions and be photographed under the rainbow arch while holding a sign denoting their sexual iden-tities. 
Lauren Hannahs, director of 
LGBT Affairs at UF, said some institutions host week- and month-long celebrations. 
National Coming Out Day 
began in 1988,  Hannahs said.“It’s all about raising visibil-
ity, spreading the word and try-ing to make a more affirming, supportive campus climate,” 
Hannahs said. 
Bridget Siegel, 19, the exter -
nal vice president of PSU, said 
coming out is a continuous pro-cess with multiple phases.  
Siegel, a religious studies 
sophomore, said she hopes one day people of the LGBT com-munity will be seen first for who they are instead of for their sexual orientation. 
She said she still thinks Na-
tional Coming Out Day is some-thing to celebrate until that pe-riod of acceptance comes. 
Pride History Week will last 
from Oct. 17 through Oct. 22, said 18-year-old Andrew Bren-nick, the assistant director of the week’s events.  
Each day will feature skits 
about different gender expres-sions from history and a guest speaker on the history of trans-genders, he said. 
The week will conclude with 
a gay pride gathering down-town. 
People do not have to be a 
part of PSU to participate in the week’s festivities. Brennick said all sexual orientations are wel-come.Students show pride for 
National Coming Out DayService screens online content
PUBLIC HEALTH“Your online image is 
often a recruiter’s first 
impression of you.”
Vlad Gorelik
Reppler founderdown last week due to unspeci-
fied  personal reasons. 
Former Sen. Juan Rodriguez 
will take Reynolds’ place as vice president.
The Senate gave its prelimi-
nary approval for a resolution that thanked Meyers for his ser -
vice.
The Senate also approved for a 
third time the transfer of $90,000 from reserve funds to Student Government Productions. 
Interim Vice President of 
Student Affairs Dave Kratzer re-turned the bill and said he want-ed the bill to address how much money would go to each organi-zation. 
Of the $90,000, $71,000 will go 
to bringing the Goo Goo Dolls to Gator Growl, $15,000 will go to the Florida International Step Show and $4,000 will go to Soulfest.
Student Body Treasurer TJ Vil-
lamil also vetoed a bill because of lack of detail. 
Villamil said in an email to 
the Senate that he wanted the bill concerning cellphone charging stations on campus to list specific costs and to stipulate that if costs climb to more than 10 percent above the expected total cost of $28,800, the Senate must vote on it.Senators who were sworn in 
Tuesday night did not vote on the bills. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Vonecia Carswell / Alligator
Student Body President Anthony Reynolds is applauded by Student Government Senate mem-
bers after being sworn in at Tuesday’s meeting.
ERIN JESTER
Alligator Writer
A $2 million grant from the National Sci-
ence Foundation will allow UF researcher Tim 
Jacobbe to assess and eventually influence the way middle-school and high-school students learn statistics. 
The grant will support Jacobbe and a team 
of researchers as they design an assessment that identifies students’ levels of statistical un-derstanding.  
“Statistics, in my opinion, is one of the 
most, if not the most applicable forms of math students can encounter, so it’s important that students truly understand it,” said Jacobbe, who is an assistant professor of math educa-tion and a statistics education researcher.
Although states make decisions about their 
own school curricula, they are increasingly signing onto the national standards move-ment, he said. Florida is one of 45 states that has adopted the national Common Core stan-dards for math, which has increased expecta-tions for students’ knowledge of statistics for grades six to 12. 
The Common Core State Standards initia-tive provides an outline for what students should learn in the areas of English and math during every school year, from kindergarten through 12th grade. 
To increase understanding, there needs to 
be a better method of testing, Jacobbe said. 
Common Core standards, developed in 
2010, and its predecessor, the 2007 Guidelines for Assessment and Instruction in Statistics Education, examined and set standards for learning but paid little attention to the assess-ment process.
“Our goal is to fill in that gap,” Jacobbe 
said. 
Kenyon College, the University of Minne-
sota and the Educational Testing Service will work with UF’s College of Education on the study. About 2,800 students in grades six to 12 in Florida, Arizona, Pennsylvania, New Jersey , Ohio and Georgia will participate.  
Jacobbe said it will take 18 months to de-
velop the test.  The first pilot tests will be avail-able in April 2013, and an operational version will follow one year later. 
Jacobbe and his research team plan to de-
velop a series of questions that identifies levels of statistical understanding, labeled A through C. Level A represents early middle-school learning, and level C is associated with the high-school-level of understanding.  
However, “just because a student is in high 
school doesn’t mean they understand every-thing before it,” Jacobbe said.
His assessment would help teachers deter -
mine the level at which they need to teach. 
The test forces students to work through 
the four phases of understanding statistics, Jacobbe said. 
To correctly interpret statistics, he said, one 
must identify the question the statistic seeks to answer, understand how the data is collected, how it is organized and how to analyze it. 
Knowing how to interpret statistics is cru-
cial to being an informed citizen, he said. 
The goal of the study is to change how sta-
tistical understanding is measured, provide teachers with statistics-teaching resources and eventually to influence the way students are tested on statistics. The way students are test-ed now doesn’t represent the problem-solving nature of statistics, he said.
Math professor to study statistics testing methods
Changing passwords a common prevention method
more likely to be hacked because they aren’t aware of the safety precautions and procedures of the Internet.
For the poll, Palo Alto, Calif.-
based Knowledge Networks, un-der AP’s polling unit, interviewed 1,355 people, including people ages 14 to 17 and ages 18 to 24. 
Shauna Mackey , a 20-year-old 
telecommunications junior, had her Facebook profile hacked last spring after someone pretending to be one of her friends messaged her and asked for her email ad-dress.
“They said, ‘I have a really 
big project due and my email’s not working, can I use yours?’” Mackey said. 
Mackey provided her email 
address and found out later that day that the person had hacked into her Facebook, messaged her friends, asking for their email addresses and even asked one friend if Mackey had ever sent nude photos of herself.
“I hadn’t even spoken to that 
girl since high school,” Mackey said.
To avoid a similar situation, 
people should protect their ac-count passwords and update their anti-virus software, Thomas said.
Of the people polled, 65 per -
cent of those that were hacked knew who did it. Two-thirds of the people surveyed said they changed the passwords to their Internet accounts after they were hacked, 46 percent altered the email address or username asso-ciated with their accounts and 25 percent deleted a social network-ing profile.
After she was hacked, Mackey 
changed her email and Facebook passwords but hasn’t taken any more security measures since.
“I feel like this happens often,” 
Mackey said. “And I don’t have any information on my profile that I’m afraid to share with any-one if they hacked it.”
HACKING , from page 1Reynolds sworn in as Student Body President
SENATE , from page 1� COUNTY COMMISSION 
HASN’T MADE A DECISION ON FAIRGROUNDS LOCATION.
MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writer
The Hoggetowne Medieval 
Faire may be in jeopardy if the Ala-
chua County Commission decides to move the county fairgrounds to Newberry.
Mayor Craig Lowe said he does 
not want the city-run fair to take place in another city.
“I don’t think the City of 
Gainesville is going to operate the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire in Newberry ,” said Lowe at Thursday’s Gainesville City Commission meet-ing. “We want it in Gainesville.”
The county fairgrounds, located 
near  Gainesville Regional Air -
port, has hosted the fair for about 20 years. It is one of the only places in Gainesville that’s big enough to handle a fair of Hoggetowne’s mag-nitude, said Linda Piper, events co-ordinator for the city’s Department of Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs.
Those factors could put the fair 
in a state of uncertainty if the fair -
grounds is moved to Newberry.
The county had a plan in place to 
move the site to a piece of county-owned land on Waldo Road. The County Commission decided in Sep-tember to consider a request to move the  fairgrounds to a roughly 86-acre site in Newberry. The County Com-mission has not yet said when it will decide on the fairgrounds location.
If the county decides to move 
the fairgrounds to the Waldo Road location, the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire, which takes place during the last weekend in January and the first weekend in February, will not be af-fected, Lowe said.
But if the county decides to move 
the fairgrounds to Newberry, Lowe said he might bring the issue before the City Commission to have it vote on whether to move the fair to an-other location in Gainesville.
Piper said she hasn’t seen anoth-
er location in Gainesville that’s big enough to hold the fair, but she said she’s willing to look at alternatives.
But, she said, she needs to be able 
to park 5,000 cars and have enough room to house vendors, perfor -
mances and attractions — including an elephant ride — that come with the annual fair. The fair drew 55,000 people over the span of five days this 
year, Piper said.
“I agree with the mayor that it 
should be in Gainesville, not New-
berry. I’m willing for it to be wher -
ever it needs to go,” she said.Medieval 
Faire could 
move with 
fairgroundsTeam received $2 million grant to design test
“Our goal is to fill in that gap.”
Tim Jacobbe
UF researcherReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR67 TOTAL VOTES27% YES
73% NOTuesday’s question: Will you participate 
in the Occupy Gainesville protest on Wednesday? Today’s question: Has anyone ever hacked into your 
Facebook or Twitter account?Swing and a Miss
Student Government 
had chance to be fair
Way to go, UF Student Government.
You blew it.This was your chance to prove that you were not 
an incompetent, corrupt and useless governing body.
You had the opportunity to show that there is some shred of 
internal validity within your organization.
And then you go and do something like this.How can the UF Supreme Court rule, according to Tues-
day’s article, that “there was not enough harm done” to merit an invalidation of the SG election and a subsequent re-vote?
Not enough harm done?Did you forget, SG, that the students control you and not 
the other way around?
Did you forget that you are funded with their money?It doesn’t matter that the results might have been unaffected 
or unchanged by a proper vote.
The bigger issue at hand here is that the election was botched 
and the voice of the students was not accurately represented. 
If you claim to represent the voice of UF students, then you 
might want to start by doing it legally and through fair elec-toral processes.
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad probably thinks 
he represents the voice of the Iranian people, too, but we all know that is not entirely accurate. 
The UF Supreme Court, if it is going to call itself impartial, 
should treat a governing body that controls millions of student dollars with a little bit more scrutiny. 
How could Associate Justices Cecily Welsh and Tim Mason 
think a re-vote would do more harm than good? 
For one thing, it would be a chance to retest the voting sys-
tem and fix all of the bugs that created such a mess last time. (You could also actually follow your own code and test the sys-tem two days beforehand, but who’s counting?) 
It’s not like SG is trying to solve the national debt, so what 
harm is there in making the candidates campaign again? 
Poor, poor SG members. We wouldn’t want you to have to 
do any more work than you have to. We wouldn’t want you to have all those fraternities and sororities put up signs again, and we know how much of a pain walking around campus and handing out little cards can be. 
But we think the students would not mind a little more ha-
rassment this semester with the knowledge that an actual fair election process was taking place. 
And how could we expect the SG Elections Commission to 
do its job correctly? That’s just too much to ask. 
Or is it that you’re afraid a re-vote would drive more people 
to vote against the Unite Party due to its unprofessional and irresponsible behavior during this entire ordeal? 
And students, if you do not care about this issue, you 
should. It’s your money.Staying in school makes students unproductive
Is your college education really worth the money and 
debt? Maybe. 
Once upon a time, it might have been, but increasingly 
lower standards, government loans and a surplus of college graduates have significantly reduced the value of an under -
graduate degree.
Yes, technically employers scrutinize applicants based on 
whether an applicant went to a university or not, but did the education process create a more knowledgeable individual? As a student, do you really feel equipped to conquer insur -
mountable problems in the “real world”?
Ever since elementary school, children are programmed 
to believe that the only way to ever achieve success in life is to earn a college degree. 
In late spring of this year, the National Inflation Associa-
tion released a documentary on YouTube called “College Conspiracy .” 
According to the NIA, currently 70.1 percent of high 
school graduates will attend a college or university despite consistent inflation of college education in recent years. 
In the 1960s, less than half of all high school graduates 
attended college. Not obtaining a college degree was not a death sentence.  
At this time, Americans are the most “educated” individ-
uals in our history , yet we are currently in the middle of an economic downturn.
A poll conducted by Northeastern University and report-
ed by The New York Times says that as of 2009, only 55.6 percent of college graduates younger than 25 work in a posi-tion that requires a degree while 22 percent of them work in a position that does not. The rest do not work at all.
The documentary shows how the government and the 
college-industrial complex will be creating one of the larg-est economic bubbles in history . The federal government has significantly reduced the barrier to students for receiving public loans, and it is killing the economy.
The longer students stay in school without a job, the lon-
ger people are not being productive.On Bloomberg, Alexis Oha-
nian, co-founder of Reddit.com, said, “There are plenty of students out there who would really benefit from just avoiding a lot of the col-lege stuff and just trying to create something.” 
A surplus of college-educated, 
minimum-wage workers is not the only problem in education reform. 
Students need to be actively involved in settings that are spe-cific to their needs. Some learn better alone while some learn better in groups. Some have auditory learning styles while others learn through visuals.  
Sir Ken Robinson, a British author and TED speaker, has 
been championing the torch in the urgency of immediate education reform starting from the top down. He believes the public educational system is out of date, constructed by people in the Industrial Revolution whose perspectives are radically different from those of people today.
“Every country on Earth, at the moment, is reforming 
public education. There are two reasons for it. The first of them is economic. How do we educate our children to take their place in the economies of the 21st century? And the sec-ond is cultural. It is for our cultural identity ,”  Robinson said during his “Changing Paradigms” speech.
He finds that today’s method of teaching children is ar -
chaic in design. Peers, parents and bureaucrats are doing a disservice to students by discrediting their interests and tal-ents as unimportant — such as in the arts. 
Robinson continued, “We are getting our children through 
education by anesthetizing them. We should be waking them to what is inside of themselves.”
Students should protest for improvements like Students 
Against Mandates. Government should take a backseat and let the free-market decide. 
Nicholas Butler is a journalism sophomore at UF . His column 
appears on Wednesdays.
Nicholas Butler
opinions@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
As Homer Simpson would say, “Woo Hoo!”
Fox announced Friday that it has renewed contracts 
for its multibillion-dollar hit, “The Simpsons,” for two 
more seasons. This comes after weeks of head-butting negotia-
tions between the network and its leading character voices. 
As a 22-year-old, I can say I don’t remember a time when 
the Simpsons didn’t exist. Now, in its 23rd season, Fox threat-ened to pull the plug on the longest on-air animated TV show.
The reason? Negotiations between the network and the six actors who 
voice the world’s most recognizable animated characters were at a standoff over — you guessed it — money!
On Oct. 4, 20th Century Fox Television released this state-
ment: “Twenty-three seasons in, ‘The Simpsons’ is as creatively vibrant as ever and beloved by millions around the world. We believe this brilliant series can and should continue, but we cannot produce future seasons under its current financial mod-el. We are hopeful that we can reach an agreement with the voice cast that allows ‘The Simpsons’ to go on enter -
taining audiences with original epi-
sodes for many years to come.”
As you might imagine, the actors did not take the news 
well. According to The Daily Beast, the actors proposed to take a cut of around 30 percent in salary in exchange for a small percentage of the show’s profits from syndication and mer -
chandising. 
That seems reasonable, right?The network makes billions of dollars every year from glob-
al syndication and merchandising of Simpsons merchandise. 
Wrong. The networks responded to the actors’ proposal by 
delivering a staggering ultimatum: If the cast didn’t accept a 45-percent pay cut, the show would be canceled. 
According to The Daily Beast, the show’s lead voices, which include Hank Azaria, Yeardley Smith, Nancy Cartwright, Dan Castellaneta, Julie Kavner and Harry Shearer, make $8 million a season. The pay cut would have reduced their salaries to $4 million.
Is it wrong for these actors to want a piece of the pie? After 
all, they play a major role in the success of the show.  If the net-work really needs to cut costs to keep the show running, surely there are other shows on the lineup with far fewer ratings. 
The terms of the new deal were not released. The Hollywood 
Reporter, citing unidentified sources, said the actors accepted a 30-percent pay cut as opposed to the 45 percent pay cut the network was previously demanding. If the site’s sources are correct, under the new deal the actors will be making about $6 million a season. It’s unknown if the actors managed to get a cut of the show’s syndication and merchandising profits, but it seems for now that Springfield is safe — until 2013. 
Kaylanie Alvarez is a journalism senior at UF.
Fox’s stubbornness, corporate greed almost killed ‘The Simpsons’Guest column
Kaylanie Alvarez
Speaking OutThis is a response to Travis Hornsby’s 
column from Monday called “Why I am no longer liberal-minded.” I would 
much rather spend my post-work hours do-ing something relaxing rather than writing a guest column, but I must do something about the rage headache your column has caused me. 
I realize there’s little I can do about the 
dehumanizing nature of the study of eco-nomics, but I cannot allow you to continue to spread delusional conclusions about an eco-nomic system we’ve been watching crumble before our very eyes for the past two years.  
First, I’d like to state that we have a 
couple of things in common. I am also an ex-Obama campaigner and a non-liberal. I also write and work actively against some of the Obama administration’s policies but for reasons much different than your own. The bailout package awarded to financial institu-tions that contributed to the economic crisis, for example, was an absolute disaster. Ironi-cally the bailout was government welfare (at a much higher level than social welfare programs could ever hope to attain) for insti-tutions that practice the economic ideology you so proudly uphold.
You may not be wealthy, as a previous 
guest columnist suggested, but you are cer -
tainly of privilege. From a global perspec-tive, being a white male born on American soil could very well be the most privileged combination of qualities a person can have. 
As an Ecuadorian-born female with 
brown skin tone, I’d like to share with you some things your economic courses may not have allowed you to understand — we, the poor, don’t sit around waiting for our next government check. We work the hardest and longest out of the entire labor force while re-ceiving the least economic reward. So please discontinue suggesting that poor people are simply not “fighting to rise up against their 
condition” because of incentives by the big, evil government. 
Although you try to paint yourself as av-
erage, your assertion that millionaires are no different from you “except for a few ze-ros in their bank account” already sets you apart from the majority of the population. If that assertion is correct, I’m forced to as-sume you do not know what it’s like to live without health insurance or to watch your parents’ home be foreclosed. This is not the experience of millionaires, but it is certainly the current reality of millions of Americans around the country.  
If you decide to expand your horizons, I 
would strongly recommend you take a course on labor history so you could shed, or at least open, the tired notion of unions as “monopo-lies” or threats to economic growth. 
I would also recommend you educate 
yourself on the issues of wealth mobility and inheritance wealth and how these two factors impact the ability of minority populations to break away and “rise up” from centuries of inequality, disenfranchisement and racism. In fact, please educate yourself about minor -
ity issues in general to understand how we fit in the economic grid. 
Most importantly, do not give up the so-
cial (human) perspective when you continue pursuing your economics major. I certainly hope you never arrive at a point in which you view human beings as nothing more than numbers on a chart. If I’m not mistaken, that is the same mentality that has inspired thousands to descend upon Wall Street to demand economic justice. 
Diana Moreno is an alumna of UF.
Columnist needs to understand the poor, unprivilegedGuest column
Diana Moreno
Speaking Out8, ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011
 Haley Stracher / Alligator 
  Dallas Tanner, who currently resides in Greenville, S.C., spoke to UF students at the Orange 
& Brew Tuesday night about his research of mythological creatures. “Not all monsters are ﬁ  ction,” Tanner said. “And not all monsters are actually beasts.” 
  JUSTIN JONES
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  The bird was huge and looked like a 
cross between a penguin and a pigeon. 
It walked out from behind a bush and stopped trafﬁ  c, walking in circles before it ﬂ  ew away . And the man who saw it was embarrassed to talk about it.
  That’s just one story Dallas Tanner, a 
55-year-old cryptozoologist and author, told to about 35 people at the Orange & Brew at 8 p.m. Tuesday.
  Through his research, Tanner has heard 
stories similar to this one of the Thunder-bird, the subject of one of his ﬁ  ve books.
  Cryptozoologists study animals out of 
place and time, Tanner said.
  Reitz Union Board Entertainment or-
ganized Tanner’s appearance. He received $250 for travel and board.
  RUB Entertainment decided to bring 
him to UF  because it thought he would be interesting, according to Victoria Jester, the director of lectures and comedians for RUB Entertainment.
  “Cryptozoology is not a common thing,” 
Jester, 21, said.  
  Emma Grauerholz-Fisher, a 19-year-
old psychology major, hoped he would talk about something that couldn’t be ex-plained.
  “I don’t think I’ll necessarily believe a lot 
of stuff he’s going to talk about, but I want to hear what he has to say,” she said.  During his lecture, Tanner talked about 
how he does research for his novels. 
He said he gathered people’s stories to 
help him write his books.
  “There’s more truth to this stuff than 
people realize,” he said in the lecture. “Not all monsters are ﬁ  ction.”
  He did make it clear that he does not go 
out  looking for mythical monsters; he just researches them and writes novels.
  “Believing is seeing when it’s something 
you’re not expecting,” he said during the lecture.
  He also talked about the Loch Ness 
Monster and the Skunk Ape, an animal na-tive to the Southeast that is similar to Big-foot and is extremely aggressive.
  However, he said a lot of the time en-
counters with these mythical creatures aren’t something people want to talk about. 
  “It’s like something that they keep for 
themselves,” he said.
  Tanner has been a cryptozoologist for 10 
years. He does it because he is interested in how the truth is deep-rooted in the myths he researches.
  “The problem with science is that it only 
accepts what it already knows,” he said.  Cryptozoologist tells tales of Bigfoot, Loch Ness Monster 
“There’s more truth to this 
stuff than people realize. Not all       
monsters are ﬁ  ction.”
Dallas Tanner
cryptozoologist and author
MULTICULTURAL
  NATALIE ASOREY
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  More than 100 students came ready for a good laugh and 
some Latin jokes Tuesday night.
  UF’s Hispanic Heritage Month 2011 presented “HHM 
Comedy Night: Uniting All Shades of Laughter,” featuring 
two Latina comedians — Lisa Alvarado and Shayla Rivera.
  Anastasia Rios, HHM’s comedy night director and fourth-year economics major, said she knew she wanted to 
pick female comedians for the event. 
  Rios said male comedians have pre-
sented at comedy night in previous years. 
  “I really liked how they’re strong 
women and single moms,” Rios said. “I liked their background and their humor.”
  The opening act has usually been done 
by a local comedian free of charge, Rios said. 
But, thanks to additional sponsors, she was able to bring 
two professional comedians to UF.
  Rios began planning the event last spring.   The Caribbean Student Association and Student Govern-
ment’s Women’s Affairs and Multicultural Affairs cabinets co-sponsored the event.
  Hispanic Heritage Month 2011 events will continue 
through Friday.  Female comedians spice up Hispanic Heritage Month event
Alvarado
 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 9
local
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
Local law enforcement agencies follow the law when pro-
viding public records, but their policies differ in ways that 
can have an effect on residents’ watches and pocketbooks. 
The public records departments of the University Police 
Department, Gainesville Police Department and Alachua County Sheriff’s Office are all subject to chapter 119 of the Florida state statutes, better known as the public records law.
State law requires agencies to redact certain information 
from public records before providing them for requests such as Social Security numbers and driver’s license numbers, said Samantha Fundenburg, an ASO criminal justice technician.  
The time it takes for these agencies to complete records 
requests, however, varies depending on what a person asks for. 
For a copy of a lengthy homicide investigation report, for 
example, it may take more than a day or two for clerks to review the documents and redact any information that state statutes require be kept private. “It really depends on the nature of the request and what 
they are requesting,” said Maj. Brad Barber, UPD public in-formation officer. 
Records requests don’t usually take long to fill out at the 
sheriff’s office. People generally just need to wait a few min-utes for employees to print out the report, Fundenburg said.
While GPD strives to complete requests as quickly as pos-
sible, its policy is that they may take up to 72 hours to com-plete, said Claudia Hendrix, records coordinator and man-ager of the GPD records division.
Ninety-nine percent of the time, it doesn’t take 72 hours or 
more to complete a request, she said. 
It becomes stressful for employees when someone walks 
into the GPD office and asks for a report he or she needs to present in court that day. The employees then feel the need to obtain those records immediately, despite a backlog of other requests. “Their crisis could become your crisis,” Hendrix said. 
“There is that point in GPD where we can say it could take 72 hours.”
Barber didn’t provide a specific time frame typical of com-
pleting records requests at UPD, but he said it depends on the request and that efforts are made to provide information as quickly as possible. 
Florida law permits agencies to charge for requests, and 
UPD, GPD and ASO have different policies for these fees. 
At ASO, people requesting case reports may have to pay 
some fees, although crash reports and arrest records are pro-vided for free, Fundenburg said. 
GPD also has a 15-cent-per-page fee, but employees can 
generally charge at their discretion after a report passes the seven-page mark, Hendrix said. GPD also charges a flat fee of $1 for all incident and accident reports. 
Public records requests may require similar fees through 
UPD, although it depends on the type and extent of the re-quest, Barber said. 
“We’re not out here to make money on this,” he said. 
“This is an issue where we’re guided by the state statute.”Police records request process can be stressful, costly 
“Their crisis could become your crisis.”
Claudia Hendrix
records coordinator and manager of the GPD records divisionWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
$389 3/3 All-Inclusive
$359 4/4 All-Inclusive
Rooms Available for January
Call us today at 352-336-3838!
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $339
w/$100 credit!
3/3’s @ $429 with 42” TV
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
1BR/1BA available in 4/4 SW condo
$375/mo. Close to everything, bus line.
All utilities included. Furnished.Call Nalini at (352) 514-3398           10-14-11-2-1
Professional/Grad Student.
All amenities. Must be studious & quiet,safe & secure. $390/mo.Leave message 333-8300 or 514-3320    10-17-11-10-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 East at $469, 1/2 off 2nd month*
$99 Move In SpecialFrederick GardensCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2
A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.Great pools • Fitness • TennisCall for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’sBivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 11
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   12-7-11-74-2
3BR, 2BA, Condo Unit, Ground Floor, Kitchen 
& living area; Swimming pool & tennis courts; The Sparrow; $700.00 per month.Call Cristen at 352-514-6222    10-17-11-40-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. 
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1st month half price! Vacant lots alsoavailable. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-588710-31-46-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2GIGANTIC 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority/Norman/Shands area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Was $2400 re-duced to $1780 OBO. 352-665-8166 lv msg.   10-25-11-30-2
1BR/1BA Apt,. Large screened-in porch, 
W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499. Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #2. Please call 352-371-3473    10-31-11-33-2
● 2BR2BA HOUSE, w/carport, W/D hk-ups. 
Pet ok. $750/mo● 1BR/1BA APT Pet ok. $475/mo.Call 352-332-8481 or 352-359-1644    10-14-11-20-2
ATTN: UF and Shands Employees  
2 BR 1 Bath homes in Gainesville. 
Spacious fenced-in yards, bring your pets! 
Brand new energy upgrades. $570-$660/mo
Near 6th St. on 39th Ave. 336-9477   
10-17-25-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-155011-2-11-20-2
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7129 SW 45th Place. $525/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114    10-20-11-10-2
●●● One Mile to UF ●●●
 Home 2br 1 bath. New A/C Hardwood Floors, 
Tile in kitchen & bath & Florida room $900.00 mo.  Call Andree Realty 352-375-290011-4-10-2
Close to UF, $595/month plus security de-
posit, 2BR with 2.5Bathroom townhouse. New floor/paint. Fenced backyard with W/D hookup. 1310 SW 61st, GNV, 32607. Call 352/332-4088 or 352/514-7098   10-25-11-10-2
4/2.5 2000sqft home built in 2000, 2 blks to 
Stadium 3 min walk to Campus. Free $1300 security deposit! $1550/mo! W/D Garage. Avail Dec/Spring. Rmmate matching. Call 870-7304. jeremybolton0@gmail.com   11-23-11-30-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
1 BR/1 BA furnished in 4/4 at 2ND Ave 
Centre for Spring 2012. Asking $479/month. Includes utilities, cable, wifi, parking. No de-posit. Walk to campus & downtown. Contact Cal at (954)940-2118    10-17-5-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $650/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    10-12-11-87-4
roommates wanted in 4/2 on sorority row. 
$350 inc Utilities, cable, and internet. easy walk to UF, close to downtown. close to buses. jfidorra@hotmail.com 814-440-3325   10-25-11-10-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
FORE SALE: 2002 CELEBRITY MOBILE 
HOME. 14 X 40, 1BR/1BA. Screened porch. Excellent condition. Need to sell. $8500/ne-gotiable. Call 352-336-5013   10-12-5-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
12, ALLIGATOR § WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011
MUSIC STORE NEAR UF-Buy-Sell-Trade@
Discounts We also offer music classes in all instruments & dance. We are the only chari-table music & dance school. Scholarships available. studiopercussion.org 352-338-8302     10-20-20-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
10-31-11-42-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
HOT, SEXY convertible 2000 Mercedes SL. 
White w. both tops,blue soft leather inter. 46,800 miles. PS, PW. AM/FM, CD. New Michelins. Garage kept. Mint. 15,800. 377-2538    10-24-10-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      10-20-11-74-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
ANY HempFest Video Footage, Photos,
Articles, Memorabelia,Testimonials...Confessions of the DoobieTosser from 1990-2000! PLZ Call352-278-5698   10-21-10-13
Southeast Car Agency is looking to hire 
a Lot Porter for approx. 35 hours a week (or more if needed). Must have clean driv-ing record, your own reliable transporta-tion, and be available to work on Saturday. Please apply in person only, we are not accepting calls regarding this position.  Location: 310 NE 39th Ave Gainesville, FL 32609    10-19-7-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   10-12-11-35-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   10-12-20-14
 The Smartphone Club needs data entry 
workers to help update our membership list. Must be able to work at home online with-out any supervision. Guaranteed pay for Guaranteed work.www.thesmartphoneclub.com/Colleges/FL    10-25-11-25-14
MOVIE EXTRAS
To stand in the background for a major film. 
Experience not required. Earn up to $300/day. All looks needed. 877-568-7065    10-31-11-20-14
Website Design Paid Internship
with small publishing company in Alachua. 
$11.00/hr, 8 hrs/wk. Send resume to
biopressinfo@gmail.com.
10-13-11-7-14
Nanny needed, 2-8pm, 5 days. Girls age 10-
15. Take to sports/our car; hmwk; lunches; & help out. Fun job! BC/refs req'd. Resume to: masonwoodorchids@hotmail.com     10-14-6-14
Phone survey for UF research center, temp 
position. 30-40 hrs/wk, 9-5. Must be friendly on phone and detail-oriented. Excel, Word skills preferred. $12/hr.Contact kbs@ufl.edu     10-13-11-5-14
Extra income. Become a Sales Buddy from 
your computer. Earn $5 for every book sold. www.thegiftofwisdom.com, select Sales Buddy.     10-20-11-10-14
Molly and Friends looking for dilligent, quality 
oriented PT workers to build our high qual-ity cat furniture.  Good pay for good working.  See Holly at 337-1535 and come down to 1847 South Main Street    10-14-6-14
Financial services company looking for 
salespersons, $8-$12/hr, no exp required, good communication skills, flexible hours, located in Creekside mall, call Mike at 800-535-6595 extension 602    10-12-3-14
 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 13
Insurance marketing firm is looking for in-
side wholesalers to develop life, annuity and med sup agents throughout the country. This person will be making 90 to 100 calls a day. Other duties require developing product knowledge and establishing relationships with the agents. Basic computer skills re-quired. Located in Haile Village. Hours are from 8 to 6. Salary is $10.00 hour plus com-missions. Email resume to marketing@aim-2comp.com   10-14-11-5-14
PHP/Web Developer: Full-time multipurpose
position working with our engineering team to develop web interfaces. Self-motivated, able to work within a team dynamic, and be comfortable working with Linux, Mac OS, Windows, etc. Expertise in PHP, JavaScript, XHTML, and CSS. For more details or to apply visit http://www.monetra.com/content/careers.html                10-24-11-10-14
Tenor section leader $225 a month
Thursdays, 7:30 p.m.-9;30 p.m.Sundays, 10:00 - 12 noonTo audition email music@1stpc.org10-17-11-5-14
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) $99 
and Basic Life Support (BLS)$35. Classes run continuously to fit your schedule. American Heart Association Card issued. Call Cardiac One at 352-494-4217.    10-14-11-30-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696   11-9-11-30-15
GET FREE WIRELESS SERVICE AND
SUPPORT STARVING COLLEGEATHLETES: Simply purchase your nextsmartphone and send 5 of your friends tothis website to qualify:www.TheSmartphoneClub.com/Colleges/UFL   10-14-11-5-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
HEMPFEST IS BACK! SAT. NOV.5 High-
Noon 'til Midnight! Gainesville's Bo Diddly Plaza! Wanted: Local Bands, Vendors, Volunteers! For Info Call: Jodi at FL C.A.N. 321-253-3673 www.gvillehempfest.com   10-21-10-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM... A boutique, 
KEY WEST 1970's style. We got it all for you, from all the world, imports you can believe in. Clothes, Gifts, Art, Books, Music, Plants... Hwy 441S.... 15 min that could change you.   10-26-31-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM a boutique in 
a barn! Used books,old thoughts and new things. The existing order of surfdom can-not remain unchanged. It is better to abol-ish surfdom from above than to wait until the surfs begin to liberate themselves from below. Alexander II. Hwy.441S. 15 min. to change what you thought a store could be.11-22-30-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   10-19-11-100-16
THE NATIONAL ALLIANCE
ON MENTAL ILLNESS (NAMI)
Peer-to-Peer Program
A FREE 10-week recovery education course 
for adults living with mental illness who would like to achieve and maintain wellness. NAMI-certified Peer Mentors who are successfully managing their own conditions teach the course. We meet once per week for two hours, and use a combination of lecture and interactive exercises in a confidential setting. Each participant receives materials related to course topics, such as mental illness and the brain, coping skills, decision-making tools, and relapse prevention. Class size is limited and pre-registration is required. Classes be-gin January 25, 2012.
For more information,
contact the NAMI information line at
(352) 374-5600 ext 8322,
or email info@namigainesville.org
www.namigainesville.org/P2P_Gville_Site.htm
10-14-10-16
ADOPTION. Choose a loving & secure family 
waiting to adopt. Living & medical expenses paid. Updates on your child.Call 24hr/7day. 1-800-280-6155. Amy Eichman(Bar#830011)    11-14-11-30-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Great gift (and inexpensive!) for any occa-
sion: birthdays, holidays, graduations, first job, weddings. Or simply because someone is special! www.thegiftofwisdom.com.    10-20-11-10-18
www.GoGoGators.com
Totally awesome shirts with a gator attitude10-17-11-3-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Basketball Media Day Is Today
Stay tuned to alligatorSports.org and make sure to pick up a 
copy of Thursday’s paper, as we will be bringing you coverage from the men’s and women’s basketball media days. Dee Finley Rumored To Be Transferring
Jeff Barlis of the Gainesville Sun is reporting that 
linebacker Dee Finley has chosen to transfer from Florida. A UF spokesman withheld comment Tuesday.� BACK TO RECEIVE MORE CARRIES THIS WEEK.
MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
For as long as he has been at Florida, running back Mike 
Gillislee has sat behind Jeff Demps and Chris Rainey. 
It appears those days are over. 
With the Gators offense struggling to put up points in 
back-to-back losses to Alabama and LSU, and with Demps banged up and Rainey struggling to break free against top defenses, Gillislee is finally getting his chance. 
He ran for a team-high 56 yards on just nine carries 
against the Tigers last week, and Gillislee brought a facet to the Florida offense that neither Demps nor Rainey could. 
Coach Will Muschamp said Monday he ran with tough-
ness, and offensive coordinator Charlie Weis affirmed that sentiment Tuesday. 
“Getting hit is part of his game,” Weis said. “There’s 
times where if he has a choice to make somebody miss or dance or try to run through somebody, he’s a guy that will try and run them over.”
Even before quarterback John Brantley went down with 
an injured right ankle, the Gators offense hummed when it was able to pound the ball on the ground. With Brantley out, the unit has been stagnant. 
While all three backs are similar, the hope is that Gil-
lislee can step in and spark a rushing resurrection, starting with running the ball between the tackles — something Demps and Rainey weren’t able to accomplish.
“We’re all the same kind of running back,” Gillislee 
said. “But by me being bigger, I (give the defense a differ -
ent look) by me going through the middle.”
Gillislee hits the hole quickly instead of dancing around 
and looking for space. 
“He likes to run in (between the tackles),” offensive co-ordinator Charlie Weis said. “Most running backs can’t get to the outside fast enough. But he likes it in there; he likes contact.”
Gillislee said learning the pass-protection schemes in Weis’ offense kept him off the field earlier. 
Well, that, and the presence of Demps and Rainey.Still, Rainey isn’t upset at the prospect of losing some 
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida running back Mike Gillislee could receive more carries this week against No. 24 Auburn after rushing for a 
team-high 56 yards on nine carries against No. 1 LSU last week. 
Gillislee stepping 
into larger role
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida has a quarterback competition 
on its hands this week.
After freshman Jacoby Brissett started 
against No. 1 LSU last week while fellow 
freshman Jeff Driskel was sidelined with an ankle injury, Driskel is back in practice and offensive coordinator Charlie Weis said the ankle has been a non-factor.
Weis said both have taken snaps in 
practice, although they weren’t split evenly. 
However, Weis said both would be 
ready when Florida travels to take on No. 24 Auburn because they each are getting plenty of reps in practice.
With senior John Brantley still side-
lined with an ankle injury of his own, Weis said Brissett and Driskel could both potentially see the field, and the offense will be tailored for both.
While the competition is open, Weis 
was impressed with what he saw from Brissett against LSU.
Brissett completed 8 of 14 passes for 
94 yards, a touchdown and two intercep-tions, but Weis was most pleased Bris-
sett’s poise in a hostile environ-
ment while taking the first snaps of his career. 
“There’s a lot of good practice play-
ers that when it comes times to play in a game, they disappear,” Weis said. “He isn’t one of them.”Driskel’s ankle not an issue Can UF open up the offense?
Tyler: Flor -
ida’s of-
fense will 
be more complex this week. It cer -
tainly won’t be getting any sim-pler.
Whether Ja-
coby Brissett or Jeff Driskel take snaps Saturday, offensive coordinator Charlie Weis will have more confidence in his quarterback than he did the week before. And that will be the case each week until John Brantley returns.
Seven days isn’t a lot of time, certainly 
not enough for any season-changing rev-elations that turn Brissett or Driskel into polished passers. Sorry. However, both quarterbacks can grow more in those sev-en days than an experienced player like Brantley can. That doesn’t 
mean either will be better than Brantley — they can just improve more, because they have more room to develop. Think about any 
skill you have tried to pick up. The most growth always comes in the first couple of weeks.
And being a capable Southeastern Con-
ference quarterback is an acquired skill.
Greg: There is no reason to think Flor -
ida’s quarterbacks will be worse, but that doesn’t mean the offense will expand. 
Both have struggled to execute the lim-
ited portion of the game plan they have been entrusted with, and burdening them with more won’t help. 
Tyler Jett
twitter: @tyler__jett
Greg Luca
twitter: @greglucaTHE RALLYSEE FOOTBALL, p AGE 16
SEE NOTEBOOK, p AGE 16
SEE RALLY, p AGE 16Gator s Quar terbacks
Quotable
“I feel like we was better than them.” 
Chris Rainey
UF running back
(on Alabama and LSU)
JONATHAN CZUPRYN
Alligator Writer
To the Gators, brotherly love 
looks sweeter in orange and blue. 
Florida’s Josh and Alex Izewski 
and Derek and Daniel Wehunt 
give a different twist to team unity, looking to use their sibling rivalries to propel Florida’s cross country team to the top of the ranks.
The Izewski brothers have 
quickly given their coach, Todd Morgan, a reason to smile. Josh, the team’s lone senior, leads by example with a top-five and top-15 finish this year. While Josh be-ginning his last year with success, freshman Alex is just starting to bloom, as he has a top-10 finish as well.
To Morgan, building a champi-
onship-caliber team requires more than providing better times; it’s also about better leadership. 
At the start of the season, Mor-
gan called on both Josh and Derek, a junior, to act as mentors. Each having younger siblings, the two knew the influence their experi-ence could have and are trying to share that with others.
“I can teach [Alex] from all the 
mistakes I made my freshman year so he doesn’t make the same mis-takes,” Josh said about his younger brother. 
As his time at UF concludes, 
Josh wants to pass on his knowl-edge and wisdom to Alex. 
Although Derek and Daniel 
haven’t gotten off to a quick start  like the Izewski brothers, they still exemplify the mentor-and-pupil aspect of the team. 
Morgan’s desire for experi-
enced runners to take charge has made Josh and Derek the leaders while molding the younger ones, like Alex and Daniel, into more knowledgeable and well-rounded individuals. 
On Friday, the Gators will need 
the leaders and the younger run-ners to step up when they compete in the Wisconsin adidas Invitation-al, one of the biggest meets of the season with 39 men’s teams and 42 women’s teams participating. 
In a meet that large, Morgan 
said some of the younger runners have a tendency to get “lost in the crowd.”
But he hopes the Gators will 
show some brotherly love to help each other if the situation arises this weekend. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Alligator File Photo
Florida senior Josh Izewski, and younger brother Alex Izewski, are 
one of two sets of brothers helping motivate the men’s team. 
Brothers’ rivalry pushing Gators
KELLY PRICE
Alligator Writer
Cord Sandberg is a 16-year-old multitasking machine.
As a freshman, he practiced with the Bradenton Manatee High 
varsity squad, led his junior varsity team to an undefeated season and recorded playing time in the first round of the state play-offs. As a sophomore, he led Manatee to a 13-1 season that ended in a state semifinals loss to perennial power Fort Lauderdale St. Thomas Aquinas. That season, he threw for 2,855 yards and 25 touchdowns while rushing for 579 yards and 10 touchdowns.
Sandberg also said he hit .399 on the baseball team in the 
spring, racking up five home runs and 25 RBIs in the lead-off role as Manatee advanced to the state semifinals. He has been project-ed to be an early round pick in the MLB draft by his senior year.
It’s fair to say the 6-foot-2, 190-pound 
dual-threat quarterback and two-sport prospect has a few avenues to pursue.
Now a junior, Sandberg and the 
Hurricanes are 3-2, with close losses against No. 10 Olney (Md.) Our Lady of Good Counsel and No. 1 Ramsey (N.J.) Don Bosco Prep. He has collected offers from Auburn, Clemson, Cincinnati and Iowa State, while also talking to coaches and drawing inter -
est from Alabama, FSU, Stanford, Texas, Tennessee and Florida. 
“Right now, my options are open as far as football or base-
ball,” Sandberg said. “During football season, I’m going 100 per -
cent and loving it. But when it ends, it’s baseball season and I give (that) everything I’ve got. 
“Whatever happens next year — senior year — is probably 
what I’ll end up doing. I’m not sure yet right now, though.”
After his freshman season, Sandberg had already been around 
the recruiting circuit with trips to Auburn, Clemson and Florida. Last summer, he visited FSU, Alabama and Tennessee. After his junior year, he plans to add LSU, Texas and Stanford to the itiner -
ary.
This summer, Sandberg was invited to Gainesville for a one-
day offensive and defensive line camp to put his arm on display, an experience he enjoyed.
 “I talked to (Florida offensive coordinator Charlie) Weis, and 
he seemed like a pretty bright guy as far as offense and develop-ing quarterbacks,” Sandberg said. “If they were interested in me at Florida, that would definitely be an option I would have to consider for sure.”
Sandberg also has some family ties to Florida. His father, 
Chuck, an assistant coach for Manatee, was a first baseman for UF’s baseball team in 1979.
“I am open to wherever as of right now,” Sandberg said. “But 
Auburn and Clemson have definitely shown the most interest. Personally, I want to go to a place where the coaches and atmo-sphere feel right. So whatever happens, happens.”Top 2013 QB recruit 
weighing options
Brantley vs. Tebow, jump passes and redshirt possibilities
Welcome back to another edition 
of The Mailbag. Florida’s football team may be struggling, but we’re 
still on top of our game and ready to answer another batch of questions, so let’s see what you’ve got.
@AlligatorArmy: On a scale of one to 
Trey Burton, how would you rate the Gators’ 
ratio of perceived talent to actual talent?
Judging by the wording of this question, 
you must be of the belief that Burton is on the high end of that actual-talent scale. Bur -
ton doesn’t perceive the Honey Badger-led LSU secondary as talented, so this question is basically a wash. We’re trying to come up with a knowledgeable answer, but all we can see is Leonardo DiCaprio’s totem from “Inception” taunting us. Is what we perceive actually reality?
@PhilipGaryTalks: Will we see a lineup 
with Andre Debose, Jeff Demps, Chris Rain-ey and Mike Gillislee on the field together?  That’s as good as it gets for us, right?
Nah, no chance of seeing that lineup. 
While it is arguably the most talented lineup of position players Florida can trot out to the field, we don’t see it happening. The Gators won’t use a three-running back set, and while Rainey is the team’s leading receiver, he is not a true receiver.
@zachmoller: Who will have more wins 
as starter the rest of the season: Tim Tebow or John Brantley?
Cam Newton. He has all the tools, and 
he doesn’t get scared against the NFL’s best teams.
As far as our two other favorite Gators 
quarterbacks, we’re going with Timmy. You will never see any player in the entire coun-try play as hard as he will play the rest of the season. 
It looks like his elbow is going to fall off 
every time he throws, but Tebow has done well every time he has been on the field the last couple of years. We know the Broncos suck, but they get to play the Chiefs twice.And the Chiefs really suck. Right, Char -
lie? 
@JLBOB: Does anyone actually care that 
LSU scored on a jump pass? I see a lot of peo-ple claiming “Florida fans” are indignant.
Do fans care? Probably not. We’re sure 
they were all beside themselves when the play actually occurred, shocked that LSU had the audacity to pull that play on Florida — the play the Gators made famous against the Tigers. 
But after that, we’re sure fans cared more 
that Florida lost and not that LSU pulled a trick play with the game well in hand. Flori-da players, however, weren’t too thrilled by the play. 
Defensive lineman Jaye Howard said he 
looked across the field and saw former Gators wide receivers coach and current LSU pass-ing game coordinator Billy Gonzales, who left Florida on bad terms in 2009, laughing. 
@JLBOB: Since it is still technically pos-
sible for both freshman quarterbacks to be redshirted, should one of them sit, and which one?
If you want to go that route (which we 
don’t suggest), you obviously keep Driskel out. Today, both players are eligible for a medical redshirt — not a traditional one.
To qualify, a player must (a) prove he suf-
fered an injury (b) play in less than five games and (c) stay out of every game after week six. Saturday will be the seventh week.
Brissett won’t be a candidate. He doesn’t 
have any significant injuries (that we know of…), and he won’t be suffering any without playing in a game. And if he plays in a game, it will be after week six, obviously.
Driskel could, on the other hand, qualify 
because he has only played in three games. If the injury is more significant than Will Muschamp is telling reporters (shocking, we know), then maybe they keep him out for the rest of the season.
But you don’t go out of your way to get 
Driskel a redshirt. If Brantley is out, Driskel is Florida’s best quarterback. That’s why he was No. 2 on the depth chart.
THE mAilbA g“I can teach him from 
all the mistakes I made 
my freshman year, so he 
doesn’t make the same 
mistakes.”
Josh Izewski
UF runnerUF RecruitingTeammates said Brissett commanded the hud-
dle and kept his composure in Death Valley, some-
thing Weis noticed about the quarterback when he saw Brissett play basketball at Palm Beach Gar -
dens Dwyer High.
While Weis admitted taking a conservative ap-
proach to the LSU game, he said Brissett’s perfor -
mance was not the reason Florida lost the game.
Patchan seeing more time: Junior left tackle 
Matt Patchan has finally worked his way into a prominent role in the Gators’ offensive line.
After seeing limited time in the team’s first four 
games, Patchan has played extensively against Al-abama and LSU. 
He made his first start of the season Saturday, 
when he got the nod over junior Xavier Nixon, who has been plagued by penalties and poor play this season.
Sophomore guard Kyle Koehne believes Nixon 
was benched due to a lack of performance. How-ever, Weis said Patchan earned the chance to start.
“Matt is a physical player,” Weis said. “When 
he knows what he’s doing and can really turn it loose, he can be a dominant, physical presence, and I think that’s what he’s shown.”
Patchan had a standout performance against 
the Tigers, Weis said. 
Discipline problems: During Saturday’s loss to 
LSU, Florida became the most penalized team in the nation. The Gators now have 55 for 425 yards in six games.  
Koehne attributed the penalties to a lack of dis-
cipline, adding that coaches are cracking down on it in practice to avoid similar mental lapses in games, too.
“You’ll probably be pulled,” Koehne said. 
“They’re unacceptable right now for how many we’ve been getting per game. 
“They’re not being tolerated.”Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org.Driskel’s numbers have been 
pretty poor through four games: 
7 of 16, 73 yards and two inter -
ceptions. At times he looked nervous, scared and unsure of himself.
Brissett was serviceable 
against LSU, but if you take away his flukey 65-yard touch-down, he was just 7 of 13 with 29 yards and two interceptions. And Florida only let him or -
chestrate about 56 percent of the offensive plays — not exactly a ringing endorsement of his grasp of the offense.
Give these guys some time 
to digest what they’re working with before giving them more to swallow. 
Tyler: Brissett taking only 
half the offensive snaps has little to do with his grasp of the offense, or lack thereof. Weis didn’t replace him with another quarterback; he replaced him with a special package to kick-start the running game.
Trey Burton and Chris Rain-
ey took snaps out of the shotgun because the Gators could not establish the run with Brissett in the game. LSU dared Brissett to throw, and in the first half Weis handled his freshman with kid gloves.
Weis won’t do that Saturday 
because Auburn will crowd the line. Florida became more com-plex in the second half at LSU, and Brissett looked OK.
He wasn’t good, obviously, 
but he looked more confident than most expected. That deep ball to Debose was no fluke. It was a good throw. And al-though Brissett made plenty of mistakes, he never panicked.
Greg: Being calm is one thing, 
being prepared to run Weis’ of-fense is something else entirely. 
Florida’s inability to run the 
ball when Brissett was in the game can’t be brushed over. To some extent, those struggles fall on him. 
The experience he got playing 
against LSU is supposed to be a big factor in his development, but he only completed one pass in the second half. Tyrann Ma-thieu was the last player to catch one of his throws.
It’s not like he made im-
provements as the game went along and can carry that over to next week. 
I’d envision a jump in perfor -
mance if he had been nervous and jittery Saturday, because he’d probably calm down and play better in his second start. But the mental part was already there. 
So why should I expect his 
skills to improve enough to change the offense in only seven days?
Tyler: THEIR INABILITY TO 
RUN THE BALL HAD LITTLE TO DO WITH HIS GRASP OF THE OFFENSE. It was about Weis’ play calling. Why don’t you understand that?
Also, his “skills” weren’t re-
ally in question. His problems were mental — as are the prob-lems of every freshman. His skills aren’t going to improve in seven days, but his comfort level will. 
Nobody is asking him to 
morph into Peyton Manning. The offense was so stripped down last weekend; of course, it can be more complex. 
Florida won’t look like it did 
the first month of the season, but it won’t be as simple as it was last weekend.
Greg: The struggles on the 
ground may have been related to play-calling, but the play-call-ing was related to Brissett. He wasn’t ready to execute more than he did last weekend, or he would have done it. 
And by admitting that he 
needs to increase his “comfort level,” you’re accepting that he wasn’t comfortable with what they did against LSU. And the stats back you up on that one.
Giving him more to learn is 
a good way to take a step back, because he would have a whole new set of variables, he would need time to get comfortable with. 
That’s why Florida’s attack 
will look pretty much the same against Auburn: so Brissett can master the offense one step at a time. 
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alli-
gator.org and Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org16, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida junior Matt Patchan has taken the start-
er’s role at left tackle from Xavier Nixon.
RALL y, from page 14 Patchan earning 
more time at LT
NOTEBOOK , from page 14
Weis said Gillislee a ‘team player’
touches, saying his teammate 
brings a lot to the table.
Gillislee said he was never 
frustrated by a lack of carries in the past, calling himself a team player, and he added that not much will change knowing he’s in line for a larger workload this week against Auburn. 
“My team always brought me 
up; they never put me down,” he said. “I was just always waiting my turn.”
The first thing Weis said to 
the offense this week was that Gillislee’s performance shows what can happen when you don’t open your mouth and just work hard.
“Most of these guys have il-
lusions of grandeur and think they’re the best guy on the team,” 
Weis said. 
“He’s a 
lesson for a lot of these 
guys that are backups to see what can happen if you prepare to be ready and they call your number and you produce. 
“That’s going to get him on 
the field more.”In two years and some change 
in Gainesville, Gillislee has just 123 carries — more than 100 less rushes than what Demps and Rainey have received. 
But his numbers are almost as 
impressive: 6.8 yards per rush, 10 touchdowns and a career-long rush of 60 yards, which came ear -
lier this year against Kentucky.
“Every time I run the ball, I 
never know when I’m going to get it again,” he said, “so I try to run it as hard as I can while I’ve got it.”
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@
alligator.org.
FOOTBALL , from page 14
UF Fo otball