VOLUME 106 ISSUE 43 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Public relations group wins national award
UF’s chapter of PRSSA was named “Outstanding Chapter,” pg 3.  
Students start planning for Occupy UF
Nineteen students met Wednesday to discuss goals, pg 5. Freshman cornerback arrested:
Marcus Roberson, 19, who has started all 
seven games at cornerback, was arrested Sept. 14 for alcohol possession, pg. 17. 
72/46Dubstep DJ 
Bassnectar  will per-
form at the Alachua 
County Fairgrounds 
Friday. See Story 
in today’s Avenue, 
page 12. 
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 8CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD  15SPORTS 17 Alex Catalano / Alligator
  And Let Them Go
  UF philosophy junior Cary Putnal uses his mind to let go of a balloon labeled 
with one of his greatest fears, “class”, on the Plaza of the Americas Wednes-day, using relaxation to trigger a chord which releases the balloon. 
  EMILY MORROW
 Alligator Writer
  On Oct. 11, an explosion in a 
chemistry lab sent a student to the 
hospital with cuts on his face, hands and forearms. On Monday, Turling-ton Hall was evacuated after a toxic chemical was spilled in the base-ment. On Wednesday , ﬁ  re trucks pulled up in front of Leigh Hall, a chemistry lab building, as it was evacuated because someone pulled a ﬁ  re alarm.
  Major Brad Barber, spokesman 
for the University Police, said this frequency of incidents involving chemical accidents is unusual. 
  The last incident formally report-
ed to UPD was on May 19.  Bill Properzio, 
director of UF’s Department of Environmental Health and Safe-ty , said that with 
about 3,000 labs on campus, acci-dents are bound 
to happen from time to time, but there are usually only a handful each year.
  The department is responsible 
for ensuring all aspects of safety on campus, including the safety of laboratories.
  Members of its lab-safety pro-
gram inspect each lab annually to make sure facilities and equipment are up to safety codes and that lab managers are properly trained in safety procedures.
  They are also responsible for fol-lowing up after accidents like this month’s explosion and chemical spill.
  Lab policy recommends that stu-
dents involved in an accident call 911. This call will notify UPD and Gainesville Fire Rescue who will se-cure the scene and take care of any life-threatening or safety issues. 
  The ﬁ  re department’s hazard-
ous materials team will identify the chemicals involved in the accident 
 UF sees increase in chemical accidents on campus this semester� THE FESTIVAL WILL FEATURE FIVE AWARD-WINNING AUTHORS.
  ANNA MARIE SOLTREN
 Alligator Contributing Writer
  Imagine sitting two rows away from a leg-
end. 
  For writers across the state, the next three 
days will be their chance.
  The 62nd Florida Writers’ Festival begins 
today at UF with a series of readings and lec-
tures from ﬁ  ve award-winning authors.
  The festival, which is free and open to the public, will bring a wide range of authors to Gainesville, including David Berman, Amy Hempel, Laura Kasischke, Kevin Young and D.A. Powell.
  Events will kick off this evening with a 
reading from Berman at 6 at the Alachua County Public Library, located at 401 E Uni-versity Ave.
  All other events will be held at the Ustler 
Hall Atrium. 
  Hempel and Powell will read from new 
and published works at 8 p.m. on Friday, fol-lowed by an informal reception.   Saturday will begin with craft talks from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m.,  Annual writers festival kicks off 
today with readings, lectures
ON CAMPUS 
  SAPHIRA LAZARRE
 Alligator Contributing Writer
  UF’s 10th annual Talent Night offered au-
dience members a sneak peak at this year’s 
Gator Growl performances.
  The event, held Wednesday night in the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom, marked the start of UF’s 2011 Homecoming celebrations and served as a second audition for individu-als and groups vying for a performance slot at the pep rally Nov. 4.
  Sabor Latino dance team, student band 
The Hush and singer Jessica Jones will all be performing at Gator Growl 2011.
  With standing room only, the ballroom was packed with about 900 attendees.
  There were 15 acts throughout the eve-
ning. Each act fell under one of three catego-ries: solo, group or dance. 
  A panel of ﬁ  ve judges critiqued the per-
formances, rating them from one at worst  to  Students compete in talent show 
for Gator Growl performance slots
SEE CHEMICALS, PAGE 4SEE WRITERS, PAGE 4
SEE TALENT, PAGE 4
Properzio
Last one formally reported was in May“I think [Talent Night] is a unique 
way to get students involved in Gator 
Growl and be a part of such a huge 
production they might not get the 
chance to be a part of otherwise.”
Brittney Austin
director of Talent NightNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 43 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tyler Jett, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,   
  Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Kathryn Milstein, Adrianna Paidas,  
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Amber Hughes, 
  Allison Klempert, Kyle Mueller,   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber
, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Alexander Silva, Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
SUNNY
80/53PARTLY
CLOUDY
78/51SUNNY
76/49SUNNY
74/46PARTLY
CLOUDY
72/46
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. what’s happeninG
Islam On Campus Second 
General Body Meeting 
Today, 6:30 p.m.CSE A101 Come join Islam On Campus for its second general body meeting of the semester. The group will have free food, a fun team building activity and overall announcements for plans for the remain-
ing fall semester. The group 
will also be introducing the Muslims Without Borders chapter, a nonprofit organi-zation that seeks to help peo-ple in need worldwide. 
APIA Affairs Forum: Defining 
and Affirming Asian 
American Identity
Today, 6:30 to 8:30 p.m.Peabody Hall, Room 408“Defining and Affirming Asian American Identity” is a facilitated discussion with interactive group activities and self-reflection exercises that aims to help students critically assess their own sense of identity and how this identity can lend to lead-ership skills. Refreshments will be provided.   
“What is … Sustainability!”
Today, 6:30 to 8:30 p.m.Peabody Hall, Room 411Come learn money-saving sustainability tips Jeopardy-style from community advo-cates. Attendees could win cool prizes and enjoy plenty of free food. Event is open to the public.
AnDa Union Performs Music 
from Inner MongoliaToday, 7:30 p.m. Phillips Center for the Performing ArtsAnDa Union, a 10-mem-ber group of musicians and throat singers from Mongolia, brings its unique musical style to the Phillips Center. Self-described as music gatherers, the group finds inspiration in forgotten Mongolian music that nearly disappeared during China’s tumultuous past. Student tickets are only $12 and can be purchased with a valid student ID at the Phillips Center Box Office and at the University Box Office (lo-cated in the Reitz Union). For more information, please call the Phillips Center Box Office at 352-392-2787 or visit www.performingarts.ufl.edu.
Advanced Screening of 
Paranormal Activity 3Today, 10:30 p.m.Reitz UnionThe Paranormal Activity franchise continues with this third outing from Paramount Pictures and it’s premiering the 5k. Registration in ad-
vance at Active.com (key-word: Mile for a Child) is $15 or on the morning of the race is $18.
31st Annual Gainesville 
Cycling FestivalSaturday and Sunday, 8:30 a.m.Both rides begin and end at the Northwest Boys & Girls Club at 2700 NW 51st St.  
The cost per ride is $25 for a mail-in form postmarked by Oct. 15, $26 for a credit card registration, $30 for an Internet registration or $40 for a handwritten registra-tion Oct. 22 or 23. Proceeds benefit the Boys & Girls Club of Alachua County. For more information, visit the festival’s website at gccfla.org/gcf/.
ButterflyFest
Saturday and Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Florida Museum of Natural HistoryDon’t miss this two-day celebration of wings and backyard things. Enjoy presentations about area hummingbirds, bats in the Caribbean, the practice of eating insects and hear key-note speaker and Harvard lepidopterist Naomi Pierce. The festival also features live butterfly releases, butterfly bingo and more. ButterflyFest activities and presentations are free. Butterfly Rainforest exhibit admission is $10.50 for adults ($9 for residents) and $6 for ages 3-17. Some vendors may charge for their services. Visit www.flmnh.ufl.edu/butterfly-fest for more information.  
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.at UF for free. First-come, 
first-serve basis. Wrist banding begins at 9:30 p.m. and doors open at 10 p.m.
Getting Published: Fulfilling: 
the Dream & Making It a 
Success
Friday, Noon to 2 p.m. Books Inc., 505 NW 13th St.The twenty-minute presen-tation by S. L. Smith, au-thor of a mystery entitled “Blinded by the Sight,” includes a discussion of the options currently avail-able and some of the traps  
that allure unsuspecting authors. The presenta-tion will be followed by  
a Q-and-A session and book signing. 
RecSports 2011 Swamp Bowl 
Friday to Sunday, 7 p.m.  Southwest Rec FieldsDon’t miss the chance to compete in the 24th Annual Swamp Bowl. Teams from all across the Southeast will compete for the cov-eted championship in the men’s, women’s and co-rec divisions. Winning teams will receive a trophy, championship T-shirts and paid entry into the national championships. Registration ends Monday. For more information, visit: recsports.ufl.edu/intramu-ral-sports/events-tourna-ments/swamp-bowl-flag-football-tournament
Ladies Only Dance Party 
with Flirty Girl Fitness
Saturday, 5 to 7 p.m.The Dirty Bar at Thornebrook VillageNo boys are allowed to the Ultimate Ladies Only Dance Party. Come join the fun as Flirty Girl Fitness invades the Dirty Bar. With easy to learn popu-lar dance moves, attendees will feel like they’re part of a music video. Admission includes a one-hour Flirty Girl Fitness class, three free drink tickets, a Flirty Girl goodie bag and all night entrance to the bar with Jamie Davis Band Playing ‘till close.
Mile For A Child 5K 
Saturday, 8 a.m.UF Commuter Parking LotFriends for Life of America, a nonprofit organization supporting patients with pediatric cancer, will host 
MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
Occupy mO vement
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
Occupy Gainesville will take a stand at City Hall to-
day, with protesters speaking during the citizen com-
ment portion of the evening City Commission meet-ing to ask for permission to peacefully assemble on Bo Diddley Community Plaza. 
The protesters will petition city representatives to 
allow them to occupy the plaza overnight, according to an Occupy Gainesville news release. 
Movement supporters have submitted a request for 
a permit to continue their overnight occupation until Dec. 31, 2012, said Jeremiah Tattersall, a member of Occupy Gainesville and 2008 UF alumnus.
He said he hasn’t heard anything from the city gov-
ernment about it yet, but protesters are open to nego-tiation.
Cassia Laham, a 21-year-old UF political science se-
nior, will be there supporting the movement as she has since it began in Gainesville. 
“The goal is to basically get [the city government] 
to support the Occupy Gainesville movement and the Occupy movement as a whole,” she said. “Nobody’s hollering at anyone late at night. To be honest, I don’t know why they would disapprove.”
Members of the movement have held an overnight 
presence by staying on the sidewalks around the plaza since Oct. 12. Protesters received a city permit for the first night 
of their occupation, but it was good for only one day, Tattersall said.
On the second night of the occupation, when they 
had no permit, four people were arrested, including Bo Diddley’s son, Ellas Anthony McDaniel. 
Since then, there have been no arrests and a waning 
police presence, Tattersall said. 
Although the majority of protesters will be going to 
the commission meeting in the evening, a few will stay behind to continue the occupation of the plaza, which closes at 11 p.m.
Protesters usually have until 11:30 p.m. to clear out 
of the area, after which they remain on surrounding sidewalks and even sleep there.
Tattersall said he thinks there is a chance that the 
city commissioners and Mayor Craig Lowe will sup-port their request. At least, he hopes they will. 
“It’s unorthodox,” he said of the request. “We know 
that, but we know that it’s possible.”
Lowe and the city commissioners couldn’t be 
reached for comment by press time. Protesters to ask city for overnight permit 
� PRSSA WAS NAMED “OUTSTANDING CHAPTER.”
MIGUEL CHATELOIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s chapter of Public Relations Student Society of Ameri-
ca  was awarded the title of this year’s “Outstanding Chapter” 
for the second time since 2005.
The organization made the announcement at its national 
conference in Orlando, held Friday through Tuesday . The award is given to a chapter which is “outstanding in every-thing,” including membership and national leadership.
“I’m so proud of the chapter,” said Kelsey Abel, president 
of the UF  chapter. “It couldn’t have been done if everyone didn’t take an active role.”
Abel said the group’s work in hosting PRSSA’s national 
conference this month and winning first place in both the Bateman Case Study and Solar Decathlon competitions this year helped make an impression on the judges.
“I’m inspired by them,” said John Wright, dean of the UF 
College of Journalism and Communications. “They’ve had outstanding leadership over the past three years.”Public relations group 
wins national award
“The goal is to basically get [the city                
government] to support the Occupy Gainesville        
movement and the Occupy movement as a 
whole.”
Cassia Laham
UF political science seniorand work to contain them, neutral-
izing acids and bases and stopping leaks, said Don Sessions, chief of special operations for fire rescue.
UPD then contacts the Environ-
mental Health and Safety Depart-ment to further assess the scene and clean up the hazardous mate-rials.
The safety office will investi-
gate the incident and meet with those involved to see what went wrong.“There are some accidents that 
are simply that — accidents,” Properzio said. “But in most cases, there’s something that could have been done a little better. Something that was preventable.”
Properzio said his office is not 
always contacted, as there is no mandatory reporting procedure for chemical accidents. 
If there aren’t any injuries, or 
if the people involved are able to clean up the chemicals themselves, the department does not get in-volved, he said.There is no requirement 
to report lab accidents4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011
NICOLE E. MARTINEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Center for Media Innova-
tion and Research’s second phase 
of renovation, the Digital Collabo-ration Suite, is scheduled to be completed  by January. 
The 2,400-square-foot lab-and-
lounge is located on the third floor of the Alvin G. Flanagan Telecom-municaton Wing in Weimer Hall.
The lab is set to have one large 
area for group discussions as well as four breakout rooms for smaller group meetings.
David E. Carlson, the center’s 
executive director, said the lay-out of the lab is very similar to the structure of today’s advertising and public relations agencies.
“It’s a dif-
ferent kind of teaching space,” he said. “It’s less formal.”
 The state-of-
the-art technol-ogy includes two large white-boards and two short-throw pro-jectors.
 Students will be able to write 
directly on the presentations pro-jected on the whiteboard. 
“The coolest part about that is, 
when you are finished annotating on the whiteboard, you can send it to the class,” Carlson said.
The final phase of the project will be the research consortium, or the “think-tank” as Carlson calls it, that will reach outside of cam-pus and serve as a headquarters for communication.
Completion of the Digital Col-
laboration Suite is estimated to cost about $380,000, said College of Journalism and Communica-tions Dean John Wright.
Renovation to Weimer lab set to be completed by January
Gator Growl will take place Nov. 4
five at best.
The contestants were judged 
based on their creativity, skill and crowd appeal. 
Brittney Austin, director of 
Talent Night, said she is looking forward to watching the winners perform at Gator Growl, and she expects the production to keep growing and improving through-out the years.
“I think [Talent Night] is a 
unique way to get students in-volved in Gator Growl and be a part of such a huge production they might not get the chance to be a part of otherwise,” Austin said.
Colleen Baublitz, a 19-year-
old environmental engineering sophomore, came to support a roommate but said she really en-joyed the entire show. 
“All of the other acts were re-
ally good, too,” she said. “I’m so glad I came.”
With this being her first time 
at Talent Night, Chelsea Bennett, a 20-year-old criminology and psychology junior, said she was “pleasantly surprised” after the show.
“All of the acts were impres-
sive,” she said. “It takes a lot to go up there and perform.”
Gator Growl is advertised as 
the largest student-run pep rally in the country.
Other acts this year include 
performances by rock band Goo Goo Dolls and comedian Joel McHale. The event will also fea-ture a fireworks display. TALENT , from page 1oN c Ampus
cHEmic ALs , from page 1
Grad students plan festival
where the authors discuss what process-
es they use for their own writing. 
The festival will end at 8 p.m. with 
readings from Kasischke and Young.
For the second year in a row, the 
festival will be organized and planned  by graduate students of UF’s master of fine arts program for creative writing, in conjunction with the Alachua County Li-brary District Headquarters.
David Fishman, a 30-year-old third-
year creative writing graduate student, is just one co-organizer responsible for planning the entire festival.
“We were able to secure a very strong 
lineup of writers. We have five writers this year as opposed to only three last year. It’s a much more diverse group,” Fishman said. Previously , writers were selected by 
the department’s faculty . Fishman said they always chose good writers, but once students took control two years ago, they went for a more democratic approach in deciding which writers to invite.
“We solicit among the grad students 
ideas for readers and then conduct a sur -
vey that all grad students are invited to vote in,” he said. 
Becca Evanhoe, a 28-year-old second-
year creative writing graduate student, another organizer of the event, expects about 100 to 200 people to attend the fes-tival. Both graduate and undergraduate students are invited to the event, as well as people outside  Gainesville.
“I think that it’s important we high-
light the fact that Gainesville is not a one-horse town,” Fishman said. “We’re not just football and nothing else. Gainesville has a very vibrant art scene.”WRiTERs , from page 1carlson
Gina chitko / Alligator
Soloist Jessica Jones performs her rendition of “Don’t Rain 
on My Parade” at the 2011 Talent Night Wednesday. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
campus
BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students want to take occupation to campus.
Occupy UF had its first meeting Wednesday to dis-
cuss protest plans.
The group is still forming its exact demands and 
viewpoints, but they include revoking tuition hikes, getting rid of all student debt, saving the Architecture & Fine Arts Library, ending corruption in Student Gov-ernment, supporting unions, saving post offices and re-forming Bright Futures Scholarships.
The 19 members at the meeting started forming opin-
ions on these issues and how they will actually occupy a college campus.
They need 200 students to make any campus occupa-
tion successful, said Skye Schmelzer, a 19-year-old psy-chology sophomore and an Occupy UF organizer.
To get all students to occupy, the movement needs 
incentives such as free food, live music, volleyball, dodgeball and more, Schmelzer said.
One of the group’s topics is to abolish student debt.“I’m already $15,000 in debt for my education,” 
Schmelzer said.
She said the group would like to see a proposal from 
UF President Bernie Machen to the state to wipe stu-dents’ debt clean.
“We want our administration to show that they rep-
resent us,” she said.
Occupy UF decided to wait to make official con-
nection with Occupy Gainesville until today when Oc-cupy Gainesville hears from the City Commission as to whether protesters can stay on Bo Diddley Community Plaza.Students start planning Occupy UF
� THE SUSPECT IS LINKED 
TO FIVE CASES.
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
The Gainesville Police De-
partment and other law enforce-
ment agencies have created a task force to locate a suspect who they say is connected to a string of five rapes in two coun-ties since July . 
In addition to GPD, the 
Marion County Sheriff’s Office, Ocala Police Department and Florida Department of Law Enforcement are involved in the task force. Two GPD detec-tives are working on the force, said Cpl. Angelina Valuri, GPD public information officer. 
Officials believe the suspect 
committed five rapes in Marion County and Gainesville. 
At a news conference 
Wednesday morning at the Marion County Sheriff’s Office, detectives announced that there had been a fifth rape connected to the previous four incidents, said Judge Cochran, the office’s public information officer. 
The woman involved was 
lured into a vehicle in Ocala and later raped, he said. Although the victim didn’t know the ex-act date, it occurred in late July or early August.  
GPD was already working 
with detectives from the Mari-on County Sheriff’s Office and Ocala Police Department be-fore the task force was formed to provide information regard-ing any investigative leads. 
The task force is offering 
a $5,000 reward for anyone who provides information that leads to an arrest. The Marion County Sheriff’s Office is fund-ing $4,000 of the reward, while Crime Stoppers, a nonprofit, is offering the remaining $1,000, Cochran said. 
The victims in all five cases 
have reported similar descrip-tions of the attacker. They have said he is white, weighs about 200 to 250 pounds and has red-dish or strawberry blonde hair in a military-style cut.
He may have an eagle or 
flag tattoo on his arm and a tat-too on his neck, Cochran said. The arm tattoo may be an at-tempt to cover up a scar on his left forearm, he said. 
One of the victims injured 
her attacker, although detec-tives do not know with what object or how extensively . She did draw blood, he said.
The victims’ descriptions of 
the attacker’s vehicle suggest he may have been driving a mini-van or SUV , Cochran said.
Victims have said consis-
tently that their attacker was a friendly guy who offered them a ride. At least four of the five vic-tims freely entered his vehicle.Police collaborate 
to track down rapist 
MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writer
Gov . Rick Scott visited Kennedy 
Space Center on Tuesday and an-
nounced his commitment to keep-ing space-based jobs in Florida. Some UF students and faculty said this was a welcome sign of support, but they are hesitant about whether it will bolster the job market.
Scott caused a stir last week when 
he said he wants to focus state uni-versity funding on science and math departments rather than liberal arts departments.
Peter Nguyen, a 22-year-old 
physics and astronomy senior, said the job market for space-related jobs in Florida looks strained. This sum-mer’s layoffs by a NASA shuttle contractor are discouraging, and it feels harder than ever to enter as-tronomy academia, he said.
“Generally the first things that 
are cut [from universities] are basic scientific research,” he said. “And, unfortunately , that’s generally what astronomy is.”
Eric Podmeyer, a 22-year-old 
aerospace engineering senior, said the job market isn’t looking up.
“A lot of us are just signing off 
and going to grad school because we can’t find an aerospace job,” he said. “The fact that he’s trying to 
keep those jobs in 
Florida and help out the whole aerospace market is really encour -
aging.”
Ata Sarajedini, 
UF professor of astronomy , said Scott’s promises 
sound good, but it’s hard to know whether they will result in a stron-ger job market.
“Many of our students actually 
end up leaving the state because there aren’t such opportunities here,” Sarajedini said. “So if oppor -
tunities end up opening up here, maybe they’ll stay.”
Eric Pheterson, a 23-year-old 
aerospace engineering senior, said it’s encouraging to see a politician taking an interest in the field but said he’s unsure anything will come of it soon.
“The way the government moves, 
I feel like nothing is going to be in place by the time I graduate,” said Pheterson, who expects to graduate next semester. “Maybe in the long term I’ll see more investment or more opportunities for jobs.”
For Nguyen, a promise to revital-
ize the space industry months after NASA’s shuttle program ended isn’t enough.
“I think it’s kind of too little too 
late,” he said. “Now that the jobs are already gone, it’s going to be hard to bring them back. … I certainly hope that he does. It’s always a benefit to our state.”
Scott promises space-based jobs
scott
“We want our administration to show that 
they represent us.”
Skye Schmelzer
psychology sophomoreReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR632 TOTAL VOTES19% YES
81% NOWednesday’s question: Would you help 
a child dying on the side of the road? Today’s question: Would you troll the Alligator’s poll 
questions?Bad Business
Government should 
avoid corporatism
On an unofficial Occupy Wall Street website, occupy-
wallst.org, there is a “Proposed List of Demands.”
One of these demands calls for Congress to “re-
verse the effects of the Citizens United Supreme Court Deci-sion.” Various signs around the “Occupy” movement have called for getting money out of politics. 
Many campaign-finance-  reform activists were very upset 
by the 2010 Citizens United decision, which allowed corpora-tions to spend an unlimited amount of funds on “indepen-dent expenditures,” which usually come in the form of tele-vision advertisements not directly connected to a particular campaign or candidate. 
The basis of the entire campaign finance debate could be 
summed up by the question: Should there be limits on how much money individuals and corporations can give to politi-cal campaigns?
Of course, there is still a ban on corporations giving di-
rectly to campaigns, but some think that allowing corpora-tions to spend these so-called “independent expenditures” goes too far. 
However, the question that we should really be asking is: 
“Why do businesses give to political candidates in the first place?” 
To cynics, the answer is simple: to buy elections. But, 
again, why would a business want to “buy” an election in the first place? 
The truth is that the cause of our problems does not stem 
from corporations participating in the political process. Cam-paign finance reform advocates are really only attempting to treat the symptoms of an even larger disease: corporatism. 
Corporatism is the attempt to manage and guide a nation’s 
economy through the systematic cooperation of government and business. In the 1930s and 1940s, corporatism emerged as the system of central planning in fascist Italy.  
Surely this cannot describe the U.S., right?  Think of all of the subsidies to energy companies, subsi-
dies to agriculture, tax loopholes, tax incentives and protec-tive regulations, which usually go to the biggest companies in the U.S. 
Corporations naturally want to make sure their names end 
up on the latest list of “special favors,” so they do everything they can to influence election outcomes. 
There is no malicious intent behind these actions. The 
corporations want to make sure they are on the right side of whatever new bill is being proposed.
The actors within government truly believe they are doing 
what is best for the nation when they collude with the private sector. 
The collapse of 2008 proved otherwise. The real answer to getting corporations out of the business 
of “buying” government officials is getting the government out of the business of running the economy.Local eateries add to Gainesville charm
Fellow students of UF, I come to you bearing impor -
tant and sobering news.
You’re not going to be in college forever.
I know, I know. It’s tragic. Underclassmen will prob-
ably take the news hardest, but even for those of us pur -
suing (or preparing to pursue) our graduate studies who 
ended the honeymoon phase a long time ago, it can be a disappointing revelation. 
After all, Gainesville has offered us so much, and we’re 
understandably reluctant to lose it all as we move out into the rest of the world.
But it’s going to happen. One way or the other, you’re 
going to leave UF.
For a great many of us, the same sort of middle-class 
suburbs we grew up in will become our home in a decade’s time as we begin to raise families of our own.
Admittedly, a select few will migrate to large cities, in-
habiting modestly sized but egregiously overpriced apart-ments. 
An even smaller portion of us will remain in col-
lege towns, choosing to spend our lives in cities just like Gainesville. You’re just hopelessly nostalgic.
However, the vast majority of us are not going to have 
too much more time to spend enjoying the assets a city like Gainesville offers. And yet, so many of you take those as-sets for granted.
I’m not referring to the academic opportunities, the free 
shows and performances or the cultural atmosphere.
I’m talking about the food, of course.One thing that always accompanies college towns is 
an abundance of independently owned and operated res-taurants. They’re all unique, and quite a few of them are downright delicious. You’re not going to be able to find them anywhere else. They survive only so long as you pa-tronize them.
And yet, chain-restaurant Chipotle Mexican Grill still 
manages to entice hundreds of students every day, none of whom consider for even a second that other options are available.
I get it; I do. Chain restaurants are convenient, fast and tasty. But they’re also available everywhere you go. 
No matter where you eat for 
lunch today, all of those places are going to stay open, and they’re going to continue to ex-pand throughout the country. 
The same cannot be said for 
Burrito Brothers or Boca Fiesta. If you opt to abandon them, they 
lose a valued customer, and their chances of survival plum-met. And once you leave Gainesville, you leave them be-hind as well.
Since I’ve been here, I’ve seen countless great restaurants 
close because they just can’t afford to keep up with dimin-ishing patrons. Gator Dawgs, despite being a Gainesville staple, was almost forced to close its doors earlier this year and survived the recession only because its ardent fans rushed in to keep it afloat. Others weren’t so lucky.
And yet, just about every single Starbucks and McDon-
ald’s in town seems to be doing quite well for itself.
It doesn’t make much sense to me to eat at Chick-fil-A 
once a week when you know it’ll be there when you go home for Christmas break. What won’t be there are all of the inimitable Gainesville restaurants that you’ll never find anywhere else.
There’s hope. There are success stories. In the coming 
years, Bento Cafe may prove to be one of the greatest of them all.
But the fact remains, if I didn’t constantly strive to ven-
ture out and take advantage of all the unique culinary experiences Gainesville has to offer, I never would have found Sweet Mel’s, and I never would have encountered an amazing burger whose bun has been replaced by ei-ther entire grilled cheese sandwiches or funnel cake (your choice).
And that, I’m sure we can all agree, would have been 
a travesty.
Alex Guilmartin is a psychology and pre-law senior at UF. 
His column appears on Thursdays.
Alex Guilmartin
letters@alligator.orgLetters to the Editor THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 7
College education should still 
be respected
 This a response to Nicholas 
Butler’s column “Staying in school makes students unproductive.”
  Should a college education be 
promoted as the only path to suc-cess? Certainly not, but that doesn’t mean importance should not be placed on going to college and re-ceiving a degree. 
  A college degree in any ﬁ  eld 
shouldn’t be an end goal to any-one’s life. It should deﬁ  ne limita-tions and life efﬁ  ciency. Education occurs not only in lecture halls but also through the experiences of life that makes each of us our own in-dividuals.
  The fact is that we are educating 
more people than we have posi-tions to accommodate them with. 
  K-12 education is still selling the 
unattainable ideal that you should go to school and get good grades, and this will result in receiving a good job. Like the American Dream, this is increasingly becom-ing a falsehood. 
  A degree doesn’t result in a suc-
cessful career even in the sciences. Most skilled-labor positions in the U.S. are having wages driven down, and manufacturing jobs are leaving the country due to the exportation of jobs and the weakening of collec-tive bargaining rights.
  All that being said, I disagree 
with the notion that college should be more restrictive by limiting many from the opportunity of attaining a degree. Butler makes a comparison to the 1960s when less than half of high school graduates attended col-lege and how during those times it wasn’t seen as a death sentence. 
  Well, we’re not living in the 
1960s. We live in a service-based and desegregated world far re-moved from the Second Great War. During that time, we had a economy that was based more on manufac-turing where a person could expect to achieve a decent standard of liv-ing without a degree. All those jobs now, for the most part, are gone. 
  College isn’t seen as this elite 
thing anymore where only people of certain economic status, gender or race can hope to ﬁ  nd his or her place. Slowly but surely more peo-ple than ever are being given the opportunity to seek an education.
  Honestly, I think the number 
of colleges or four-year universi-ties should be contracted. There are too many institutions emulating the role of large  four-year public and private universities. Not every school should be a university. This ideal is what is keeping people in debt and is essentially eroding the value of a college degree. Although there is an intrinsic value for a ho-listic education, economically it makes more sense to have speciﬁ  c training and education. 
  What many people also continu-
ally fail to realize is that you do not need a formal education to become knowledgeable of classical works of literature, philosophy, politics, etc.
  We should promote other op-
tions while not degrading the value of a college education.
 Eric Brown 
   
 Reitz renovation would provide much-needed space
 As a member of smaller student 
organization on campus, the Am-bassadors of Civility and Ethics, the need for meeting space is always present. Rooms on campus are booked quickly and often my orga-nization is forced to plan programs and events at makeshift locations. 
  After reading yesterday’s ar-ticle, I think expansion of the Union and student areas would not only give my organization more space to operate, but it would allow smaller student organizations like mine to be more visible on campus, thus in-creasing our impact and member-ship. It would allow organizations to better collaborate, increasing ef-ﬁ  ciency of our budgets and produc-tivity on campus. 
  Looking at other universities, 
UF seems to have fallen behind in supporting the needs of today’s stu-dent body when it comes to space where students can engage out-side the classroom. An improved student union will make students more included in campus life and foster their development.
  I feel that an expansion and 
renovation of the Reitz is long over-due.  
 Kycia Hosley 
UF sophomore
  This year marks the 30-year anniversary of the ﬁ  rst 
reported cases of AIDS in the United States. Fortu-nately, we have made leaps and bounds in terms of 
awareness, prevention and treatment for those living with this disease.  
  Improvement is still needed all across the board, 
though.  Stigmas, discrimination and myths still exist to-day. I believe that getting tested for HIV should be a rou-tine blood test performed at the same time as all of those other labs that your doctor recommends.
  The Centers for Disease Control estimates that 1 in 5 
people living with HIV is unaware of his or her infection.  Please stop a second, and read that line again.  Take it in — pretty worrisome, wouldn’t you agree?  
  It is also estimated by the CDC that about half of all 
new HIV infections occurs in young people, speciﬁ  cally the 15 to 24 age range. 
Most of the people reading this article will fall into this 
age category. There is no doubt that UF has intelligent students, but just because we are educated, we should know how to prevent HIV/AIDS, right?  
  Ask yourself — have you ever 
had unprotected oral, anal or vagi-
nal sex? If yes, you are automatically at risk. HIV symp-toms can take a long time to appear. So, if you have been at risk, have you received an HIV test since then? 
  Many people worry what others may think of them 
for getting an HIV test or may believe that they are in a steady relationship and should be ﬁ  ne. If you are in a monogamous relationship, bring up the topic and go get tested together — what is the harm in that?  
  Others may simply not want to know, and it is a mys-
tery ﬂ  oating around in back of their minds every time they have unprotected vaginal, oral and/or anal sex. Please try not to worry what others may think, and consider getting tested now. 
Don’t make excuses and procrastinate. Knowledge is 
power.
  There are other reasons why people do not know their HIV status. Are ﬁ  nances an issue? You can get tested for free and receive condoms for free. Is time and location an issue? There are multiple off-site locations at varying hours of the day to get tested. Are you afraid of needles? If so, there is an oral test that is simple and just gently sweeps the inside of your cheek, and you are done.
  Please visit 313hiv.com for information where you can 
locate free testing, free condoms and all sorts of valuable information. Additionally, please mark your calendars for Dec. 1, which is World AIDS Day.  
  Our campus will be having a lot of awareness events, 
screenings and resources available free to all students, fac-ulty and staff. Bring yourself and your partner to get test-ed at the same time. Bring your roommates and friends. Recruit a random person you see at Turlington.
  Be informed, and get tested. Please spread the mes-
sage, not HIV . Knowing your HIV status is extremely im-portant and, above all, empowering. 
  Lori Blanton is a health education and behavior graduate 
student at UF.  
Getting tested regularly for HIV is responsible, empoweringGuest column
Lori Blanton
Speaking OuttheAvenue    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_A VENUE
Check out page 12 for 
a profile on a local man who’s changed the ground of Gainesville music. Boggling Blogs
Check out this week’s Alligator Blogs for getting motivated 
to exercise, the faculty band that was added to the Gator Growl lineup and the postponing of the beer festival. Twit Pick
@BenSavage: “Awkward moment when you’re at a red-light with the windows down listening to Demi Lovato & the girl in the next car over is staring at you.”
KIERA WRIGHT-RUIZ
Avenue Writer
He steps on stage alone and takes 
a deep breath. The actor warms up 
his voice before any set of eyes is laid on him. He takes in the space, walks around the set in his worn-out black Chuck Taylors and transforms into his character for the evening. He lies on the floor and melts as his consciousness drifts into a state of ease and aware-ness. Forty-five minutes until curtain call.
Andrew Bailes, a 28-year-old  mas-
ters of fine arts acting student, is play-ing his last UF acting role as Inspector Goole in “An Inspector Calls.” Open-ing night is Oct. 21 at 7:30 in the Nadine McGuire Black Box Theatre. 
The play is about the inspector in-
forming the Birlings, a troubled upper-middle class family , that a lower-class, young woman from town committed suicide. The main conflict emerges when the inspector tells them they all had something to do with the woman’s death.
“It’s really about class separation 
and the differences between the rich and the poor, and how that gap is through capitalism,” Bailes said. “It’s actually relevant to today, which is so cool about it — even though it’s kind of dusty.”
The production, written by J.B. 
Priestley in 1945, takes place on a single night in 1912 at the Birlings’ Victorian home in New England. Bailes said he’s found his role chal-
lenging because he has to appear larger than life to present the inspector; how-ever he sees himself in the role. 
“I am kind of the same way , that I 
try to treat people as equally as he does and remind those that are more privi-leged that they shouldn’t hold that much of a difference over the lower class,” he said.
While living in St. Augustine, Fla., 
to study English and theater arts as an undergraduate at Flagler College, Bailes worked on a ghost tour as a dead doctor in a Spanish military hospital, he said. Occasionally he will draw from the way the character spoke, its vocal cadence and presence for the inspector character.
“It’s really nothing like I’ve ever 
done before,” he said. “There’s an eerie quality about [the inspector], almost a ghostly quality about him.”
When the play ends, the inspec-
tor transforms the Birling family into a skeleton of its original self, Young said.
“Expect some thrills, some laughs 
and some mystery,” he said.
The audience can expect to see a 
chilling reminder of why people should treat each other with respect and the harsh consequences of not abiding by those considerations, Bailes said. 
“An Inspector Calls” runs through 
Oct. 30.  Tickets through the UF Box Office are $13 for UF students, faculty and staff as well as senior citizens and are $17 for the general public. 
Mel D. Cole / Alligator 
The King of Dubstep 
Bassnectar will perform Friday at the Alachua County Fairgrounds. The DJ gets real with the 
Avenue and even tells us where he sees himself in the year 2046. See story, page 12
Shari Thompson / Alligator 
Master’s in fine arts student Andrew Bailes plays Inspector Goole in the 
UF School of Theatre and Dance’s production of “An Inspector Calls.” 
UF murder mystery offers 
audiences thrills, laughs  
MAE BASIRATMAND
Avenue Writer
Swedish-based disc jockey Avicii, also known 
by the names Tim Berg or Tom Hangs, will be 
hitting up Gainesville for ”Avicii: Dance of the Dead 2011.” Best known for his lyricized ver -
sion of the song ”Seek Bromance” and popular tunes ”Levels” and ”Fade Into Darkness,” he in-fuses electronic synthetic tracks with vocals. At the ripe age of 22, he does not stray far in age from most of us college students but has seen the world and established a solid following. Fans are expected to come in full costume and be ready to dance and get rowdy. The Avenue spoke to the international sensation and got per -
sonal with the man behind the many masks.Who: DJ AviciiWhere: Skate Station FunworksWhen: Wednesday, Oct. 26, 11 p.m. 
How did you break into this industry, and 
have you always aspired to be a DJ?
”Not at all! I started out producing after a 
friend of mine showed me a program that you 
could make music with, and I just got instant-ly hooked. I’ve always wanted to make music even before that, but I’ve never had a special talent for singing, guitar piano, etc., so for me to be able to just draw out the notes fitted me perfectly! Then it all became professional when I met my manager Ash who took things to [a] whole other level.”
For the rest of the Avenue’s q-and-a, visit 
alligator.org/the_avenue. A hot minute with interna-
tional mixer and DJ Avicii
 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 9
 He Says…  She Says… A relationship is a promise. 
It’s a pledge to your partner 
that for as long as the two of you are together, he or she will be the only one you’ll have. For some, this thought of being locked down to one partner is just too much bear.
The feeling is amplified 
even more on campus. Young, horny adults are suddenly thrown into a high-energy at-mosphere where time-of-your-life moments can be made any night of the week. While some couples coast through college unscathed, some give into the temptation and cheat.
With beautiful people ev-
erywhere you look, a party-loving culture and new faces to meet every day, staying faithful to your partner is a miraculous feat. But is there any circumstance where cheating is acceptable?He Said, She Said: Is there a time when cheating is OK?
There is no good excuse 
for cheating. No matter how innocent it may 
seem, it rarely ever is. And it doesn’t matter how hard you try to cover it up; it always gets out.
As someone who has been 
cheated on before, I can con-
fidently say it is the single most detrimental thing that can happen to your rela-tionship. The partner who is cheated on experiences the obvious emotions: heartache, betrayal and revenge. But most of the time, the partner who cheated is equally af-flicted (if not more so). I’ve seen many people that were so overcome with guilt and self-disgust that THEY end the relationship — not the boyfriend or girlfriend he or she cheated on.
Cheating causes a gap to 
form between the couple. Trust is gone, jealousy be-comes rampant and the cheater gets put under a mi-croscope. On top of all this is the feeling for weeks af-terward of the elephant in the room. You both know it happened, but nobody wants to talk about it in fear of the argument that will ensue. Awkward.
If I come across as a 
bit harsh, then you are exactly right. I don’t joke around when it comes to cheating. The very presence of it sug-gests that there was something wrong with the relationship in the first place. If you seriously consider cheating on your boyfriend or girlfriend, it’s already too late. Your relationship took a wrong turn toward heartache a long time ago.
— JACOB ROMOSER As soon as I hear this question, my gut immediately screams a big, “Hell no!” But since I am trying 
to make an effort to be more open-mind-ed, I decided to tiptoe behind my intu-ition’s back and see if there was some-thing better out there that could sway my opinion.
The other day while waiting in line 
at the Starbucks at Library West, I struck 
up a conversation with a cutie, Joe. A 19-year-old freshman with an undeclared major, Joe gave the impression that he’d be a great let’s-not-get-serious person but an absolutely awful boyfriend. He was preppy , toned, sarcastic, confident — but definitely emit-
ted the “undeclared” vibe. Being that I’m much older and romantically taken, I decided to call Joe out on an observation I’d made after standing behind him.
“You’ve checked out EVERY GIRL 
who has walked into and out of this cof-fee shop,” I said.
“You bet I have,” he laughed. “Do 
you Gainesville women realize how gor -
geous you all are?”Joe had a point. As I looked around, 
I couldn’t help but notice the variety of beautiful ladies. Then it hit me; maybe cheating is inevitable in certain scenari-os.  
Sensing my clutch on monogamy 
begin to loosen, I asked Joe if he had a girlfriend. 
“A girlfriend?! There’s no way I 
could only be with one girl right now, and I DEFINITELY don’t want the rep as a cheater! That’s just wrong, man!” he said. 
For a split second I loved Joe. His 
impulsive response just validated my traditional approach to relationships. Cheating is, as he so eloquently put, “just wrong.” It not only kills all semblance of trust between a couple, but it also indi-cates that there is something off in the relationship. If a strong temptation to cheat is on the table, then it’s a bad time to make a romantic commitment.  Ladies and gentlemen, cheaters SUCK. Take a cue from Joe. Avoid breaking one’s heart (and the reputation as an asshole) by just being single.  
   — KAY BEA  
10, ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011
  ARYANNA HARRELL
 Avenue Writer
  Fall is here, and it’s not going to be as easy to maintain 
that golden-goddess glow you worked oh-so-hard on this 
summer, especially for those in California.
  The ﬁ  rst-in-the-nation law making it illegal for minors 
to use tanning beds was recently passed in the Golden State. Starting Jan. 1, those younger than 18, even with parental consent, will be banned from using tanning beds throughout the state, according to the Associated Press. 
Elle Harder, a 20-year-old Spanish junior at UF, started 
tanning when she was 16.
“I deﬁ  nitely would not have wanted to be pale for my 
prom,” she said.   
  Although tanning at a young age can be dangerous, do-
ing it at any age may run quite a high risk to your health. 
  “Certainly we have seen a bump in the incidents of 
melanoma,” said UF graduate Dr. Terrence Cronin Jr. at Cronin Skin Cancer Center in Melbourne, Fla. 
  Melanoma is the most serious form of skin cancer, but 
it can almost always be cured if caught in time, according to skincancer.org. It is caused by overexposure to ultra-violet A and B lights, like those found in tanning beds.
  “There has been a particularly scary increase in mela-
noma cases among young women who use tanning beds,” Cronin said. “It’s an epidemic, especially here in Flori-da.”
However, a local spray-tanning salon has seen an in-
crease of customers this fall. 
“We tend to be a lot busier,” said Mandi Nazaro, 26, of 
Golden Gator Airbrush Tanning, located at 1219 W. Uni-versity Ave. “Students want to be tan for football games and sorority functions, so they come here.” 
     Cronin said though he does not recommend the use 
of tanning beds for cosmetic reasons, he does recommend spray tans. He said they cause no real harm to skin and “can do wonders” for those who want to appear tan. 
  “For a long time, people have thought it was a sexy, 
desirable look, and I think that’s changing,” he said. “I’m seeing people with paler, ivory skin, like Nicole Kidman and Gwyneth Paltrow, as signs of beauty.”
  A motivating factor behind the decrease in the tanning 
fad among women may be the fear of premature aging. Avid tanning causes the skin to age prematurely, and people want to look as young as possible for as long as possible. 
  He compared the tanning craze to smoking cigarettes. 
It is addictive and makes you feel good while you’re do-ing it. Although it is damaging to your health, you contin-ue to do it, but know you will pay for it down the road. 
“It deﬁ  nitely can be addictive,” Harder said. “Once 
you get kind of tan, you want to be Snooki tan.”    
Harder usually tans up to ﬁ  ve times a week and calls 
herself a “tanaholic.” She said that being tan makes her feel like she looks healthier.   
  Luckily, eating and drinking certain foods and liquids 
can make you look just as healthy, or maybe even health-ier than tanning alone, said GatorWell Health Promotion Services Health Promotion Specialist Shannon Delaney. Eating vegetables high in beta-carotene can give your skin that glow, too. 
  “We tend to think that tanning is the only way to get 
that healthy glow everyone wants,” Delaney said. “Know-ing that eating a wide range of fruits and vegetables can make us more attractive sure is a good reason to start eat-ing them more often.”
  Foods including carrots and sweet potatoes integrate 
into our skin and give it that radiant glow. Delaney de-scribed a study conducted at the University of Bristol in England that showed people who ate vegetables had a more attractive glow than those who didn’t. 
  Because the fall weather tends to dry out skin, drinking 
eight to 10 glasses of water per day and consuming lots of healthy oils, like nuts and avocados, will also contribute to healthy, glowing skin. 
  Although it may be hard to ﬁ  ght the temptation, step 
away from the tanning beds and reach for the self-tanning lotion or bronzer instead.             
Ways to bronze up without downing your health or youthful skin   
FIVE WAYS TO GET YOUR SUNLESS 
GLOW THIS FALL:
1. Almonds, avocados and hazelnuts promote 
natural skin glow. Chow down!
2. Pick up L’Oreal Sublime Glow, about $10, for a 
great bronzed look.
3. Try Physicians Formula Pearls of Perfection 
Multi-Colored Bronzer, great for all skin tones.
4. Get a spray tan. It is about $25 and lasts for up 
to two weeks.
5. Try yoga or Pilates. They increase circulation 
and help clear pores, giving you radiant skin.
  SAPHIRA LAZARRE
 Avenue Writer
  At just 20 years old, Ross 
Campbell is a one-man bandstand who is making a name for himself in the musical genre he describes as “psychedelic-folk.”
  Psychedelic-folk — is that an 
oxymoron? Can there be harmo-ny between the two?
  One listener described Camp-
bell’s music as the feeling you get from taking a walk in the woods.
  So what exactly is psychedel-
ic-folk?
  It is a music genre that incor-
porates the melodic sounds of the ‘60s and ’70s with the simple, unampliﬁ  ed acoustics of country music. Acoustics describe “musi-cal instruments whose sounds are not electrically enhanced or mod-iﬁ  ed.” As a ﬁ  nal touch, synthe-sized audio is added to the mix. 
  “All music has a root in psy-chedelic-folk,” Campbell said. “The term ‘psychedelic’ has just been hijacked by drugs and other negative connotations, but it’s re-ally often misunderstood.”
  This solo artist, a Tampa na-
tive and an international studies junior at UF, produces tunes un-der the name “Silver Wren.”
  “Silver Wren” ﬁ  rst made its 
debut on the music scene in March. Campbell was experi-menting with acoustics and syn-thetic sounds when he decided it was time to start recording. 
With a “studio” in his bed-
room, Campbell takes on all the responsibilities in musical ar-rangement — he’s the songwrit-er, disc jockey, musician and pro-ducer.  
  “Working on it yourself makes 
it fun, open and free,” Campbell said.
  His musical past closely re-
ﬂ  ects the cross-genre of music he has produced. Campbell has experience working with artists in rap, hip-hop and even some metal. 
  Although he does favor folk, 
Campbell wanted to bring lis-teners music that would appeal to the masses. This idea sparked his interest in creating “Silver 
Wren.”
  “I feel like 
so much can be done from com-bining genres,” Campbell said. “It makes music more relatable to others, and 
that’s what I would like ‘Silver Wren’ to do for people. I want my music to be a niche … of com-fort.”
  Since its introduction, “Silver 
Wren” has caused buzz in the online music world. Bloggers from sites like “Listen Before You Buy,” “Potholes in my Blog” and “Music Fan’s Mic” describe the tracks as “genius” and appreciate its “noisy-yet-beautiful aesthet-ics.”
  Inviting the opportunity to 
reach a larger audience, Camp-bell unveiled a ﬁ  ve-track album entitled “Window in the Wreath” on Oct. 15.  
  The album, or extended-play 
as it is properly deﬁ  ned as, was released on Housewarming Re-cords.
  “Listening to the EP [extend-
ed-play] is like a little trip,” said Steven Salpeter, an English junior at UF. “You feel like you’ve taken a walk in the woods and just came back. It soothes and relaxes.”
  Owner of the music blogging 
site “Flashlight Tag Music” and actor   in Chicago Tyler Andere, has strong conﬁ  dence in Camp-bell’s work. 
  “I’m excited to see where he 
goes with this in the future,” said Andere. “He has a really unique sound and a sense of honesty is revealed in his work.”
  Andere goes on to mention that 
“Silver Wren” has the potential to be a revival of the American indie band Bright Eyes — known for its Billboard-topping singles “Lua” and “Take It Easy (Love Noth-ing)” in 2004.
  Campbell hopes to have a full 
album done by spring; however, the goal at hand is to get listeners in Gainesville familiar with his musical style ﬁ  rst.
   “Whatever comes of it will be 
what it is,” Campbell said.  “I’m excited for the outcome either way.”
  Campbell stressed that he is no 
professional in the music indus-try, so he does not plan on charg-ing for “Silver Wren.”  Having a faithful fan base is compensation enough, he said. 
  “I just hope the listeners ﬁ  nd 
something they can relate to; it’s my only point in recording it.”
  For more info on “Silver Wren” 
and to hear the extended-play, visit silverwren.bandcamp.com. 
 Student creates album by combing genres with psychedelic folk 
Mixes ‘60s, ‘70s sounds, country acoustics
Campbell
 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 11
  MAE BASIRATMAND
 Avenue Writer
  By this point in the semester, there is an inevi-
table pile of books to read, exams to study for 
and lectures to watch.  
  Juggling a social and school life is daunt-
ing.  Battling the constantly increasing work-
load takes more than just ﬁ  nishing a paper or hitting the gym; there is also a mind/body component that must be mastered.      Here are some quick tips to help you con-
trol your stress levels.
  
  Take a Long Bath
  Bubble baths may seem a little indulgent 
or even impossible to do in a dorm setting, but just taking a little longer in the water and cranking up the heat can have calming ef-fects.  
  Create a peaceful atmosphere using can-
dles and dim lighting.
  Set the mood right. Put on serene music such as sounds of the ocean or rain.
  Use aromatherapy. Include scents, such as 
vanilla or pine, that relax you or remind you of happy thoughts.
  Envision Yourself Somewhere Else
  One way to calm down is to close your eyes 
and envision yourself in a different setting.  
  For some people, a calm beach or moun-
tains and waterfalls panoramic can be com-forting.  
  Think of a place that makes you happy.  Envision yourself after the stressful event 
has passed and how relieved you will feel.  Take a Break
  This may seem self-explanatory, but some-
times we get so caught up in an act we’re do-ing, we start internally spiraling downward until our minds are in a chaotic state.  
  Get up to stretch. Move your hands, an-
kles, ﬁ  ngers and toes.
  Eat a quick snack. Fruits provide antioxi-
dants and won’t give you a “carb crash.”
  Take a 15-minute nap.  Closing your eyes 
and resting your mind for a couple of minutes will give you energy to power through more work.  Battling stress is not as hard as you think 
Simple tips to help unwind, relaxMICHELLE KLUG
Avenue Contributing Writer
One Gainesville man has plant-
ed the radio seed and is watching it 
grow. 
Bill Bryson, founder and man-
ager of Grow Radio, Gainesville’s community Internet radio station, has seen his business triple in listen-ers during the past eight months, according to disc jockey and friend Dale Gunnoe.
“When he sees a need for some-
thing in the community, he makes it happen,” Gunnoe said. 
The road to filling the niche of 
Gainesville’s community radio sta-tions is just one of the ways Bry-son has brought music to the area. This is obvious in his long resume of notable music and business ac-complishments, many of which laid the groundwork for the Gainesville music community as we know it. 
“Bill has dedicated his entire 
adult life to bringing music to the people,” said Chris Coates, Grow Radio DJ and friend of Bryson.
 
Discovering Gainesville’s Need 
For Music
Bryson spends his days manag-
ing Grow Radio, but his roots in the music business began at an early age. 
His musical interests were fueled 
by his experience living in England in the late 1970s and early 1980s, a period defined by British punk rock and new wave music.
“I was exposed to a lot of music 
I never would have known in sub-urban Indianapolis and am grate-ful for the cultural exposure that shaped my later passion for music,” Bryson said. 
During college at the University 
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Bryson worked as a promoter at a famous independent music club and a DJ at a student radio station.  Here, he got his first exposure to the kind of college-driven indie music that drives his station today.While visiting a friend who 
owned a record store in Gainesville, Bryson noticed the town’s need for a music venue. Using contacts he attained from the club and radio scene, Bryson opened the Covered Dish in Gainesville in 1992. The rock club soon became Gainesville’s pre-mier live music destination, book-ing many up-and-coming bands. 
Bringing Live Music to 
Gainesville
“Somehow, he was able to do 
what no one else could do before and, frankly , since, get prominent indie and punk bands to make the trek down to Gainesville, a city they would otherwise skip to do the Tampa-Orlando-Jacksonville loop,” Coates said. “I met many of my mu-sical heroes at Covered Dish.” 
In 1994, Dave Matthews Band 
played its first concert in Florida at the Covered Dish. Green Day also played there before it was signed to a record label. 
“Bill is too humble to cop to this, 
but he is on a first-name basis with just about every figure in the mu-sic scene you can think of,” Coates said. “I’m one to announce to the world when I’ve met someone fa-mous, but you would have to ask Bill directly if he knows someone, and then you get a story so cool you are left speechless.”  
Musicians such as Jello Biafra of 
the Dead Kennedys and Jonathan Richman of The Modern Lovers are a few notable friends of Bryson.  Richman has performed in-studio at Grow Radio, guest DJ’d and taken call-in questions from listen-ers. Mike Watt, a punk luminary most well-known for his band The Minutemen, has also joined Bill in-studio before gigs at Common Grounds.
Bryson brought mass amounts 
of diverse, live music to Gainesville at the Covered Dish. The trend continued when the club changed ownership and became Common Grounds. Globetrotting in a Punk Rock 
Band
In 1996, Bryson joined Causey 
Way , an alternative rock band that toured the U.S., Canada and Europe and consisted of notable members Rain and Summer Phoenix, sisters of actors Joaquin and River Phoe-nix. 
“It was all a dream to me — 
something I never expected to be a part of,” Bryson said. 
The band was featured in the 
movie “The Daddy of Rock ‘n’ Roll,” which portrayed Wesley Wil-lis, a famous schizophrenic musi-cian who toured with Causey Way in Canada.
Causey Way stayed together un-
til 2001. 
“There was an explosion of per -
sonal band problems and we broke up,” Bryson said. 
Creating Outlets for Gainesville’s 
Artists
In 1994, Bryson started Put It On 
A Cracker record label to support Gainesville bands with no music outlet.  He also co-founded Satellite Magazine in 2002 with friend and journalist Denise Trunk to promote art and culture in Gainesville.
After experimenting with pirate 
radio and a small AM radio station, Bryson decided he wanted to start an Internet radio station a few years ago as a community hub for alterna-tive music. 
“There was always an audience 
for some other radio station, but no platform,” Bryson said. 
The 2010 demise of Rock104, a 
largely student-run radio station, and The Buzz’s format transition from alternative to modern rock, left a void of student-run rock radio stations.
Creating Grow Radio
Grow was created to fill the ab-
sence of a community college radio station, playing diverse music. “There is a huge amount of intel-
lect in Gainesville. I think people are hungry for a radio station that has more to offer,” Gunnoe added. 
Bryson said he wears many hats 
at Grow.
“He is there all the time,” DJ Ben 
Markus said of Bryson. “He fills in for DJs when they can’t get there and does all the little things that need to be done.”
The volunteer-based radio sta-
tion can be streamed online and also by iPhone application, enabling people to play it in their cars. 
“In no other real situation could 
you program whatever music you like and run your show however you like,” Markus said. “It gives people an accessible platform to play their music with professional equipment. “ Bryson said he chose Internet 
radio because there are few regula-tions, low overhead and potential for a global audience.  
In addition to Grow Radio, 
Bryson also serves on the board of the Alachua Conservation Trust, a group dedicated to protecting his-torical infrastructures and natural resources in Gainesville. 
He manages the nonprofit com-
pany , Number 9 Productions, which umbrellas Grow Radio but was cre-ated to support diverse forms of art in Gainesville. Number 9 recently hosted a local visual arts show, which was a success and will be put on again in March. 
“He doesn’t like to own up to the 
glory , but he’s the man who makes it all happen,” Gunnoe said of Bry-son. 12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011
Michelle Klug / Alligator 
Grow Radio founder Bill Bryson sits in his radio studio located in 
downtown Gainesville.
Local man brings music to the people
MAE BASIRATMAND
Avenue Writer
Bassnectar stepped on the dubstep scene 
more than a decade ago, but only recently 
did the disc jockey begin wavering melodies and incessant bass that became the beats to college parties around the nation. Bassnectar (real name Lorin Ashton) is mostly known for his collaborations with other DJs and infusing his style with top-40 hits. Most recently, he performed to sold-out, large, hungry crowds at: Lollapalooza, Bonnaroo, Coachella and Electric Daisy Carnival Ve-gas. 
With wavering bass, combining alarming 
sounds with pulsating melodies, his music is a total sensory experience.  His use of fus-ing electronic and house music with heavy syncopated beats creates a spectrum of hard-rocking, fist pumping and crowd surf-ing that keep fans coming back for more. 
Bassnectar will take his talents to Gainesville on Friday at the Alachua County Fairgrounds accompanied by AmpLive and SuperDre. Doors open at 7 p.m. General ad-mission tickets are $30. Visit bassnectar.net for tickets. 
The Avenue got the opportunity to pick 
the DJ’s brain. Here’s what he had to say. 
How did you first get into the DJ scene?  “The moment I went to my first rave, 
my entire life changed. Prior to that, I had been almost exclusively obsessed with death metal and had never danced before (lots of head banging though), and I spent that en-tire night dancing and meeting amazing people. The next day I decided that I wanted to spend the rest of my life bringing experi-ences like that to other people.” 
You’re the king of dubstep. How did 
you happen to come upon this music?  
“I have always been in love with many 
different sounds and styles of music. My tastes are very eclectic, and I enjoy what hap-pens when you combine unlikely extremes into new, strange, beautiful combinations. It is that spectrum of extremes that ‘Divergent Spectrum’ is based on.”
What do you hope to achieve by playing 
in a college town?
“College towns are spe-
cial because they are basi-cally filled with people who are ready to rage. When I was in college, I spent a ridiculous amount of time organizing outdoor concerts and music events 
on campus. At one point, someone discov-ered a secret stairwell in my dorm that went four stories high. My neighbors in the dorm made a trapdoor to it, and many months were spent throwing illegal parties inside of it. It was entirely out of hand.”Where do you see yourself in the future? 
And what will you be doing?  
“In 2046, I will be a maintenance man 
in an apartment complex, and I will col-lect Bonsai trees. One day a young boy will move into the apartment complex, and I will teach him karate, but I will do so in secret, by teaching him how to sand the floor and paint the house. One day he will go on to be a great karate master, and I will stay in my underground dojo.”
What can fans expect for the future of 
Bassnectar?
“I just want to keep moving forward and 
upward bringing music to this ever-growing and ever-changing community of people. One of my favorite sayings is, ‘Best is better than newest,’ so I am not trying to change it up; I’m just having fun riding this wild roller coaster to the next level.”
What advice would you give to aspiring 
DJs?
“Don’t follow anyone else’s rules; just do 
what you love, as much as possible.”
Avenue sound check with the King of Dubstep: Bassnectar 
DJ performs Friday at the Alachua County Fairgrounds  radioTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Now Leasing for January 2012
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $339
w/$100 credit!
3/3’s @ $429 with 42” TV
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-21/1 East at $469, 1/2 off 2nd month*
$99 Move In SpecialFrederick GardensCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.Great pools • Fitness • TennisCall for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’sBivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!
ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   12-7-11-74-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. 
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1st month half price! Vacant lots alsoavailable. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-588710-31-46-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
GIGANTIC 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority/Norman/Shands area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Was $2400 re-duced to $1780 OBO. 352-665-8166 lv msg.   10-25-11-30-2
1BR/1BA Apt,. Large screened-in porch, 
W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499. Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #2. Please call 352-371-3473    10-31-11-33-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-155011-2-11-20-2
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7129 SW 45th Place. $525/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114    10-20-11-10-2
●●● One Mile to UF ●●●
 Home 2br 1 bath. New A/C Hardwood Floors, 
Tile in kitchen & bath & Florida room $900.00 mo.  Call Andree Realty 352-375-290011-4-10-2Close to UF, $595/month plus security de-
posit, 2BR with 2.5Bathroom townhouse. New floor/paint. Fenced backyard with W/D hookup. 1310 SW 61st, GNV, 32607. Call 352/332-4088 or 352/514-7098   10-25-11-10-2
4/2.5 2000sqft home built in 2000, 2 blks to 
Stadium 3 min walk to Campus. Free $1300 security deposit! $1550/mo! W/D Garage. Avail Dec/Spring. Rmmate matching. Call 870-7304. jeremybolton0@gmail.com   11-23-11-30-2
SPACIOUS 1BR APT
for rent. Walk to Oaks Mall. New appliances. 
$450/mo. Call 404-323-9338     10-24-11-4-2
●●●● MUST SEE! ●●●●
1BR, quiet, custom-built, in-law suite. 
Spacious, living room, full bath, dining, W/D. Cable, utils incl. Close to all -- has it all! $700/mo. Call 278-8381     11-10-11-10-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House Historic 
spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1750/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    11-15-11-20-2
Charming 2BR/1BA Cottage Blocks from UF.
Central h/a, laundry with w/d, large screened
porch. Great Neighborhood. No Pets. 2703
NW 2nd Ave. 795 mo, 1st, last, sec.
352-332-5836 www.flalcam.com for pics.
10-24-11-5-2
1 bdrm/1 bath apartment available for rent 
NOW in downtown Gainesville for $620. No security deposit necessary! Call Kim at (352)318-2916 or April at (352)538-1550.    10-25-5-2
● Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 3 blocks to UF  
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - Bike to UF
● 4BR/2BA House directly across from
Law School. W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
● 3BD/1BA House - 2046 NW 31 PL
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
11-16-11-20-2MOBILE HOMES AS LOW AS $500 DOWN
We Finance - Payments as low as $425./mo
Nice, quiet community near airport.
Buy now - sell after you graduate!
Lamplighter MHC 352-372-4207
www.mhcomm.com
10-20-11-1-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420    12-7-11-32-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   12-7-11-32-2
3 or 4BR/1.5BA CONDO
2116 SW 70th Terr. Available anytime. $725/mo. (First & Last) Call 352-514-9698   10-26-11-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Sublease gets free 32in FLAT SCREEN TV!
1/1 BR in 2/2 Townhouse Apt Spring 2012Museum Walk Apts. Asking for 627/month Includes furniture, W, E, In, Ca! Walk-In CLSteps from UF Call (305)587-3128   10-31-11-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $650/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    10-26-11-97-4
roommates wanted in 4/2 on sorority row. 
$350 inc Utilities, cable, and internet. easy walk to UF, close to downtown. close to buses. jfidorra@hotmail.com 814-440-3325   10-25-11-10-4
MASTER Bdrm. PRIVATE BATH, WALK 
IN CLOSET 708 NW 10th Ave. 5 min to UF. Nice Cabana around Lg Swimming Pool, $570 incl utils, & W/D. Huge space in quiet area. Flexible lease w low sec dp. Call Kristoff 352-332-5030 or 514-6180 ready Nov. 1st.    11-4-11-15-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 15
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
CASH FOR SMARTPHONES! WORKING 
OR NOT! ANDROID, iOS, WINDOWS AND MORE! WE BUY WATER DAMAGED PHONES! TECHMODO 6450 SW ARCHER RD( BY BEEF O BRADY`S) 3528725881    11-1-10-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10MUSIC STORE NEAR UF-Buy-Sell-Trade@Discounts We also offer music classes in all instruments & dance. We are the only chari-table music & dance school. Scholarships available. studiopercussion.org 352-338-8302     10-20-20-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
11-30-11-61-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
HOT, SEXY convertible 2000 Mercedes SL. 
White w. both tops,blue soft leather inter. 46,800 miles. PS, PW. AM/FM, CD. New Michelins. Garage kept. Mint. 15,800. 377-2538    10-24-10-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      10-20-11-74-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
ANY HempFest Video Footage, Photos,
Articles, Memorabelia,Testimonials...Confessions of the DoobieTosser from 1990-2000! PLZ Call352-278-5698   10-21-10-13
European professional couple is looking
for an egg donor. The husband is originally
from Florida, the wife is European, and the
couple resides in England. Potential donor
must be between 21-26 years old;
Caucasian, in good health; a current
student with good grades or a graduate of
a university. A Russian/Slavic background
preferred but other backgrounds would be
gladly considered. FINANCIAL REWARD
is negotiable and will depend on a donor's
qualities but will be SUBSTANTIALLY
higher than standard clinical rate of 3,000
dollars. Treatment (standard IVF) will take
place at a UF hospital, will require a few
weeks but will not be interruptive to donor's
everyday life. The cost will be fully met by
the couple. Candidates should email a brief
description of themselves and a recent
photo to nvm.donor@yahoo.co.uk
Full confidentiality guaranteed.
10-25-11-7-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
 The Smartphone Club needs data entry 
workers to help update our membership list. Must be able to work at home online with-out any supervision. Guaranteed pay for Guaranteed work.www.thesmartphoneclub.com/Colleges/FL    10-25-11-25-14
MOVIE EXTRAS
To stand in the background for a major film. 
Experience not required. Earn up to $300/day. All looks needed. 877-568-7065    10-31-11-20-14
Extra income. Become a Sales Buddy from 
your computer. Earn $5 for every book sold. www.thegiftofwisdom.com, select Sales Buddy.     10-20-11-10-14
PHP/Web Developer: Full-time multipurpose
position working with our engineering team to develop web interfaces. Self-motivated, able to work within a team dynamic, and be comfortable working with Linux, Mac OS, Windows, etc. Expertise in PHP, JavaScript, XHTML, and CSS. For more details or to apply visit http://www.monetra.com/content/careers.html                10-24-11-10-14
Catering event staff. Must have valid DL, 
physical endurance, & positive personal-ity; $8.50 hr + tips. 904 N Main St,apply in Person M-F after Noon.    10-20-11-5-14
FT position working to develop high qual-
ity web interfaces, database processes & administrative resources. Expertise in PHP, JavaScript, jQuery, XHTML & CSS required. Email barisurg.hr@gmail.com    10-20-11-5-14
Alachua, FL company seeks Experienced 
Web Designer for psychologist's profession-al website. $18.00 per hour. 20 - 30 hours over a 2 - 3 week period or until completion. Send resume to biopressadmin@gmail.com    10-21-11-5-14
Students needed for part-time sales, $10-
$12/hr., no experience required, flexible schedules, must have good communication skills, located in Creekside Mall, call Mike 352-533-2201    10-27-9-14
HONEY BAKED HAM CO & CAFE
now hiring PT sales & sandwich prep associ-ates. Starting pay $7.50/hr. Apply at 618 NW 60th St. - behind McDonalds off Newberry Rd. 352-331-1253    10-24-11-5-14
STUDENT WANTED. 4-8 hrs/wk. 
Clean/organize small greenhouse.
352-301-2158    10-20-11-2-14
GET PAID TO WATCH SPORTS LIVE!
All expenses paid +70$.
For details visit: www.scoutsport.org
11-1-11-10-14
TENNIS CENTER
MAINTENANCE PERSON NEEDED.Experience a plus but will train.35-45 hours a week. Email:Jonesvilletennis@gmail.com for Info.10-24-11-4-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   11-17-20-14Molly and Friends looking for dilligent, quality oriented PT workers to build our high qual-ity cat furniture.  Good pay for good working.  See Holly at 337-1535 and come down to 1847 South Main Street    10-28-7-14
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696   11-9-11-30-15
Gville Valet "let me be your legs" personal 
shopper/assistant/errand service. Keep your parking space and let me run your errands. Sara Morsey 352-538-2852    10-27-10-15
Dont get cited or arrested have a Certified 
Crowd Manager @ your socials, events, party, night club, concert. CM comes with re entry stamper, capacity clicker, wand, drinking bands all at no extra charge.. 352 318 9262.    10-21-11-3-15HEMPFEST IS BACK! SAT. NOV.5 High-Noon 'til Midnight! Gainesville's Bo Diddly Plaza! Wanted: Local Bands, Vendors, Volunteers! For Info Call: Jodi at FL C.A.N. 321-253-3673 www.gvillehempfest.com   10-21-10-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM... A boutique, 
KEY WEST 1970's style. We got it all for you, from all the world, imports you can believe in. Clothes, Gifts, Art, Books, Music, Plants... Hwy 441S.... 15 min that could change you.   10-26-31-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: SUNGLASSES
In parking lot by O'Dome. Tuesday morning. Email to identify - cestepp@ufl.edu    10-21-3-25HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
ADOPTION. Choose a loving & secure family 
waiting to adopt. Living & medical expenses paid. Updates on your child.Call 24hr/7day. 1-800-280-6155. Amy Eichman(Bar#830011)    11-14-11-30-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Great gift (and inexpensive!) for any occa-
sion: birthdays, holidays, graduations, first job, weddings. Or simply because someone is special! www.thegiftofwisdom.com.    10-20-11-10-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Poll Results
After losing their third straight 
game, do you think the Gators are an improved team in 2011?Another Arrest
With seven players arrested this year, do you think coach Will 
Muschamp’s “Florida Way” is working?  Vote online at alligatorSports.
org. TOM GREEN and GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writers
 
Freshman cornerback Marcus Roberson, 19, was 
arrested last month and charged with underage pos-
session of alcohol, a second-degree misdemeanor.
The University Police Department arrested 
Roberson on Sept. 14, just two days after then-Flor -
ida linebacker Dee Finley was arrested for driving with a suspended license and resisting arrest.
According to an Alachua County court records 
search, Roberson, who was 18 at the time of the ar -
rest, entered a written plea of not guilty on Sept. 28. A pre-trail conference is scheduled for Nov. 7.
A team spokesman said coaches are aware of 
the arrest and that the issue has been handled in-ternally.
A highly touted freshman out of Fort Lauderdale 
St. Thomas Aquinas, Roberson has started all seven 
games at cornerback for the Gators this season.
He is the seventh Florida 
player arrested, and eighth 
overall arrest, since Will Muschamp was named coach.
Roberson is represented by attorney Huntley 
Johnson, who often handles cases involving UF ath-letes.
Receivers struggling: Muschamp expressed 
concern Tuesday about Florida’s lack of big plays and reliable options at the wide receiver position. 
“We need more playmaking ability outside and 
more consistent play ,” Muschamp said. 
Through seven games, redshirt senior Deonte 
Thompson leads UF wideouts with 12 catches, good for only 152 yards. Sophomore Andre Debose is the leader in yards with 233, and the entire posi-tion group has combined for only two touchdowns — both from Debose. 
Matt DeLancey is UF’s strength 
coach for Olympic sports, and he has a special relationship with the athletes he trains.  See Story, Page 19. 
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Freshman cornerback Marcus Roberson was arrested on Sept. 14 on a 
charge of possession of alcohol by a person under 21 years of age. 
� FLORIDA VOLLEYBALL TEAM 
EXTENDS WINNING STREAK TO SEVEN. 
BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
Florida’s goal against South Carolina 
on Wednesday night was very simple: 
go for the sweep.
“My concern was don’t go past three 
sets because our players are just abso-lutely gassed,” UF coach Mary Wise said.
The No. 13 Gators (16-3, 9-1 South-
eastern Conference) took care of their top priority, sweeping a Southeastern Conference opponent (25-13, 25-18, 25-23) for the seventh straight game.
For two sets, Florida was as efficient 
as it has been all season.
In the game’s opening set, UF regis-
tered a .717 to .000 advantage in hitting percentage.
Junior middle blocker Betsy Smith 
continued her reign as the most accurate hitter in the SEC, registering 10 kills on 11 swings for a .909 hitting percentage.
“Maybe the most improved player in 
our program from last year to this year is Betsy Smith,” Wise said. 
“It’s really fun for us as coaches to 
watch her.”
But it was a familiar face that contin-
ued the team’s most impressive streak.
For the 14th game in a row, senior 
outside hitter Kristy Jaeckel picked up double-digit kills. However, it was her powerful serving that ultimately made the biggest impact against the Game-cocks (10-10, 1-9 SEC).
Jaeckel tied a career-high with seven 
service aces, including a resounding strike on match point.Gators beat 
Gamecocksin straight sets on roadCB Roberson seventh player arrested this year
Telling you W ATTS up
Rewind, if you can, to this time last 
year. 
Florida was embroiled in a three-
game losing streak. The mighty Gators had fallen from the perch of competing for national championships to the depths of needing help to contend in the Southeastern Conference East. Urban Meyer was prob-ably wishing he had chosen to stay at home instead of enduring a season without his wunderkind, Tim Tebow. 
And everyone, and I mean everyone — 
fans and media alike — had zero faith in John Brantley . 
My , how things change. Now, the Gators are again on a three-
game skid, but there’s a big difference: The only hope to end that streak is the same quarterback we loved to hate even as recently as a few months ago. 
Never mind 
that guru Charlie Weis was com-ing to town, never mind that he was 
installing a pro-style offense that suited Brantley’s abilities — a poor performance in the spring game was all it took for people to once again call for Brantley’s head, or, at least, his job. 
Now, those same fans are counting the 
days until Brantley’s injured ankle is healed and he can trot back onto the field. Now, those same writers, people like Clay Travis from Outkickthecoverage.com, are calling Brantley one of the ten best offensive play-ers in the SEC. 
Who could blame them? The last time anyone saw Brantley in 
action he was marching the Gators down the field against arguably the nation’s best defense, attempting to pull his team within striking distance before the break. Sure, he threw an interception that Alabama’s Court-ney Upshaw returned for a touchdown, but Brantley was proving to be a different play-er in that game. 
And that’s what is so disappointing.The 190 yards passing Brantley and the 
Gators put up in the first half are more than five of Alabama’s other six opponents have 
Brantley 2.0: the difference a year makes
See WATTS, p Age 18See V olley , pAge 18See F ooTBAll, p Age 18
Matt Watts
twitter: @wattmatts“Maybe the most improved 
player in our program from last 
year to this year is Betsy Smith.” 
Mary Wise
UF coachUF Fo otball
23% yeS
77% no
114 total votesaccrued in an entire game. The Crim-
son Tide defense is disgusting (the kids tell me that’s a good thing) and makes a habit of shutting down the opposition’s offense. 
But Brantley exposed that ‘Bama D 
from the opening snap. And he did it with the same pieces around him that have struggled to score points and move the ball the last two weeks. 
After five games, Brantley was 
fourth in the SEC in average passing yards per game (188.4) and pass effi-ciency (152.6), but more importantly, he kept the defense honest and kept an eighth man out of the box.
Without the fifth-year senior, the 
run game has been nonexistent. The Gators can’t throw the ball, either, as Jacoby Brissett and Jeff Driskel passed for just 228 combined yards in losses to LSU and Auburn. They scored 17 points, with only one touchdown.To start the season, Brantley was 
effective, and he was downright good against the Tide, which begs the inevi-table question: What if?
What if Brantley had not suffered 
the injury? What if he played against Auburn? 
Surely, with such a solid perfor -
mance by the defense, UF could have won if only Brantley was under center instead of a freshman, right? 
We’ll never know the answer to 
that question. We should not even spend time wondering. 
What we need to do is give John 
Brantley the respect he has earned. There’s no denying Florida does not have a good football team this season, but one thing is certain: The Gators are far better with Brantley than without him. 
And that’s a statement no one 
could have imagined saying, writing or believing this time last year.
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@
alligator.org.“We just need more production 
from the wideouts, more threats 
from the wideouts in order to take some positive steps,” Muschamp said. 
Florida’s wide receivers have 
amassed just 41 catches and 646 yards as a group. Their yards per game average of 92.3 is lower than 32 individual players, and their av-erage of 5.86 receptions per game is lower than 41 individual play-ers. 
Wildcat working: With Brant-
ley out and the receivers strug-gling, the Gators have turned to the Wildcat to breathe life into the offense. 
Against Auburn on Saturday and LSU on Oct. 8, Florida ran a combined 26 plays out of the for -
mation for 91 yards. 
“Trey Burton has really done a 
nice job in the package we’ve de-veloped with him,” Muschamp said. “We’ve been able to move the ball in the first two games us-ing that package. We’ll continue to build on that.”
The Wildcat has been especially 
helpful on the ground. The Gators have run 23 times for 77 yards when Burton has taken the snap the last two weeks, an average of 3.3 yards per carry. By compari-son, the team’s 38 carries out of all other formations have gained just 2.6 yards per rush. 
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@al-
ligator.org and Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org.
WATTS , from page 17“She had great tosses and 
was ripping the ball,” Wise 
said. “It was absolutely perfect that match point was Kristy’s ace serve.”
Through two sets, Florida 
only had two attack errors. But for the previous three games, Florida shined the brightest in third sets, a factor of feeling out the opponent to open the game and then striking aggressively after the game’s 10-minute in-termission.
Wednesday night saw the 
exact opposite happen.
“Fatigue was the No. 1 fac-
tor there,“ Wise said. “Our players are absolutely gassed from the travel.”
Coming off a weekend road 
trip, the G a t o r s had a b r i e f 
amount of time in Gainesville before making the trip to Co-lumbia, S.C., for a rare mid-week game.
According to Wise, the re-
sult was a third set in which the Gators suffered six attack errors. 
But backcourt defense and 
Jaeckel’s serving exhibition helped them through it in a narrow, come-from-behind victory.
“Usually when you’re real 
tired you’re going to see it es-pecially in the serving,” Wise said. 
“Obviously that wasn’t the 
case for Kristy Jaeckel.”
Once again, Florida accom-plished the somewhat rare feat of both out-blocking and out-digging its opponent. 
Eight different players re-
corded a total of 47 digs for the Gators on Wednesday, includ-ing a season-high 11 for fresh-man defensive specialist Madi-son Monserez.
Senior Kelly Murphy ended the game two kills and one dig away from a triple-double, but was still commended by Wise for another well-rounded per -
formance.
“That’s what we’re looking 
for,” she said. “It’s all about can our team get better from month to month, and clearly we’ve done that.”18, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011
David Carr / Alligator
Senior outside hitter Kristy Jaeckel lifted the Gators with 10 kills 
and seven service aces in UF’s 3-0 win against South Carolina.Jaeckel’s strong serves carry Florida
VOLLEY , from page 17
FOOTBALL , from page 17Gators keeping Wildcat 
UF Volleyball  ALLISON BANKO
 Alligator Staff Writer
   
 When it comes to the realm of weight training, where 
clinking metal echoes and beads of sweat stain the ﬂ  oor, Matt DeLancey jumped in early. 
After tackling a paper route with his best friend, Troy 
Zang, at the tender age of 10 among the driveways of Penn-
sylvania’s rural New Bloomﬁ  eld, DeLancey said the two de-cided to grab a heavy bag and some weights to beef up and hit the workout grind. 
  “We benched and hit this bag every day of the week,” 
DeLancey said shaking his head with a laugh. “It was pretty 
much how it started. From there, it was reading bodybuild-ing magazines and trying to do the Arnold [Schwarzenegger] workout.”
  Flash forward to the underbelly of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Sta-
dium — DeLancey’s current stomping ground. It’s here, in Florida’s Grifﬁ  n-Oakley Strength and Conditioning Com-plex, that DeLancey has close to 25,000 square feet of workout space at his ﬁ  ngertips to mold UF athletes as the assistant di-rector of strength and conditioning for Olympic sports, dip-ping into track and ﬁ  eld, swimming and diving and volley-ball. DeLancey, with his deep, raspy voice that bellows from behind his auburn-tinted beard, has built more than muscles for the Gators — he has developed relationships with his ath-letes that have made a mark on more than any ﬁ  eld, swim-ming pool or court.
  This is especially true for Tangerine Wiggs, a junior right-
side hitter for the Gators’ volleyball team. The 6-foot-2 trans-fer from Washington State met DeLancey, or as she and some of her teammates call him, “Matty D,” on one of her campus visits. When she ﬁ  rst began training with him during her sophomore year, Wiggs admits that her body was different from the muscular build she has now.
  “I was probably a string bean — stick and bones,” Wiggs 
recalled. “I easily got hurt. I had so many joint problems, problems with my back, my shoulder, my knees. And he re-ally sat me down and helped me understand that the cure to all my problems was increasing my muscle mass.” 
  Wiggs said DeLancey took her under his wing, communi-
cating about proteins to help strengthen her body. And she gushes that it was his patience through that year, the year DeLancey spent building her up, that she’s grateful for. She even said she and her teammates view DeLancey as a big brother.
  “If I had a problem with anything — weights, nutrition, 
just anything — I deﬁ  nitely feel comfortable coming to Matt to talk about it,” she said. “He cares about us (not only) so much as athletes, but so much as people, which is something that I think is what makes him so special and what makes our team love him so much.” 
  Wiggs’ teammate, senior defensive specialist Elissa Haus-
mann, added that DeLancey’s care extends through his work-outs, which are individually designed for each of his athletes and caters to their varying positions and needs. 
  “For me, everything I’m doing is for defense,” Hausmann 
said, squatting and placing her palms on her thighs. “I’m al-ways low, so it’s always in my quads, and everything is just low to the ground.” 
  However, while Hausmann spoke highly of DeLancey’s 
training knowledge and attention to detail during workouts, she also joked about his brotherly role with the team.
  “Sometimes I’ll not ask what the exercise is because I feel 
like I already know what it is,” she said. “And if I get it wrong, he’ll be like, ‘Oh! You’re gonna make up your own workout today?” 
  DeLancey, a self-described “Family Guy” fan, said that he 
jokes around with all his athletes. 
  “I ﬁ  nd out which ones respond better to the bips,” he said. 
“You know what I mean? The bips — the little zingers.” 
  But he explained that it’s also about knowing what the ath-
letes respond to and building those relationships in order to gauge their drive to sweat it out. He said that motivators can range from the intrinsic to the extrinsic, or from glory to a de-sired time goal, but it varies from individual to individual. 
  “You always gotta keep people motivated and everybody’s 
different,” he said. “Some people need the honey rather than the vinegar. Some people only respond to vinegar — it just depends on the person.” 
  Senior swimmer Teresa Crippen agreed, saying DeLancey 
knows just how to read her when she steps foot in the weight room.
  “He knows more when I’m in the mood to work, and when 
I’m dead exhausted and wanting to go home,” she said. “He gets to know all of his athletes.”
  Crippen added that DeLancey knew almost all of the 20 
freshman male swimmers within a month of working with them. 
  “That speaks a lot to his personality and will-
ingness to be a great weight coach and try to in-clude everybody in his workout,” she said.
  Though Crippen is in the midst of her fourth 
year working with DeLancey — a former Divi-sion II football player and strongman competi-tor — she remembers being intimidated by him at ﬁ  rst because of his personality. And according to DeLancey’s athletes, the weight room is any-thing but quiet when he’s in its conﬁ  nes.
  “His energy level is out of control,” Hausmann said. “He’s 
always screaming, encouraging us.” 
  When Wiggs tries to ﬁ  nd one word to describe DeLancey, 
it comes to mind easily.
  “Matt is just amped,” Wiggs said with a smile. “Some days 
we come in, and he seems quiet, but within ﬁ  ve minutes he’s back to Matt. He’s high-energy. He’s outgoing — he’s just a big personality.” 
  Wiggs explained that “Matty D’s” vivacious aura is espe-
cially present when he’s cheering on the bench during their matches. DeLancey goes to home competitions, but he’s not there with the primary intention of training. 
  “I’m there just to cheer ‘em on,” he says. “I’m a gloriﬁ  ed 
cheerleader at that point.” 
  Wiggs, laughing, agreed strongly. She admitted that he’s 
just as amped — if not more amped — than the team is during high-intensity games. She also said he’s not only high-ﬁ  ving the team, but he’s pointing out the speciﬁ  c things the players did well. 
  “He’ll be like ‘That was a great pass! That was a great 
swing!’” Wiggs said. “On the road, not having him, at times when we don’t have him for games, you do notice that little bit of silence. Like, where’s Matt?” 
  But it’s at those games, meets or matches that DeLancey 
said he sees ﬁ  rst-hand what his job is all about: watching his athletes get better. He remembers how proud he was when he watched swimmer Ryan Lochte, who he is currently training for the 2012 Olympics, set his ﬁ  rst world record in 2006 or watching Wiggs excel on the court. He said “Tange” put on 12 to 15 pounds of muscle since she came to UF, and she has tacked on 5.5 inches to her approach jump.
  “She’s a different athlete than she was when she got here,” 
he said. “Those are the things that motivate me — daily.” 
  DeLancey said that the biggest reason behind his love for 
Florida is that the passion and expectations of the athletes and coaches match his. Those around him are pumping as much into their work as he is, which is something he brings full circle in his relationships with his athletes. 
  “Treat them with respect,” he said. “Respect’s a two-way 
street. You can’t just demand it. You gotta give it to get it.”
  Contact Allison Banko at abanko@alligator.org. 
problems with my back, my shoulder, my knees. And he re-
ally sat me down and helped me understand that the cure to 
all my problems was increasing my muscle mass.” 
  Wiggs said DeLancey took her under his wing, communi-
cating about proteins to help strengthen her body. And she 
gushes that it was his patience through that year, the year gushes that it was his patience through that year, the year 
DeLancey spent building her up, that she’s grateful for. She DeLancey spent building her up, that she’s grateful for. She 
even said she and her teammates view DeLancey as a big 
  “If I had a problem with anything — weights, nutrition, 
just anything — I deﬁ  nitely feel comfortable coming to Matt 
to talk about it,” she said. “He cares about us (not only) so ingness to be a great weight coach and try to in-
clude everybody in his workout,” she said.
  Though Crippen is in the midst of her fourth 
year working with DeLancey — a former Divi-
sion II football player and strongman competi-
tor — she remembers being intimidated by him 
at ﬁ  rst because of his personality. And according 
to DeLancey’s athletes, the weight room is any-at ﬁ  rst because of his personality. And according 
to DeLancey’s athletes, the weight room is any-  Crippen added that DeLancey knew almost all of the 20 
year working with DeLancey — a former Divi-
sion II football player and strongman competi-
tor — she remembers being intimidated by him 
at ﬁ  rst because of his personality. And according into their work as he is, which is something he brings full 
circle in his relationships with his athletes. 
  “Treat them with respect,” he said. “Respect’s a two-way 
to DeLancey’s athletes, the weight room is any-street. You can’t just demand it. You gotta give it to get it.”
  Contact Allison Banko at abanko@alligator.org. 
at ﬁ  rst because of his personality. And according 
to DeLancey’s athletes, the weight room is any- THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 19
 Courtesy of UF Communications
   Matt DeLancey, assistant director of strength and conditioning for Olympic sports, trains and works with 
the Gators’ volleyball, track and ﬁ  eld and swimming teams. 
 David Carr / Alligator
  Matt DeLancey paid $150 to have this ﬁ  re hydrant shipped to his 
home. “It’s not even heavy,” DeLancey said. “This is nothing.”  
Strength coach brings passion to workouts
 Lifting more than weights20, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida midfielder Havana Solaun is the Gators’ third-leading scoring with 16 
points this season despite starting just two games.
� SHE HAS FIVE GOALS AND SIX ASSISTS.
JOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
Since her first game as a Gator, Havana So-
laun has shown a knack for finding the back of 
the net and helping her teammates do the same.
With five goals and six assists on the season, 
Solaun’s 16 points are good for third on the team behind junior Erika Tymrak (27 points) and fel-low freshman Annie Speese (19).  The difference between Solaun and the Gators’ top two scorers is that she has done most of her damage this sea-son as a reserve.
So as No. 13 Florida (13-4, 6-2 Southeastern 
Conference) looks to rebound from Sunday’s loss to Mississippi State when it takes on Arkan-sas (4-11, 2-6 SEC) tonight at 8 in Fayetteville, Ark., coach Becky Burleigh will turn to the bench whenever she wants an offensive boost from the freshman midfielder.
Burleigh said that Solaun, a four-year starter 
during her time at Buchholz High, brings a dif-ferent dimension to the Gators as a substitute because she has great vision and does not panic under pressure.
Burleigh said Solaun is just as talented offen-
sively as any player she subs in for. She is most effective after the first group of attacking play-ers has worn down the opposition’s starters. They are not prepared to handle a player with fresh legs and her skill set.
“When she does come in off the bench, that is 
really a threat for us,” Burleigh said. 
“If I was an opposing coach, I would be like, 
‘Shoot, I hope they don’t sub,’ but when she comes in she makes an immediate impact.”
Solaun’s first goal came during her first min-
utes of the season, as Florida defeated Miami 2-0 in the opener on Aug. 19. 
In the Gators’ third game of the year, a 3-2 
win against Texas A&M, Solaun subbed in for McKenzie Barney in the 22nd minute and as-sisted on a Tymrak goal three minutes later. She had her first multi-goal game when she scored both goals in a 2-0 win against Ole Miss last Fri-day.
The strategy of coming off the bench has 
worked better for Solaun than any other player in the conference. Her two starts are the least out of any SEC player among the top three scor -
ers on her respective team. The next lowest is Vanderbilt’s Elizabeth Lillie’s five starts, but she only has four points.  
Solaun said having the opportunity to ana-
lyze the opponent’s playing style before coming in the game is an advantage to playing a relief role.
“I just try to keep the same level of play as the 
starters,” Solaun said. “I try to play quick and not make it seem any different.”
Tymrak said when Solaun enters a game, she 
does more than just fit in with the starters.
“Not only can she keep the level up but she 
can increase it as well,” Tymrak said.  
“When I see her coming on the field I know 
that I got to step it up because she is coming in harder than anyone else.”Freshman Solaun providing big 
spark off bench for No. 13 Florida
“When [Solaun] does come in off the 
bench, that is really a threat for us.”
Becky Burleigh
UF soccer coach