We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 2 THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Four-star safety 
Jabari Gorman 
orally committed 
to Florida during 
Wednesday night’s 
Under Armour 
All-America game, 
making up for UF’s 
recent recruiting 
losses.
See Story, Page 17.COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — Job pros-
pects are rolling in for a homeless Ohio man 
with a golden radio voice who has quickly become an online sensation.
Video of Ted Williams posted this week 
on The Columbus Dispatch’s website has commanded millions of views.
In the clip, Williams stands near a Co-
lumbus highway ramp demonstrating his smooth, deep speaking voice. He holds a sign that asks motorists for help and says, “I’m an ex-radio announcer who has fallen on hard times.”
Williams, a Brooklyn, N.Y., native says 
he had trouble with drugs and alcohol and is now two years sober.
Columbus radio station WNCI invited 
him to its studios and says ESPN and MTV have expressed interest. Williams has re-ceived a $10,000 offer for voice-over work, and a Pennsylvania radio station wants him, too.Homeless Ohio man’s radio voice makes him an Internet star 
Partly 
cloudy
62/37FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD 15
SPORTS 17page 8
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Juggling in the Rain
Santa Fe student Graham Smith, 24, juggles, walks and drinks coffee in the rain as he 
heads home along West University Avenue on Wednesday afternoon. Smith, who has been juggling for two-and-a-half months, practices whenever he has the opportunity.  “If I’m walk -
ing, I might as well be juggling too.”
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
An ongoing investigation of 
the death of a UF student is ex-
pected to be ruled a homicide, according to the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office.
Firefighters discovered the 
body of Saleha Huuda, 21, after extinguishing a small brush fire 
off of County Road 225, a half-
mile north of Gainesville Race-way, on Dec. 30.
The fire was reported by a 
passing motorist at about 2:40 a.m. 
Following the discovery, Ala-
chua County sheriff’s deputies were called to the scene, and have 
since been investigating Huuda’s 
death as a homicide. 
“We are definitely viewing 
it as a suspicious death and we anticipate the medical examiner will make that determination,” said Art Forgey, public informa-tion officer for the Alachua Coun-ty Sheriff’s Office. 
There is no estimate as to 
when the examiner will finish the analysis, but Forgey said the cause of death would “probably be ruled a murder.” 
Police have no suspects.The investigation is ongoing, 
and authorities are trying to de-termine how the fire was started 
and how Huuda ended up at that location.
“It’s safe 
to say the fire didn’t start there 
on its own,” Forgey said.
The question, he added, is 
whether Huuda started the fire herself or if the fire was started with different intent, like trying to cover up a crime.Police investigate 
death of student
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer 
If you plan on flying out of Gainesville in the future, ex-
pect to receive a full-body scan on your way out.
But don’t worry, only the computer will see what is un-
derneath your clothes. 
Gainesville Regional Airport is in the process of getting 
a full-body scanner along with other airports 
across the nation. The model the airport plans to use would transform the controversial im-
age process into that of a cartoon-like por -
trait.
The backscatter scanner takes a full-body image through 
low-wave radiation rays but only the computer sees the im-Airport to get 
body scanner LOCAL
n LOWE WAS INVITED TO 
THE WHITE HOUSE BY THE PRESIDENT AND FIRST LADY.
By C.J. PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
As President Barack Obama 
made his way around the room 
of dignitaries, guests and other 
Washington movers and shakers at a White House reception in De-
cember, Gainesville Mayor Craig 
Lowe had no idea what the com-mander in chief would say. 
Would he offer a piece of po-
litical advice, tell a joke or maybe 
even let the mayor in on some 
classified information locked away in a file cabinet in the bow-
els of the Pentagon?
When the time came to shake 
hands, the president instead of-fered Lowe an apology. It wasn’t the type of “apology” conserva-tive cable news commentators 
pounce on nor the one  GOP pres-idential hopefuls write books on. 
This one was legitimately out 
of the president’s control.
“I’m sorry you had to travel all 
the way up here for this weath-er,” the president told Lowe in reference to the frosty D.C. atmo-
sphere. 
“Actually, Mr. President,” 
Lowe replied, “it’s pretty cold in 
Florida, too.” 
The brief exchange was part of 
a one-day trip Lowe made to the nation’s capital last month at the invitation of the president and the First Lady. Lowe said he paid 
for the trip, not taxpayers. 
“It’s always exciting to go to 
the nation’s capital,” Lowe said.
The mayor’s brief conversa-
tion with the president touched 
on other topics besides weather 
forecasts. 
He congratulated Lowe on 
his handling of the planned Dove World Outreach Center 
Quran burning, which got na-tional headlines last fall but was 
scrapped amid public pressure 
and criticism, including pressure from the president. 
For Lowe, the encounter served 
as a refreshing reassurance of the work his administration has done 
in the past year.
“It was heartening to know 
that the president knew about Gainesville and to know that 
we’re a place on the map for the administration,” he said.Mayor meets President ObamaHuuda
SEE HOMICIDE, PA gE 4
SEE SCANNER, PA gE 3“It’s always exciting to go 
to the nation’s capital.”
Craig Lowe
Gainesville mayor
NewsLocalNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 2 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Nicole Deck, 
  Safid Deen, Desiree Farnum, 
  Olivia Feldman, Greg Fink, 
  Josh Isom, Caitlin O’Conner, 
  Briana Seymour, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
 Display Advertising Clerk Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker,
 Sales Representatives Joshua Andersen, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Dance Marathon registration
Wednesday to Jan. 27Still in search for a New Year’s Resolution? Why not register to 
dance for Dance Marathon 2011. 
Dance Marathon spring regis-tration is now welcoming indi-vidual dancers. Dancers do not need to be registered through or part of an organization to par -
ticipate in this wonderful event. Visit Dance Marathon’s website at www.floridadm.org to regis-
ter or for more information.
Free Improv Comedy
Friday 9 p.m. 
Orange & BrewEnjoy a free night of improv similar to “Whose Line is Anyway?”. Your suggestions will create a customized brand-
new show, never to be per -
formed ever again! Bring some 
friends or a date and enjoy the show.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line robbery. She called authorities 
and told them her husband was the robber. That’s when 45-year-old Troy Sandifar fled the cou-ple’s apartment.
CORRECTION
A story in Wednesday’s 
Alligator incorrectly reported the URL of the older version of UF Webmail. It should have read: legacy .webmail.ufl.edu. to ebehrman@alligator.org. 
Please model your submis-
sions after above events. 
STATE
Fla. suspect’s wife sees 
photo on TV, calls police 
BRADENTON, Fla. (AP) — 
Authorities south of Tampa say a man confessed to robbing a bank after his wife saw a sur -
veillance photo on the evening news and alerted them.
A camera got a clear shot of 
the man with a pony tail and scruffy beard robbing the First Bank in Bradenton on Tuesday. But Manatee County Sheriff’s officials got a break Tuesday evening when Afra Sandifar saw a news report about the PARTLY
CLOUDY
62/37SUNNY
64/39SUNNY
65/38PARTLY
CLOUDY
66/46RAIN
69/42SUNDAY MONDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer  
The burn ban prohibiting open burning and the use of 
New Year’s fireworks, sparklers and other pyrotechnics un-
less permitted by the Florida Department of Forestry was lifted Tuesday. 
Harry Collins, assistant chief of the Alachua County De-
partment of Public Safety, said that his department tries not to impose the ban often but recent cold weather killed plants 
and underbrush, making them fuel for fire. 
“We just try to keep our community safe by 
being proactive and trying to contain any possi-bility of a fire,” he said.
Jeff Lane, Gainesville Fire Rescue district chief, said the dry 
conditions coupled with the fact that the city has expanded 
into surrounding forest areas mean fires can get out of hand.
“Particularly if we have multiple fires, it can drain our fire-
fighter resources very quickly,” he said.
Lane said he was able to have a New Year’s celebration 
even with the ban.
“It didn’t cause a significant problem for us,” he said. “But 
we’re certainly glad to see the rain.”
THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
The TSA will cover the cost of the scanner
age. The computer then alters the image of the person 
who walks through the scanner and highlights any-
thing out of place. 
The millimeter wave scanner does not transform 
the original image produced by electromagnetic waves. 
Though the airport asked for the backscatter 
model, it is still not guaranteed, said Laura Aguiar, manager of public relations and governmental affairs 
for Gainesville Regional Airport. She said the scanner was chosen to insure privacy while upholding federal 
standards.
“It’s just something we wanted to make sure we 
had the best available technology that offers the most privacy to our passengers,” she said.
While there is no cost to the airport for the machine, 
the Transportation Security Administration pays any-where from $130,000 to $170,000 per scanner.
The body scanners, similar to the one Gainesville 
hopes for, have already been put to use in Boston’s Logan Airport.
Phil Orlandella, director of media relations for Lo-
gan Airport, said there hasn’t been any problems or complaints with the body scanners.
There are 486 machines in 78 airports, according 
to the TSA.
Aguiar said since Gainesville has such a small air -
port, there would be room for only one scanner to re-
place the single metal detector there now. 
She said there has been no update for when the 
scanner would be installed and that the earliest date would be sometime this spring.
Sari Koshetz, a TSA spokesperson, said it is not 
TSA policy to discuss which airports would receive the scanners until they are on deployment schedule and that Gainesville Regional is not yet officially on 
that schedule.
SCANNER , from page 1
PublicSafetyWith rain in the 
forecast, county 
lifts burn ban
AP Photo
A passenger is scanned as she prepares to travel 
at Miami International Airport on Dec. 23.
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer
When Otis Britt announced 
via Facebook that his restaurant 
would close at the end of the 
month, he expected the lament-
ing wall posts.
He expected the 46 comments 
that piled onto his page, such as 
“This sucks!! Seriously, the worst 
thing ever.”
But he didn’t expect the soli-
tary “like” that popped up short-
ly after his announcement.
That “like” came from his 
18-year-old son, Keary Britt. 
After four-and-a-half years 
of 70-hour weeks, working 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. shifts every day, 
Britt said his son and 9-year-old daughter would be glad to have 
some free time with their par -
ents.
And since seeing business 
drop from 200 customers a week to 110, losing $30,000 this year 
and having to sell his brand-new Nissan Altima for money to put 
into the restaurant, Britt said he’s glad to be home, too.
But in 2007, he remembers, he 
couldn’t be more excited to open his own business.
After managing a Perkins for 
16 years, Britt and his wife, then a real estate agent, bought the 
plate-glass-windowed shop at 
1023 W University Ave. 
A wheelchair ramp and three 
stairs lead the way up the split-
level floor to the counter, making 
it look like an altar to fast-food 
innovation. 
Their first menu consisted of 
14 hot dogs. 
After enough requests for 
French fries, they got those, too.
Now, the menu boasts about 
75 different burgers, hot dogs, fries and sandwiches. 
The menu includes such items 
as the Heart Attack Dawg, a hot 
dog wrapped in bacon, deep fried and topped with cheese sauce 
and fried onions; the Colombia 
Dawg, which sports mayonnaise, 
ketchup, mustard, onion, bacon, 
cheese, pineapple and potato 
chips; and the self-explanatory 
Peanut Butter Burger.
He said the hardest-to-make 
item is the Bull Dawg, a 3-pound pile of chili cheese fries, fried 
bell peppers and bacon; some-where under which is a ham-burger wrapped in a hot dog; all 
of which would be hard to fit on 
a shovel.
Britt’s logic: “Yeah, let’s take a 
burger and put it in a hot dog and 
just put god-awful stuff on it.”
Colin and Dana McLeod have 
been eating Gator Dawgs once a month since they decided to stop 
in after driving by two years ago. Colin, a 24-year-old grad student, usually gets the Bacon, Egg and 
Cheese Dawg. Dana gets the Chi-
cago Dawg, topped with yellow 
mustard, onion, relish, tomato, 
dill pickle, hot pepper and celery 
salt.
They sat with their friends 
Wednesday night laughing and watching football. 
Between them sat two tables, six hot dogs, three bottles of hot 
sauce, three bottles of water and 
a bottle of ketchup.
Asked what they would do 
when Gator Dawgs closes in a 
month, the group paused for a 
moment before the silence was 
broken by Dana McLeod.
“You know, there is no place in 
Gainesville like this if you think about it,” she said.4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 2011
Alex Orlando / Alligator
Otis Britt, owner of Gator Dawgs on West University Avenue, waits behind the counter for the next order. Britt said he will have to close per -
manently in about two weeks due to financial struggles.
LOCAL BUSINESSGator Dawgs is latest casualty of poor economy
By MINA RADMAN
Alligator Staff Writer
At a time when students and faculty make the most 
use of ISIS, a technological setback crashed the system 
Wednesday morning.
At approximately 9:30 a.m., the Shibboleth Authentica-
tion System, which runs Webmail, ISIS and Sakai, crashed, leaving users stranded on the first day of classes.
“I freaked out a little this morning because I needed to know where my classes were,” said freshman Rachel 
Edwards. “But then I found that the schedule of classes 
lists the teachers, so it worked out for me.”
According to UF spokesman Steve Orlan-
do, the crash occurred because of multiple 
incidents. 
As the registrar’s office tried to upload 
15,000 student records to ISIS and restart the online pay-
ment system, students logged on to drop and add classes, leading to a heavy load of users that the system could not handle. Students were warned of possible problems Tues-day through the computer help desk alerts system. The beginning of the term, from Jan. 3 to Jan. 11, is considered the busiest time of year for the servers, as usage hits near capacity. 
“They started working back in the fall on beefing up 
the system, making it more robust so things like this don’t happen,” Orlando said. “[Information Technology] folks are continuously looking for ways to improve the system 
and make it function better.”
The system came back after 45 minutes. A subsequent 
outage occurred at 2 p.m. and was resolved 10 minutes 
later.System overload causes headaches on first day of class
OnCampu s
Huuda was a member of the UF Competitive Cheerleading squad
Huuda’s car was found elsewhere, in 
the 1500 block of SW 42nd Street, he said. 
Huuda lived at The District on 62nd 
apartment complex, located at 1000 SW 
62nd Blvd. 
Authorities are forensically analyzing her vehicle, a 2001 silver Nissan Sentra, hoping to find evidence that could lead to 
a break in the case. 
“The car was obviously a key piece of 
evidence,” Forgey said. “It was not where 
she lived; it was not where she was found. 
The car got there some way, and she got to 
where she was some way.”
Huuda was a flier, or the girl who gets tossed in the air, on the UF Competitive Cheerleading squad. 
Amanda Barton, president of the squad, 
said she remembered Huuda 
as being someone who was 
always upbeat and sociable. 
“She just always had a big 
smile on her face,” she said.
Authorities are still trying to assemble a timeline of events that led up to the crime, and those with information are urged to 
call Crime Stoppers at 352-372-STOP or 
the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office at 352-
955-1818. 
A candlelight vigil for Huuda will be 
held at 7 p.m. Saturday at the Reitz Union 
Amphitheater.HOMICIDE , from page 1
NewsLocalISIS, Webmail were down for 45 minutesTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
  MOGOSOIA, Romania — Every-
one curses the tax man, but Roma-
nian witches angry about having to 
pay up for the ﬁ  rst time are planning 
to use cat excrement and dead dogs 
to cast spells on the president and 
government.
  Also among Romania’s newest 
taxpayers are fortune tellers — but 
they probably should have seen it 
coming.
  Superstitions are no laughing 
matter in Romania — the land of the medieval ruler who inspired 
the “Dracula” tale — and have been 
part of its culture for centuries. Pres-ident Traian Basescu and his aides have been known to wear purple on 
certain days, supposedly to ward off 
evil.
  Romanian witches from the east 
and west will head to the southern plains and the Danube River on Thursday to threaten the govern-
ment with spells and spirits because 
of the tax law, which came into ef-fect Jan. 1.
  A dozen witches will hurl the 
poisonous mandrake plant into the 
Danube to put a hex on government 
ofﬁ  cials “so evil will befall them,” said a witch named Alisia. She iden-tiﬁ  ed herself with one name — cus-
tomary among Romania’s witches.
  “This law is foolish. What is there to tax, when we hardly earn 
anything?” she said by telephone Wednesday. “The lawmakers don’t 
look at themselves, at how much 
they make, their tricks; they steal and they come to us asking us to put 
spells on their enemies.”
  The new law is part of the gov-
ernment’s drive to collect more rev-
enue and crack down on tax evasion 
in a country that is in recession.
  In the past, the less mainstream 
professions of witch, astrologer and 
fortune teller were not listed in the Romanian labor code, as were those 
of embalmer, valet and driving in-
structor. Those who worked those jobs used their lack of registration to 
evade paying income tax.
  Under the new law, like any self-
employed person, they will pay 16 percent income tax and make con-
tributions to health and pension programs.
  Some argue the law will be hard 
to enforce, as the payments to witch-es and astrologers usually are made in cash and relatively small at 20 to 
30 lei ($7-$10) per consultation.    Queen witch Bratara Buzea, 63, is 
furious about the new law.
  Sitting cross-legged in her villa 
in the lake resort of Mogosoaia, just 
north of Bucharest, she said Wednes-day she planned to cast a spell using a particularly effective concoction of cat excrement and a dead dog, along 
with a chorus of witches.
    Not every witch is threatening ﬁ  re and brimstone.
  “This law is very good,” said 
Mihaela Minca. “It means that our magic gifts are recognized and I can 
open my own practice.” THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
When you were applying, don’t you wish you knew 
that Walmart was open 24/7 for supplies to tag the 34th Street Wall?
Now you can tell potential freshmen...and get paid 
for it!
Join the CollegiateChat™ network—exclusively 
for college students—and make money for talking to college-bound high school students about Florida. 
Yeah, this is for real.
Undergrads: Make 
at least $20/hr. for talking to high school students about Florida!
Sign up at:  
www.collegesolved.com/florida
 AP Photo
  Trouble is brewing for Romania’s witches, whose toil is being taxed for the ﬁ  rst time despite threats of 
putting curses on the government. Also being taxed are fortune tellers, who probably saw this coming. 
 Curses! Romania’s witches forced to pay income tax   n THE NEW RATE IS 6.25 PERCENT.  
By MORGAN WATKINS
 Alligator Writer 
 
  As Christmas lights fade and New Year’s 
resolutions are broken within days of their 
inception, Alachua County welcomes anoth-er herald of 2011: a cheaper sales tax. 
  Local shoppers will pay a 6.25 percent tax 
on any products or services they purchase within the county this year, compared to the 6.75 percent rate they paid for the past two years.
  The tax was reduced because the voter-approved Wild Spaces and Public Places tax ended on Dec. 31, 2010. The tax was created to fund various projects, including land con-servation and park maintenance efforts. 
  The economic recession, however, pro-
vided lower sales tax revenues than origi-nally expected. The program has reduced the scope of its plans to match the received 
funds, Alachua County commissioner Mike 
Byerly said.
  The 2011 tax includes the statewide 6 
percent rate and a 0.25 percent surtax used to fund CHOICES, a county health program that provides services for local workers who lack health insurance. The 7-year surtax, ap-proved by voters in 2004, began in 2005 and will end on Dec. 31 of this year. 
  Revenue from the tax is used to provide 
various health services to the program’s un-insured members, CHOICES Director Bob Bailey said. 
  The program’s fund balance is about $40 
million, and projected revenue for 2011 is 
expected to reach $7.5 million 
— the same amount received 
in 2010, he said. The services  CHOICES provides, however, 
are growing more costly as its membership increases. 
  “This year the membership is growing so 
rapidly that, for the ﬁ  rst time, CHOICES will spend more than it receives,” Bailey said.   CHOICES now receives between 300 and 
350 applications per month, compared to a monthly average of about 250 in 2009, Bai-ley said. The economic recession also hurt its funding as many people began to spend less and save more. 
   When the surtax expires at the end of 
this year, CHOICES will continue to operate 
until either the money runs out or the coun-
ty, with voter approval, alters the program plan, Byerly said.
  “I think many of the issues that CHOICES 
was intended to address may ultimately be addressed by the health care program [intro-duced] this past year,” Byerly said. “We’re waiting to see how that shakes out.” 
 Local sales tax decreases half a penny in 2011
“This law is foolish. What 
is there to tax, when we 
hardly earn anything?”
Alisia
Romanian witchNewsLocalThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
26 TOTAL VOTES42% YES
58% NOWednesday’s question: Have you already broken your New Year’s resolution?Today’s question: Should the   “N-word” be removed from “Huckleberry Finn”?Power Shift
Republicans should tread 
carefully in new role
After years of performance that could be best described 
as wildly inconsistent and at worst can be compared to a Big Ten team in a bowl game, the Democrats re-
linquished control of the House Wednesday in an episode that spliced together the ceremonious with the awkward.
While the move comes at no shock given the consider -
able conservative backlash that has swept across the coun-try since the last general election, it should cause Americans from both sides of the political landscape to pause and re-flect. For Democrats, the scene of numerous freshmen GOP congressmen walking up the steps of Capitol Hill waving the banner of deregulation and “freedom of choice” should serve as a warning shot across the bow for what will prove to be a bitter battle in November 2012. 
Republicans, on the other hand, should not see their vic-
tory last November as the ultimate sign of confidence from the American people. While many Republican lawmakers described their electoral victories as “the American people finally letting their voices being heard,” it was this same “American voice” that called for their heads only two years prior, a fervor fueled by a heavy intoxication of anti-Bush sentiment.
We ask Republicans in Washington not to use this newly 
packed-on muscle to constantly swing the hammer at Demo-crats in an effort to live through the ghosts of Taft, Goldwa-ter and Reagan.  While the right-wing may try to relive the glory days of 1776, 1946 and 1981, we caution them to re-member 1995, when a former history professor from the state of Georgia tried to rally his forces for a final stand against an “overbearing” Democratic executive, only to have his Aces cracked in the federal government shutdown. 
Sometimes, the House doesn’t always win.
Guest column
Some college mascots fail to intimidate
Ah…the college mascot. 
For years they have colored sidelines across 
America, exciting crowds with their amusing an-
tics and T-shirt guns. 
What would a college sports game be without a color -
ful, overly energetic creature flailing along the sidelines?  
They inspire apparel, cheers, and team spirit for col-
lege football fans nationwide while instilling awe and fear 
in the opposing team. 
Well, at least some of them do. For schools such as Or -
egon and Oklahoma, I have to say I admire the effort it must take to maintain school spirit. 
Now, I understand you may think your Ducks and 
Sooners are extremely threatening, so it is with much re-morse that I relay this disappointing news: Those mascots suck. 
Seriously, out of all of the fang-baring, biting and poi-
sonous creatures out there, could you not pick something better?
For universities large and small, the mascot operates as 
the PR unit of the school, and for some the job is easier than 
others. Smack talk from the University of Texas’s Bevo the 
Longhorn is certainly more intimidating than that from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln’s Herbie Husker. 
Schools with nonthreatening mascots are at a much 
lower level of ferocity when it comes to intimidating foes, and the burden of defending their school’s name falls upon the students. 
When your mascot is only entertaining ironically, I 
cannot help but assume it’s a bit of a damper on school 
pride, as much as the Minnesota Golden Gophers try to 
convince us otherwise. 
Now, in the spirit of thwarting mascots, it is necessary to introduce perhaps college’s worst mascot of all time. 
Everybody please rise to your 
feet for OTTO THE…Orange? 
Yep, that’s right. Syracuse proudly (ehh) boasts Otto the Orange as 
their symbol of power and, well, it’s a fruit. A fruit has 
no threatening, admirable or even amusing qualities. An 
honorable mention to you, Syracuse, for bearing the bur -
den of such a less-than- menacing mascot.    
One has to wonder, were some schools’ founders drunk 
when they were establishing their institution? Oranges, 
wagons and ducks certainly sound like funny jokes, but 
perhaps the school’s foundation is left scratching its head as years elapse and the hilarity wears off.
Of course, not even the most awkward of mascots can 
devalue an academically or athletically sound school (Yes, I’m looking at you Alabama. Notice that your battle cry has nothing to do with your elephant mascot). Only so much pride is knocked with a less -than-intimidating mascot. 
All that really matters is that a university bands to-
gether behind a symbol, and through it they unite and as-semble school pride.
However, one does have to wonder how Ohio State 
University really feels about their prized nut, Brutus Buckeye, or how proud the University of California, Santa Cruz really is of Sammy the Banana Slug. 
Perhaps it doesn’t matter and perhaps it does, and 
for now the lucky schools with daunting mascots (ahem, 
Gators) can enjoy a chuckle on behalf of the mascots who 
try so hard, yet fall so short.
Laura Ellermeyer is a finance major. 
Censory overload
So much for great 
American novels being sacred.
Auburn University pro-
fessor Alan Gribben decid-ed to remove the “N-word” from Mark Twain’s Huck-
leberry Finn and replace it 
with “slaves.” That’s 219 times he’s vandalizing a time capsule.
We’re not excusing the 
use of the word in our so-ciety; it’s a relic of the past. But while we’d like to forget the word and the racism it’s 
associated with, we can’t. 
Students should know 
about the blemishes even 
a country as great as ours has. The 125-year-old novel 
shows how far America has 
come, borne on the backs of generations of people.
And that’s probably what 
Twain hoped.He wrote the novel as a 
satire of antebellum South-ern attitudes, using his char -
acter Jim to humanize the 
victims of slavery.
Twain wanted the reader 
to feel discomfort because, 
as human beings, we squirm when we perceive injustice.
The book faced critique 
about its treatment of race through the years — enough criticism to keep many Eng-
lish teachers from touch-
ing on the book in class. It’s a shame they’re afraid students will only see 219 of Twain’s thousands of 
words.
Rewording a classic be-
cause we feel uncomfort-
able with it is like draping 
Michelangelo’s David with 
bed sheets — it’s exchang-ing artistic vision for politi-cal correctness.
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITORLaura Ellermeyer
Speaking OutTHURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
NewSouth Books, a publishing company in Mont-
gomery, Ala., has announced its plan to release a new edition of Mark Twain’s universally rec-
ognized and brilliant novel “Huckleberry Finn” sans the words “nigger” and “injun.” This censored edition by NewSouth will replace the word “nigger” with “slave.”
The word “nigger” appears in the “Huckleberry Finn” 
219 times. The first printing of this censored version of Twain’s tour de force will be a modest 7,500 copies, ac-cording to NewSouth. And although this is a small amount of printings, the message being sent to 21st century Amer -
ican youth is large and cannot be further from wrong or 
better devalue the significance of Twain’s novel.
The novel, as it was written, reflects the time period 
it was published and the American sentiment about the 
relationship between black and white people in pre-Civil 
War America — when African-Americans were still not 
considered citizens at all, but property and chattel. Twain knew who he was writing for and what he was writing about having spent his formative years in former slave state of Missouri and worked as a newspaperman in his 
adult life. He was well acquainted with plantation life, 
slave life and the English vernacular of African-Ameri-cans in Missouri. He demonstrates this with an explana-tory paragraph that is present at the beginning of “Huck-
leberry Finn.”
The explanatory paragraph by Twain states, “In this 
book a number of dialects are used, to wit: the Missouri 
negro dialect; the extremist form of the backwoods South-Western dialect; the ordinary “Pike County” dialect and 
the modified varieties of this last.” Twain goes on to write, 
“The shadings have not been done in a hap-hazard fash-ion, or by guess-work; but pains-takingly, and with the trustworthy guidance and support of personal familiarity 
with these several forms of speech. I make this explana-
tion for the reason that without it many readers would suppose that all these characters were trying to talk alike 
and not succeeding.”
Knowing his genius would be seen as lowbrow bigotry 
in printed form Twain had the foresight to make his inten-tions known even in a time when the 
most cosmopolitan and politically progressive American was likely to 
over look his persistent use of the 
word “nigger.”
“Huckleberry Finn” was written to combat the racist 
and bigoted attitudes of Americans — both black and white — during Reconstruction. This is a seminal moment 
in our nation’s history.
In his novel Twain wrote about the growing friendship, 
loyalty and brotherhood between a black man and white child; a concept nearly 100 years ahead of its time. Until 
1954 the United States made laws that prohibited even 
black and white children in the same classroom together, let alone an adult and child. The relationship formed be-tween the novel’s protagonist and namesake, Huck Finn 
and the slave he rescues and befriends, Jim, has shades of 
a father-son and brother-brother connection that is indica-tive of the strong bonds between family and the strength of human affection regardless of the melanin — or lack thereof — in a person’s skin. These are the ideas Twain 
struggles to convey to a public that largely believes oth-
erwise in a time period when it is en vogue to belittle and degrade black people.
Many scholars of American literature, history and 
culture have called this book what it is: a master piece of the highest order and one worthy of the privilege of being taught in our high schools and universities. Ernest Hemingway called “Huckleberry Finn” the “source of all American literature.” T.S. Eliot called it “a masterpiece.” 
George C. Carrington Jr. wrote that it “is generally ac-
knowledged as one of the three authentic masterpieces of American fiction” alongside Herman Melville’s “Moby Dick” and Nathaniel Hawthorne’s “The Scarlet Letter.” 
Twain gave himself a back-handed compliment when 
he said of his novel it is “a book people praise and don’t read.” Perhaps Twain knew the fate of his novel nearly a 
century in advance.
Surely, some prefer not to be reminded of what the so-
cial climate of the United States was like in 1884 when this novel was first published; that our country had just 
fought a war with itself over — among other things — the freedom and independence of black Americans in our 
country. But that does not change the past we come from, 
the future we seek or the present we make.
“Huckleberry Finn” has consistently appeared on the 
United States most challenged and challenging book lists, 
has been relegated to optional reading lists in high schools 
and universities or egregiously banned from institutions of learning altogether, over the novel’s use of the word “nigger.”
The term “nigger” ranks as one of the most wretched 
and vile words in the thralls of language. It is beyond the simply profane; it is hurtful and scourging to the psyche in a way that borders on criminal. But it also is found in the work of other literary geniuses such as Joseph Conrad 
and Charles Dickens. Are we to stricken the word from 
their literary efforts as well?
The word was given its venom from the tongues of our 
grandfather’s grandfathers and remains among us today as a reminder. It reminds of us of how far we have come in 
race relations, the unity we have formed in the years since 
The Civil War and where we might fall to if we do not re-main vigilant, careful and caring. Vigilant to educate our children about the use, misuse and history of the word 
“nigger,” careful to develop a scholarly tongue and sensi-
tive nature about the word and caring enough not to shy away from the conversation and bold enough to resolve our nation’s confrontation with it.
Have I made you uncomfortable with my persistent 
use of the word “nigger” throughout this essay? If so, ask yourself why and let’s start there. Regardless, the con-tinued use of one foul word amongst the million in the English language should not prevent students — our chil-
dren — from appreciating the unabridged version of what 
is considered by the rationally natured human being, an American classic. Our nation is too strong and has come 
too far socially to be held back by a single word, a single 
harsh sentiment, a single fear.
By R.J. Young, Oklahoma Daily, U. Oklahoma via UWIRE ‘Huckleberry Finn’ should lead to discourse, not censorshipUWire
R.J. Young
UWiretheAvenue         thursday, january 6, 2011
“There are pictures of 
Bieber groping Selena Gomez on a boat. Good-bye Cruciatus Curse, I just found a new way to cause physical pain!”
@Lord_Voldemort7MUSIC:
The Adolescents with Lower Class Bratsat Common Grounds Price: $10When: 8 p.m. tonight  
FOOD:La Tienda Latinaon 2204 SW13th Street
FILM:
“Tapped”at the Ocala Civic Theater4337 E Silver Springs Blvd. Ocala, FL 34470  OWN THIS TOWN:Pg. 9: Fifth Ave.,
Gamer Bait
Pg. 10: How to cure the 
post-holiday blues
Pg. 11: the A-List
Pg. 12: New beer for the 
new yearIN THIS ISSUE: 
ONLINE:
For more avenue scoop,
check out http://www.alligator.org/the_avenueMatt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Yoga students stretch and bend at Ashtanga Yoga of Gainesville during a Tuesday evening class. The exercise, led by yogi Kevin 
Bogle, includes 90 minutes of constant movements and postures that define the Ashtanga style.
WelcOHMing in the New Year 
By ALLISON BANKO
avenue writer
Just as the first second of 2011 kicked off with 
a certain “Jersey Shore” nugget dropping down in 
a giant MTV ball, it hit you, right after that desper -
ate, sloppy smooch. It’s New Year’s resolution time, baby. It’s the year for closet-cleaning and working more on saving the cash flow than slurping it down at Salty Dog. And most importantly, getting those post-holiday bods into shape. Of course, getting fit 
is no uncommon  resolution. And, not surprisingly, 
within the first couple of days on campus,  the gym crowd has exploded, and the number of runners necessary to dodge on the walk to class could be compared to a game of “Frogger.” 
While hundreds of newborn fitness junkies will 
compete for treadmills at chaotic Southwest, in Gainesville there lie quiet, tranquil workout venues just waiting for you to visit. In particular, for an exer -cise as physically challenging as it is calming, look no further than a quaint yoga classroom nestled right off campus. But don’t get it twisted: This isn’t your grandma’s yoga class. 
Ashtanga Yoga of Gainesville offers a practice 
that serves more than the average ohm (that low humming  sound yoga participants make as they 
meditate and stretch). 
Kevin Bogle, owner and instructor for 14 years,  
teaches the Ashtanga style of yoga, which empha-
sizes a continual movement that flows from pos-
see YOGA, page 10 A resolution that benefits mind and bodyTWIT PICK:  By ANDREW WYZAN
 avenue writer
 
  Between the days of soul-crushing ﬁ  nals 
and the start of a new semester, in that two-
week slice of heaven called “the holidays,” I learned to appreciate the ﬁ  ner things in life: sleeping until noon, watching movies on 
the couch and good, old-fashioned monster 
stomping. 
  Games in the hardcore “platforming” 
genre have fallen out of favor in recent years, as every gamer and his mother is either blow-
ing up heads in “Call of Duty” or doing yoga 
on the Nintendo Wii Fit. 
  Seeing this trend, Nin-
tendo has descended from the gaming heavens to 
bring forth “Donkey Kong Country Returns,” a true sequel to the classic Super 
Nintendo series. 
  The game comes courtesy of Retro Stu-
dios, the Texas-based developer that simi-larly modernized Samus Aran in the near-perfect “Metroid Prime.”
  Beautifully rendered in two-and-a-half di-
mensions reminiscent of the series’ ground-breaking visuals at the time, “Donkey Kong Country Returns” will wash every gamer, young and old alike, in nostalgia and fun.
  The story is, of course, Nintendo’s usual 
ﬂ  air of simplicity and silliness. Donkey Kong’s banana hoard has been stolen once again, 
and it’s up to him and his sidekick Diddy 
Kong to get the precious plantains back. 
  Sadly, DK’s mortal nemesis King K. Rool, 
everyone’s favorite lizard king not named Jim Morrison, is sitting this game out. Instead, a band of anthropomorphic tiki instruments 
have stolen the hoard and hypnotized the lo-
cal island population into serving them.
  While the story is pretty much ignorable, 
the game play is where “Donkey Kong Coun-try Returns” shines like a 24-karat diamond. 
You’ll be running, jumping, rolling, punching and blasting through eight worlds ﬁ  lled with 
baddies and barrels. 
  A mechanical addition to the series in-
volves switching between the foreground and the background, which opens the many levels to ever further exploration and breath-taking scenery. In one level, the background 
is illuminated by a sunset, casting a shadow 
over everything in the foreground, while DK’s signature red tie contrasts with the aesthet-ic. It’s gorgeous to behold.
  However, it’s a bad idea to get too caught 
up in the beauty of the game, as beating this one is difﬁ  cult. Very difﬁ  cult. Back in DK’s heyday it was common for games to be in the highest reaches of the difﬁ  culty curve, and 
it looks like “Donkey Kong Country Returns” 
is bringing that back. Make no mistake, you will die. A lot.
  Each level requires perfect timing and 
precision controls, and the player is given ample lives to continue through the meat grinder. This type of game play is rewarding, as there’s no greater feeling in the world than reaching the goal in one of the game’s many 
dreaded mine cart levels. Nintendo should 
have put a warning label on the box: “May cause broken controllers and gratuitous use of F bombs.”
  In spite of the difﬁ  culty, or maybe because 
of it, “Donkey Kong Country Returns” is one of the best games currently on the Wii, and it’s guaranteed to make you feel 10 years old again. It’s fun, beautiful and you get ﬂ  y rock-
et barrels. What more could a gamer want? thursday, january 6, 2011  u ALLIGATOR, 9
5th
ave  Fifth Ave.: Fashion Dos and Don’ts in 2011
  By DANA BURKE
 avenue writer
 
  Lady Gaga, chew on this: Meat 
dresses are so last year. All of those 
opposed to wearing carnage as clothing, say goodbye to the antics of 2010 and hello to a sharper, more stylish 2011. Make better style a top New Year’s resolution with the Av-enue’s list of fashion dos and don’ts. With it, you’ll be sure to avoid a fash-ion faux pas and maybe even end up on 2011’s best dressed list. 
  
DON’Ts
  Uggs 
Perhaps the name of these boots 
came straight from the fact that they are in fact ugg – as in ugly, even 
more so when they’re worn with a 
pair of sweats or cutoff jeans. Sure, 
they’re warm, but unless it’s snowing (fat chance in Florida), opt for a pair of regular boots. 
  Parachute pants
Let’s face it: The best clothes are 
those that ﬂ  atter the ﬁ  gure.  Whoev-
er thought it was a good idea to load 
fabric at the thigh and tailor it at the ankle was obviously misguided. Plus, it’s 2011, not 1970.  MC Hammer, you can have your pants back. 
Skin-tight clothes
Mufﬁ  n tops just look bad. Wear-ing the right size of clothing is key. 
Not only will well-ﬁ  tted clothing make the body look better, but it’ll be com-ﬁ  er as well.
  Tights and leggings as pants
Sheer clothing was never meant 
to be worn alone. Yes, early class-
goers, we’re talking to you. Whether pressed for time or not, set that alarm early enough to slip on a pair of jeans or at least sweat pants.
  Ed Hardy gear
Sometimes high price doesn’t 
translate to high fashion. This stuff 
may have the price tag of a classy ensemble, but it looks no better than something bought at a trashy 10-cent store. With the ability to make guys and girls look like total tools, wearing this tacky-festooned wear is a deﬁ  nite fashion don’t.
  DOS
Play with prints
There’s no better way to spice 
up an outﬁ  t than with a bold print. Make a dud of an ensemble shout with leopard print ﬂ  ats or a ﬂ  oral print top. Just don’t go overboard. Unmixed prints in small quantities are a girl’s best friend, but those in excess make for a fashion end. 
  Sheer layering
Take layering to the next level 
by pairing lace or chiffon with solid 
colored tops. When done the right way, this trick can make for a playful, 
feminine look. Just be sure to avoid 
the trashy, you-can-totally-see-my-bra-through-this look.
  Accessorize
Express fashion individuality by 
throwing on a few rings, a nice scarf 
or an edgy purse.  Accessories can 
completely change the tone of an 
outﬁ  t, so don’t be afraid to take chances.
Mix fabrics
Attention, Gators: Despite what 
the commercials say, cotton may be 
“the fabric of our lives,” but it’s not 
the only one. Mix up your fashion pal-
ette by trying fabrics with texture. For example, slip on a knit cardigan in-
stead of hoodie or a pair of polished 
corduroy pants instead of boring old 
denim.
  Socks with heels
It may sound silly, but this trend 
is one of the latest to hit the runway, 
and it’s no surprise why. It’s noth-
ing like the obvious fashion no-no of 
wearing socks with sandals. Ew. Trust 
us:  Soft, comfy socks paired with a 
pair of edgy, fun heels is one of the most stylish ways to keep your toes 
warm this winter. Stick with solid col-
ors that match your shoes, and don’t 
be afraid to perk up a neutral, under-
stated outﬁ  t with a pair of brightly 
colored socks. But be warned: Avoid 
white crew socks at all costs! 
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Carley Cavanaugh, 19, brings together all of the 2011 “do” looks.
 Gamer Bait: Donkey Kong is back, better than when you were 10
Go bananas for revamped classic
Cynthia Despres / Alligator Staff10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, january 6, 2011
By SHELBY WEBB
avenue contributing writer 
After the stockings have been stowed and the fire -
works extinguished, it may be tough to get out of bed 
in the morning. Sadly, the days of overeating, not work -
ing out and sleeping in are gone, only to be replaced by the chaos that is the first week of classes: alarms that seem to go off too early, book-buying and hunt-ing for new classrooms. Here comes the post-holiday funk. Try just one of these remedies, and we’re sure 
your former holiday cheer will be restored.
Throw a tacky sweater party. When else will you 
wear that embarrassing winter wear your aunt gave 
you? Serve peppermint party shots: mix 1/2 oz. crème de cacao, 1/2 oz. peppermint schnapps and 1 oz. cream. It’s like Christmas in your mouth – but with a kick.
Use your Christmas cash to take a trip. Visit a  
friend at a neighboring school, 
take a cross-country road trip on 
a weekend or go to a theme park. Don’t think it’s not deserved. You dragged your sorry behind back to Gainesville – that’s reason enough to reward yourself.
Get out of your dorm. Even 
though New Year’s Eve has passed, there’s nothing wrong with going out and pretending like it’s still here. 
Anyway, the new year is still fresh. Party hard and ring 
in 2011 right.
Watch Gator basketball. The sport may not get as 
much hype as football and may not seem as exciting (last season excluded), but a little school spirit can only do the soul good.
Bake a pie or sugar cutout cookies with friends.  
Who says baking and pigging out on sweet treats is only allowed during the holidays? Not only will you get scrumptious goodies in the end, you’ll also be kicking off the semester in your home away from home–with your extended family.How to remedy 
the dreaded post-holiday slumpExercise provides good stretch after workout
ture to posture. In other words, there are no 
breaks—shattering the stigma that yoga is just “too easy,” Bogle said.
“For some people, a regular yoga class 
might be too slow for them or they may feel 
like they aren’t getting anything besides a 
good stretch,” Bogle said. “[Asthanga Yoga] is definitely for people who might not want to sit around and hold postures forever.”
Bogle’s classes feature an hour and 
a half of postures, focusing on traditional yoga that helps create muscle tone, core 
strength and flexibility. 
We decided to get a taste of what 
Ashtanga was all about, so we went to one 
of Bogle’s 90-minute sessions just for you (happy new year, kids).
The studio, which Bogle rents from Uni-
fied Training Center off  University Avenue, is a cozy room with turquoise walls lined with mirrors and welcoming, white Christmas lights. As students enter they’re greeted by the friendly face of Bogle, a cheerful man who sports a short ponytail. “Although it’s very physical, it’s still a 
yoga style that emphasizes the breath and the concentration and relaxation,” Bogle said of the Ashtanga style.
Sure enough, as Bogle said, the exercise 
included zero breaks. It required constant 
movement with connecting, fluid postures 
combined with vinyasas, a series including a push-up like movement, followed by up-ward and downward dog. 
The postures were so fluid, one could 
feel them in all parts of the body. Thighs burned. Arms stretched. Abs tightened.
Kay Tappan, a UF graduate in mass com-
munications, has done yoga for about five 
years and has attended Bogle’s classes for 
about one year.
“I like the intensity,” she said. “It’s re -
laxing but also a good workout. Since I’ve started, I feel more relaxed and healthy as a whole.” 
For some, like 32-year-old Josh Abramow -
itz, the class was a first.
“Yoga is a way to force me to stretch af-
ter I workout,” Abramowitz said. “I’ve done other yoga classes that are not very chal-lenging, but I enjoyed that I broke a sweat during this class.” 
After the students rounded out their 
postures, both standing and sitting, heart rates ,just minutes before rapidly beating, finally slowed. When the light switch was 
flipped, darkness flooded the room and the 
students, eyelids closed and limbs finally stationary, laid on rubber mats and let rest their stretched muscles. Minds cleared and bodies at peace, the students relaxed on the floor as Bogle played soothing music on an instrument akin to a wooden flute. With ev -
eryone lying still and the notes flooding out of the soothing woodwind, it seemed just 
like a scene from “Eat, Pray, Love.” When 
the class was dismissed, all participants felt relaxed, revived and rejuvenated. After all was said and done, it was certain the exer -
cise  marked the end to gingerbread bellies and stressful burdens.
“You’re working out pretty hard,” Bogle 
said of the exercise. 
“Whatever it is that’s bothering you 
at the time it’s like it squeezes it out of you.”
YOGA , from page 8
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Yoga student Kay Tappan practices Ashtanga sequences during a class with Ast-
hanga Yoga of Gainesville on Tuesday evening.
The Skinny
What is Ashtanga?
A traditional yoga practice consisting of constant movement and flowing postures.How will it help with your get-fit resolu -
tion?Ashtanga yoga practice results in physical and mental benefits including muscle tone, flexibility, relaxation and core strength.
When and Where?
Unified Training Center on 809 West University Ave.Monday: 9 a.m. to 10:30 a.m.Tuesday: 7:30 a.m. to 9 p.m.Thursday: 5:30 p.m. to 7 p.m.Hipmoves Fitness Studio on 708 NW 23rd Ave.Sunday: 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.How much?$10 per class
     *  Check out http://yoga-gainesville
com for more info thursday, january 6, 2011  u ALLIGATOR, 11
Each Thursday, the Avenue is serving up the best in entertainment, pop culture and everything in between. From the big screen to 
the radio waves, check out this week’s picks. ALIST THEsee
listenBy MELINDA CARSTENSEN watchJersey Shore
What better way to kick 
off the new semester 
than with the laughable antics 
of Snookie & co.? This season ﬁ  nds the bronzed, boisterous guidos and guidettes 
back in New Jersey and away from South 
Beach, ready for a third helping of hot tubs, drunken revelry and reckless, unproductive arguments. The crew’s all the same except for newbie Deena, who’s replacing Angelina and, unlike most of the cast, is a New Jersey native. Get ready for GTL: Season three starts today at 10 p.m. Country Strong
Not everybody likes country music. But 
everybody loves a comeback 
kid. In this case, that “kid” is Kelly Canter (Gwyneth Paltrow), a middle-
aged,  washed-up  country music star. 
But Chiles Stanton (Leighton Meester, “Gossip Girl”), a prim and proper beauty queen-gone-country artist, threatens to steal Canter’s regained thunder. Throw in a tangled love web, a drug addiction and some stage lights, and you’ve got a country drama wild enough to pop the strings off that banjo. Yee-haw! Showroom of Compassion
 Check out the latest tunes from 
peppy pop-rockers Cake, who 
haven’t released new work since 2004’s 
“Pressure Chief.” But even though almost seven years 
have passed, one can expect Cake’s sixth studio al-
bum to include the band’s classic fare of quirky lyrics, 
driving beats and well-placed horn riffs. The album comes out Jan. 11. However, those who pre-order the album get an instant download of “Sick of You.” Sounds like icing on top of a delicious cake.read The Lover’s Dictionary
  David Levithan’s latest novel 
doesn’t play any games: It’s bare 
and honest in title and in substance. Particu-
larly, the book’s name is ﬁ  tting because its content is 
not a complicated, metaphorical narrative ﬁ  lled with 
hidden meanings and a twisted storyline. Rather, it’s 
literally an extensive dictionary of words uttered by lovers of all kinds, deﬁ  ned in a romantic, relation-ship-centered context that at times can be silly and heart-wrenching at others. Hopeless romantics, this one’s for you. 12, ALLIGATOR u thursday, january 6, 2011
New year, new beer: branch out from your usual brew
By RICHARD O. STEHLI
avenue contributing writer
Welcome home, Gators. How’s your cham-
pagne hangover treating you?  Mine might 
be gone by the time this prints, but I’m not 
counting on it.
2011: Just another year, or an opportunity 
to drink deep of new experiences? Undoubt-edly, every day brings a chance to try a new 
drink, and the possibilities are overwhelm-
ing. Even  the most avid beer connoisseurs have room to expand their palette. Break out of the light beer rat race. Use alcohol as a 
means to live and experience, not a medica-
tion to help you forget.  Here are some tips to get you started on a year of drinking you’ll want to remember.Try a New Scene, and a New Beer While 
You’re at It 
Bored with the club scene?  Mix it up!  
Gainesville now boasts three dedicated beer bars, all within walking distance of each 
other.  
If you can afford it, Stubbies Shirt Pub 
has the most beer in Gainesville, and with a 
constantly rotating stock, you’re always sure to find something new and incredible.  The 
Alcove is always stuffed to the rafters with 
beer nerds, drawn to a great selection of craft beer and friendly, knowledgeable bartend -
ers.  Not a fan of the loud and the crowd?  
Check out Midnight, with eight tap handles 
and a quieter, café-like atmosphere.
Drink Local If you haven’t tried Gainesville’s first and only craft brewery, now is the perfect time.  
It’s been more than a year since Swamp Head 
Brewery put out its first pint, and the unini-tiated are all out of excuses.  Head over to Salty Dog on University Avenue, the first bar 
with all five Swamp Head standards on tap.  
Warm yourself this winter 
with Midnight Oil, a coffee-infused oatmeal stout sure to keep you buzzing.
Watch the Show, Drink 
the Beer 
This year on Sunday 
nights, Discovery will take 
you around the world in search of the great-est and strangest ingredients to make some of America’s most innovative beers.  Dogfish Head Brewery founder Sam Calagione sets out on an epic quest to recreate the ancient 
beers of the world.  
The best part?  Interactivity.  Head out to 
the store and buy the very brew you just saw 
broken down to the atomic level by one of the 
most respected names in craft brewing.
Get Talking 
Alcohol is likely to be one of your larg-
est investments in college, both in time and money.  Learn about it, and you’ll enjoy it a 
lot more.
  Head to your local bottle shop and ask 
questions.  Talk to the people buying it next 
to you.  Invite five friends over and tell every -
body to bring a six-pack of something new.  
Do what you have to do, and make your 
2011 drinking experiences so fresh they’re unforgettable.
The scoop on your New 
Year’s resolution s
By LAUREN GOLD
avenue writer
The only thing more important than what you did on New Year’s Eve is what 
you’re going to do in the new year. Sure, it’s just a date. But a new year means 
a fresh start: new friends, new experiences, and, most importantly, new resolu -
tions. Though they may be clichéd and are more often broken than kept, there are a few worth trying. Lucky for you, we’ve sifted through the duds and picked out the best. Check out our picks for top new year’s resolutions.THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIAMI — Courtney Carver was trying to find 
ways to simplify her life when she decided to pare down her wardrobe to 33 items to be worn over three months.
Once she launched the concept on her blog 
and Facebook page in October, she realized she 
wasn’t the only one who wanted to dress with less. 
She says the challenge has done more than just save her money.
“What we are finding now is that we had to re -
duce our expenses and our expectations of what made us happy,” she said from her home in Cot-tonwood Heights, Utah.
Carver, 41, isn’t alone.Virginia Smith, Vogue’s fashion market director, 
said more people are making do with less in their closets. “I do think it is a new thought in fashion that is getting out to the more mainstream,” she said.
But, she said, challenges like Carver’s are too 
severe for most people.
“I think when things turned bad a couple of 
years ago, I think people had to pare down and really consider their purchases,” Smith said. 
“Thinking about what you are purchasing is a good 
thing.”
Carver, who is in sales but is also a writer and 
photographer, said even a few years ago she would walk into a store to buy a couple things and leave having spent hundreds of dollars.
“I did it out of habit. I did it because I thought I 
worked hard and deserved it,” she said.
The first phase of her Project 333 ends this 
month. In January, she’ll do it for another three months, replacing whatever is inappropriate for the season. She included accessories like sunglasses and purses on her list of 33.
“It’s about using the clothes I have,” Carver 
said.
She has also pared down other areas of her 
life and is now debt-free. Her family has canceled 
cable, swapped phone service and cut down on 
possessions.
About 440 people on Facebook are participat-
ing in her challenge and more than 40 are blogging about the experience, Carver said. She’s launching a website early next month and later on will offer seasonal paring-down guides, for a fee, to people who want to follow her clothing diet but need help.
Melissa Leventon, a fashion historian at Califor -
nia College of the Arts, said the idea of having a minimal wardrobe isn’t new. About 100 years ago, it wasn’t unheard of for a working-class woman to have only three dresses and two pairs of shoes that were worn until they couldn’t be mended. But she questions whether people can stick with it now.
“I think it’s very, very hard to sustain it over a 
long period of time because we have such pres-
sure to consume,” she said.Blogger Tammy Strobel, 32, has been doing a 
“100 Thing Challenge” for two years. That number 
includes books, shoes, clothes and even a helmet. 
She lives in a 400 square foot apartment with her husband and their two cats in Portland, Ore. The couple started giving away their possessions about three years ago.
“We realized, ‘Wow, what are we doing chasing 
after this dream that might not really suit us?’” she said.
Blogger and author Leo Babuata said he start-
ed doing the challenge, too, and got down to 50 things at one point. Babuata and his wife have six children ranging from 4 to 17 . They moved to San 
Francisco in June from Guam and he says he has 
been paring down his life for years. As far as cloth-ing for his kids, it’s only essentials.
“It used to be cutting back was a sign of pov -
erty. It was a sacrifice and now we are turning it around to something positive,” he said.
New York-based stylist Phillip Bloch said others 
may be looking to uncluttter their wardrobes and cut back on expenses after overspending before 
the recession. His book, “The Shopping Diet,” of-
fers tips to control spending when shopping.
“I think it’s a way to keep your life under con-
trol,” he said.
If you’re going to go minimalist, Bloch warns, 
do it with style.
“I don’t think you have to go from eating at the 
buffet to eating only ramen noodles,” he said.
Instead of buying a little black dress, make it 
chocolate or forest green. Don’t just buy a plain T-
shirt. Get one with a scoop or boat neck and get it 
in red or navy.
Designers like Narciso Rodriguez, Jill Sander, 
Prada and Calvin Klein have minimalist designs, so sparseness doesn’t always come cheap. Even celebrities like Gwyneth Paltrow, Jennifer Connelly and Tilda Swinton seem to love the look of less. But for those who don’t have their wallets, Vogue’s Smith said alternatives like J. Crew and Ann Taylor 
are good.
But, she says, putting them together is per -
sonal.
“That’s such an individual thing. The idea of 
dictating an idea isn’t right,” she said. “I don’t think 
there one standard formula.”Try this on for size: a clothing diet
The 
Worst
1. Drinking less. 
Following this one is always tough to do at one of the na-tion’s top party schools, which is why this resolution is better saved for after graduation.
2. Watching less TV
It’s on when you study and before you go to bed. Turn-ing your back on that glowing, faithful companion? Unthink-able. 
3. Not hooking up with that cute 
new T.A. Be honest with yourself: You’re not going to stop.
4. Watching more online lec-
tures. And not take advantage of the tutoring service offered by the god of all UF grads? Oh, Tutor-ing Zone, where would our GPAs be without you?
5. Getting off Facebook. 
It’s too time-consuming, my grades are falling… we’ve heard all the excuses. But there’s just no beating that addiction. Follow us at @GatorAve on Twitter if you’re really craving a social network change.The 
Best
1. Sitting closer to the front in lecture. Let’s be honest. Playing with that new smart phone won’t help you pass.
2.Being nicer. 
Take pity on those poor souls passing out fliers on Turlington Plaza and take that stupid piece of paper – even if you plan to trash it afterward.
3. Getting in shape. 
Believe it or not, your tuition covers the cost of the Southwest Rec. Center – including those pesky hand scanners. Get fit, and get your money’s worth.
4. Eating healthier.
Maximize what you do in the gym by eating better. There’s nothing wrong with having a french fry or two here or there. But eating leaner, unprocessed foods will give you both a clear-er head and a slimmer waistline.
5. Choosing public transporta-
tion. It’s no mystery that park-ing on campus is a nightmare. If avoiding more parking tickets isn’t reason enough, at least do it for the environment.“I think it’s a way to keep your life under control. If you’re going to go minimalist, Bloch warns, do it with style. I don’t think you have to go from eating at the buffet to eating only ramen noodles.”
PHILLIP BLOCH
new york-based stylistClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY , JANUARY 6, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$380 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Gainesville Place
Now leasing for 2011-2012!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
 (352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $399***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
Student Friendly 4/4's 
$424 for EVERYTHING
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
ONLY $410/person
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES
3Bedroom/3Bathroom
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move in ANY time, Highly negotiableterms, Friendly roommates, $379/m OR best offer, call/text 813-205-1549 or email ibukreyev@ufl.edu    1-14-10-8-1
Huge Rm,4/2 N.W.Home.3 mi to SFC, 8mi UF. 2 lv rms, laundry rm, garage, lg kitchen, porch. Clean + Neat. 325 + 1/4 util. 1st, last, sec dep (negotiable)!352-283-9905, sarad7821@yahoo.com    1-18-8-11/1 for sublease in a 2 Bedroom Apartment 
from now until July 2011 Cabana Beach. ALL 
Utilities(water, cable, electricity, internet) in-
cluded in rent. Fully furnished.$490 352-226-
2627 Amy    1-12-5-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-
10-70-2
Arbor Park
2 1\2B. $549 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Studios $599 Downtown location
Arlington 352-338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
*NEWLY UPGRADED APT HOMES*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-20-10-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2        2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
One Month Free
The Retreat @ Madison Pointe
2 bedroom 2 bathroom w/ Attached Garage
W/D, microwave, Private BathroomsEnormous Screened in Porch352-372-04004-20-70-2
●3/3 Only $899/month●
Mention This Ad To Receive
$0 MOVE IN FEES!!
3 Bus Routes (9,34,35) & Great Amenities!
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
1/1 $599 *2/2.5 townhouse $779*
4/2.5 townhouse $1099*Washer/Dryers*
352-332-7401 www.thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2● Amazing Rent on 1 and 2BR apts.
Ranging from $390 to $545.Sorry no pets or Section 8.Madison on 20th. 335-7066      4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $540.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!
4-20-10-70-2
Renting Now!!
We have REAL 1/1s
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE-1 MO FREE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
3Blks to UF- GATOR NEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS 1 MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
1-31-10-68-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $699 2/2's from $799
3/3's from $899
352-335-7656  www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
2.1 1/2 Bath Townhome
select units from 500.
352.376.6720 or 352.376.7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
2/2 & 3/3 Roommate Matching
Walk In ClosetsPrivate BathroomsCable w/HBO & ShowtimeFull size W/DPet friendly352-374-3866                  4-20-10-70-2SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
NAPIER GRANT
"HUGE" 2 BR/1BA
Starting at $525.
W/D hookups. Pets OK
Walk to Vet School
352-377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/napiergrant
Text: napiergrant@65374
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-19-
10-103-2
CALL TODAY!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free!
Sundowne Villas
Studio *$430 and 1/1 *$457
Located behind Butler Plaza
Pet friendly No weight limits!
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$447
2/1 *$548
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free
Sunrise Villas
One Bedroom Villa *$428
Near UF and Shand's
Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Ph. 372-4835  www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
First Month Free
Campus Walk Apartments
All Inclusive Individual Leases
4 Bedroom Townhomes and flats
Located on UF campus
$350 per bedroom All Inclusive
Semester Leases available!
(352) 376-0828
(Rental office at Homestead Apts.)
www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
14, ALLIGATOR  � THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 2011
1 BLK TO UF! Behind Leonardos 
Pizza.  2BR 1 BA Apts
Central H & Air, 1234 Sw 1st Ave- 
$600/Mo   Call Merrill 
Management Inc 352-372-1494     1-7-10-
21-2
$475 per Month  2BR 1BA Apts
3  BLKS TO UF! 840 Sq. Ft. 
Large Rooms,  Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. 
Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  
St. Croix Apts, Call Merrill Management Inc. 
352-372-1494 x10 or
tazzie21@bellsouth.net     1-7-10-21-2
2BR 1BA Apt  3 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo  Window A/C,
Nat Gas Ht. 216 SW 12th Street.  
Call Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494     
1-7-10-21-2
EFFECIENCY -2 Rooms(not bedrooms)
Shared Bathroom, Window A/C
Carpet, Across from UF Stadium
1830 NW 1st Avenue  $295/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494     
1-7-10-21-2
GRAD II APTS
1236 SW 4th Avenue
1BR 1BA Apt 1 BLK to UF
Central H & Air, Inclds
Wtr, Swg, Pest Contrl 
$500/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 x10       1-7-10-21-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/
shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year lease, $700/mo●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr lease●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and tennis courts. $1000
●Downtown 2 BR at the Lofts at W. 
University.  This modern designed unit in-
cludes cable, internet, washer/dryer, and 2 onsite parking spaces. Minutes from UF and Shands, $1050/mo
●Mallorca Square,Large 2br,2.5 ba town-
house convenient to Oaks Mall and UF/hos-
pitals, many extras,$895/mo●Treehouse Village- 2/2  New Carpet,D/W, W/D incl.,on covered bus line close to down -
town, UF/Shands. $595
●BIG 3/3 in SW, Ceramic/Carpet, D/W, W/D 
includes clubhouse, pool, comp lab, volley -
ball, tennis, basketball, MUST SEE $900★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
4-20-10-70-2
Immaculate small efficiency,quiet.Wash/
dry on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No pets. 1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus routes.Avail Dec 27.$399/m 352-262-2871 Owner agent. 1-24-11-14-2
A charming, 3 BR/1.5 BA house. Great 
Neighborhood. Close to UF. W/D. Available Jan 1. 2 people- $800/mo. 3 people - $900/mo. Mark 352-672-4072    1-10-5-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7129 SW 45th Place. $550/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114    1-20-11-10-2LOW COST MOVE IN!
Small 2BR $375/mo.
Call 352-372-6881 or 352-213-3901   1-20-11-10-2
*FREE PARKING**FREE MONTH*PVT. 1/1
$475 1/1 Mstr b/r,bath-Avail. NOW! 3 b/r
house, full kitch. Pvt. entrance. 3 roommates
GREAT DEAL and Loc. 772-323-6651
1-14-11-7-2
4br 3ba Split plan home in NW Gnvll. Fenced 
back yard, patio and Fire place. Close to UF 
and Santa Fe. Great for Students or a fam-
ily. Zoned for Glen Springs, Westwood and 
GHS. $1050.00 Call KIM 352-222-4030   
1-14-11-7-2
2 BR, 1.5 BA, 2 story townhouse, new car-
pet, tile & cabinets, storage room,balcony, 
close to UF, Mill Run. $700 month, pet 
with deposit, 352-284-3237, 352-318-3106.   
1-12-11-5-2
1br/1ba duplex minutes away from down -
town on bus route. Going for $385/mo. First, 
last, and deposit to move in. Call 352-871-
2274 to see.   1-10-11-3-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE ONLY 9 BLOCKS TO UF
909 NW 9th Ave. All wood/tile floors, W/D, 
fenced large backyard, some off-street park-
ing, great neighborhood, $1200.00 + Sec 
Dep. 1 year lease. Call Chad 407-230-2423   
1-12-11-5-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTEDNewly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2LAKEFRONT 2BR/1BA
2 mi to UF. $750/mo 352-495-2571    1-12-11-5-2
Sublease a 1/1 @ The Laurels on 34th St. 
$809 per month + utilities, unfurnished; Pet 
fee not included. Quite area, On bus route. 
Begins 1/1/2011 to 7/30/2011. Please call 
813-310-7636 or 813-317-6842.   1-13-10-
10-3
Sublease a 3bd/2bth at Greenwich Green for 
only $829/mth. Jan and Feb already paid! 
Washer/dryer in this quiet end unit that has 
locked storage outside, includes cable w 
HBO. On bus route. Begins 1/8/11 to 7/31/11. 
Please call 352 262 2056    1-7-11-2-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $425/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79291-31-10-42-4Female seeking same $385+1/3 utl (Wrls int, 
Sat tv, & GRU). Room for rent in 3/2 house 
in NW neighborhoods, quiet area. Avail now.
Pet friendly, W/D, wood flrs, fenced yard.
Bus route 8. Jessica 352-222-6900   1-12-
10-30-4
LARGE BEDROOM, PRIVATE BATH in 
3/3 townhome. Share with 2 UF Seniors. 
Washer/dryer, pool, tennis. Screened porch 
faces trees. On bus route. Convenient to 
Santa Fe.  $395 plus 1/3 utils. 301-305-6206.   
1-11-10-15-4
1st month free. Grad student looking for fe-
male roommate in fully furnished 4/4 condo 
at Countryside. $425/month. Short term 
lease available. Cable/internet, utils, W/D, 2 
bus routes. Contact Megan 727-542-8155.   
1-21-11-11-4
Large Room in NW Home.
$450/mo incl utils & DSL, large closets. No pets. Mature, non-smoker, grad student/pro-fessional. Scott 352-335-8209   1-12-11-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
2BR/1.5BA newly renovated townhouse. 
6134 SW 8th Lane. You have to see it to 
appreciate it! Come see it and make an of-
fer. Call 352-281-7411 or 786-537-2963 and 
make an appointment   1-31-11-17-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        4-20-10-70-6
THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 2011  � ALLIGATOR , 15
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
4-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
PARKING 60 SECONDS TO UF
Next to McDonalds NW 13th St. Reserve 
now. Call for semester rates: 352-538-2454 gainesvilleparking.com.    1-14-11-7-10★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
★★★GatorMoto★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit 
shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties 
included. 376-6275 GatorMoto.com  4-20-10-
70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
1-31-10-78-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit checkMove  vehicles $500 & up!352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNo credit check, buy here pay hereCars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans30 day warranty352-375-9090     4-20-70-1202 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
2001 LEXUS RX 300
Garage-kept & regularly serviced. Excellent 
condition. 146k miles. Sunroof, power every-
thing, 6-CD disk player, leather w/wood trim. 
$7995. Mike 352-262-9666    1-12-11-5-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
I'm blind, Catholic, & attend Mass at Queen 
of Peace. If you're interested in sharing transportation with me, you can be my bless-ing. Please call 352-219-6948. I often take part in church service, as a lector or greeter.  1-14-10-70-13
BE A BLESSING TO ME, AND COME HELP ME LEARN TO RAKE KNIT, 2 Wednesday evenings a month. The things we will make WILL BE SENT TO HAITI AND OTHER PLACES. Call 352-219-6948.     1-14-10-70-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
16, ALLIGATOR  � THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 2011
What's black and white & read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
HIRING 50 DRIVERS
Domino’s is hiring drivers for all shifts.  Applicants must have 1 ticket maximum in the last 3 years, a 2003 or newer car and a positive attitude.  $12-$15 per hour.  Apply at gatordominos.com.    4-20-10-70-14
 FT NANNY needed M-F start by JAN;
min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs;  travel w/ mom;3yr old / 9 mon; $12/hr; exp; good refs;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix,schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    1-13-11-21-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   1-25-10-20-14OFFICE ASSISTANT Flex hours. Excellent 
Word, Excel, typing, internet skills. $7.25/hr. 
Indicate current semester & if available sum-
mer schedules, major, graduating semester. 
siva1950@yahoo.com   1-14-11-14-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
SPRING 2011
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
1-14-10-11-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working 
environment. PT/FT positions available. 
$7.50/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 
NW 13th St   1-12-10-8-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617   2-28-10-39-14
Smokers are needed to participate in a study 
assessing the effects of various activities on 
cravings, withdrawal, mood, and smoking. 
Compensation will be provided. If interested, 
call 336-406-3706 or email
uflsmokelab@gmail.com    1-13-7-14
PRIVATE TUTOR needed for 7th grade boy 
in Oak Hall. General subjects (hist. sci. eng) and organization. 2-3 days/w. Fee based on qualifications. 352 466 3255.    1-14-10-7-14
A awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-dren’s summer camp, has positions available in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront (sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.   2-11-10-26-14
Corks & Colors Studio- Gainesville's newest 
paint-it-yourself studio is hiring a part time assistant manager. Great personality and artistic ability a must! www.corks-colors.com Email resume to rebecca@corks-colors.com   1-12-5-14
RGIS INVENTORY SPECIALISTSPart-time hourly workFlexible schedules$8 an hour to startApply online at RGIS.COM1-12-11-5-14
PART TIME
EXPERIENCED FSR
A great opportunity with a fast
growing community bank
ALARION BANK.
Only experienced applicants
will be considered.
Alarion Bank offers competitive
salary and benefits. Stop by any
Alarion Bank office or fax
a cover letter and resume to
352-224-1902 or email
valorie.cason@alarionbank.com
EOE/AA/DFWP
Member FDIC
1-6-11-1-14
Smokers are needed to participate in a study 
assessing the effects of various activities on 
cravings, withdrawal, mood, and smoking. 
Compensation will be provided. If interested, 
call 336-406-3706 or email
uflsmokelab@gmail.com    1-28-14-14
HOMEWORK COACH
for HS student with ADHD recovering from 
brain surgery. $10/hour. Approx. 10 hrs/wk.Email jukes6650@cox.net    1-12-11-5-14
Child care for 10 year old needed Tuesdays 
from 1-8. Good driving record and reliable 
transportation required. References re-
quired. Interested? Call Jenny at 335-5386.   
1-10-11-3-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 
www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DOG OR CAT SITTER or DOG WALKER
Small or medium size dog or cat. I have a big yard and years of experience. For details please call 352-377-4239 anytime. Please leave message with phone number.   1-12-10-4-15WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
LOST VIDEO CAMERA
Panasonic SDR H40 42x
Last seen at the bathouses Sat 10/9/10
Any info call (850) 543-3762
REWARD $500
1-6-25-25MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-20-70-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Sports
THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
 
ST. PETERSBURG — The 
Gators finally got some good 
news on the recruiting trail.
After losing two commitments 
in the wake of Urban Meyer’s res-
ignation, Will Muschamp publi-
cally earned his first oral com-
mitment as Florida’s head coach Wednesday night, even though he has privately known for a while.
Miami Monsignor Pace four-
star safety Jabari Gorman, rated as the No. 10 safety in the class of 2011 by Rivals.com, announced 
on national television his com-
mitment to Florida when he donned a Gators cap during the first quarter of the Under Armour All-America game.
“I just want to be part of a new 
program,” Gorman said. “I want to be something special to a new team.”
When Meyer stepped down 
as UF’s coach last month, the fu-ture of the Gators’ 2011 recruiting class was uncertain. 
It lost commitments from its 
top two defensive recruits in 
Plantation High four-star out-
side linebacker Ryan Shazier (who will enroll at Ohio State this week) and Groveland South 
Lake High four-star cornerback 
Nick Waisome (who will enroll at FSU).
But less than a week after of-
ficially taking the reins at Flor -
ida, Muschamp appears to have the class back on track with the commitment of Gorman, who becomes the 16th member and 
eighth four-star prospect in the 
Gators’ class.
UF’s 2011 crop of recruits is 
ranked 15th in the country, ac-cording to Rivals.com
Gorman picked UF over Ohio 
State and Miami but said he’s known for a while that he would end up at Florida, as has Mus-
champ.
The safety said he knew he 
wanted to commit to Florida 
three months ago and spoke to Muschamp shortly after the for -
mer Texas defensive coordinator was named the Gators’ new coach 
when he went down to Miami to 
visit Gorman.
“I informed him after he got announced the coach,” Gorman 
said. “He knew I had something 
within me that wanted to be a Gator.”Muschamp told the four-star 
safety that he has abilities that other players might not have, in-
POLL QUESTION ONLINE TEEING OFF WITH ADAM BERRYn UF ENTERS A GAME AT
AUBURN WITH A SHOT AT CRACKING THE TOP 25.
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
Finals are over and a new semester 
is under way in Gainesville, but the real 
test is just beginning for the Gators. 
Southeastern Conference play 
opened on Sunday , and Florida – 
picked to finish last in the conference – 
began it with an impressive upset over No. 22 Arkansas.  But now, the Gators embark on a two-game road trip look-ing for their first true road win of the season and a possible entrance into the national rankings. 
The search begins tonight at 7 in 
the new Auburn Arena, where Florida 
(11-4, 1-0 SEC) will take on the Tigers 
(8-6, 1-0 SEC), who 
have recovered from a slow start and are fresh off a road victory of their own against rival Alabama. 
The Gators are 
8-0 in the O’Connell Center this season and 3-0 in games at neutral sites but have dropped all four of their opportu-nities on an opponent’s floor. Florida seeks first 
victory on the road
n  Alligator recruiting writer Tom Green 
will have additional coverage of the Under 
Armour All-America game, including a blog on four-star quarterback commit Jeff Driskel. Check out alligatorSports.org for more.n I won’t say the coaches were too into the Under Armour game, but Mike 
Ditka called a timeout to ice the kicker in a game that was at its most interest -
ing when cameras cut to the gigantic couch behind the sideline. ... UF QB com -
mit Jeff Driskel had a TD pass dropped by wide-open Oregon commit Devon Blackmon. Just a glimpse into his future of throwing to Deonte Thompson.Don’t overvalue recruits’ ratings
ST. PETERSBURG
If you’re thinking about buying tickets 
to the Florida-Florida State game in two years, don’t.
On Thanksgiving weekend 2012, refrain 
from throwing the Gators and Seminoles on your TV . There will be better ways to spend that break. And you already know the sad 
truth anyway: The team out West is better.
Florida State has the No. 3 recruiting 
class in the nation, according to Rivals.com. 
Florida has the No. 15 class. 
If there was any doubt that the future 
would be painted Garnet and Gold, FSU oral commit Karlos Williams picked off a pass from Florida quarterback/savior of the future Jeff Driskel and returned the ball 47 yards for a touchdown in the third quar -
ter of the Under Armour All-America game Wednesday.
Actually, I don’t know what will happen 
in two seasons, don’t know if Florida State’s dream class will pan out, don’t even know 
if the Seminoles of the future will step foot 
on campus. They could fail to 
qualify academically or get in legal trouble — let’s just say stuff 
like that has hap-
pened before.
And don’t worry, 
Driskel bounced back 
fine from that pick-
six, breaking a 63-yard touchdown run 
the next time he stepped on the field. He also had a potential 50-yard touchdown 
pass dropped at the 5-yard line. 
Driskel finished the game with six car -
ries, 80 yards and a touchdown, plus two 
completions on eight attempts for 18 yards and an INT, while Team Click-Clack (yup, 
that’s a thing) beat Team Micro G 24-22.
But, ladies, just like you should not wor -
ry about FSU’s recruiting rankings just yet, 
you should also keep your Driskel love in your pants until he steps on Florida Field 
Tyler Jett
The Jett Stream
tjett@alligator.org
Twitter: @iam_tyler
Women's
Bask etballCourtesy of Tim Casey / Gatorcountry.com
Four-star safety Jabari Gorman works out Monday during the third day of practice for the Under Armour 
All-America game at the ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex in Lake Buena Vista.
Four-star prospect Gorman joins Gators’ recruiting class
SEE WHOOPS, PAGE 19
SEE TYLER, PAGE 19SEE RECRUITING, PAGE 19Safety picks UF over OSU, UM
Today’s question: How would you 
compare Florida’s new football coaching staff to last year’s?18, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 2011
University of Florida Performing Arts
  Golden Dragon    Acrobats
www.performingarts.ufl.eduTwenty-seven centuries of art, 
 skill and acrobatics.   Lifetimes dedicated    to one act.
Saturday, January 15, 2 p.m.
Phillips Center for the Performing Arts
Tickets available at the Phillips Center Box Ofﬁ  ce and all Ticketmaster outlets, or by calling (352) 392-2787.
Discount student tickets made possible in part by funding from University of Florida Student Government.
Alexander Silva / Alligator StaffFlorida lost 74-73 in the Women’s National 
Invitation Tournament semifinals against De-
Paul and 56-50 at Brown in the Brown Bear Classic. It was also outplayed in a 69-54 loss at Hampton and dropped another close one 
74-72 in Tallahassee against the No. 25 Semi-
noles. 
“Those games have made us grow,” junior 
center Azania Stewart said. “The young (play-ers) have games under them. It’s really pro-gressed us now into SEC play, where every game is important.”
Stewart, who leads the team in rebounds 
and is second in blocks, is in her third season 
and knows all about the tumultuous atmo-
sphere of away games in the SEC. 
“Playing on the road is really tough,” Stew-
art said. “They’re going to go on runs; the crowd is going to get behind them. But to be able to answer and come back is really impor -
tant and a big step for us.”
After a slow start, the Tigers have amassed 
a four-game winning streak, including a 66-
55 defeat of rival Alabama. But AU will face 
a tough matchup against Florida’s speed and depth.Coach Amanda Butler drew comparisons 
to her own squad when analyzing the Tigers, complimenting Auburn’s ability to protect the 
ball and drive opponents to mistakes.
Auburn forces an average of 19.7 turnovers 
and nearly 10 steals per game and is led by the 
senior combo of guard Alli Smalley (12.6 ppg) and forward Jordan Greenleaf (9.6 ppg).
The Gators have allowed games to slip 
away in the closing minutes and will be tested by a scrappy Auburn team trying to secure a victory in the inaugural SEC game played in 
its new arena. Therefore, making the most of 
every opportunity has been a sticking point for Butler in preparation for the road trip.
“We’re going to talk about how important it 
is that we can’t accept missing one free throw, one layup or one easy play,” Butler said. “We can’t leave easy points on the floor.”
Additionally, Stewart said her experience 
in conference away games has taught her that 
you must be able to rely on your teammates if 
things aren’t going well. 
“Our togetherness is probably the most 
important and the strongest thing we need go-ing into a road game,” Stewart said. “You have to generate your own energy. It’s you against them.”AU’s defense poses problems for UF
WHOOPS , from page 17THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
Saj Guevara / Alligator
 UF junior center Azania Stewart, who leads the team in rebounds and is second in 
blocks, said conference road games will be a new challenge for this year’s squad.
for the first time. 
I’m not the only person who 
is unsure about Driskel’s future. 
You also don’t know what will 
happen. 
For that matter, neither do 
those recruiting analysts for 
ESPN and Rivals.com and what-
ever other website you subscribe 
to.
And, gulp, even coaches slip every now and then.
“I was incorrect for a while. I 
used to look at measurables be-
fore anything else,” Urban Mey-er said after the Outback Bowl, when 5-foot-9 Ahmad Black took home MVP honors and clinched 
his place atop the alligatorsSports 
Swamp Studs standings. 
“I used to look at the 40-yard 
dash,” Meyer continued. “I still 
do, but there are other areas I 
look at just as strong, if not stron-ger.”
Of course, you can’t blame 
Meyer for zeroing in on the “mea-surables” — vertical leap, bench press reps, cone drill stats. As-sessing a player’s transition from high school to college is tough. 
Look at Driskel’s highlight 
tape on YouTube and you will see him outrun a lot of Oompa Loompas. That’s the case for most 
players from Wednesday’s game. 
From the 2007-09 recruiting classes, the Gators snagged 11 
five-star prospects, all of whom looked fantastic against typical high school competition. 
But of those players, two have 
been plagued by injuries, three were kicked off or transferred and four have simply failed to live up to their potential.
The two exceptions are Carlos 
Dunlap and Jelani Jenkins, who finished second on the team in tackles this season as a redshirt freshman. 
But remember when Will Hill 
was the next Sean Taylor? Cam Newton the next Tim Tebow? (Oh, wait.)
It’s not exactly original to say 
recruits are ranked inaccurately. And, to be fair, looking at the top recruiting classes is a good indi-
cator of future success. 
But just be patient. That 
Thanksgiving road trip to Tally is 
still in play.
TYLER , from page 17
Muschamp’s enthusiasm helps sway 2011 recruit into commitment
cluding great instincts — something that can’t be taught.
Because of those intangibles, Gorman hopes to com-
pete for a starting position at Florida when he enrolls in 
the summer.
“I’m a player. I’m going to make plays,” Gorman said. 
“That’s the good thing about being a good athlete — 
there’s always a good opportunity to come in early and 
play.”Beyond the opportunity to come in and compete for 
playing time as a freshman, Gorman said he liked Mus-
champ’s enthusiasm as well as Florida’s 
reputation for having a speedy defense.
When the teams were practicing at 
ESPN’s Wide World of Sports earlier this 
week, UF early enrollees Jeff Driskel, 
a four-star quarterback from Oviedo 
Hagerty High and the nation’s top-rated passer, and A.C. Leonard, a four-star tight end from Jacksonville Universi-ty Christian High, said they were both recruiting Gorman to join them in Gainesville. 
Leonard even tried to get Gorman to do a Gator chomp 
after practice on Monday.
But Gorman didn’t tip his hand to his future team-
mates.
“A lot of these guys, they kind of had a feeling,” he 
said. “But they didn’t know until [Wednesday].”
Oral commitments are non-binding until a national letter of 
intent is signed on or after National Signing Day on Feb. 2.RECRUITING , from page 17
Recruiting20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 2011
