VOLUME 106 ISSUE 9 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Weis impressed:
Florida offensive coordinator Charlie Weis said 
running backs Jeff Demps and Chris Rainey are two of the fastest he’s ever coached, pg. 20. Alternative Transportation Fair gives students options
The event was hosted by the Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability, pg 5.  
George Lucas goes too far with Star Wars re-releases
He should stop adding extra scenes to movies, pg 6. 
91/70Rent the Runway 
On Campus is 
bringing fashionistas 
together at colleges 
all over the nation. 
See the story on page 
9 of today’s  issue of 
the Avenue. 
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 8CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD  14SPORTS 18 Alex Catalano / Alligator 
   Garden of Glass
Hand-blown glass ﬂ  owers adorn the shop at Thornebrook Gallery, which will cel-ebrate its 30th anniversary throughout September. Read the story on page 5. 
  EMILY MORROW
 Alligator Writer
  UF has been ranked for its douchiness, 
social media presence, research endeavors 
and education value. 
  Now, the Gators have been ranked for 
how they give back.  In a list released by Washington 
Monthly, a bimonthly political magazine, UF ranked 28th overall in terms of its con-tribution to society.
  The top three spots went to three Uni-
versities of California — San Diego, Los Angeles and Berkeley. Florida State Uni-versity ranked 106.  UF spokesman Steve Orlando said this 
is the ﬁ  rst time he’s seen schools ranked based on their contributions to the public good.
  “It’s a good list to be on,” he said. “It’s 
important to remember that universities are here to serve people.”
  To determine the rankings, Washington Monthly looked at three categories: social mobility, research and service.
  Social mobility refers to the ability of 
a university to recruit and graduate low-income students. The magazine looked at the number of Pell Grants awarded and the graduation rates of low-income stu-dents.
  In social mobility alone, UF was No.  University ranks 28th in country for contributing to society� THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
WANTS TO AVOID DUPLICATING PROGRAMS.
  EMILY MORROW
 Alligator Writer 
  UF sees itself as the ﬂ  agship university 
of the state, and with such power comes re-
sponsibility.
  In this case, that responsibility is to share 
the expertise and knowledge of its faculty with the state of Florida — something the Board of Governors is seeking to regulate.
  In a meeting of the Board of Governors’ 
Strategic Planning Committee last Friday, changes in regulation wording were ap-proved and set to go before the full Board in September.  This proposed regulation addresses uni-
versities that are seeking to expand their aca-demic programs outside of their geographic 
locations. The controver-sy comes when these ex-pansions are made into another university’s ter-
ritory.
  Under the new word-
ing, universities seeking such expansion must gain approval by the Board of Governors Chancellor 
Frank Brogan and chairwoman Ava Parker. 
  The proposed program must be deemed 
“market-driven,” and “mission-justiﬁ  ed” in order to avoid wasteful duplication of pro-grams. Academic expansion 
could be simpler for UF
LOCAL
  EMILY MORROW
 Alligator Writer 
  It takes Sophia Ma ﬁ  ve minutes to walk from 
her apartment to her classes at Shands.
  Every day , the medical student crosses the 
vine-and-barbed-wire-wrapped overpass above 
Southwest 13th Street, uninhibited by the trafﬁ  c below.
  But her daily routine may soon be interrupt-
ed.
  Construction has begun on 13th Street be-
tween 16th Street and Archer Road in prepara-tion for an overhaul of the overpass.
  Construction crews are working to lay utility lines and install new streetlights — repairs that caused lane closures earlier in the week.
  The overpass, once part of the Depot Avenue 
Rail Trail, is now a pedestrian and bicycle path. 
  Its $1.2 million renovation, part of a larger 
effort to modify the entire rail trail and create a Depot Avenue Park, is being funded by the Gainesville Community Redevelopment Agen-cy.
  According to plans on the CRA website, the 
redesigned bridge will have a roof, lined with solar panels, in the shape of a double helix — a nod to the nearby Shands hospitals. Construction begins on 13th 
Street pedestrian overpass
Ranking based on research, social mobility and serviceSEE AREA, PAGE 4
SEE RANKING, PAGE 4SEE CONSTRUCTION, PAGE 4Brogan
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 9 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Justin Hayes,
  Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tyler Jett, Greg Luca,
  Corey McCall, Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Keri Smith,   
  Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Brandon Davis
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo, Justin Scott,
  Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Pr
oduction Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Alexander Silva, Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
THUNDER
STORMS
92/72THUNDER
STORMS
89/73THUNDER
STORMS
90/72THUNDER
STORMS
92/69THUNDER
STORMS
91/70
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening
Challah for Hunger
Today, 11 a.m. and 6:30 p.m.  
UF Hillel
Join the Challah for Hunger team for the kickoff of baking and braiding challah bread this semester. The prepara-tion of the dough will take place at 11 a.m. and the bak-ing will take place at 6:30 p.m. The money raised from the Challah for Hunger sales will go to hunger relief efforts in Gainesville and  Darfur.
Shabbat Services and Kosher 
DinnerFriday, 7:30 p.m. UF HillelJoin the students at UF Hillel for Shabbat services. Services begin at 7:30 p.m. with a free kosher dinner to follow at 8:30 p.m. There will be Reform, Conservative and Traditional services held ev-
ery Friday night.
Grand Opening of Dance 
Trance
Sept. 8, 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.7230 W University Ave. (left at second light off Tower Road, behind Home Depot)  Dance Trance is a nation-wide, high-energy dance-fit-ness program that combines pear in the paper. Press re-leases will not appear in the 
paper.
CORReCti On
In Tuesday’s edition of 
The Alligator, an article about 
government-subsidized hous-ing incorrectly stated that the Gainesville Housing Author -
ity manages Carver Gardens Apartments. 
It also stated that the 
Gainesville Housing Author -
ity voted on a measure to in-crease tenants’ rates when the Gainesville Housing Author -
ity’s Board of Commissioners voted on the measure.all styles of dance with 
all genres of music for a 
sweaty dance-fitness class.  
“Something Wicked This 
Way Comes: How to Save the University”
Sept. 12, 7:30 p.m.Smathers Library, 1AIn this public talk, profes-sor Cary Nelson from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign will outline strategies for fac-ulty and students to unite and respond to the ongoing political assaults on higher education.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to  jflechas@alligator.org. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” submissions may not ap-MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
  The overpass will be partially made of re-
cycled materials.   Crews plan to build stairs 
on 13th Street to lead pedestrians and cyclists up to the overpass, as well as a plaza and an overlook for pedestrians and trail users.
  The CRA plans to install art throughout 
the plaza, including a large sundial, and to build a rain garden near the overpass to col-lect storm water runoff.
  Thirteenth Street will not experience any 
lane closures over the weekend, so football gameday trafﬁ  c will not be affected.
  Trafﬁ  c should be running just as smooth-
ly on the west side of town.
  As of Monday, the shoulder of the north-
bound Interstate 75 exit ramp at Newberry Road has been reopened.
  “We got it done just in time for the foot-ball game,” said Laurie Windham, spokes-woman for the project.
  Resurfacing the shoulder and the exit 
ramp was the ﬁ  rst step in the construction project at the Newberry Road exit, sched-uled to be completed by next summer.
  By that time, the other three exit ramps at 
Newberry will be resurfaced, and the north-bound exit will have two additional turn lanes.  Windham said the volume of trafﬁ  c on Newberry Road and the northbound I-75 exit make the construction project crucial.
  There will not be any lane closures in the 
area from Friday through Monday due to the holiday weekend.   Lane closures, construction will 
not affect trafﬁ  c on gameday
  This clause in the regulation had been 
tempered from a previous draft that re-
quired universities seeking to expand  pro-grams into another region to ﬁ  rst gain ap-proval from the local university’s president before coming to the Board of Governors.
  UF Provost Joe Glover, a member of 
the task force charged with rewording the regulation, said the university is satisﬁ  ed with the result and does not think it will limit UF’s future endeavors to expand pro-grams.
  An example of such a program 
brought up in an earlier meeting of the Board was that of UF’s pharmacy program at St. Petersburg College.   The nearby Uni-versity of South Florida also has a pharma-cy school, and Brogan questioned if having two similar programs so close together was a waste of state funding.
  All existing programs were grandfa-
thered in, including UF’s pharmacy school and the Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, which has outposts in all of Flori-da’s 67 counties.
  “We are willing to work with the Board 
of Governors and are conﬁ  dent that they will make decisions about our programs based on the best interest of the citizens of the state of Florida,” Glover said. 4, ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011
 Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff 
   Air Force ROTC member Brandon Feldman does pull-ups before Physical Training. He is a member 
of the Air Force ROTC Detachment 150. 
Ranking took into account participation in ROTC, Peace Corps
25.
  UF fell to No. 35 in the re-
search category, directly behind 
Ohio State University.
  This ranking was determined 
by the amount of money spent on research in a year, the number of Ph.D. students and the promi-nence of faculty members.
  The service category took into 
account each school’s participa-tion in ROTC, the Peace Corps and community service.
  Despite being named the 
second-best recruiting school by the Peace Corps in February, UF ranked 103rd in Washington Monthly.
  Orlando said the university 
is always trying to improve, but he’s happy with UF’s overall ranking.
  “If you look at the other 
schools on that list, we’re in good company,” he said. “I think it’s a good reﬂ  ection on the university.
 RANKING , from page 1
AREA , from page 1Provost: UF satisﬁ  ed with 
rewording of regulation CONSTRUCTION , from page 1Top 30 universities:
1. University of California — San Diego
2. University of California — Los Angeles3. University of California — Berkeley4. Stanford University5. University of California — Riverside6. Harvard University7. Case Western Reserve University 8. University of California — Davis 9. Jackson State University 10. University of Michigan —Ann Arbor 11. Massachusetts Institute of Technology 12. University of North Carolina — C.H.13. University of California — Santa Barbara 14. Syracuse University 15. Texas A&M University — C.S.16. University of Notre Dame 17 . Cornell University 18. South Carolina State University 19. University of Texas — Austin 20. Johns Hopkins University 21. University of Pennsylvania 22. Rice University 23. University of Washington 24. College of William and Mary 25. University of Chicago 26. Columbia University 27 . Duke University 28. University of Florida 29. University of Wisconsin — Madison 30. Georgetown University
“We got it done just in time for 
the football game.”
Laurie Windham
spokeswoman THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
If few parking spaces and pedestri-
an-filled streets weren’t enough, the Al-
ternative Transportation Fair Wednes-day proved there’s another reason not to drive to campus.
The fair, hosted at the beginning of 
each semester by the Office of Sustain-ability, aims to educate students about the various types of transportation available.
“Students, staff and faculty are fresh, 
and maybe they’re settling into a new routine for the year, so it serves to be an educational reminder of what kind of modes and options are on campus and around Gainesville,” said Ashley Pen-nington, outreach coordinator for the UF Office of Sustainability.
Different organizations set up booths 
for the fair. 
The Office of Sustainability, RTS 
services, UF Transportation and Park-ing Services, the City of Gainesville, Gainesville Police and GOTCHA Ride each had its own booth. 
RTS services distributed fliers about 
various bus routes. 
UF transportation services spoke 
to students about the Zipcar program, which is a by-the-hour car rental pro-gram available to UF faculty and stu-dents. 
Gainesville Police and the City of Gainesville spoke about bike safety and traveling rules. 
GOTCHA Ride advertised its free 
services to students who need a safe ride home from downtown.
“It’s a safe, easy and eco-friendly 
way to get home,” Pennington said. 
The fair is the kickoff to the Office of 
Sustainability’s One Less Car program. 
Each year, a day in October is chosen 
to be One Less Car Day. 
People are urged to try different 
methods of transportation on that day, which, this year, will be held on Oct. 26. 
People can register for One Less Car 
Day at www.sustainable.ufl.edu/one-lesscar. 
The first 800 people to register for 
the event will receive a free One Less Car T-shirt.
“Whether you choose to do it one day 
or try to commute alternatively every day, you can make small choices that have big impacts,” Pennington said.Fair provides information on 
alternative transportation
“Students, staff and faculty are 
fresh, and maybe they’re settling 
into a new routine for the year, 
so it serves to be an educational 
reminder of what kind of modes 
and options are on campus and 
around Gainesville.”
Ashley Pennington 
UF Office of Sustainability outreach� THE GALLERY OPENED IN 1981 
AS A FRAMING SHOP.
EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
If you’re a customer of the Thorne-
brook Gallery, Tricia Fisher probably 
knows you.
The gallery manager knows if your 
mother’s ears aren’t pierced or if she pre-fers long, dangling earrings. She knows where your brother goes to school, if your dad’s knife collection could use an update and whether you prefer abstract paintings or nature scenes.
If gallery owner David Arrighi orders 
a piece Fisher thinks you’d like, she’ll give you a personal phone call.
Originally opened in 1981 by two 
UF alumni as a framing shop, it is this sense of intimacy and friendliness that has kept the Thornebrook Gallery alive for 30 years — a milestone which the gallery will celebrate throughout the month of September.
The gallery, located in the Thorne-
brook Village shopping center off Northwest 43rd Street, is filled with art ranging from paintings, artisan jewelry and glass sculptures to intricate knives, woodworking and pottery. But it hasn’t forgotten its origins in framing.A wall in the back of the store boasts 
six sliding displays of frames — a ser -
vice the gallery and its employees take pride in.
“What we attempt to do with the 
frames is enhance what is already there,” Fisher said.
The 1980s frame shop slowly grew 
into an art gallery as the owners began displaying the two-dimensional art-work, such as paintings and photogra-phy, of local artists.  
As the gallery continued to grow, Ar -
righi expanded his collection to include other three-dimensional mediums such as glass, jewelry and ceramics.
The 30th anniversary is a celebration 
of both local artists and the relationship they have with the Thornebrook Gal-lery.
The gallery will kick off its celebra-
tion on Sept. 9 with “The Mob” — a showcase of 37 local artists that will run through Sept. 14. 
Each artist will bring one piece to dis-
play and sell, and the gallery will pro-vide live music and refreshments.
The party will continue through the 
following weekend with the opening of the gallery’s Trish Beckham exhibit — a local artist who paints realistic Floridian nature scenes — and the launch of Gal-lery Magazine, a publication focusing on local art, culture and food.Thornebrook Gallery marks
30th year open for businessON CAMPUSReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Are you inconvenienced by the con-
struction on 13th Street? 
31 TOTAL VOTES13% YES
87% NOWednesday’s question: Do you plan on taking the new Country Line Dance class? Lucas Lunacy
The Force is not with 
gimmicky re-releases
The quarrels with the Trekkies or other sci-fi factions does 
nothing to illustrate the hatred of Star Wars fanboys to-ward the one who, ironically, started everything. 
Yes, George Lucas brought us Indiana Jones and Hope 
through Jedi, but his work since then has been nothing but disappointing. 
The popularity that ensued from Lucas’ 1990s re-release of 
the digitally remastered episodes IV through VI brought Star Wars to a whole new generation. 
Unfortunately, this is when Lucasfilm went from a film stu-
dio to a toy, lunchbox and merchandise business. 
The success of the re-release prompted Lucas to create the 
prequels. If you thought the prequels were the best thing that ever happened to cinema, we apologize for what’s about to come next. 
George Lucas has, with malicious intent, attempted to de-
stroy the magic that was once Star Wars. 
After the generic, lackluster prequels were released, Lucas 
went back to the originals and edited them again, adding use-less scenes and random digital backgrounds. Of course, who can forget Hayden Christensen as ghost Anakin Skywalker at the end of the updated Jedi? Why wasn’t ghost Kenobi played by Ewan McGregor? 
Recently, Lucas announced that he was re-releasing all six 
Star Wars films back to theaters, in 3-D. Really? 3-D is the worst thing to happen to movies since the Star Wars prequels. 
Now it has been reported that Lucas has been adding even 
more useless edits to the original Star Wars movies in their Blu-ray releases. 
At the rate Lucas is going, the entire series will soon be 
released entirely in computer animation, including the actors, and in 4-D where the audience will be able to smell Chewie’s breath. 
Since Lucas is intent on destroying the Star Wars franchise 
altogether, why doesn’t he just go all out? 
The Luke and Leia kiss should be a big French kiss, or hell, 
a sex scene. The disgust that the audience feels when they find out that the heroes are actually siblings will be extreme. 
At the end of Jedi, the rebels should all be destroyed, the 
Death Star completed and the entire galaxy will finally be at peace under the Empire. The rebels were just terrorists any-way. 
Since he’s hell-bent on adding irrelevant details to his 
movies, things don’t have to make sense. When the emperor removes his hood, we will find out that it was Lord Voldemort all along. 
Or maybe Han Solo was just a cover name for another In-
diana Jones mission to locate the fountain of youth on Tatoo-ine.
What the movies are really missing are exploding Ewok 
scenes — seriously, Lucas, kill the Ewoks. That would be an improvement. 
And of course, Jar Jar Binks must be in every scene.But in all seriousness, Lucas, stop. Just stop.Guest column
Education is a right, not a privilege
When I was a young girl, I remember being 
taught that “knowledge is power” and that those who do well in school will go far in life. 
These days, a very different phrase resonates through the halls of academia. 
One may not really hear it; he or she may have to put 
his or her ears up against the brick walls, yet it’s there. The 
new phrase, gently echoing against the cool tiles and walls is “money is power.” 
These days, it seems I can’t turn anywhere without 
being smacked in face with that phrase. 
Entering my second year of college, I find myself 
worried over my wallet’s diet and my bank account’s 
bulimia. 
I shell out hundreds upon hundreds of dollars for my 
education, and yet I know that once I leave this institu-tion, it will be years before my bank account reaches a healthy weight. 
Yet I continue to pay more and add hours to my job 
for my seemingly invaluable education. 
One thing I’ve noticed in the past two years is that 
the actual concept of what the general student is learn-ing at the university has become the background to the college life. 
When you walk through the university, you do not 
hear talk about how much one is learning in the class-room. Instead, you hear about how much one is paying for that class. 
Unfortunately, this has come about due to the annual 
tuition hikes. 
Every year, students feel their stomachs drop after 
they notice the decrease in Bright Futures and how much higher their tuition is climbing. 
Yet what they do not notice is a change in their uni-
versity’s environment. 
The buildings seem the same, the classes are just as 
hard, and the books are just as heavy. Tuition hikes affect 
all social spheres of the university, yet they espe-cially target students from 
working-class backgrounds and minorities. 
Students who go vacationing on their yachts over 
summer will barely bat an eyelash at the hundred-dol-lar increase while the students who worked two jobs over the summer break out in a cold sweat. 
In the future, we may see a decrease of diversity as 
the tuition goes up. 
Scholarships may even disappear. The beautiful mosaic of personalities that made up 
our campus may become monochromatic and lose that special shine that it once boasted. Our campus will be made up of one demographic.
In the end, they will be the ones with the power. Education should never be considered a privilege. 
Education is a right that should be promised to every single man and woman in this country, despite their socio-economic background. 
Yet the direction we’re headed is a dangerous and 
bland one. 
The end of this road will result in a purely stratified 
society — a society where the wealthy and privileged own the inalienable rights of all human beings. 
This brings me back to what I said in the beginning: 
“Money is power.”
We need to stand up for the right to education for 
every single demographic in this country. 
We should not shy away from the ones with “tan-
gible” power. 
The majority is the one with the power. We now have 
the responsibility to win our rights back, and that truly begins with winning back an affordable education. 
Michela Martinazzi is an art history sophomore at UF.Michela Martinazzi
Speaking Out THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
theAvenue    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_AVENUE
Twit Pick: 
@MyNameisRazzle: When Beyonce goes to get 
her first Ultrasound, I hope the doctor says “I don’t think you’re ready for this jelly...” Burning questions for He Said, She Said? 
Want to see Jacob and Kay weigh in on a steamy topic that’s on your mind? Have a relationship Q? Hit us up at abanko@alligator.org and we’ll get them crackin’.Check out page 12 for columnist Amy Stuart’s Reduce, Reuse, Redecorate to see what home decor can come of an empty bottle. 
AMY STUART
Avenue Writer
Gainesville never seems to fail to 
provide us with new hang-out hubs. 
And now, one more spot has been pinned to the grid. 
Frresh Café, located on 204 SW 
Second Ave., had its soft opening during Gator Stompin’ and officially opened its front gates the weekend of May 1. 
Frresh Café has a wide variety of 
freshly prepared dishes that don’t use processed meat, additives or fro-zen foods. If you order french fries, the potato will be washed, chopped and cooked right before it comes out.
Melvin Shackelford, owner and 
chef, saw the need for a restaurant that would appeal to people who want to eat healthy and avoid fast-food joints on the way home. He and a couple of friends set out to open a restaurant that would provide qual-ity food and a quality atmosphere for all its guests. 
“We wanted a place where you 
could eat good food and sit in a good environment,” Shackelford said. “With most places, you only get one.”
Frresh Café’s menu is vegetarian 
and vegan-friendly. Serving break-fast, lunch and dinner all day, there are no restrictions when it comes to finding the perfect meal for your mood. The menu includes an array of burritos, omelets, sandwiches, wraps, salads and entrees. 
One popular dish is the Pica-
dillo, where you go through three stages to prepare your meal. First, you choose the style — either house specialty or spicy Thai peanut. Then you grab some beef or tempeh for protein. Lastly , you choose yellow or brown rice.
Lance Clark, owner and chef, 
wanted to create a menu fit for an outdoor restaurant. With only out-door seating for about 90 custom-ers, the café needed food that people could grab and go.  
In addition to its variety of foods, the café is open from 8 a.m. to mid-night Monday through Wednesday, 8 a.m. to 3 a.m. Thursday and Fri-day, 11 a.m. to 3 a.m. Saturday and 11 a.m. to midnight Sunday . 
The late hours make it a fabulous 
place for club-goers to grab a meal after a night downtown.  Adding to the quaint environ-
ment is Open Mic Night on Thurs-days and a solo, acoustic guitar per -
formance by local musician Bobby Kennedy on Saturday nights. Clark also performs his own songs on Thursday nights and encourages anyone interested in performing to stop by.
“If anyone has a guitar and just 
wants to jam, we welcome them out here on Thursday nights,” Clark said. “We’re trying to build up that environment where people can just come and hang out.”
Customer Bailey Piper saw Frresh 
Café about a month and a half ago, and she has been stopping by every Saturday night since. She and Ken-nedy drop in for a few hours so he can perform while she enjoys a va-nilla milkshake or Cuban sandwich.
“The food is more diverse here 
than other health restaurants,” Piper said. “I haven’t stopped coming here since I found it.”
Frresh Café is undergoing some 
renovations to add even more spice. The owners plan to cover the entire outside with bamboo to create an indoor atmosphere. The backside of the restaurant may even become a lounge. But for now, the café carries an outdoor-getaway atmosphere with African-print futons and plenty of tables to sit at to enjoy a nice cold beer and good music. 
“We’ve got good food and cheap 
beer,” Clark said. “What more could a college student want?”
Photo by Dana Burke
Downtown’s Frresh Café, located at 204 SW Second Ave.,  offers customers a relaxing, outdoor atmo-
sphere and a menu of dishes sure to please healthy palettes. 
� UPGRADES TO THE SYSTEM IN-
CLUDE A PHONE NUMBER RECOGNI-TION SYSTEM, A WEB-BASED AP-PLICATION TO RESERVE A RIDE AND A SOON-TO-BE-UNVEILED SMART PHONE APP. 
SHELBY WEBB
Avenue Columnist 
With the flick of a finger, he can access 
your name, location, phone number and des-
tination.
But that didn’t matter to the sophomore 
the Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol van driver picked up on Sorority Row.
“I’m never such a cynical bitch unless I’m 
in a SNAP van,” she said. Then, she stuttered to say, “I love it.”
As the rest of the van stared in awkward 
aversion at the young woman continuing to grumble, she may have missed the fact that SNAP has been making some snazzy tech-nological upgrades. They have developed a new system for transporting the tired, the studied-out and even the wasted around UF’s campus.
The new system includes automated res-
ervation and dispatch services, a web-based application to reserve a ride, a soon-to-be-un-veiled smartphone app and a phone system that recognizes phone numbers and stores a rider’s previous route requests to cut down on time. 
According to University Police officer 
Gregory Castronover, the SNAP coordinator with UPD’s Community Services Division, the new system allows 100 percent of phone calls to be put into the system, whereas previ-ously some students couldn’t even get an an-swer with the old manual phone operating.
You could tell it must have been working 
with the crazy amounts of people squeezing in and out of the clumsily heavy van doors.After another stop, the van was loaded 
with a group of about eight freshman girls and three freshman boys.
“Is this even a road?” asked one of the 
boys as we drove behind Little Hall on a road clearly marked for Service and University ve-hicles.
“I think so,” chimed in a blonde in the 
front, “But we’re driving on the wrong side of the — “
Her sentence was abruptly cut off when 
a girl spotted a cat from outside of her win-dow. Suddenly, the group of girls erupted into a chorus of meows — for five freaking minutes.
Trying to take his mind off the feline fi-
asco, one of the guys nudged his friend and asked if the vans had always had the tablet mounted near the passenger side of the van.
The Samsung Tablet PC is another product 
of SNAP’s new changes. They can dispatch vans based on location thanks to the tablet’s GPS capabilities, and they can enable calls to be dispatched and displayed instantaneously on a touch screen instead of being yelled into the blaring radios of yesterday.
Also, within the next few weeks, the SNAP 
smart phone app will be up and running, with codes for scanning and downloading the app to be adorned on all vans, business cards and occasionally posted as a public service in the Alligator.
For now, students can use a Web-based 
application to place pick-up requests, which can be accessed from any computer or smart phone with Internet access.
However, SNAP still hasn’t come out with 
an app to drown out the squeals of inebriated freshmen trying to figure out where their stop is (which would be very helpful).
A tale of night in a SNAP van and the service’s tech facelift Downtown cafe offers fast, healthy choices that won’t bore     dining  
“I’m never such a cynical bitch 
unless I’m in a SNAP van. I love it.”
Anonymous
SNAP rider
 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 9
Photo courtesy of Rent the Runway 
This Shoshanna Coral Ikat dress is one of 25,000 dresses 
offered by Rent the Runway. It retails for $340 but can be rented for a mere $50.
 � THE WEBSITE HAS BRANCH-
ES WITH COLLEGE CAMPUSES 
ACROSS THE NATION, INCLUD-ING UF. 
KIERA WRIGHT-RUIZ
Avenue Writer
 
Rent the Runway has already be-
come a staple for fashionistas on a bud-get, and now the company is focusing on college women with a desire for designer.
In 2009, Rent the Runway , which 
allows users to rent designer items from dresses to jewelry to handbags for a fraction of the retail cost, expand-ed to college campuses nationwide with Rent the Runway On Campus (RTROnCampus.com). The extension is a college-dedicated website that of-fers beauty advice, fashion tips, girl talk, entertainment news and informa-tion on RTR’s Runway Rep program. 
The site also serves as an interactive 
community for all 500 Runway Reps across college campuses to monitor each campus’s progress, allow net-working opportunities and serve as an open forum to share ideas. The site is powered by 14 bloggers stemming from college campuses throughout the U.S. Since its development, the pro-gram has grown from 50 to 125 schools (including UF) and from 150 to 500 Runway representatives.   
According to Rent the Runway 
president and co-founder Jenny Fleiss, college-age women account for 20 per -
cent of RTR’s customers. 
“[Students] are already renting for 
all of the occasions in their lives, wheth-er it is sorority events, 21st birthdays, tailgating parties, weddings, spring breaks or graduations,” Fleiss said. 
Rent the Run-
way allows users to search for dresses by occasion and price range, according to Kelsey Munyan, a RTR UF public rela-tions representative. 
“We’re obviously college students,” 
Munyan said. “We don’t have tons of cash lying around, yet we have all these big events going on in our lives right now. You’re getting a $2,000 dress to wear and you’re only paying $100 for it, where if you would have bought it for $2,000, you may have only worn it once.”
UF’s branch of RTR On Campus 
(rtroncampus.com/tag/uf) is kicking off its second year. This year, Munyan said the number of UF RTR representa-tives has grown to eight and that the program will also be hosting more events. There will also be a RTR fash-ion show, but a date has not been set yet, she said. 
“[RTR On Campus] is more about 
bringing together this community of young women for fashion-minded people,” Munyan said. 
Rent the Runway offers items from 
more than 150 designers, 25,000 dress-es and 4,000 accessories.
When an order is placed, the cus-
tomer picks her dress of choice in two sizes to ensure a fit. Each item is rented for a maximum of four days. Shipping is free when returning the product. 
Retail prices for dresses range from 
around $200 to more than $2,000, but RTR users only shell out $50 to $350 for a rental.  Beauty products and accesso-ries are also offered. 
The inspiration for RTR came when 
its co-founder, Jennifer Hyman, was home for Thanksgiving and had a “closet full of clothes but nothing to wear at the moment,” Fleiss said. 
“Women everywhere can live the 
life they dream today by having ac-cess to designer brands that otherwise would have been unattainable,” she said. “We aspired to make high-end fashions as accessible as renting a mov-ie from Netflix.”
Rent the Runway On Campus puts 
spotlight on college fashionistas    
Film: Hesher
Cast: Devin Brochu, Rainn Wilson, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Natalie Portman, Piper LaurieDirector: Spenser SusserTheater Relese Date: May 13DVD Relese Date: Sept. 13Rated: RAndy’s Rating: 10, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011
n the Reeln the Reel
a n g r y, 
malev-o l e n t vaga-bond  named Hesher (Joseph Gor -
don-Levitt) is in-
side. Security is soon alerted and forces Hesher to abandon the house, which makes TJ the squat-ter’s newest target.
He follows TJ home and force-
fully moves himself into the ga-rage. Paul,  strung out on pills,  just accepts his new house guest. TJ tries to get rid of the shirtless nuisance, but Hesher physically overpowers him, adding to the burden of TJ’s heavy life. 
Hesher repairs and destroys 
TJ’s life through unconventional life lessons, whether it’s berating TJ for not taking an early walk with his grandmother or forc-ing him to stand up to a bully by torching said bully’s car.
Early in the film, TJ falls for a 
down-on-her-luck grocery store clerk, Nicole (Natalie Portman), after she saves him from a bully . The two develop a friendly rela-tionship until Hesher decides to stir that pot as well.
“Hesher,” at its core, is a film 
about how people deal with grief. And man, does it pack a lot of grief. Especially for TJ, who deals with more shit in a weeklong pe-riod than most do in a lifetime.  This is easily the most heartbreak-ing and heartwarming film I’ve seen this year.  
Gordon-Levitt is clearly the 
star, in one of the best roles of his career. His crazy , chain-smoking, vulgar portrayal of Hesher is rea-son enough to see the film. Add  a “Garden State”-era Natalie Port-man and Dwight Schrute as a troubled father, and it’s clear that the cast of “Hesher” really packs a punch.
But that’s not to say the film 
is without faults. “Hesher” feels like two movies forced into one as part drama, part dark comedy , that just don’t settle together. 
It breaks character with a 
flashback to TJ’s mother’s death,  something I wished they would have kept vague and left to the viewer’s imagination, as the rest of the film seems to do.
Overall, “Hesher” was a great 
watch, if not just for the perfor -
mance of Gordon-Levitt, who will surely nab himself an Oscar.
“Hesher” offers star-
studded cast, dark plot  
A band’s debut album is never perfect. There are usually some great songs 
and ideas that don’t work well to-gether until the band gains more experience. The same can be said with directors. Most often, a debut film is full of great ideas and scenes that aren’t fully executed. This de-scribes Spencer Susser’s directorial debut of “Hesher” spot on.
“Hesher” is seen through the 
eyes of 13-year-old TJ (Devin Bro-chu) as he and his father, Paul (a morose, bearded Rainn Wilson), deal with the loss of TJ’s mother.  Paul becomes a pill-popping veg-etable, TJ takes beatings from a bully , and both rely on the fragile grandmother (Piper Laurie) to take care of them.  
Cue Hesher.In a burst of frustration, TJ toss-
es a rock through a window of an abandoned house, unaware that an 
Andy Maroon
Columnist
Photo courtesy of Lionsgate/Adrenaline PR
Actor Joseph Gordon-Levitt stars as the film’s resident badass, Hesher — 
a twisted soul who makes his way into a depressed 13-year-old’s life.   
 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 11
You walk in. There’s an empty 
space. A cheap table from Wal-mart is nestled in the corner, 
and a thin doormat rests under your feet. Yup, you have just entered your typical college apartment/dorm — one with mismatching decor, or no decor at all. 
Although we all love decking 
everything out in orange and blue (ahem, freshmen), there are other ways to spice up your home, making it more lively and livable. 
In this economy, it makes sense 
that no one wants to spend money on decorating his or her pad. There is beer to buy and clubs to attend — the important facets of college life. But I’m here to tell you that there are plenty of ways to add convenience and flavor to your place without dropping a single penny. 
Today’s artists are big in the “going 
green” scene, and you can easily be-come one, too, by taking simple items from around your apartment and making them into something crazy or even something useful. So let’s get started. 
This week’s idea comes from an in-
dustrial designer named Pierre Lota. It’s as simple as creating a coat hook out of a bottle. 
Strange, right? Step 1: Finish off that 2-liter bottle 
sitting in your mini fridge. 
Step 2: Cut off the top of the bottle right where it starts curving upward to-ward the neck. You want the cylinder part to be the same diameter all the way up. 
Step 3: Cut 
1-inch strips 
down the cylinder, stopping about 3 inches from the bottom. Do this around the entire bottle. 
Step 4: Bend back all the strips so 
that the bottle looks almost like a sun with the base in the middle, facing you and the strips spread out evenly all around. 
Step 5: Place the bottle flat against 
the wall and nail into place. 
Step 6: Take your favorite jacket, 
umbrella or towel of choice (the one currently thrown on your floor) and hang it right up.  
Voila!  
There you have it: a simple, easy 
way to recycle a bottle and have a trendy coat hook all at once. Pick whatever color bottle you want and feel free to get creative. You can burn the edges with a lighter, paint the out-side or cut designs into the strips. In a matter of minutes, you just contrib-uted to saving the earth and yourself of a few bucks. Now go buy more beer and grab your nicely placed, unwrin-kled jacket on the way out.12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011
 He Says…  She Says… College life in this town 
can serve up a constant bom-
bardment of new faces. 
Whether out on the town 
or trekking across campus, there are thousands of peeps we haven’t met just yet, but there’s also those we’ve already brought into our circles. 
Our community of 
20-somethings paves the way for networks of close friends and those special few who’ve made the coveted list of best buddies for life.
But herein lies the ques-
tion: Are we capable of having such platonic relationships with members of the sex we’re attracted to? 
Or does the ever-present 
temptation make sincere friendships impossible? Is there really such a thing as “just friends?” He Said, She Said: Is being “just friends” really possible?     
Ah yes, the question that con-
tinues to muddle boundaries between platonic love and the 
rules of attraction.  Can one plainly and simply maintain a friendship with another whom they find deli-cious?  The answer to this question is both “yes” and “no” simultane-ously, dependent on the individuals involved and reflective of all compli-
cated circumstantial factors.  
As a straight female who 
has a number of amazing male friends, I can reveal with full honesty that yes, it is absolute-ly possible for men and women to get along handsomely, share many common interests, hang out and talk for hours, get 
drunk together, crash at each other’s places and not boink.  Even as I type this, I know it seems crazy, but it’s the truth.    
What’s not so clear is determin-
ing why some buds fall into category “Friend Zone,” while others are ex-pedited into potential sheet-sharers.  Why the differentiation?  What does this say about the qualities we seek in significant others? Is a degree of incompatibility, an element of drama, necessary to keep the sparks flying? Or do my male friends just not find me attractive?  (Don’t answer that, guys.  Let the mystery be.)
For those who can relate to hav-
ing hot friends with no benefits, I hope you agree that if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.  There’s no need to force romantic feelings into these types of friendships just because Nora Ephron (“You’ve Got Mail,” “When Harry Met Sally … ”) has trained us to think otherwise.  Now, read between the lines: Do not hook up unless you have both discussed dating first. Accept the reality that casual sex with a friend is never, ever a good idea.  Got it?   
However, if you do find yourself 
falling for a bud, it is in both of your best interests to coolly confess these thoughts ASAP . Maybe your counter-part has been thinking the same thing but is too scared to share it. And if the feeling isn’t mutual, don’t sweat it.  As long as your confession avoids heavy sentiment, I can almost guarantee no friendship will be lost or harmed if the person is worth any sort of damn.  
— KAY BEA Men are sex-driven creatures that rarely turn down the op-
portunity to indulge in our in-stincts. To my straight guys, if one of your female “friends” popped the, “Do you want to _____ ?” question, would you decline in order to protect your caring and meaningful friendship?
Hell no you wouldn’t.We’re at a time in our lives 
when friends of the sex we’re attracted to are more than just casual acquaintances. We hang out with them at parties or chit-chat with them in class, but we hardly ever develop a truly heartfelt friendship.
And if you think you do 
have one of those platonic friendships, consider this: Why did you begin talking to them? Was it because you thought they were attractive? Is there a chance you could be more than friends in the future?
I talked it over with some guys, and they all agreed. If you’re young and single, the lines that bound the “Friend Zone” are blurred at best. All it takes is one late night or one flirty text, and suddenly Susie from Calculus is letting you derive her.
Yet as my conversation 
with the guys continued, some of them admitted that they had a woman or two they considered a sister — more of a sidekick than sweet-heart. She’s the one you call up when all the bros are busy. She’s nice, she cares, she may even be pretty, but you wouldn’t ever consider pulling any moves on her.
But in college, genuine 
friends of the sex you swing to are about as common as campus parking. So, if you do have one, hold onto him or her. You’ve got something special.
— JACOB ROMOSER  
Amy Stuart / Alligator Staff 
Go green by creating this hook in a cinch with an empty 2-liter bottle. After you’ve bent back the 
strips so the bottle looks like a sun, place the bottle flat against the wall and nail it into place.
Reduce, Reuse, Redecorate: 
How to make a coat hanger out of a plastic 2-liter bottle  go green
Amy Stuart
ColumnistTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
THIS WEEK ONLY
$379 3/3 All-Inclusive$349 4/4 All-Inclusive$250 VISA Gift Cards!352-336-3838www.TheLandingsUF.com           12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-1
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC!
4/4’s @ $329
Upgraded 4/4’s ONLY $359
$100 Visa Card for fall
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $345.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. Available now. 300-1294    9-2-11-16-1
VALUE PLACE GAINESVILLE
New Extended Stay Lodging 3 miles to UF★NO LEASE - NO CREDIT CHECK
★FREE Utilities, Special UF Monthly Rates
★Furnished Wkly Single Studio $219.99+tax
★Kitchens, Laundry, HD TV/HBO, Secure
5505 SW 41st Blvd.,  I-75, Exit 382352-672-6008 ValuePlace.com/GainesvilleFL     
9-6-11-16-1
4BR/4BA available in 4/4 in beautiful gated 
countryside complex. $375/mo incls all utili-ties, cable,internet, etc. Big Screen tv in liv-ing room! Looking for full year lease. 754-281-5023  orShahrouz.ebadian@gmail.com   9-1-11-10-1
3 ROOMS IN LUXURY CONDO
$350-$400 each. Pool, tennis, new applianc-es. Close to UF. Call 516-851-6879 or email tapyourrealpower@aol.com       9-2-11-10-1Available completely furnished 4BR/4BA condo. Great bus routes 9 & 35 every 8-10 minutes. Amenities pool, hot tub, volleyball, basketball court, and fitness center. Rent $300/mo, $300 security deposit. 514-7250
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREEFrederick GardensCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
PinetreeGardens.com
2 bed/1.5 bath Townhomes
with washer/dryer!
***$629  this month only***
Call today! 376.4002
12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2
     1,2,3,BR’s – Welcome Home!
·         HUGE floorplans! * H20/Sewer Incl!·         W/D Avail! * Pets Loved!·         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis·        376-2507 * BivensCove.com 12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
FULLY UPGRADED – Only 
$1,099
($367/person)
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1/1• 750 sq. ft •$639/mo.
2/2.5 TH• 1113 sq. ft •$799/mo.
4/2.5 TH• 1662 sq. ft •$999/mo.
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    9-7-11-62-2
AVAILABLE NOW - ONLY A FEW LEFT!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
9-30-11-29-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
3BR, 2Bath, Washer/Dryer, 
Fenced backyard, Carport,
No pets. $1450./Mo   303-877-4915
9-19-11-30-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   9-9-11-19-2
Roommates a Hassle?
Move into your own downtown apt!www.ArlingtonSquare.orgStudios and 1Bdrms starting at $599!Check availability now! 338-000212-7-11-74-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs.1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-15509-16-11-20-2
3BR, 2BA, Condo Unit, Ground Floor, Kitchen 
& living area; Swimming pool & tennis courts; The Sparrow; $700.00 per month.Call Cristen at 352-514-6222    9-19-11-20-2
GREAT LOCATION! 2BD/2BA partially fur-
nished condo. Close to campus and med school, bus stop right outside, lots of park-ing, swimming pool, full kitchen, W/D, pet friendly. $725/mo OBO (904) 891-13119-2-11-10-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House
Historic spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $2200/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    9-19-11-20-2
5 BLOCKS NW OF UF
1BR/1BA apt. Galley kitchen. Reserved parking next to door. Small pets ok - no extra fee. $500/mo, $300 sec dep. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-2-11-10-2
***FALL RENTAL ROOMS***
Starting From $350 to $450 Per Rooms
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Semester and Year Leases Available
Rooms For Immediate Move-In
9-2-11-27-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Avail now - 1 yr. $1780 OBO. 352-665-8166 lv msg  
9-6-11-10-2
2BD/2BA townhouse, full W/D, huge clos-
ets, tile and laminate flooring, fenced backyard, pet friendly, near UF, very clean, section 8 accepted. $725/mo 2911 SW 38th place - (954) 439-20762BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. 
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1st month half price! Vacant lots alsoavailable. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-58879-20-20-2
Spectacular 3BR, Lakefront Condo
1 mile south of UF and Shandsrecently renovated,  $1400 monthpool, clubhouse, 2500 s.f. + garageavailable immediately (352) 262-2871    9-21-11-20-2
●Historic House walk to UF.2703 NW 2nd 
Ave.Central h/a,screened porch,private parking,laundry with w/d.perfect for grad stu-dent or professional.No pets.1st,last sec.$40 app fee. $795 mo. 352-332-5836    9-15-11-16-2
3 blocks to UF – Gatornest
$550 – Only 3 left
Bike to UF – Centerpoint
$450- Only1 left
4BR/2BA House
directly across from Law School
W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
2392 NW 2nd Avenue – Call for details
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
9-8-11-10-2
The Polos
ONE MONTH FREE
Move In By September 15th
Call For Details!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
Walk to class! 4 bedroom house
rented room by room.
Pool. 2 living rooms. Lots of parking.
Call John @ 561-866-8234
for additional info
9-2-3-2FOR RENT: 4 BED/2 BATH HOUSE, OFF 
NEWBERRY RD ACROSS GAINESVILLE HEALTH & FITNESS.$1200 RENT PER MONTH, $300 PER PERSON. CALL: 786-586-5670 OR 305-439-3435EMAIL: KLAND304@AOL.COM   9-7-11-4-2
2BR/1 1/2 bath Foxmoor condo behind 
Hilton Hotel on 34th St. Walk to UF, grocer-ies, bus route. Private courtyard, W/D, pool. Exc. cond. Pets considered. $650/mo 352-213-4644   9-1-11-1-2
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-4
Male roommate needed - 4 BR house, 14 
blks from campus. Safe & secure NW neigh-borhood. Great deck & yard. Clean, nicely furn, new appl, $575/mo incl util, w/d. AJ 561.718.5567    9-6-11-10-4
$350 moves you in! No deposit or last months 
rent. Mature male student to share furnished 4/2. FR, LR, W/D, maid service, yrd man, 5 min from UF, new kitchen, big yard. No pets, non-smoker. (813) 362-7729 or 362-78819-6-11-10-4
Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $379/MOcable, internet, utilities, pool+ morebeautifully renovated, on bus route,  Call 352  262-2871             9-7-11-5-4
LARGE FURNISHED SUITE IN BEAUTIFUL
house. Female only. Upscale horse neigh
borhood north of Millhopper Rd. 12 min to
SFCC, 15 min to Oaks Mall, 30 min to UF.
$350/mo plus 1/3 utilities. 386-462-9678.
9-1-11-7-4
Need female/nonsmoker roommate; 2bed/1 
bath apt; $255 a month (not including utili-ties); available NOW; 12 month lease; non-refundable deposit of $44.50; 3 miles from UF/7 miles from SFC; contact Becca at 352-222-8117.    9-7-11-5-4
 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011  § ALLIGATOR, 15
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
●BED SET TWIN $49
●FULL $69●QUEEN $89●KING $99352-376-0953 4390 SW 20TH AVE   10-6-11-30-6
Modern 5-piece sectional.
WILL DIVIDE.Easy to move. $75/section. Very clean & comfortable. Call 352-256-4954   9-2-11-5-6
A+ Mobile PC Repair
Our technicians provide fast and thorough
computer repairs, at an affordable price.
We come to you. (352) 212-1220 
APlusMobile@rocketmail.com
9-2-11-30-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7CASH FOR ELECTRONICS WORKING OR 
NOT! IPODS, SMARTPHONES, TABLETS, GAMING SYSTEMS, LAPTOPS & MORE. WE ALSO DO REPAIRS! TECHMODO 6450 SW ARCHER RD 352 872 5881     9-9-7-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is giving away TWO scoot-
ers to our Facebook friends, one at end of Summer B, another in Fall. "Like" our FB page for more details about the giveaway. facebook.com/RoadRatMotors   9-12-11-24-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
9-30-11-21-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      9-8-11-74-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
Volunteer Needed: HOPE - Horses Helping 
People, Inc. is seeking volunteers for our fall semester sessions.  Please email us at ridingtherapy@gmail.com to become a part of our team.  www.horseshelpingpeople.org    9-2-5-13
$$ CASH PAID, $500 OR MORE $$
FOR JUNK CARS & TRUCKS
RUNNING OR NOT, ANY CONDITION
SAME DAY PICK UP. FREE TOWING
NO TITLE NEEDED. CALL 352-771-6191
 10-11-11-30-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Please submit resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    9-30-11-34-14Veterinary Receptionist
Experience preferred. Must be available 
afternoons and Saturdays. Apply in person 
at Jonesville Animal Hospital, 14145 W 
Newberry Rd, Newberry
9-6-11-16-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net9-12-11-15-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
UF Survey Research Center
Now hiring for fall semester!
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352) 392-2908 Ext: 105
720 SW 2nd Ave Suite 156
9-9-11-15-14
Medical assistant/ receptionist wanted for 
busy physician's office. Medical terminology and/or anatomy recommended but not re-quired. Fax (352-377-4816) or email (jas3fl@aol.com) resumes.       9-2-11-10-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14NEED NANNY TO TRAVEL: all expenses pd;
min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs/wk @ $12/hr;4yr old/1.5 yr old; bonus hr$; exp; good refs;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to  info@noahsarknanny.com9-6-11-15-14
WEB COURSE ASSISTANTS wanted to 
help faculty with course websites. Applicants must be familiar with Dreamweaver, CSS and Photoshop. Be prepared to present samples of your work. Full- and part-time po-sitions are available. Pay starts at $10.00 per hour. basharat@ufl.edu, online application at http://citt.ufl.edu/contact.php.   9-9-11-17-14
PERSONAL COUNSELOR
TECH SUPPORTLINUX ADMINADMIN ASSTAVIATION ASSTPROOFREADER
Full and part time.   Please apply at
http://www.gleim.com/employment 9-2-11-13-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
FALL 2011
BSC2010            ENY1001           MUH4016
BSC2011            FOS2001             PLP2000
BUL4310            GEB3373             PSY2012
ECO2013           MAN3025             RTV3405
ECO2023           MAN4504             STA2023
ENT3003           MAR3023        …and more!
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
9-2-11-12-14
 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011  § ALLIGATOR, 17
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm, 
M-F. Wkend hrs vary. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax re-sume & availability to 373-2230     9-13-11-15-14
How I Got an A
is now hiring note takers!
We hire for more classes than anyone.
Apply at HowIGotanA.com
9-2-11-9-14
Five Star Pizza Downtown
is looking for
Postive Profesional Attitudes
car is required for all personel
variety of hours availabe
apply in person at 210 sw 2nd ave.
between 1 p.m. and 5 p.m.
9-7-11-10-14
Centerplate Part-Time Jobs!
● Event Supervisors● Warehouse Runners● CashiersApply in person at Ben Hill Griffin StadiumMonday-Friday 8:00 AM to 4:00 PMwww.centerplate.eventbrite.com
(352) 692-6244
                      9-23-11-17-14
NANNY NEEDED for 2: 18mon/4yrs
2wks/mon/min; 40hrs/wk @$12/hrNoah's Ark Nanny: email res., pix &sched: to info@noahsarknanny.com    9-6-11-8-14
Busy Dermatology Office seeking assistant 
to learn all aspects of billing, collections, ac-counts payable and receivable, appointment scheduling and front office management. Ideal for seniors obtaining a business BA or similar degree. Part-time position leading to possible full-time with management poten-tial. Email resume to ofmgrbeers@aol.com.    9-2-6-14
Opus Coffee Bar
We are searching for fun and active students
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast 
paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting pay is $8.00/hour + tips. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opus-cafe.com, click on the employ-
ment tab, and follow the directions.
9-1-11-5-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. $7.50/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 NW 13th St    9-9-11-10-14g
Maintenance Supervisor  FT
AC cert. w/4 yrs. apt. maint. exp.
Must have own tools & truck. Salary
commensurate with exp. DFWP
Apply in person 2770 NW 43rd St., Ste. B
12-7-11-69-14Leasing Agent  FT/PT
Friendly, energetic person.
Exp. preferred. 20-40 hrs./wk.
hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Must be avail. weekend. Apply in person
Spyglass Apts 701 SW 62nd Blvd.   DFWP
12-7-11-69-14 
Property Manager – PT
Organized, motivated, outgoing person
for PT position at small apt. community.
Must be avail. M-F 1-6, Sat. 10-2.
Apply in person
2770 NW 43rd St, Ste B DFWP
12-7-11-69-14
UNIFORM STORE -part time help need-
ed immediately (next to mall). Flexible hours(perfect for student). Retail experience a plus. Email resume/availability to:jessia4scrubsbydesign@gmail.com   9-2-4-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
Florida Football Drink Seller!
Tremendous Cash in a Short Time!Yes - it is a work out!Apply in person at Concessions OfficeGate 18 BHG Stadium       9-23-11-17-14
Farm Help & Outdoor Work - must be reliable, 
organized; will work around class schedule; farm experience/light carpentry skills a plus; references w/phone no. required; send re-sume to skking@gator.net.    9-7-5-14
GET PAID TO TYPE!!
Fast, accurate typists needed for au-dio transcription work. Create your own schedule Monday - Friday, 7am - midnight. Compensation based on speed and accu-racy (around $8.50 an hour if you type faster than 70 wpm). Walking distance to campus. Ideal for PT and Students! Email inquiries to gnvjobs@uigfla.com Requirements: - Must work a minimum of 16 hours a week- Must be attentive to detail- English must be your first language     9-7-11-5-14
Extended Day Enrichment 
Program Is Hiring Now
SCHOOL BOARD OF ALACHUA COUNTYAFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM - VARIOUS LOCATIONS'●ENERGETIC PEOPLE TO TEACH OUTDOOR GAMES - $10/hr - BA desired or successful exp. working w/ children.●CREATIVE PEOPLE TO TEACH ARTS & CRAFTS - $10hr - BA desired or successful exp. working w/ children.●Girl Scout Leaders, Tennis Instructors, Dance Instructors & 4-H LeadersHours required - M,T,Th,F - 1:45-5:30, Wed- 12:30-5:30 PMDRUG TESTING REQUIRED-BACKGROUND CHECK CONDUCTED - AA/EOEForMore Information Call: 352-955-7766Apply online www.sbac.edu9-2-11-3-14LIFEGUARD.$12.00 PER HOUR. 
REQUIRES CERTIFICATION.20 HRS/WK ON 3 DAY WKNDS. ADD'L HRS MAY BE AVAIL. ADULT-MALE PATIENTS IN MAX SECURITY MENTAL HLTH FAC DURING    POOL REC THERAPY.CONTACT GRADY CARTHON(352)375-8484   9-14-10-14
PHONE REPS NEEDED ASAP
Flexible Shifts, Must be Articulate and Reliable371-5888 X111 or 6020 NW 4th Pl, Ste G9-30-21-14
Personal assistant: 5 hours/Monday. Must 
have car, GPS, driver's license, fluent English. Computer & website skills. Cleaning and organizing skills. Email info@gviolins.com.   9-13-11-8-14
MEDICAL ASSISTANT
PT or FT for a doctor's office. Experience preferred. Email resume to:snpohani@gmail.com      9-8-11-5-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
Horse boarding, $350/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome    9-30-11-38-15. 
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
Finish Line Resume Services
Professional Quality Resumes
Affordable and Prompt
additional services upon request
www.finishlineresumeservices.com
9-14-11-10-15
Evolving Scapes-Plantscaping for the inte-
riors. We specialize in residential and office enhancement. Tel. 352-215-4448, Call for a free consultation. www.evolvingscapes.com.    9-1-1-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   10-19-11-100-16
ALL YOUR CPR AND FIRST AID NEEDS
FLORIDA HEARTSAVERwww.floridaheartsaver.org 575-0119                        9-30-28-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Florida’s Big 3
Do you believe the heralded sophomore trio of Ronald Powell, 
Dominique Easley and Sharrif Floyd have matured since last season? Yes (91%) No  (9%) Underclassmen in the secondary
Which potential starter will play the largest role for Florida this season? Vote online at alligatorSports.org. Freshmen Havana Solaun (left) and Kim Sapienza, both Gainesville natives, are making key contributions early on for UF.See Story, Page 18.
Alligator File Photo
Florida offensive coordinator Charlie Weis said Tuesday that running backs Jeff Demps (pictured) and 
Chris Rainey are two of the fastest players he has coached throughout his 32-year career. 
END OF GREGULATION
Will Muschamp faces a difficult 
task as a first-year coach in the Southeastern Conference, but 
the odds are stacked in his favor. 
As his friend and second-year Tennes-
see head man Derek Dooley will attest to, taking over a program is a complex job. 
“I could probably write a book on the 
first year,” Dooley said. “It’s trying to relay the expectations of everything you do, at every stage.”
A coaching switch does not happen in 
one swift movement. It takes place over and over again, at every level of team ac-tivity. 
Spring practice. Summer program. 
Training camp. Weekly schedule. Week-end games. Every phase is a fresh start for a first-time coach. 
“Even though a new coach right now 
would be about 7 or 8 months into his job, he’s really starting over as it relates to game week,” Dooley said. “I think that’s the biggest change your first year: taking every component over the course of 365 days and im-plementing how you want to do things.”
As Muschamp 
enters his next fresh start, he has 
a leg up on those who came before him. 
South Carolina coach Steve Spurrier 
noted that Muschamp has the luxury of a top-tier talent base, something not usually present in situations that call for change. He specifically cited former coach Urban Meyer’s top-ranked recruiting class from 2009. 
“I don’t know how many of those guys 
are still there, but they’ve certainly got a lot of good ball players, we all know that,” Spurrier said. “I think they’ll be a very strong team — hopefully not too strong — but they’ll have a good year.” Wins, losses not the only 
concern for first-year coachTYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Jeff Demps and Chris Rainey are 
not just the fastest players at Florida; 
they are some of the fastest players ever, according to offensive coordi-nator Charlie Weis.
Weis has coached for 32 years, in-
cluding 16 seasons in the NFL, and he said Tuesday he has never seen running backs fly like Demps and Rainey.
Demps’ greatest accomplishments 
at Florida have come on the track; he has won national championships in the 60- and 100-meter sprints. Rainey also ran track in 2010 but elected to participate in spring practices this year.
Weis is especially excited because 
Demps and Rainey are similar backs. If one goes down, Weis won’t have to change the play-calling. Rainey said Wednesday he and Demps have been on the field at the same time “quite a bit” during practices. 
Said Weis: “They’ll both be out 
there a whole bunch. They’ll both be tired after games.”
Wenger like an extra coach:  
Center Jonotthan Harrison said Dan Wenger has brought a much-needed veteran presence to an inexperienced offensive line. Wenger, who is list-ed as the starting left guard on the Gators’ latest depth chart, played at Notre Dame before transferring to Florida.
He has a pre-existing relationship 
with Weis and position coach Frank Verducci, both of whom coached 
for the Irish while Wenger was there.
“He’s been able 
to point out the little things that maybe the coach couldn’t relate to us as well,” Harrison said. “He’ll slow it down and explain 
it if we’re not getting it at first.”
Elam wants stability: Safety Matt 
Elam seems to be the only sure thing in UF’s defensive backfield, at least right now. Elam, a sophomore, has been thrust into a leadership role perhaps prematurely because of the unit’s youth.
Defensive coordinator Dan Quinn 
said Wednesday he and coach Will Muschamp still have not decided Weis blown away by 
speed of Demps, Rainey
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Dan Quinn’s shirt said it all Wednesday.
As Florida’s first-year defensive co-
ordinator spoke of his unit leading up to Saturday’s season opener against FAU, he donned a grey shirt with the words “Ball Hawk” emblazoned across the front.
That’s what he expects of his unit this 
year: a relentless defense that’s both fast and physical for 60 minutes.
“I want you to see the tape and see these 
guys are really physical,” Quinn said. “You hope that after the tape comes off and af-ter you watch the game, you say , ‘That’s a fast, physical team. They went after the ball; they’re tough, good tacklers.’”
With the season on the horizon, Quinn 
said the defense is still adjusting from a pre-dominantly 4-3 scheme to a hybrid system that also runs 3-4 principles. However, he said he’s pleased with the progress he’s seen from the unit.
“[The system] may look harder at times 
than it is,” Quinn said. “When you combine both the 3-4 and the 4-3 packages it adds some value in how the offense will have to prepare against you. That’s one thing Will (Muschamp) and I have always believed in.”
Quinn said the transition to playing 
more 3-4 was diffi-cult for some at first, but through a full spring and fall camp, 
the unit has adjusted nicely to the new prin-ciples.
In order to keep opposing offenses on 
their toes with the new system, Quinn has had the entire defense — and more specifi-cally, the front seven — cross-training at ev-ery position. 
The interior linemen (Omar Hunter, Jaye 
Howard, Dominique Easley and Sharrif Gators looking for physical, 
fast defense under Quinn
Greg Luca
twitter: @gregluca
UF Fo otball
sEE GREG, PAGE 18sEE NOTE, PAGE 18
sEE DEFENsE, PAGE 18Rainey
111 total votes THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 19
Fun with math, Muschamp’s intensity, finding Furman
After a successful debut, The Mailbag is 
back for the opening week of football sea-son, and judging by the questions we 
received, you guys are fiending for some pigskin. That being said, let’s kick it off.
@l_davis15: What are realistic expectations 
for Mack Brown and Mike Gillislee?
Right now, Brown and Gillislee are not 
prominent members of the offense. Charlie 
Weis has made it clear that Jeff Demps and Chris Rainey are the top backs, and honestly, who could blame him? The strength of the of-fense in 2011 (if there is one) will be the combi-nation of Demps and Rainey . 
Who knows if John Brantley is looking like 
the “Heisman candidate” Jaye Howard made him out to be, and who knows what the Gators rag-tag group of receivers can do? That actual-ly may be good news for Brown and Gillislee, as Demps and Rainey haven’t shown they can remain on the field for an entire season. But, barring injury, don’t expect much from either this season. 
@Rizzmiggizz: How much more is 31 than 7?
The difference between them is about seven 
inches — the space between Steve Addazio’s 
ears. FSU fans should send him some love. 
@fcardillo: Reports say that Will Muschamp 
possesses a certain inability to smile, is this true?
False. This nasty rumor obviously comes 
from the now-infamous Gators preseason 
poster featuring Coach Boom scowling with his arms folded. But Coach Boom has a soft side. Go ahead. Pick up the new Florida pock-et schedule, if you can find it. You’ll be pleas-antly surprised. 
@RickyRegs: Aside from the obvious, do you 
see anyone giving the #gators trouble outside of the conference?
Disregarding the obviously challenging 
Florida State, Florida’s out-of-conference schedule consists of FAU, UAB and Furman. Since nobody can tell us where Furman is or what their mascot looks like, and we’re too lazy to look it up, we’re going to disregard them as a legitimate threat to UF.
Howard Schnellenberger is sure to give it 
his all in his last go-round with FAU, but the Owls are nothing more than a middle-of-the-road Sun Belt team with marginal talent and a brand new quarterback. Running back Al-fred Morris is legitimately good, but Florida’s strength is the defensive front seven, so that won’t matter.
The game to watch is UAB. We know 
they’re probably in Furman’s neighborhood, in the sense that most don’t know a damn thing about them, and the three sane alliga-torSports columnists expect this to be another walkover. But one brave soul sees things dif-ferently. The Blazers (yeah, we know the mas-cot) lost extremely close games on the road last season to Tennessee and Mississippi State, and they return most of their top talent. They have an experienced quarterback, a talented receiving corps and a new defense that Florida can’t prepare for because nobody’s ever seen it. Don’t be shocked to see an upset pick out of our staff next week.
@edrexler: How long will it take the Gators 
to get back to the oh-so-distant glory days of 2006 and 2008?
Well, that all depends on a number of fac-
tors, the first being whether or not anyone on the team knows how to find a flux capacitor for our DeLorean. Next, we think your best bet would be to ask linebacker Jelani Jenkins; he seems like a smart fellow who might un-derstand the intricacies of the space-time con-tinuum.
But if that doesn’t work out (and we would 
be shocked if it did), it should take until at least 2013. Florida has the talent on the team now — just look at the recruiting job Urban Meyer did the last two years — and Muschamp is putting together a nice class of his own in his first full year. Florida’s 2012 class is currently ranked No. 4 by Rivals.com, and it only stands to get better with some of the biggest recruits still in play.If these classes pan out, and the young 
talent on the team continues to mature, the Gators should be back in the hunt for BCS bowl games in Coach Boom’s third season.
@bourbonmeyer: With Demps and Rainey 
both averaging 7.2 yards a carry, who do you 
think finishes the season with more yards?
Man, a math question? Our math may be 
questionable at best, but we aren’t about to be stumped by this submission. Basically what this question should say is: “Who will get more touches, Demps or Rainey?”
If you listened to offensive coordinator 
Charlie Weis on Tuesday night, he had plenty of praise for the dynamic running back duo, even calling them the fastest players he has coached — at any level.
Weis also said the two will see the field 
quite often, meaning there’s always going to be a threat of them touching the ball, and let’s be real, those two are the Gators’ most proven (and most explosive) weapons on offense.
At the end of the day, though, we think 
Rainey will finish with more yards from scrim-mage. He hasn’t missed a beat since the new offense was installed, while Demps missed spring and summer due to his budding track career. They’ll both finish with similar rushing numbers, but we believe Rainey will get more touches as a receiver. After all, he did lead the team in touchdown receptions last season.
— ALLIGATOR STAFFTHE MAILBAGAfter leading what should 
have been a rebuilding Game-
cocks team to a 7-4 record,  Spur -
rier got the nod for SEC Coach of the Year in his first season at South Carolina. 
Muschamp’s Gators may 
not have the talent of last year’s group, but it’s fair for fans to opti-mistically expect a Spurrier-esque season, at the least. 
When Houston Nutt took over 
at Ole Miss in 2008, he was assum-ing the task of changing the entire mindset of a program that hadn’t put together a winning season in four years. 
His plan? Eliminate penalties, 
take care of the ball and develop a familial attitude — things Mus-champ has tried to do at Florida.
The adjustment was admit-
tedly slower than Nutt anticipat-ed, but a few critical early season wins, including the inception of Tim Tebow’s famous 2008 speech, really convinced his players to buy in. With a brutal October schedule 
featuring matchups against LSU, Alabama, Auburn and Georgia, Muschamp will have similar op-portunities to score a galvanizing, statement victory. And even if he doesn’t, the memory of the 2008 national championship is only three years old. 
Winning is still a part of this 
culture.  
If Nutt can take Ole Miss from 
3-9 in 2007 to 8-4 in his opening season, then the sky should be the limit for Muschamp’s Gators. 
Nutt’s results may represent an 
outlier, but first-year SEC coaches have fared well overall. Of the ten returners — Vanderbilt’s James Franklin is also entering his first year — only three failed to main-tain or improve their team’s re-cord in their inaugural season. 
Of those three, only Bobby Pe-
trino, whose depleted Arkansas team went from 8-4 to 5-7 upon his arrival, was more than a single win worse. 
Pundits point to the schedule 
as a reason Muschamp won’t suc-ceed, but Dan Mullen brought Mississippi State from 4-8 to 5-7 in his first year despite facing the nation’s most difficult slate. 
Even Dooley expects Mus-
champ to have a big season, so much so that he opted not to counsel his close friend on the challenges that await him. 
“Will doesn’t need my advice,” 
Dooley said. “He’s a great football coach, he’s been around a lot of great programs and he’s ready for the job. He doesn’t need any help from me, that’s for sure.”
Muschamp supporters expect 
a lot from him, and the situation he enters is as strong as any a new coach could ask for. 
It’s on him to deliver.Contact Greg Luca at gluca@
alligator.org.
which cornerbacks will start in 
Saturday’s season opener. 
Moses Jenkins, Cody Riggs, 
Marcus Roberson and Jaylen Watkins are competing for play-ing time.  
While a rotation could keep 
the group’s energy high, Elam wishes the team had established starters.
“It’s hard not to know who 
will play beside you, but I just continue to push the other players so that they can get bet-ter,” he said. “I want to feel com-fortable.”
Injuries: Receiver Omarius 
Hines (hamstring) and corner -
back Jeremy Brown (sprained knee) remain questionable for Saturday’s game. Brown ran during practice 
earlier this week, but he has not been able to participate in foot-ball activities, Muschamp said.
Etc: With Texas A&M’s 
move to the Southeastern Confer -
ence appearing imminent, sever -
al SEC coaches were asked about the impact of the move. 
Muschamp danced around 
the topic, saying expansion won’t change UF’s approach: “We’re going to recruit the best players in the country; and if some of those are in Texas, so be it.”
Muschamp is perhaps most 
famous for his passionate tirades on the sidelines. He said he won’t change his antics just because he’s a head coach: “I plan on being emotional; that’s kind of me.”
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@al-
ligator.org.18, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2011
Alligator File Photo
Gators defensive coordinator Dan Quinn said sophomore Sharrif Floyd would play defensive end in the 
team’s base package and would slide inside to play tackle in nickel packages. 
� BOTH ATTENDED BUCHHOLZ HIGH.
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
From their glory days at Gainesville Bu-
chholz High to rooming together in college, 
freshmen Havana Solaun and Kim Sapienza have shared nearly every experience in their young soccer careers.
Now four games into their first season at 
No. 13 Florida (3-1-0), the two also share a common role on their new team as key con-tributors off the bench in the midfield and on the back line.
“It’s really neat to have two kids from lo-
cal Gainesville making big contributions to our program,” UF coach Becky Burleigh said. “I think that helps add local interest and the fact that the two of them have been able to make an impact right away is huge for both of them.”
In Florida’s 3-2 win against Texas A&M last 
Friday , Solaun and Sapienza became the first pair of local players in the program’s 17-year history to see the field at the same time. Only two other Gainesville natives — Kelli Eisen-brown (2003-2006) and Karah Smith (1996) — have ever played in a game for Burleigh.
The novelty of their rotation into the 
Gators’ lineup has worked brilliantly , with Solaun scoring in the season opener against Miami and then dishing an assist to junior Er -
ika Tymrak in the matchup with the Aggies.
“Havana has been involved in a lot of our 
goals, maybe not directly on the stat page with the assists, but certainly with part of the balls that have been set up to get the assist and then lead to the goal,” Burleigh said.The 5-foot-4 Sapienza, meanwhile, began 
her first year behind the learning curve, as she made the switch from an attacking midfielder at Buchholz to a defensive role with Florida.
“Transitioning from high school to college, 
you just keep your options open because you never know where they’re going to see you playing,” Sapienza said. “It could be com-
pletely different.”
In her senior year 
with the Bobcats, Sa-pienza led the team in 
scoring with 28 goals, nine ahead of Solaun. If the Gators’ coaches called for it, Sapienza said she could see herself eventually making the change back to an attacking role as she gets older.
The defender showed a flash of her old of-
fensive prowess less than a minute after being subbed in against UCLA on Saturday , when she was able to fire off a quick shot in transi-tion on Bruins goalie Katelyn Rowland.
“She kind of always intended on playing a 
defensive role, but she still gets into the attack a lot even as a defender,” Solaun said.
With Florida’s home opener against Texas 
Tech (3-1-0) in James G. Pressly Stadium com-ing up this Friday , both players expect a large contingent of family and friends at the game. While playing collegiately is still an adjust-ment for her, Solaun said staying in town has given her a comfort level not seen by most freshmen.
“It’s kind of been ingrained, being able to 
go to school where you grew up and play for the team and play with the girls you’ve al-ways idolized,” Solaun said. “Watching them play and being able to play with them, it’s al-ways been a dream.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alligator.org.
Freshmen Solaun, Sapienza bring local energy to Gators
GREG , from page 20
NOTE , from page 20Muschamp not worried 
about Texas A&MFloyd playing multiple 
positions in new defense
Floyd) are switching between nose 
tackle and defensive tackle, or de-fensive tackle and defensive end.
Particularly , Quinn said Floyd, 
who was the No. 1 defensive tackle recruit in 2010 according to Rivals.com, will be playing end in the Gators’ base defense and tackle in their nickel package.
Cross-training allows each play-
er to be interchangeable at several positions to fit the type of strategy the Gators want to implement based on the opponent’s offensive tenden-cies.
“Part of it is you wanted to put 
out the best guys,” Quinn said. “Sometimes it might just be for the opponent you’re playing. This is a really big run team and we’d like to have a bigger team on the field that time, and if there’s a nickel situation, you’d like to have more rushers.”
The Gators’ defensive coordina-tor went on to single out a handful of players as the team’s best pass-rushers: William Green, Lerentee McCray and Ronald Powell the best from the outside, and Easley and Floyd the most consistent inside.
Beyond strat-
egy , Quinn said  cross-training also helps in the event of an injury . 
With Florida’s 
unproven depth in the front seven, if one player goes down, another  
can just slide into the position with-out having to worry about losing a step.
“We certainly are a work in prog-
ress,” Quinn said. 
“But I’m encouraged with where 
we’re at and where we’re heading with that group.”
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@
alligator.org.DEFENsE , from page 20UF Soccer
“[Muschamp’s] a great 
football coach, he’s been 
around a lot of great pro-
grams and he’s ready for 
the job."
Derek Dooley 
Tennessee coachQuinn
